Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-03-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=274
========================================================================

you you you you hey Brandon it's Patrick Can you hear us okay? Okay, you're on the line. The meeting hasn't started yet, so I'm just going to mute the mic and they'll turn you on when the meeting gets going. Yep. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. motion or just welcome them in? Okay, that's Brandon Monk. Would someone like to make a motion? Mr. Chairman, I move that Brandon Monk be left to participate in this meeting remotely. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Brandon, can you hear us? I can. Thank you all. So as always, let us know, Brandon and others. Patrick, if you can't hear us, especially at this end, we're further from that microphone. So sometimes we have to be prompted to speak up, maybe Judith and I in particular, because it gets blocked over there. So with that said, we have on our agenda a number of items, I believe. It's mostly in your court, Mr. Baalhofer, to organize what we're hearing today. Yes, we're going to go first and personally. But one, I just want to clarify before we begin, and corrected me today, if you look on some of your sheets, and it may say March 26th or March 25th, today is indeed, I believe, the 19th. So just consider today the 19th, and I apologize for me getting confused. I was thinking of next week. If you can time travel, this is good. Yes. So the first thing we're going to go to, this may be difficult to read, but you all have a copy of the PowerPoint. PowerPoint at your places and tables, and you're able to read it from that if you cannot read the screen. We're going to go over the personal property tax that we discussed at the last meeting, and I hand it off to Bonnie. Thank you all. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Board, and I thank the Paget's Committee, and you, Michael, for assisting us in this. We enter daily supplements and abatements in personal property for 2020. Right, okay. Thank you everyone. Yeah, okay. Can you please pass it to us, Joanna? Yeah, Noel Sachs So for 2026, we had $193 million of iconic U.S. trend from April 25th. We are quiet right now, and vowed in it the way that I did given you, later. It was from the mars election ascendanceies to July 4th and March 25th. So, those are our conservative numbers. We've now had at 80 .5 million, and for 2026, we have 81 million. Now, these conservative numbers, we are factoring in abatements, and we still have four weeks to add weekly downloads from DMV, so we will see a slight upside and mixing and increasing the But, that's all about weather. tip and the book should close mid-april around April 14th and then I'll go to IT do their magic and then send it over to the treasurer's office so can I ask abatement is that the opposite of supplement so those are cars estimated to maybe be removed out of the county? Now if we actually look in past years we've had supplements from 6.7 million in supplements and 2022 you guys don't have those numbers and the abatements were 4.5 million. 23 it was 6.1 million in supplements and we abated 3.4 so if you look at current year 2020 half of 2020 fives fiscal year was in December and that was 40 million but total our estimates and abatements was 3.4 million and the way abatement comes into effect is we had duplicate assessments or we've removed personal property that is not in our location. the amount of homeowners themselves as we calculate that now the private property that pays to bless is going to be indicated on our educated evidence. It is going to be determined by the budget system or an elevated budget system it's the expense system that doesn't matter and it doesn't matter. That's the reason why these funds don't tend to insure the second50 million dollar of<|it|> insurance in Chinese cuidado stock price reduction rate or the icheted inspection of much better local retail. Central county is in our United States, when I speak holy ni lakan Dennis. I am here to explain Did they have abatements as part of the projection over the year? I don't recall any, and that's one of the things that I was trying to do some research with. But I didn't see those abatements in past presentations or projections. But moving forward, we should see steady but modest increase. That blimp in time with COVID kind of made things a little wonky a few years back. But we're hoping to get those stabilized. That's pretty much what J.D. Power says it is. We've got to project supplements. I think we want to project abatements. Does anyone else remember if we had those in test years? Supplements are also purchases. I will tell you, what the issue is, you may not have seen them, but when they provided their estimates, they had included abatements and supplements in there. I think that's correct. Yes. Yes. So they were in the total, but they weren't in the total. They weren't listed. You may not have seen them broke out when they got to you, but they were in the total. Or maybe they gave us net supplement, because I think I remember supplements from past years. They gave us net personal property tax, both including abatements and supplements, which they probably estimated. Okay. Mr. Bolhoffer, you sent out a worksheet that had a larger number for the difference. And can you explain that? I can, because that was an estimate from the day, and I think it was a little bit more than that. So the estimate was that they actually ran the books again, and did some further research on abatements and supplements, and came up with a better number. That was as of this morning. Yes. The book was closed as of this morning, and the abatements and supplements were updated. Well, it was like a, it wasn't really close closed. We're still in the process, but we wanted to have an actual solid number to present to you today. So we've gone from a negative 3.4 million to negative 3.4 million. Okay. So we've gone from a negative 3.4 million to negative 3.4 million. So we've gone from a negative 3.4 million to negative 3.4 million. Negative 2.7 million. And we're continuing to add, so we're hoping to see that number trickle down some over the next couple of weeks, prior to submitting the books to the treasurer's office. I'm a little confused on the numbers, not the numbers as such, but just how you're saying, okay, we ran these numbers, and then we ran these numbers, and these numbers, those numbers were correct, and now they're wrong, and now these numbers are correct. Well, when you have projections, these numbers are still in swing, or movement, and I can't think of anything on that. It's a, it's a, it's a, So when we, I, usually, I'm talking to Mike or whatever, just seeing you all say, you got a solid number, but it's not a solid number. Am I right or wrong? You're correct in one respect, because I believe the property tax number at shop, I believe, is pretty close to being 100%. I think there's some estimates with supplements, and abatements. We actually take the number from the commissioner's office, you know, so that's the number we use. I think we've looked at it, we feel much more comfortable with the latest numbers, looking at them from how they were calculated, and past numbers and such. I would believe that, if anything, they may be just a little bit under. So if there's an error, we believe they may be low. So are these based partly on 25 numbers that are always changing? You know, what you're seeing happen currently? Well, what you're seeing right now for our fiscal year and calendar year are different. So we're gonna have the last half of 2025 fiscal year collected in December. So then, if you start looking at 2026, that'll be, excuse me, that was June. Yeah. My apologies. June, the last half of 2025 fiscal year will be collected in June, and then in December starts 2026. So it's a constant moving target, and we're constantly adding value to that number. I'm just saying is that, I understand 25's a moving target, because we're in the middle of it. I'm just asking, is that part of what's driving your numbers to be updated from time to time? Yes. You're using 25 numbers in doing this work. I understand doing that to get the best and latest estimate. It just confuses us sometimes, because when it's a moving target, but that's the- I'm sorry to put that in there, but I wanted to show that we still have numbers trickling up a little bit each day. You'll have more supplements and abatements, right? Since the county's growing. Right. And new vehicles are more viable than old vehicles. So that would tend to be the, okay. And what we have discussed is we'd like to come back to this board and do a separate workshop on the personal property tax, give everyone a better understanding of the process and how it works and how the estimates are determined. Oh, I'm just gonna break this down. We've discussed it in the past that there are different ways to estimate, like some counties do it based retail versus wholesale value, and there's different methods. That's not really an estimate so much as that's a methodology, a, That's not really an estimate so much as that's a methodology, a, That's not really an estimate so much as that's a methodology, a, estimate so much as that's a methodology, a, evaluation. Okay. Across the state of Virginia, they use J.D. Power because it's the most consistent and it has all of the breakdown for certain vehicles. Certain vehicles might have more amenities than others, so it kind of breaks it down that way. I do know of a bordering locality, their estimates, excuse me, their values are coming in about $40 million less than they did last year. So the reduction is widespread. Other counties are seeing the same thing. That's correct. So they're about half of our population, so that kind of coincides with our values being less than what we had previously as well. How confident are we in these numbers that? I'm very confident. I try to be very conservative with them this time to make sure that we have, we stay within our budget. Mr. Bolhoffer, how confident are you? I feel very good about these numbers I have to look at, looking at, and I will tell you I'm not an expert of doing this, and so I can't give a 100% guarantee on it. I would believe, from my opinion, and you can also ask Cheryl that these may be a little bit on the lower end, but I think they're pretty close to being right. I don't know. So the workshop, you're not talking about reconsidering how we value the cars. You're talking about how this. Yeah. Workshops that we can explain the methodology of how these estimates are done, the timing, explaining the tricky part of going from calendar year to fiscal year to give everybody here a better understanding of the process, which gives us all a better understanding of how they're calculated. When you give numbers at the beginning of the year and not knowing what J.D. Power is going to say and say March, it's hard to say, you know, we're basing it on the previous years. So we're going to have to do a lot of estimating. So I have a budget question. So on your sheet here from 25 to 26, does this say that we basically have a $500,000 increase in personal property taxes? Is that what this sheet says? Very good. So it says total, the third to the bottom, total for 2025 is, and I'm not going to say that. It's 80.5. And from the yellow it's 81.0. Yeah, that's exactly right. So are you saying that from last fiscal year to FY26, we can anticipate collecting half a million dollars more? Is that what you're saying with this spreadsheet? Yes. So that, just for future references, that's very low compared to what we've done in the past. Take COVID out, it's still very low. So that means your burden is going to probably be more on your real estate rate if this trend continues. Ms. Schiffler? Looking at trends in this number, because if I'm understanding you correctly, a $500,000 increase isn't typically what you've seen as far as growth. This number, what has been our percentage of increase? In the past? Are you asking me? Yes. So, I just saw this. So I don't really, I mean, it's been millions. I mean, our years in four and five million, your personal property was a greater increase than your real estate. And so I don't know if this $500,000 is attributed to assessed values, up or down, the rate up or down. But it is smaller than it is. And so that will be a budget issue next year if it continues. In 2022, we were at 83.3. 2023, it was 80 million. 24, we're estimating 81.5. In 2025, we're estimating 82.5. So it's fluctuating right there. And if we go back several years prior to that, there is, it slowly increases. But because of COVID, it just kind of that length in time kind of made things a little skewed for a few years. So, according to J.D. Power and other commissioners that I've spoken to, it was going to take five to six years for it to level out to where we can have a steady, modest increase over the next several years. But I will say in the next three years, we're definitely going to have to start looking at possibly increasing tax rates to offset that. So, J.D., if you remember, we had a tax increase in personal property. I do recall that. And I was just thinking about that as Mrs. Seifert was giving us that. Yeah. So we had a tax decrease. And the question I pose is, but we're also talking about population increase. So we've gone from, we're running, what, 1,000 to 1,200 homes a year right now, give or take. So I'm assuming that each of those homes that comes in has two cars. Maybe that's bad assumption. If you work that number out. So you made it kind of sure that it was a lesser number. I wonder if you could comment on that. Yeah. I mean, that's a good question. I mean, we're talking about the fact that we had a tax decrease. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know if you take those years and you value it at 423, what the comparison is, or if you value this one at 426, what's the comparison? And is it really how much that rate decrease impacted this number? I mean, from 426 to 423, it's a 20% decrease. So that was significant. But, you know, thank you for bringing it up, the fact that the amount of money coming in is less. What do you think you did over time in solving it? I had the option of trying the issues because of the money in there. Wow. I am sorry. It's crazy, though. And, and, and Molly, did you stronger than me and what would you say that was the� my own, double sorry, one of the ways the So that made an anomaly, that made things supply and demand were very offset. Your supply was down. We would hope to have a greater than a half million dollar increase from one year to the next. However, it wasn't just the tax rate reduction that dropped us. It was the wind down from the overvalue of cars during COVID. So if that's what's driven us down this year, we don't have any idea how much more wind down there could be left. I think it's according to some commissioners that I've spoken to, we should start seeing more consistent in 2027, 2028. So in the next fiscal year, 2027 and 2028, we should see a better trending with a modest increase. So if you remember when we talked about real estate, I think the new growth was like 900,000. So that's close. And then? If this is your continued growth next year, you're starting with only $1.5 million in new revenue, knowing what you have in front of you. And so I didn't want someone to say, I wish I would know that. Does that make sense? The organic growth, in essence, will be less than what we've anticipated going forward. Yes. Back to the links. Question, Mr. Chairman. There is some growth in vehicles. I mean, this year's population for car tax relief, just those vehicles. The only thing I've carved out. There is some growth there, both in value and in number of vehicles. Right. Compared to last year's population. So, Bill, it's not running, you know, 1% half-pence. This 80.5%. 85 to 81 is only half a point. I mean. There's growth, but where is that? It doesn't appear that it's necessarily all in reduction in the vehicles associated with car tax relief. Okay. Is there any more questions? Is that the end of the updated personal property tax information for today? That was. That was, yes. It was my meeting. It was that from last week. Any more questions on those numbers? I guess we can go on then. So, we're going to go over a few items. The item number one we wanted to discuss was the contribution to the schools. This year, I set this out earlier to everybody. A little timeline. Obviously, the first column is what was adopted last year. Second item shows you what was proposed on January 21st. And what's more important is what was proposed on 3-10-25. As you can see, the schools, what they were requesting from the county, it was $118,373,000. In our budget cuts, we had a reduction of $4.5 million. Interesting. And that brought their contribution down to $113,873,000. As you can see from the budget add from the state, it's $137,000,000. The state's giving them more money. So, what the schools have asked is if we can restore, reduce that reduction of the $4.5 million. If you reduce it by $1.2 million, that would bring them up to what they originally asked, for back on March 30th, or excuse me, March 10th, because of the increased amount from the state. So, that would be approximately $3.3 million reduction is what the schools have asked. Instead of the $4.5 million. Instead of the $4.5 million, correct. That brings them to the amount they wanted from their total budget originally. Mr. Chair, may I? Please. Speak on that, please. I watched our budget work session on Monday, and they want to use this for bonuses. I'm not for sure on how this costs the board or not, but this extra funding. And watching our budget work session last Wednesday and stuff, I don't see how we can actually do that. I just got an opinion when I watched it. I was like, wow. You know, just expressing an opinion on that. If they're just coming up for that, just for increase of bonuses, you know, we might want to consider not supporting that $1.2. Mr. Goldhofer, I think Mr. Hummer. I can speak to that. It's up to the chair. Yes. Mr. Chair. Okay. So, thank you for that question, Mr. Stottlemeyer. So, that dollar figure, if we do receive that, and the governor hasn't told 12%. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm sorry? Yeah, I believe my understanding is we have in our budget to reduce, you asked for $118 million. We're talking about two different things. Well, I'm talking about the total amount. We're talking about now the county part, not the state. No, I'm sorry. I was asking Mr. Stottlemyre's question about the bonus. Right. But on this one, they are asking the county to reduce that $4.5 million by $1.2 million. So, but... I think... I'm misunderstanding. Okay, because we have people here shaking their heads, and so we all agree on whatever the math is. If I can go to this... Go ahead, go ahead. And this is the understanding I had. As you realize in our budget scenarios going forward, the last three meetings, we had a reduction in the contribution that the county would make to the... Yes. Yes. The school system. My understanding, if I'm wrong, and it makes all of this easier, is that this school system wanted us to reduce that $4.5 million by the $1.2 million. By doing so, that would allow them to get to their total funding of $256 million, which is the amount they originally asked for. If the school is not asking for that additional amount, then there is no need to make any changes. Okay. Kit, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to hear Dr. Hummer's response on that. Mr. Chair, I... That's not... Yeah, that's not... I'm sorry, Mr. Bohoffer. The money for the bonuses is this budget cycle. So this budget, that's where the state is at. The state has had two conversations. They had money for FY26, which is next year, but included in that conversation out of the General Assembly, was bonuses they were adding on for this year. Two separate FY25. So with the additional money that the state is giving us, we would be coming to you to say, can we accept that money from the state for this year, not for FY26? The FY26 request, which was sent to you all, is a $5.3 million increase. So the budget for this year has nothing to do with the budget for next year. So that's why I don't know where we're talking about the $1.5 million. I just want to be clear on that. Yeah, well, I'm not talking about the current year, because we're doing our fiscal year 26 budget. And so my understanding in discussions is that school was not happy. They thought that by reducing your request of $118 million by $4.5 million, the school wasn't happy. And they thought that was too much to reduce their request. That is correct. This $1.2 million takes you to a level to restore that to a number you were looking for. That's what the $1.2 is. It's for this year's budget. I was just asking Mr. Stottlemyre's question about the bonuses. That was two different things. That's all. They were asking there about the county. So they are asking for the county to reduce our reduction of $4.5 million by the $1.2 million. I do have a question, because I watched the same meeting. So, Dr. Hummer. Yes, ma'am. So if that's for fiscal year 25, if I heard the meeting correctly, the state. Is it state funds? Yes, ma'am. The teachers. I think it was only $600 bonus if the county didn't also put additional. That is correct. On there. That is correct. The goal was $1,000 per teacher. Yes, ma'am. For full time. So where would that additional. So I think that's where Mike was. Got it. Got it. I was thinking it was going into fiscal year 26. There you go. Where would that additional funds. Where would those county funds come from? Yes, absolutely. I can address that as well. So every year we have cost savings and staff. That's every year. So we have what's called unobligated dollars. And our school board determines how we spend that money. So we do have the 1.1 million extra to apply to that. If the school board only wants to spend the state dollars, as you just said, Mrs. Lockridge, thank you. It would only be $600 per staff. And then we would prorate it for all other staff that started after. And for staff that only took part time and such. So that would be up for our school board to decide. But as of right now, we would stick with the thousand. So a thousand dollars. So we do have that already built in our budget. We're not asking the county for any more money. I think the confusion was that the numbers were so similar. So yeah. Yeah. And that's why I want to focus tonight on the fiscal year 26 budget. Because that's a separate question. If they wanted to use those funds, they will come back to this board and ask the board to appropriate those funds. So if they do come back for 25, they will have to pay the total amount of $500 per staff. And then they will have to pay the total amount of $500 per staff. So that's a separate question. And I think that's a separate question. But I would just ask at the time, I guess we don't want to take too long today, since that's not the subject of the day. But are those bonuses being applied to all staff, just teachers, all teachers? How it's written, it's all staff. So it's not an attempt, it's not a merit bonus. No. It's retention. It's retention. And it's, again, this is from the state. And if it wanted to give teachers the target 1,000 on a merit basis and not give it to everyone, or is it required to be spread out by the state to everyone? Correct. The latter. Correct. And so for 26, they're talking about wanting us to restore 1.2 million in the FY26 budget. This is assuming they get next Monday, the figure from the state that's listed here. Yes. And this was primarily because they believe that the $4.5 million cut, cut too deep, they wouldn't enable to do what they wanted to do. So by adding the $1.2 million, by reducing that 4.5 by 1.2, that enables us to do what they want to do. So this is strictly nothing to do with that stay on the bonuses. This is for fiscal year 26. So in 26, doing the math, if it's left, we're going to have to add the proposed number that you've got here under March 13th. So if we do not restore 1.2 million, you've got their total budget at $256 million and change. That $251, if it's what we don't restore that it would be? $251 is what we advertised. So it's the column under budget add. That's what we have our public hearing on. $251. Are you on? Yes. So what's proposed? I'm definitely confused. If budget add is $251, what's the proposed 313 number? Let me ask you this. Yeah. Just be careful, though, until we get this right. You know, I put in the $1.2 million for the county to get it to the $115. That $3.2 million that you all have is what the state's going to be given in addition for fiscal year 26. That's correct, sir. So that's separate from the bonuses. Yes, sir. Right. And I think that's where we kind of went off on the bonuses, because it was different years. They're going to get an additional $3.2 million for the state for fiscal year 26. And what they need to get to their original request of $256 million is for the county to reduce its reduction of $4.5 million by the $1.2. That's correct. Okay. So I know what the difference between the budget add and the proposed is now. It's exactly $4.5 million. So it's just saying their request from the budget add. Yeah. This is a request that the county to relook at the $4.5 million that we cut their budget and reduce that by the $1.2 million. So we have the public hearing next Wednesday. And then the following Wednesday, we need to talk about the budget resolution. That's normally when we make changes from what we've advertised. So that would be the time to figure out what option you're choosing. And I've got some scenarios that are going to look at some of that coming up a little later. And we can come back to this. It may make this easier when you start looking at all the numbers in total. I do have a question. Mr. Paulhofer, I think I had seen some data where you had looked at population growth with inflation. What does this request? I mean, originally it was $4.5 million. Now it's 7.9% over fiscal year 25. What does, I mean, you had cut it 4.5. I'm just wondering, and actually for Dr. Hummer, what is the growth and population of students? Because in this year, we don't have any new schools. Just, you know, because sometimes that would really mess things up with staff as far as looking at true percentages. But I'm wondering what's the growth and percentage of student growth from this year to next year? Yeah, next. From 25 to 26. Yeah, do you? Yeah, for you. I thought you were looking at Mike. Yes. No, so we started this year off with a projection, and we've exceeded that projection by over 300 students. And that is why we are receiving the additional money from the state, because we are exceeding our ADM. And then that growth is going to continue into next year. So when we put together our needs-based budget, that is where we start. We start with where our current student numbers are, as well as what our projected numbers are for next year. Over the last three years, based on our formula, which we work very closely with the county on, we have exceeded what we thought we were going to be at for every given year. And I've shared that worksheet with you, and I can share it with you again. So right now, we are over 14,600 students. Okay. And that number. And what was the total? What was the total of that number? And then, likewise, what are we growing? It was 2%. It was just a little over 2% every year. And also, too, to Mr. Bohoffer's point earlier with his PI, which is a great formula, for the school system, though, if we gain 300 students, those are not all general education students. Right. There is 14% of them are students with disabilities. 14% are English language learners. 10%, 9%, 10% are students that are gifted. go towards the additional dollar figure that we need. So it can't be a standard 2% equals this dollar figure because we factor that into the entire needs-based budget. It's not just a standard number. And quite honestly, Mrs. Lockridge, I would never recommend that because I want to be fair and be a good steward of our dollar and not say this is the dollar figure we get every year because it could be plus or minus. We could see the population tail off or we can see a decrease in students with disabilities and increase in general ed. So we want to make sure that we are being good stewards of the taxpayer dollar. And that's why that needs-based budget changes every year. And I recommend that model so that we're doing it in a fair manner, if that makes sense. And based on the county's projection of our growth, where, I mean, is it new growth as far as new subdivisions or is it, I mean, do you know where these kids are coming from? Yeah, I have that all breaking down and I can share the most updated document with you. I'll share that with you guys today. We track this every week and we take a look at where these students are increasing and decreasing because some schools go up, some schools go down, and we track that every week. So I can share with you the one from last week where we actually gained 30 students and you can see exactly what region of the county where that's going up. So yes, we look at that very closely and it's a combination of everything you just mentioned. Folks moving in, new developments, so on and so forth. You can have a family that has no students, they move, and another family moves in and they might have students. Right, and I'm just making sure, I've mentioned this to you in the past, but just making sure that we are, and it gets tricky, but educating just those Frederick County students and coming up with a way to make sure that, you know, if they live here that we are educating them, but if they don't live here. My own students just came home with a transportation form, so, and I know I've, you know, talked about, I know you could talk to any of your administrators and know kids that could possibly not live in the county. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I would just say that we are just making sure that we are taking care of our Frederick County citizens because we're here to, you know, make sure the taxpayer dollar is being utilized wisely, as you are too, so. Yes, ma'am. Totally agree, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Suspec. And the colon we're using for the county is what number? Going to 20%. One percent. And for the schools? It's a variety of them, but I can't remember the average, but it went from six all the way down to, I think, for some of the administrative, three point such. Do you remember what you said about the average? Yeah, I think it was about three point. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Do you remember what the average was for all the schools? It was greater than four percent, but I don't remember the average amount. Okay. The reason, so if we take. We have that. Okay. So. Yeah, I have that in the presentation. I'll forward it to you. It's in the presentation they made to us. So, so my thought about all our departments, not just the schools, but all the different portions of county government is that they, I can explain to taxpayers. at anzz. I can explain to taxpayers, if their budget goes up by inflation, like for their labor, and I can explain it also, if they're having served more people, the Sheriff serves everyone school service all students, et cetera. I can't explain to the tax payer anything larger than that unless I understand what those wedges are with those costs are. And I can explain it. So I understand the schools get mandates. Sometimes they get told from Richmond that they have to hire or do something. So I understand what that is. Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. something additional and fire and rescue we've decided to increase services there and I can you know explain to a citizen we're increasing that budget volunteerism is going down we're trying to build a new station and increase services so just using that as a benchmark figure if I used 4% Cola and I realized that might be a little over the schools and I compound that with 2% enrollment growth I get 6.08 percent just I don't know if anyone understands how I'm doing this I get that number if I look at the schools budget if we stay with our budget ad number and they really do get the additional funds that we're hoping they get from the state they would go up to two hundred and fifty four point nine million which would be six point nine percent of the total enrollment growth and I'm just trying to understand how that works how click without the board will you also have a question she's gonna open it up to a question Is that okay? Yes, sir. So right now, we have four groups of employees, if I'm understanding your question correctly, that has an average increase for each of those employees. So for teachers, it's 4.9. Yeah. Which are our classified staff, which is our bus drivers, admin assistants, instructional agents, 5.6. Other professionals, which is our trainers. We have some technology staff. That's 4.4. And administrators is 3.4. And this was in the presentation I presented last month. I can reshare it with you all so it breaks all of this down when I'm about to share with you. But how we started across the board was a 2.5 because that is the COLA that we got from the Social Security office. We also received funding from the state for the second year of the biennium from the governor, which is 3%. So we have to be at an average of 3% to receive those funds. So we increased it to .5, from 2.5 to 3. And then for each of those specific groups, we have worked on declustering of the pay scales. So because of the years between the recession until now, we didn't get a lot of pay increases for staff. So we had to cluster our pay scales and we're trying to decluster those. And then we've also added on other specific incentives such as 14 years, or excuse me, 24 years more experience for our teachers so that we can not lose them to other counties. And that increased some of them as well. So we started with a 2.5. We increased another .5 to 3% to get to that state revenue because we don't get the 3%, we don't get the state revenue. And then with all those other incentives that we've added on, declustering of pay scales and also the 24 years of more experience, that's what increased those rates to that number. So could the declustering and incentives have been counted? That's correct. Could they have been counted to get you to what Richmond's goal is, 3%? No. The salary declusters the incentives gets it higher than the 3%. Right. That's why. But could that have been counted to trigger Richmond to give you the funds? They want you to increase salaries by 3% in order to give you some additional funding, right? No. So we started at 2.5 and then in order to get the state funding, we increased to 3. We could have stopped right there at the 3 if that's what you're asking. But because we're declustering the pay scales and adding other. Incentives that would that is what increased that average pay increase across the board, because based on how our pay scales are designed, different teachers get different pay increases based on where they're at on the pay scale. So the Richmond's requirement of 3%, was that to your average? They required your average to go up by 3%. Yes. It seems like it was already with the 2.5% plus all the declustering and that we had already. Approved. And it's to answer your question. No. Obviously when you're declustering that that increases wages that is part of calculating the average. Right. I would. Okay. It seems like when you include that, which we took up declustering last year or the year before. They did it last year, but when they did their presentation, they showed this was going to be over groups of employees over different years of experience over several years. So if I remember right from presentation, there were. There was a series of years that we have to do these measures to decluster based on different groups, i.e. 25 years experience 20 years experience. I don't remember the actual categories, but it was correct to that effect. So I guess what I was looking for then I appreciate that additional detail on that. It's more complicated than a simple average, but it'd be nice because you have different numbers of people in each of these categories. Teachers classified, etc. Yes, sir. It'd be nice to know. What that average percentage increase if you threw everybody in one pot. You know, what's your average salary increase increase? We just add the four consider all. Well, you can't add them linearly because there's a different number of administrators from. You'd have to multiply each by how many is getting that percent. So division wide average is 5%. We calculated that. Yes. So it's about 5%. Yes, sir. Okay. And to point out when we looked at these numbers, just 115 compared to 109 is about a 4.8% increase. Sorry. The 115 as you see in the next to the last column, the county transfer is about a 4.86% increase over the fiscal year 25 operating transfer. I was looking more at their total budget. I wasn't calculating. Right. Our percentage change, but the school's total. Okay. But that's that is the 1.2 by 1.2 million that they've requested, which gets them back to that 256 million they requested initially for their total budget from both states, but from all three to state, federal and county. I guess my last question would be, what is that two and a half percent that you started with the Social Security? Yeah, the cold. Okay. So that's the state and federal. And then the county. Okay. So that's the state and federal. And then the county. Okay. And then the county. Okay. And then the county. Okay. And then the county. Okay. And then the county. Okay. Okay. Okay. And then the county. Okay. So that's the two and a half percent that you started with the Social Security. Yeah. That's the coal that's established by the Social Security office. And that was the number that we established. So also living adjustment percentage. And that's for school systems or for teachers or is that like. Everybody. No, that's for everybody. It's everybody. They calculate it every year for the cost of living for all Social Security recipients. And people use that as a measure for several equations. Social Security recipients. Yes. Okay. Right now, the CPI is about 2.8%. It's about. data it's risen about 30 basis points. That's good yeah but we started at the 2.5. I know I understand I'm just saying. It's good. Yeah the Fed says right now it's 2.8. It's always apples to oranges to some degree right because Social Security recipients aren't the same basket of goods as teachers or as administrators etc but it's what you've got to work with. It's a convenient measure a lot of people use because it's calculated nationally for Social Security recipients so a lot of different formulas will use that number. Okay Mr. Chairman I have one more question. Could I get a with attrition how many vacancies do you normally see per year within the school system? So we have done thank you for that question because we have done a fantastic job of finding positions to fill these roles. Over the last three years we've averaged between 40 to 70 based on the time of the year. Right now we're at 40. Yep we're at 40 and and that happens now. The one thing to remember with those positions is a lot of those are based on the SOQ so because we haven't filled it doesn't mean that it doesn't go towards the money that we get from the state so if we do away with those positions will be less than the SOQ but we averaged between 40 to 70 every year and it and it fluctuates like we might have a history teacher in the beginning of the year we fill it but then another teacher takes that spot based on a vacancy and and we also have a long-term subs we have all these other different aspects but typically about 40 to 70. Okay so yeah the reason I ask that is this 1.2 because you do say it's a need-based budget but because of there's constantly rolling I'm assuming that your school the school system would still function because of attrition so when you get a long-term sub in which is not ideal we've been dealing with that all year not ideal but it's cost a little bit less and I'm assuming that's a good thing. I mean I think that's pretty standard throughout every school year you could say you you're in an ideal you would have 99 to 100% filled positions that would be beautiful but that's not the reality. Correct. So I'm just wondering because of that attrition and because it's year after year after year is there money that rolls over because there is money that wasn't spent. Yes no no no I'm glad you're bringing that up. Because yes and that is standard for school divisions and a lot of organizations our size to have cost savings so that's one of them so for example go back to my history teacher example we need an FTE in that slot and it's a if it's a long-term sub all year they don't make as much as a teacher does so there's going to be a cost savings there the other aspect is let's say let's stick with the history teacher say if they're a 30-year veteran and they wanted to retire in December and then we bring another teacher in that's a first-year teacher there's going to be a cost savings there right so every organization our size is going to have that cost savings that we actually to the benefit of the county we factor into our budget because it's less money that we ask you for because we build it into our budget. Right now I think we budgeted two point almost three million so it's three million less that we're asking from the county because that's built into our budget that we now every year you would have kind of it looks different now and to your point of the hundred percent yes it would be nice to the hundred percent but we actually don't want that because it would impact that that rolling average and it's very rare for school division to be fully staffed. I'm not familiar with the school division and that's why it's built into that now if we get to a point where we're fully staffed we'll have to have a budgetary conversation we might have to come to ask for more there you go okay yes and that's where that's where I would I would like to be is closer to what it actually takes and if you need more that's when you come back to us. Thank you. I think that's where I'd rather be closer financially and then when you need more you you ask for it and then there's you know accountability accountability with that. Can I add to that though? Yeah. Keep in mind though it's not we're not adding that on to cushion we have our budget and we factor that into our budget of a need so that money that's budgeted in is a need it's not well let's just cushion it. Yeah. So if we could just cushion this and then we could just use it for for whatever it's built into the budget so that we ask less from you so I hear what you're saying but it doesn't work that way it's it's not that we're hey let's just put this in just a just in case it's built into the budget based on our needs and based on the number of kids that we have so naturally it could go up and down based on our population of students because if we need less students then of course we're not going to ask for the same number of physicians and if that happens of course we won't ask for as many FTE's as we need to. Okay. So we're not going to ask for as many FTE's in the following year but as of right now our trajectory is going up so we're not at that point. Um this can I keep do you mind? No go ahead. Okay and I guess this goes into um and uh vice chairman um Diane Diana Hoover-Klein yes sorry I didn't come up with her name um she had said when there were issues at Frederick County Middle because now he got demoted we're paying a salary his principal salary plus we're paying the new administration so I wondered where that money comes from because in my mind it would be something the board would have to approve appropriate more funding but it didn't it doesn't happen that way so that's where I'm questioning. Yeah so it's all based on FTE's so if generally speaking if there is a position where a person goes from one position to another then they take the place of that FTE and then this FTE now has salary in that to pay for that particular position. If there is and we also have situations Ms. Lockridge where we might have a first-year teacher that resigns and we bring in a 12-year teacher so now they're going higher so that cost savings that's why I was trying to share with you earlier is built into that budget because of the rolling numbers that we deal with every day. Okay. And and if if we if if we did not get ahead of that then we are going to get behind with bringing positions on because we didn't have that money to fill these positions. So we're going to have to wait for the board to approve those positions and say we have to wait to get this money to move it over here to ask this board ask that board it'll just delay the operations of our school division which will delay getting good teachers in front of our kids that's why what we're doing is not out of the norm all school divisions do that we build that in if we add an FTE on then the board would have to approve that and that that's part of our problem. Thank you for that clarification. Yeah thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just had a question question jumping ahead several slides for the 1.2 million there that you had requested additional FC funding is that reflected in the scenarios? I'm going to show in the scenarios where in the scenarios what I've done is I funded a portion of that to enable our budget stay you know within being balanced because as you know as the school has a need budget obviously when our department heads and they submit their budget it's their needs budget so everybody submits a needs budget then you have to make the decision of how much you finance and then people adjust based on that so that is factored in there. So I want to go to the next item of the school is this one I think it'll be a little easier as you know we have that I call it your basic operational capital it's your preventative maintenance on equipment and such the school submitted that last year was approximately 19 million. This year it's 14 million as you know there were many years a lot of that wasn't funded so they got behind so the idea is now is how do you play catch up and I ran this by George he looked at these numbers so I took the 14 million and divided it catching up over four years so the first year it was 3.8 million I broke it out to show the items that actually will be done the first took the second year which came up I can't read it something like 5.6 million. The third year is 2.7 million and the fourth year is 2.5 million. Now obviously there will be items added to this chart so when you look at the capital plan you'll see some adjustments for that. The question has been brought up as to what is critical versus what is a priority and it's this is preventative maintenance it's not like any of these items are broken or need to be fixed immediately but for instance a playground equipment is in such bad shape that it's time for it to be replaced. So it's going to be a lot of work. Yeah. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. It's in that schedule. It's just like when we look at our buildings and we look at it. It's time to replace the HVAC. It's been here 20 years. It's breaking down any other week. So when I talked to the one that concerned me most when I looked at the schedules and I drew that line between the playground equipment and the HVAC for 3 million and he discussed it waiting a year on that should not be anything a critical issue. The goal is as long as we're getting these things done on an ongoing basis. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. But before you move off that slide, if you don't do these things, if a future board decides to push off, then we still have problems, correct? Yeah. These are preventive maintenance. If you don't get these done, for several of them, you have real problems with the HVAC. But for instance, it has playgrounds. I know tennis courts are on there. It's one of the programs our schools do is they provide sports. And when those fields, courts get so bad, they execute. They get to a point of being unplayable. So the longer you put off the maintenance, the more it's going to cost you in the long run to fix it in your patching. So basically, it's like having a car and I can run it with oil, but if I don't replace the oil, I'll eventually have a problem. Same concept, correct? Yeah. And it's very much like my current washing machine where the pump may go and it's when do I decide to fix it or do I decide to get a new one. Thank you. I'm going to buy a new one, by the way, in case anyone's interested. I put this. I put this in here just because we've seen this going all along. This is the personnel request. It's nothing new. Just as part of it, it's going to be a component of the other charts. This is another component of the upcoming charts. You've seen this before. This shows you the adjusted expenses. The $123 million, as I pointed out in several meetings, comes from the blue sheet. And then you add in school debt. $7 million for transportation, $1.9 million for debt service, general fund capital, and the contingencies, which is $2.8 million for cost of living, which is a 4% increase and a $300,000 contingency. Then at the bottom added in there are the new positions. It gets you to the total expenses of $279 million. The next section, the idea was... So on that, your school operating transfer. Your school operating transfer is $118 million. It's the original. Yeah, I'm going to subtract it down in the next block. Okay. So when I had the $279 million, it was clearly impossible to balance the budget doing that. So I started out with that at $279 million. So to balance the budget, we moved the transportation to the capital fund. We moved the capital, which is the ordinary capital for the county, which does include HVACs and that type of thing. We moved that to the capital fund. And then you reduce the school... So we moved the school contribution by $4.5 million. That gets you to $264 million for your total expenses. Next item, we decided we needed to cut more. So we went through our budget. We found miscellaneous expenses of $500,000. And we're very comfortable with that number. And we also, if you remember, we discussed the Microsoft licensing software. One, we're not sure if we need it at all. So we're going to do more research. But anyway, we do. We believe we have... Licenses for individuals, which may suffice for doing... It's more of a legal issue. And we're going to verify that. So if we do need it, we can always come back together. But I don't want to pay for it if we do not indeed need it. Because it doesn't help us in any way, shape, or form. It's just another one of the software companies' little tricks to separate you from your money. But we're at their liberty, so there's not much we can do about that. Yeah, but the key was, as long as we legally do it. Excuse me? The key is, as long as we legally do it. And that's what we're researching. We've had a... We've looked at it. We've looked at the legal research. We already have licenses for all the Microsoft. And they may... We believe they suffice, but we're not certain. If we... When we do our research and we realize, oops, we're wrong, they will come back to the board. But I'd rather do our research first before we ask for that money. So that gets us down to the $263 million. So what we did next is go to a... We did five different scenarios at different real property tax revenues. The reason we use this as part of these scenarios, because that's the one revenue source that you have the greatest control over, and you look at the most. So, you know, we started on one end at the 42.4. That's the revenue neutral rate. And the other end is the 51 cents, which is the current rate. As the board established in the ad, the rate of 48 cents. That's the rate I use as a target. To make sure the budget could be balanced at that rate. Where did the additional $600,000 in revenue come from? The additional $600,000, as we had our estimates from the state sales tax, we believe we'll be able to increase the state sales tax to $600,000. I think I mentioned the last meeting. Last Wednesday we had the meeting. We got that notice from the state on Monday of that week. And that's one of the most difficult. These here, when you're looking at revenues, is the timing of when we get the information. Their estimate on what we would get. Yes, for sales tax. They have all their economists who make that a determination. And your operational funding, the $3.5 million for fire and rescue equipment, that's already built into the operational funding? No, I'm going to come up to that one next. That's not built in there. So, actually, before you go on. So that $263,301 that you calculated on the slide before adjusted expenses, I don't see that on the scenarios chart yet. Which number are you asking? The adjusted expenses you had just talked through. Yes, just $263,000? Yes, it's next to the last item. That comes right here from the adjusted expenses. Different numbers. Can I transpose? I can transpose that when I was doing this because I put in hard copies, but it was late. So under $0.48, it should be $236,301. I will tell you in one second. $263,301? That's what's on the sheet before that. Yes, so this number here should be the starting number for under the $0.48. It should be the second from the last. Yes, which is the $0.48. So instead of saying $256, it should say $263,301. Let me ask you a second. $263,301 is correct. This is the actual spreadsheet. It should be which number on this scenario chart? Under here? Just second from the last. Under $0.48. No, closer to the bottom. This whole row should be there. Yes. That number is $263,301. It should be on... $273,301. So that gives us a plus of almost $400,000. Excuse me? Under $0.48, that gives us a plus of almost $400,000. Correct. And what I did on that money is it does give you a plus of $400,000. And to help balance it to work with the schools, I took that $400,000 and used that to reduce the $4.5 million. And this is my first time working with this number. So this chart, I asked this question before, but it's still... So this chart does not reflect the $1.2 million, but it reflects $400,000. Correct. And that's... The way I balanced this, when we came to the overshare of that approximately $400,000, to bring this to zero, is I plugged that money, subtracted it from the $4.5 million, and I've left the $3.5 million. I've cut it at $4.5 million. That's the difference. So that's what we're doing. point five million that was not a recommendation I just know the schools asked for the one point two I had the extra four hundred thousand where you were in a surplus and I just plugged that in because my goal was on the one is to get this to zero as I said not a recommendation but it's an option this board has if they want to look at changing that four point five million they can also use it for capital or anything else the board would like so giving them eight hundred thousand instead of one point two she's made so giving them eight hundred thousand instead of their one point two that they're no it'd be more or less giving them four hundred stop four hundred thousand additional instead of the one point two okay sorry eight hundred thousand less yes next slide so on this slide I want to decide oh this probably creates some consternation as you see here so I know we brought this up in a meeting last week showed you this plan from the fire department and dropped it into capital whereas that the board really didn't have a lot of time to make decisions I like putting this in there there's no need to make a decision on this yellow highlighted area tonight in regards to you know the plan was fire engines splitting at 60 40 and I don't remember the entire plan this does not affect your operating budget so it doesn't cause any problems or at least leaving this in there for the time being and this decision on whether or not to go to the fire plan can be determined at a later date just just so there's an understanding on that but before you walk off that slide it says under the previous year adjustments for fire rescue station 22 and the aim says we're not spent or committed but we have a plan that's going to be implemented and we're going to be implementing it and we're going to be implementing it and we're going to be implementing it and we're going to be implementing it and we're going to be implementing it and we'll be supporting that plan so you have to set that aside to fund that right and that's why it's attracted here it is set aside so I subtracted it from the balance in the capital fund minus it out which gives you your available capital fund here 36 so we have that money set aside to pay for that expenditure and I'm sure there's an official set aside but it's designated by these charts it's set aside for that yes in a future board then we made a commitment to buy land we made a commitment to purchase equipment so I mean is that committed funds the So I believe that may be set aside and the lands already been purchased Okay, I just want to make certain it's very evident. This is committed dollars not Something else I mean, I don't think they are committed. I Don't think they're totally committed knowledge. They're not I don't think there's a legal as they've been transferred at the capital So they're an undesignated We haven't designated those it's just part of his he just wants to make sure Correct Then when we make a purchase for fire equipment at that point to become designated, it's a legal contract Yes at that point they're reduced from this fund balance and the funds are appropriated So the chief comes to say I want to buy a fire engine for 1.2 million Does this board that have to vote? Study that 1.2 million and the board did in the previous year And that's Why it was ordered and the money was set aside And it's really difficult for the board to do anything else because one board can say we want to buy this that's our decision But until it's such time some legal transactions taking place any board can always change that I understand I just we're in the process of building a fire station need an equipment for that's one right and some of that I said Yeah, I think We have purchased fire engine correct? So so this is a steelestion station I completely forty thousand Yes, so that has been purchased Okay, so this is more equipment then though And just for that station Yeah this is additional an additional ambulance and this is for the actual construction and when will we go out to bid for the construction of station 22 пойд apartment The goal is to go out to actually did it and have a have a Have someone to start building in six months Yes, that's our goal. I'm going to tell you one of the things I've learned. Purchasing in Virginia is very, very difficult. The Virginia rules for governments are very tough. They do not make it easy on you. Mr. Chairman. So, with the capital, with the highlighted yellow items, you say that it doesn't impact the operating budget, but is that going to be dealt with now? And when I say now, in the near future within the FY26, is that something you're going to sign off on? Because we've had this conversation over the years. Ms. Stanton? Yes. Ms. Stanton? I'm with you. Ms. Slaughter understands how often I've visited this process. But are we going to go make this journey or take this journey to get into purchasing equipment with regards to the chief's proposal last week, which was the first I had heard about it? And a little history with that is that we had a study several years ago where we actually had an excess amount of equipment at that time. And I'm not sure the status of the excess equipment and the need for new additional equipment. And then additionally, we've also talked about where we picked up the costs associated with the fire companies with insurance and fuel. And then we also turn around and pay mileage. And, you know, I'm sure the taxpayers are going to be interested in knowing that they're paying twice for the same fuel. If I may interject, this is not a request to do this now. This is going to be brought back to the board. There will be a workshop. There will have to be a plan actually outlined on this 6040. What you saw was a rough idea. It was introduced. These numbers are put in just for financial modeling. So this is not a request to purchase this equipment. It is not enough authorization by this board to move. You can do that. The other part of this is, and it will be discussed next Wednesday, is part of that whole formula is whether or not this board is going to be hiring someone, you know, outside to also look at the revenue recovery. Because that's actually part of this whole formula. So when this comes back, it will be, one, looking at the division of how you pay for it. Two, if you need it. And three, how you allocate those revenues. But it is not a request at this time for funding in any way, shape, or form. This is just for funding. And it is not a request at this time for funding in any way, shape, or form. This is just for funding in any way, shape, or form. This is just for funding in any way, shape, or form. This is just for funding in any way, shape, or form. And I would assume there will be contracts and such that will be drawn up. I mean, there's got to be some legal type of documents that define ownership. And at what point, if someone is in arrears or this or that, I mean, there's got to be a full outline plan. There's a long ways to go on that. We introduced that at the last meeting just to give you an idea. Because if you remember the meeting before last, we gave you a. Five-year plan. And they had all these items, you know, five-year plans in the fire department. So it was to discuss, you know, that these items are out there in your five-year plan. Yeah, you will need it. For instance, you'd have to have MOUs. You'd have to have legal contracts. It's that plan, what you heard, it was how the plan works philosophically. And the devil is always in the details. So what we heard from the fire chief last week was the first time any of us had heard that, I think. Correct. So in the past, the volunteer stations had paid for 100% of their own equipment. Right. Only a couple of exceptions. If they could only afford 40% of it now, and the county is going to pick up 60, but the plan is still the same. The equipment list is still the same. I understand they've gotten a lot more expensive, but either they've gone up by two and a half times or the fundraising available by from the volunteer system has gone up. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. And it's accommodation, actually, has doubled and cost in a short period of time, and that's why there's a lot of work to do and get past. The treasurer stated I mean the sport hadn't even decided yet. If there's a need for all that equipment, so says. Part of a financial model that's all that is so that back to the treasurer's comment. The previous study saying that we had access equipment. Part of that was, because I believe volunteer. stations were planning for their own reserve equipment. So each of them had some thoughts about reserve equipment in case something broke down. So a lot of it was older equipment, and it wasn't considered a countywide reserve. So it's too many machines, but they're old, older machines as I understood it. Correct. So it's too many, but it might not all be usable in the county reserve. I think that's a component of maybe chasing good money after bad, too. I believe at this point the business model with that relationship is very stale. It needs to be looked at top to bottom. We're talking about a total operation. With this $3.5 million capital in it of over $30 million that the county spent in each fiscal year for 26, and if you throw in the $3.5 million, it makes it $30.5 million to salvage $2 million worth of their effort in fundraising, of which you haven't even deducted out the cost of the fundraising, which I figure is about $1.6 million net. You're spending $30. You're down to about a 5% or 6%. You may want to look at your model and say, maybe we pick it up and carry it from here. But you've got to unravel. I mean, since the beginning when I started on the board back in the 80s, we donated $4,000 to each company. We're at $30.5 million now. You can't rip the rug out from under them, but it's got to be logical. We've got to make sure every notary public loan lender is up to date. It's not a simple simple Natural Resources or discredit kur Born at our company. Oh, that book was written very long ago, and I know you remember. Yes. And I've got so many photographs, right, and it probably doesn't Info Board and we see people went through export lag as well because they didn't create any. It usually does in מה. I think we changed patentmaking a couple weeks ago, when the company was almost 30 years old. And now they're doing FII. over the years and just haven't moved that checker at all. So I had supported the idea of having an independent expert look at our system. And then we take out the biases of the professional firefighters from the volunteer systems and our own biases. And we get a holistic plan that they might make everybody a little unhappy. But hopefully, their plan would be logical. And that is the one. And that is like that's what you want to see is some kind of look at the formulas again. Look at the whole system. I think something that has grown as large as what this particular component has over the 40 plus years, it needs to be re-evaluated, yes. And that is on the agenda for Monday. And put it back together. There probably needs to be somebody from the outside that has no biases. And that is on our agenda next Wednesday. And as I stated, this is not a request for any of this tonight. This is a part of a funding, looking at a funding model, financing model. OK, so the capital, back to the capital chart you've got up, that is in a sense the bottom line number is a worst case in one sense. It assumes we accept the 60-40 cost sharing. Correct. And it puts those numbers in. And that's the idea behind this look at worst case. I'm going to show you three different performers, each with a worst case. Worst case, worst case. OK. Whereas Alice would say worse. This is pro forma one. In this model, this is a couple of capital fund balance projections. You start out with your beginning balance here, 36.4 million, which comes from right here. This is your actual balance minus the station and ambulance. For a fiscal year. 26. You subtract out the current ordinary capital. Subtract out, remove this from operating, subtract out the transportation. In this model, I just went straight with a 4 million from the school. This is for their preventative maintenance ordinary capital. This 3.5 million is right from that chart you saw with that fire equipment. And then in this model, I use a $9 million rollover. Screens you to the 26 million. And this is the same each year. And this includes if you were to fund all that five year capital plan to the fire year by year, these are the numbers right out of your capital plan, which would bring you to fiscal year 30, a balance of a minus 4.5 million. So that assumes that any additional costs we have in any department, including the fire department, the fire department, all must just vary based on the logistical work that you do with open דיÓ s that we are doing now, or in our real research department, that would be making baby farming cost or, as we you're doing out here in the classroom, so that would allow you to pay $29 million here. Very simple math. That's what we're doing. $2.2 million could be in a program that's in technical services.highly expensive. Yes. Right. So. Definitely. Definitely. So, to take another look away, another way of looking at this financing model was to not look at your capital fund as if it's a capital fund. As I stated at the last meeting, technically, legally, what it really is, is your unreserved fund balance. As you know, we have what I call the 3% float. That's the difference between the 17% and everything over 20% that you roll over to the capital fund balance. This is just to give you an idea of how much money you have available by recognizing that as unreserved fund balance. So, this is the $36 million you saw from the previous pro forma, plus added in $6 million, which is in the ballpark of what that 3% is, which brings it now to $42,400,000. Everything else on here is the same on this model. The only difference in this model is you add the 6%. Over the 17%. Correct. So, if you're calling this unreserved fund balance, that number each year will be greater because you're now rolling over everything that's over the whole- Over the 17%. Correct. Okay. And remember, once again, on these, you have to be careful not to get too caught. These are financial models just to give an idea of your expenses coming up. But in that 424, you have your $6 million number, right? Correct. And so why did you change it from 9 to 12? If you have it up here, I didn't understand. What was the reason? Because the $9 million was based on each year you would roll over everything over 20%. With this fund reserve, now every year you're rolling over everything over 17%. But you started with 424, which includes your $6 million. Right. I'll verify those, but I believe because the fact is you're rolling over a higher amount every year. Every year it'll still be everything over 17%. We're only talking about 2% differential, right? Yes. 17% of the money? Yeah. So the unreserved fund balance is currently at $6 million? No. That 3% that's greater than 17% is approximately $6 million. And where does that go each year, that $3 million? Actually, 3% just stays in unreserved fund balance. The rest is rolled into an account that we have separated. It's really a quasi-fund. It's called a capital fund. Once you actually commit from there, it goes into a capital project fund. I just want to make sure there's been 3% between those two funds. The reserve and the unreserved fund, there's always been another 3%. Correct. Every year there'll be a 3% that changes based on whatever your reserve is. I'm just wondering where that 3% has been used over the years. It's not been used. It's in your unreserved fund balance. It's sitting there as an extra reserve beyond what best management practice say, which has typically been, what, 17%? 17% two months. Okay. So our 17% reserve has actually been sitting at 20% year after year because of this additional 3%. Except that it's classified. That 3% is still classified as unreserved fund balance. The 17% you have actually classified as reserved. But it's not spent each year. It's not spent. It's been sitting. Yes. And if you look at the financial statements, it'll have line fund balance part will be reserved. The next line will be unreserved. It breaks it out. Okay. That's the extra 36 million we have. Sorry. That's the extra 36 million that we have. And if I can get to this, I think sometimes the key thing on this is what you're going to find. Because I want to tell you, first of all, this 12 million, this is an estimate every year. As you know, last year, we had over 17 million. So it's very difficult to check what that number is. I think the key idea is to show you what's coming up, what you have greater control over on is what your expenses are and how it's going to affect that balance. And in this model, the only difference on this is calling the entire amount unreserved fund balance. So it's 42 million. So that means you'll actually have more money every year by not calling the capital, all capital funds. This is the real. Please switch out of that 42.4 million. In that 42.4, then, is the money for the Station 22? That's already subtracted out. Subtracted out? Yep. So after Station 22, it's taken care of. You're now at 42.4. Correct. Okay. Thank you. This is the number I think that's really the elephant in the room. Pardon the expression. I'm going to cliche here. This is the number that's really important to look at. Everything you've looked at so far. When you get hit, this is the increase in school debt based on the three projects. And 27 is approximately 3.7 million. 28 is 7.5 million. 29 is 7.5 million. 29 is 7.5 million. And then in 30, it's 11.75 million. So it starts going back down. As you can see, when you start looking at your funding, it really takes you into very deep negative amounts. You've changed this 12 million to 9 million. It'll make it better. But it still puts you in the same situation long term when that debt starts hitting you. If you change it back to 9, it'll make things worse. It's worse. Right. But that's why the key story on this, the most important part, is to realize these items that are coming up, school capital year by year, the additional school debt that really hits you in these years, and if you continue to try to fund transportation going forward. And we also have to place in there the ordinary capital for the general fund because, as you know, we've had to, the last two years, use this fund in order to balance the budget to get there. So the idea of this whole chart, this project, this program is to show you the big expenses coming up in the future as you look down the road five years. So the school debt is based on the three projects that we approved? Correct. This comes, these are the increases based just on those three projects of school debt. I pulled up their tables. These are rounded off numbers. But these are the big numbers when they hit you. Obviously, 29 is a big year, and then it'll start decreasing again. And I'll add on to this is if what's not included in this, if you remember, last year when they did their presentation on projects, over 10 years, there was another $500 million in projects for the school. And there's all those other items out there when you start looking at. Those aren't included in this. So this really is to show you the big numbers coming up in the future. And then so on this, I'm just asking you a question. Are you assuming then that your operational budgets could be flat for the next four years? Because the ZIL, the ZIL household increases in your operational budget, we've gone from like 239 to 256 to 280 now. So is the operational budget, how is the increases in the operational budget going to be addressed? Well, is that a revenue issue, a cost of money issue or? It's a revenue issue. I think what we've seen in the past is with the increases, just the basic increases in your, well, personal property tax and your sales tax, that helps pay for it. But going forward, into the future, it may be more of a challenge. And I think one of the things, even at, even looking at these numbers, I think you're going to still have to look at ways to cut costs. I think cutting costs within this organization is going to become critical. It truly is. I think you're going to have to look at everything you do. You're going to have to look at, are we doing well in our debt services? Are we borrowing at good rates? You know, we've generally gone through the organization with schools at their debt rates. You know, they've told us that, you know, you can actually borrow cheaper on the open market. I don't know if that's true, but you definitely look at that item. You look at your investments, you look at everything you do, you look at all your processes and find ways to improve. Well, the investments, Mr. Treasurer, we were restricted on what we can invest in, which is extremely conservative. And that's by state law, right? State law. Yes. It's state law, but you still have, you still have options. But what you do is when you're looking at this, you look at everything. But those are the things going forward. The county's got to look at all those items going forward, because as you see in the near future, you have some big expenses coming up. Mr. Chairman, this is the unreserved fund balance projection. In the previous two scenarios, operating cost was this debt service. How do you get that away? You have to get it over on this sheet other than just tracking it out. But last year they actually- It's not going to be coming out of fund balance. It's going to be a part of the operating. But you have to decide how you're going to split your taxes up and where it's spent. And once again, this is a financial model. This is just showing you- This is not a financial model. You don't commingle operating and fund balances together- Well, let me ask- Unless you're trying to- I don't get that concept at all. I'll explain it to you. When you look at government accounting, it's called unreserved fund balance. A government can use that money any way it chooses to do so, to balance a budget. A government can use unreserved fund balance to pay its debt. By law and by government accounting, that's how it's done. I'm not recommending you do it that way. This just shows you, you have these items coming up, if you don't have the money in operating, you have to pay for them. How do you pay for them? You are allowed to take it from unreserved fund balance. I don't think it's a good idea, but it's used to look at your expenses coming up. So then you're going to at some point violate your policy of your 17%. Well, at some point, you're going to realize you don't even have fund balance left to cover your debt, and you've got a problem. Now you're- That's what happens when you don't- We'll have the 17. This is a different fund balance. Yeah. We're just talking about unreserved here. I think his point was if you start running out of this, then you get desperate. Remember- I think the word unreserved is used in different funds. Like this is the board's capital, and then we have the unreserved in the general fund. I think it gets confusing when he talks about that. Right. And that's why I want to use the legal term. It's called unreserved fund balance. If you look at your- If you look at your audited financial statements, it'll be listed as unreserved fund balance. And by law, you can use that for whatever you like. And with that, you're counting the 3% and the capital fund. Excuse me. The terms on the- This is the capital fund plus the 3%. Excuse me? This is everything above the 17%. Right. And the idea of me and pointing to you at all these expenses coming up, and if you don't have the money in operating to pay for it, and if you use your undesignated, at some point in time, you run out of money. Right. Yeah. You run out of your undesignated. Okay. I don't know about anyone else, but all this helps me put things into some perspective. It's 6.30. We have to clear the room by 7, anyway, a little before. Is there more to go through today? Yes. It's called discussion. We have this handout. Is that just in here? Or did you get this too? If I may explain that. I was asked about the status of the state sales tax. This is, I just downloaded off the internet today. There's a summary page. I have not looked into this, read it, but it just provides you that information for your reading. So, on the new positions, it looks like it could possibly qualify for comp board positions. Don't miss that. The new position request. Yes. So, will we receive any revenue to offset those positions, new positions that are being asked for? I believe it may be in the commissioner revenue and it may be also in the clerk to servant. I'll verify that. I do know that it might be in the clerk to servant. Okay. Okay. So, it might be in the clerk's, but it's not mine. We have, there's no more funds available. We can have up to 16 positions partially funded from the comp board and currently we have 11. But they don't have the funds to increase it to the number that would qualify. As you know, that same issue we have with the sheriff and that may or may not be the case of the clerk, but I'll verify that. And also the sheriff. And the sheriff's too. And the sheriff's too. And I know the sheriff's doesn't have it. Okay. Mr. Chairman, let me just let some of my concerns. I have some, I have concerns on this budget where we go. I think this county is well run financially. I think that, you know, if you're fined $100,000, $200,000, $300,000 out of a $250,000, $250,000, $250,000 budget, I think you can do that. When you're starting to have neighborhoods $10 to $18 million coming out of a capital fund, that's a different scenario. I saw a person saying, you know, we need to cut the budget. So, this is Lockridge. As chair of the finance committee, I'm saying this with a smile. If your committee can go and find areas that we think we need to cut, and we're going to reduce, please let us all know, you know, on paper. But I, I'm going through this with the administrator, and I'm not finding a whole lot to reduce. If you want to say that you want to get rid of firefighters, for example, in Tennessee, you pay a fee to have the firefighters come. If you don't pay the fee, they come and say, fine, we're not going to save your house. So, we have to do some things here on reductions that would not be good, on not being good on the housing. So, we're not advocating that. We're figuring out how to go and raise revenue. But when you go into a situation where your revenue doesn't meet your expenses, not what we're dealing here, and that's why we're having to take money out of a slush fund, my words, not finance, but essentially you're supplementing. It would be the same as if you were all spending $100,000 a year on expenses, but you only had $80,000 a year in salary, and when the capital fund goes to zero, you're still spending $100,000 a year, you're going to be hurting. And in our case, when the capital fund goes to zero, you still have those expenses to deal with. And so, we have to figure out, in my opinion, how to raise revenue. Mr. Leroy, you made the comment about bringing in new business. I agree with you. The chocolate fund factory brings in like $280 million of capital, but the revenue that we get from that is pretty small. And so, we ought to have a serious conversation on how to adjust the revenue side. 1% sales tax going for schools would be a big help. Note that that is not a, that the bill was written as a referendum. So, if this board said to the population of Frederick County, here's a bill, do you, the population, want it or not? You all get to vote. If the population says yes, then you have an additional $20, $21 million. If they say no, you can say to the school, to the population, you chose not to do this, so now what are the other options? Do you want to have a reduction of services? Or do you want to have a real estate tax increase? Or do you want to have a meals tax? I mean, something has to give. This is the third year in a row that we've had a budget in which we've had money coming out of capital reserves. That gets, that's scary. And so, we have the time right now to solve the problem, but there's not a whole lot of time to do it. So, I'd say to you as finance chair, you know, come up with a solution. Mr. Chairman, I'd say to you as the chair of the committee, county, what, what do we have as options? We have to have a, a, a, frankly, a come to Jesus moment and say how do we solve this problem realistically? And we may agree or disagree on how to solve the problem, but this is a problem we need to solve. I'll make one other comment. On the slides that Mr. Bolharp was showing, he shows $7 million for transportation. I'll use that as an example. In FY23, we were $8.8 million. FY24, it went to $6 million. FY25 this year, it was $3.2. And the reason it came down is because there was not a need. We're expenditures. If we're going to go and build a Route 37 or a bypass, if we're going to go and deal with some of the issues that John Bishop is showing us, that if we do nothing, if we do not build a Route 37, we still have road issues by 2050, we have to set aside money for that. If we take this capital fund and kind of push it off to do other stuff, we're not going to do it. I think that it would be $14 million for transportation. And the same thing, you have the $3.5 million. If we take this $3.5 million, we're not going to do it. We're going to take $3.5 million for fire and rescue. If we get into a push, are you going to close that down next year and not do it? That's the issue, that you can't keep living off this slush fund. We have to figure out how to either raise revenue or somebody has to say, here's where I'll go and make the cut on expenses and lay it out specifically and then see if there's an appetite to do that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So in addition to cutting specific items, I've always advocated for having a rule of thumb. That for every department, we have to have a rule of thumb. That for every department, it doesn't propose to grow by more than inflation plus the population they serve. And that we know what that baseline is. If they want to request more than that, then they need to help us. They need to justify that. I call it a wedge. And they can. I mean, there are some increases occur because there's mandates that come down from Richmond and one of our county areas. And the county areas has to do something. Or they decrease in volunteerism and fire and rescue, so we have to pick up that slack. I think we should enumerate. We should hold ourselves to inflation and county growth. Population. And population. And look very, ask some very tough questions about anything that goes beyond that. I think if we look back. We went back and looked at the data over the last 10 years for departments. I think in some cases it's well exceeded inflation from plus. Now, we do have people moving into the county from other counties with different practices. You know, big cities, New York, the DC area. And they want more services, some of these people. And we have increased services as a county. And we need to take credit when we do. And we need to take credit when we spend that extra money. But we need to be able to justify to the taxpayer whenever the budgets go up more than inflation plus population what they're getting extra in services. Because I don't think we've always done that clearly. I would like to see that as a baseline for the future. I think it will help us with the financial. Let me just make one other comment. On the fire and rescue, for example, I agree with you basically. But fire and rescue has been all a volunteer system. And so now the population has increased. And so now the cost has gone up. But our cost has gone up because volunteerism has gone down. So there's a couple other factors that factor in as well. Just recognize that. I mean, I know you do. But I'm just throwing that comment out there. Well, it's why I'm in favor of a relatively small RFP to get somebody to come in and help us look at the system. Maybe there's a lot to be saved or made more efficient there. If I may interject, when we started this year's budget year, the directive to every department was not increase their budget more than 3%. And if you did so, you had to justify it. So we started out that. We had to justify it for every department. Our greatest cost drivers, as you know, when you look at it over the last 10 years, has been the sheriff, fire, and the Department of Social Services. Those have been our three biggest cost drivers, with fire being the largest component. As a matter of fact, I think when you look at our costs subtract out those increases, it actually parallels population growth plus inflation. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you have a comment? Yes. Sounds like I scared everyone there. I appreciate this, and I appreciate the numbers, Mr. Ballhoffer. I guess, and this is not pointed at anyone or any group, I think the conversation is important, as the supervisors have mentioned, not just for now, but for the future. I know it's something that I've brought up and probably ad nauseum, but I do feel like had the board had some of this information prior, then maybe, you know, I think really the conversation has been about the tax rate holistically and not other pieces prior to this evening. And so I think maybe looking at the budget calendar and how that operates, whether that's through the finance committee or or in other ways may behoove the board in future years to have all the information to kind of make those decisions moving forward. So I think we have to adjourn unless someone really had a comment. I have one thing I want to squeeze in. I'm going to pretend that it's financial related, but it's a long shot because I owe the board an update. If the law had gone through to increase trucking lengths and weights on our highways, it could potentially affect our budget because we would have bridges. We'd have to look at our system to see if they could deal with all those trucks that would pass through the county. That's my excuse for getting it in here. And I had promised to pursue that with our representatives. As it turns out in the U.S. Congress. That bill died in the last. It did not get approved in the last Congress. So that's why you haven't gotten an update from me. However, I'm watching it very closely now to see if it gets reintroduced in the current Congress. Just educate me for a second. So what would the bill? The bill would have allowed the trucks on our highways to go from 80,000 pounds to 91,000. And also make them six foot longer per truck. So a double trailer would be 12 foot longer. You know how hard it is to get on. The highway, if you happen to be on the on ramp when there's a truck that's in the lane next to you. So it's really not entirely fair to bring it up here. But I owed you all an update on that. We're not missing the boat in talking to our U.S. representatives. It did go away. But I have not forgotten to track that. So we'll have more to take up. Our next work session is in two weeks. Yes. And do we have an idea of what we'll be? Taking up in two weeks. Take a month. So normally after the public hearing, we get together again and talk about any changes that you would like to make from what was advertised. And then we do the resolution accordingly. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. We're adjourned.
