Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-05-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=93
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First item on our agenda is the adoption of the agenda. If there's no changes, to the agenda as is presented before us, I'll accept a motion to approve. I move. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Our agenda is approved for tonight. The next item we have is our meeting minutes that we need, if everyone has read through our minutes, for March 17, 2021, and our April 21, 2021 meeting minutes. If there's no changes to those minutes as they're presented, I'll entertain a motion to approve. I move. Second. All those in favor of approving the minutes from March 17, and April 21, say aye. Aye. Thank you. Our next item that we have, moving right along, is our committee reports. And we have no transportation. Mr. Oates is not with us tonight, but CPPC, we have Chris. Mr. Chair, the committee met a couple weeks ago and discussed the Clark County Sewer and Water Service request. And committee recommended that a larger area in the kind of triangle area of Southern Frederick go forward for additional study. And so that recommendation is going to be taken forward, I believe will be coming to the full commission as well, before it moves on to the board. All right. Thanks, sir. Mm-hmm. The next we have is, we don't have Mr. Rhodes here tonight, so no Frederick Water report tonight. And I'll just go right to Mr. Paul Richardson with Winchester Planning. Commission, he's our liaison. Welcome. Thanks for having me. First time here. Yesterday's meeting, we had one public hearing item that was related to a privately sponsored ordinance amendment that would allow towing lots in commercial industrial areas. And the commission was comfortable with the particular lot that was kind of in question, but they were apprehensive about allowing it in all of those areas, so it was tabled until hopefully this applicant will seek a CUP for that specific lot and not open it up. Most of the meeting was centered around a long discussion of short-term rentals. And I think we're working through an ordinance there. We initiated the process, but we haven't actually agreed on anything. It's likely going to be, seemed to be the commission was leaning towards allowing it in every area, but severely limiting it to only your own personal residence and having a very limited number of days that it could be rented. So, we're going to have to wait and see what happens. And then, we're going to have to wait and see what happens with some other caveats in there. And then, after that discussion, we actually had our first actual CUP related to a short-term rental on Fairmont Avenue here. And it was, that was passed on a 5-2 vote with those, roughly those same parameters. And that was it. Thank you. Thank you. Good to have you. And our last is our Board of Supervisor Liaison, Mr. Stagmeier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have an official name. I don't have a name. I don't have a name. So, I know that you are the chair of the Board of Supervisors, and I know that you are the board's representative. So, I wanted to make sure that you had that official report from the Board. But I did want to, once again, thank the commission for the opportunity to talk in depth about the application of the one logistics park that will be coming up again before the commission on June the second. As I mentioned, as we know, five out of the seven members and obviously very important to the board, both the board and the commission. Thank you. Thank you, sir, appreciate it. Our next item on our agenda is our citizen comments. This time, any one citizen come forward, speak to us for any item that's not on the agenda tonight. Seeing no mad rush, we'll move right on from citizen comments right into our first public hearing item, our only public hearing, is an ordinance amendment for the agricultural supply cooperatives in the RA zoning district. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to the zoning ordinance for agricultural supply cooperatives as a conditional use permit in the RA zoning district. As you recall two weeks ago, you had this at your body for a discussion item, and we're running it back to back through the board of supervisors, and of course, you all for a public hearing tonight. And basically, there are three amendments that are proposed in the ordinance. The definition of the agricultural supply cooperatives, supplemental use regulations regarding that use, and finally, inclusion of the use as a conditional use permit in the rural area's zoning district. The definitions and word usage, Mr. Chairman, has changed a little bit as we had a discussion item at the board of supervisors at their last week's meeting. And basically, I'm gonna give you the definition of what they had asked staff to change to make it, you know, to make it a more inclusive, more inclusive, and more inclusive, and more inclusive, and more inclusive, and more inclusive, and more inclusive. And then, if you will, tighten it up a little bit that would understand what a cooperative is and what we're acting as. So basically, your definition tonight is an agricultural supply cooperative is an agricultural cooperative and association organized under Article Two, Chapter Three, Title 13.2 of the Code of Virginia. And basically, that sets up the co-ops in the Commonwealth of Virginia. What the board felt was, yeah, this would, you know, make it clearly for an RA use for our agriculture community. And so, as you can see, I think that's the definition of what the Board wants to do. And that's what I'm gonna do. And that's what I'm gonna do. Furthermore, in its primary, again, the definition kind of stayed the same, primarily engaged in the retail, wholesale, or distribution of livestock, animal feed, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides, seeds, and other agricultural products or services. And again, it would be under a conditional use permit under our RA zoning district in double E under agriculture or supply cooperatives. Under our supplementary use regulations, again, the Board, at their discussion, and they're highlighted at the screen at your left. We highlight a little bit under C, but I'm gonna go through the definitions and we can look at what C was. But basically, they remain the same. The sale of agricultural and garden machinery should be permitted as an accessory use. B, the repair of agriculture and greenery, or garden machinery, shall be prohibited. And the change of C was the bulk sale of gasoline, propane, off-roads, diesel, and other products. And the change of C was the bulk sale of gasoline, or garden machinery, shall be permitted as an accessory use. What was brought up in the discussion at that time, and I think we touched a little bit here at this body, was what we were looking for. And what the bulk fuel, and I have a definition of bulk fuel, and I can get into it if you want me to get into it, and hopefully we won't. But basically, this was to allow, it was brought up to a farmer to come up to the co-op if he has a trailer or if he has a pickup truck, as we see, normally in our areas, to go ahead and fuel up an off-road diesel, propane. The board of supervisors at the time felt, hey, staff, go back, let's make it work. That the bulk fuel, it's not retail, as we discussed, that what we're looking to not have there is like a gas station or a service station, if you will. So what staff did was came up with the bulk sales, run it through, and that's what you're seeing tonight. And that's the only change on our supplemental regulations you're seeing tonight. And again, we're still gonna have to make sure that the plans should be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to establishment of these use. And again, the B-2 standards, our general business district, will apply to include, but not limited to, our building heights, building setbacks, parking setbacks, buffering, screening, and landscaping. So that was the only change that was brought up here on the supplemental regulations. And just to refresh the commission's memory, if you will, the Development Review Regulations Committee discussed this item again. It was a meeting that was held at their April 22nd meeting of this year, forwarded to the planning commission as a discussion item. It was held at your May 5th meeting of this year, and it sent to the Board for discussion. Again, two highlighted portions of this presentation showed what the Board wanted to be added. And the Board of Supervisors did discuss this at their last Wednesday's meeting, which was on May 12th, and sent the amendment forward as a public hearing with those changes. Chairman, that's brought in front of you tonight with the changes. And again, this is an ordinance text amendment. It's presented as a public hearing, and staff is seeking a recommendation from this body to move forward to the Board of Supervisors on its proposed ordinance amendment to the Farm Supply Cooperatives in the R.A. Zoning District by Condition of Use Amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is there any questions for Mr. Chairman? I've got one real quick one. If a farmer has a pickup truck that runs on gasoline, can he go, and it's licensed farm use, can he go here and fill it up with gas? At this point, I would say that he probably could. Of course, as you know, Mr. Thomas, we don't regulate the off-road diesel or anything like that. That has happened by the Department of Motor Vehicles. I'm going to say he probably could, but we just don't regulate that. Yes, not diesel. I'm just going to leave it at that, sir. Any other questions? The way it reads, the flatbed truck can't get gasoline, but he can fill the 250-gallon tank on the back of the flatbed truck. That is correct. There you go. Any other questions? Thanks for that clarification, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Daniel. See any other questions? This is a public hearing. This time, I'll open a public hearing. Anyone would like to come forward, speak to or forth against this ordinance amendment, please come forward. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. At this time, public hearing is closed. At this time, if there's no further discussion for anyone, I'll entertain a motion on ordinance amendment in that called supply cooperative. I have a motion. Mr. Chairman, I move that we recommend approval of the agricultural supply cooperatives in the RA zoning district ordinance amendment. Second. Second. And I'll start with Mr. Molden. Molden, no. Morrison, yes. Dawson, yes. Stone, yes. Triplett, yes. Amish, yes. Barnyard, yes. Daniel, yes. Jewell, yes. Cozell, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. This is approved. It'll go to the Board of Supervisors for their May 26th meeting in the public hearing. Thank you all for that. We move on to our next item on our agenda. And it's our other. We always come up to our famous other. I do know that I believe we have a meeting coming up on our June 2nd. Mr. Pearson, is that correct? And Ms. Perkins over there. I'm seeing both shaking their head yes. Thank you. And is there any other things that come before us tonight that we need to discuss? If not, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. So moved. Second. All those in favor of adjournment, say aye. Aye. We're adjourned. Thank you very much.
