Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-04-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=181
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, please make sure you turn on your mic when you're speaking and turn it off. And we can only have four or five on at one time. So thank you. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? Second. All right. We have. Second. Those in favor? Aye. All right. The agenda is adopted. Now, meeting minutes. We've got meeting minutes from January 18, 2023, and meeting minutes from February 15, 2023. I hope everybody had a chance to read them. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes? Move for approval. Second. All right. We've got all those in favor? Aye. All right. Minutes are approved. Committee reports. We'll start with Mrs. Kozell, DRRC. Yes. DRRC met on Thursday, March 23rd, and discussed the following items. Conversion of industrial districts to NAICS. The committee discussed conversion of use list for industrial M1, M2, and TM zoning districts to NICS terminology. And also discussed allowance for shipping containers as storage in the RA rural areas zoning districts. Both items are going to go back before the committee in April for further discussion. And just a reminder, we have another committee meeting in April to discuss this further. So those on that committee, please plan to join. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Kozell. If you cannot make the meeting, please make sure you let Mr. Pearson know. That's important. We need to have as many of our committee members coming out as possible unless, of course, there are always issues that come up. Thank you for that. Historic Advisory Board. Anything? Nothing? Okay. Frederick Water. This is going to take a few minutes, but there's some important things that were discussed at Frederick Water. The Frederick Water Board of Directors approved revisions of the 2019 Shapers Barbecue Town and Middletown Frederick Water Sanitary Memorandum of Understanding. The revisions resulted in reduced construction costs by removing flow meters. And the reduced construction costs by removing flow meters. The reduced construction costs will help facilitate Shapers Barbecue connection to the public sanitary sewer system and to abandon an existing undersized drain field. The second thing was the Frederick Water Board of Directors endorsed the proposed FWSA, which is Frederick Winchester Service Authority. FWSA owns the wastewater treatment facility, which are operated under contract by Frederick Water in the city of Winchester. The proposed organizational restructuring would reduce the number of... Board members from nine to five members. Both Frederick County and the city of Winchester would each have two members. One member would be jointly appointed. The restructuring balances the representation between the localities. Currently, five of the nine board members' positions are city appointees. The restructuring is more in line with treatment capacity and debt obligations. The restructuring proposal will be presented to the county board of supervisors and the Winchester City Council for final approvals. Other than that, water's in great shape. The monthly production was 6.79 million gallons a day, and accounts are over almost up to 18,000. So that's your Frederick Water report. Before I go, was there any other committee reports that I'm... Okay, good. Winchester Planning Liaison. How are you? Very good. Good to be with you again. Good to see you. Friendly faces. Three items I was going to share from our side over there. Two of them are two development projects that I guess this would have just been yesterday. We did recommend approval of one. It's off of Hope Drive. It's called Harrison Plaza. I think there's 6,000 square feet of commercial that will be there, and then apartments. And then the other was off of Weems Lane, and that one had been in the works for I think six, seven months, and that's a townhouse project. And then the other item was we had a long discussion yesterday on accessory dwelling units, which we had talked about for a few months. I don't know if you all have addressed this yet or talked about it, but ultimately, for a variety of reasons, our board did recommend denial of that one. So we'll see what the City Council does there, but that's what we had. So thanks for having us. Thanks, sir. Thank you for being here tonight. Board of Supervisors Liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, sir. Just two things to note. I forwarded complaints that the Board of Supervisors has received, regarding short-term lodging, both with regard to the ordinance and implementation, impacts on short-term lodging owners, four-year consideration, just to make sure the public knows that there is a look going on at that. And the Board of Supervisors is, of course, completing the annual budget cycle. Little is firmly decided as of yet, but there should be a lot to impact your board shortly. Thank you. Enjoyable discussion. Thank you, Mr. Ludwig. All right, next up is citizen comments, which is open for any items, not before the commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. For anyone that is here and would like to speak, please come up, state your name, magisterial district, and keep your comments to three minutes or less. Okay, I will close the citizen comments. Next up is a public hearing, double church agriculture and forest removal. Mr. Ludwig? Mr. Chair and how are you, sir? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. As you pointed out, this is a request to remove 100-acre parcel from the double church agricultural and forestry district. The property is located within the Opec Magisterial District. It is generally located west of Grimm Road, Route 640, and south of Weiss Mill Lane, Route 737, and it is zoned RA rural areas. Wrong way. Turning your attention to the map on your left shows the outline of the property that's being removed from the Ag and Forestry District. Now, the applicant has requested removal from the double church agricultural and forestry district to allow the subdividing of the property. State code requires land that is removed from the district be done for good and reasonable reason. And in your packet, Mr. Chairman, you'll see that the applicant is applying for this request is due to be removed because of family health issues. Now, this application was reviewed by the Agricultural District Advisory Committee, or ADAC, when they met on the 14th of March of 2023, reviewed this application and recommended this parcel be removed from the district. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to be forwarded to the Board of Senators. The Board of Senators has requested the removal of this parcel from the double church agricultural and forestry district. And for the record, Mr. Chairman, the applicant is here to answer any questions that you or any of the Planning Commissions may have on this proposed removal. Staff is here also to answer any questions. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. All right. We'll start with you. Does anybody have any questions for Mr. Chair? I'm looking to my left. Looking to my right. Mr. Chair, by right. By right. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. By right. By right. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. So, the applicant abhors. They could develop this property, correct? MR. Right now, no, because it's in the Ag and Forestry District. Now, as you're well aware, Mr. Chairman, in two years, our Ag and Forestry Districts all will come up for a new per-state code. That's all the 11 districts we have. Should the applicant feel that they do not want to be part of that district anymore, they would advise staff that if they want to come out, then it would come to the Board of Supervisors for removal. Then the applicant could apply to subdivide the property. He can do a rural preservation subdivision or a regular five-acre subdivision by right. It's not a rezoning. It's strictly by right. MR. I just wanted everybody to hear that. That's why I asked that question. Any questions for the applicant? Does anybody want to talk to? MS. Can I ask him a question now? MR. Sure. Mr. Chair. MS. We also allow people to come in, not in the recycle, right? We just put some in. So, we're very lenient. MR. Yes, Ms. Brennan. That is true. MR. I just wanted to make sure that you could see how it's been a policy of Frederick County since we started ag and forestry districts back in the 1980s that a landowner can request to come in. State code requires that once you're in, it's a five-year period. However, it's voluntarily, as you point out, Ms. Brennan, we just added three. We also have taken folks out of the district at their request. Again, it's up to the Board of Supervisors to make that. MS. Thank you. MR. I want to ask, would you just go through the steps so that everyone knows if you want to take if less than a five-year period, if you want to remove your property from the district, what steps do the property owners have to go through to remove their property from the district? MR. Well, it's pointed out in the presentation, Mr. Thomas, what happened, they would contact staff first. Our staff would take the application and we would take it in front of our ADAC. ADAC would review it. They could look at it. ADAC would make a recommendation. It comes to the point. We have a certain amount. comes to the Planning Commission first. Planning Commission, of course, makes the recommendation. And the Board of Supervisors ultimately decides whether they stay in a district or come out. I would note that every five years when staff does review the districts, they review what has changed over the years. It also affects, obviously, at this level, when we get into our comprehensive policy plan updates. It is part of our zoning ordinance that says that we have ag and forest districts. Ag and forest districts doesn't stop anything. But it's also a consideration when the Board of Supervisors in this body makes decisions on your long-range planning. And it does, you know, I'm not going to say it stops anything, but it does put a flag up, if you will, in any of the 11 districts we have for any road projects, long-term utility projects. But I will caution that I said it's five years. So in two years, when Frederick County is dropped, the 11 districts we have, the Board can either have all 11 stay in or take all 11 out. Or have the folks add or subtract. Do TDRs come into play at all with ag and forest district? Yes, sir. The ag and forest district, the benefits, one of the benefits of Frederick County, as I should say, is your TDRs actually double. So if you're an ag and forest district and you go, staff evaluates what your TDRs would be, as our TDR program does, and it goes to a receiving area, a growth area. So, yes, they get to double the TDRs. They get to double the TDR rights. Now, if they remove their property from the ag and forest district and they have sold their TDRs, what happens then? Well, if the TDRs in the ag and forest districts are two different animals, however, if you use the TDRs because you're in the ag district, you can't double dip, for the better word. In other words, you can come out of the ag district, but that parcel that you use the TDR stays, a rule, if you will. Okay. Okay. Okay. Good on the left. Any questions on the right? Any questions for the, oh, yes, Ms. DeBruyck. I just have, just to reiterate, this is not a rezoning, because I know several of the emails we received and online things, this is not a rezoning. We are not rezoning anything. That is correct, Ms. Brombracken. I'm glad you brought that up. For the record, Mr. Chairman, we did get some e-comments that were forwarded to you from Ms. Conner. And to answer Ms. Conner's question, I think it's important to note that we are not going to be re-zoning anything. We are going to be re-zoning everything. And we are going to be re-zoning everything. We are not going to be re-zoning anything. That is correct, Ms. Brombracken. I'm glad you brought that up. For the record, Mr. Chairman, we did get some e-comments that were forwarded to you from Ms. Conner. And to answer Ms. Brombrack's question, the all preservation lots or major rural subdivisions are administratively, what I mean by that, they don't come in front of this Board or the Board of Supervisors as you would do for rezoning. So, let's, for argument's sake, that this 100 acres will sit in, not in aggregate, but in the state of the state, and we will be re-zoning it. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. So, let's, for argument's sake, that this 100 acres will sit in, not in aggregate, but in the ag and forestry district, a property that would have rights to come in and subdivide it. Part of that subdivision plan does get reviewed by the Department of Transportation, VDOT, I should say, and also Frederick County Health Department. And staff reviews it. If it meets the ordinance, the intent, they sign it and they're off. Thank you. Yes, that's, we did receive a lot of e-comments, and I wanted this opportunity to educate folks on the process and the differences between a buy-write and a rezoning. So, thank you for doing that. Appreciate it. Do we have any questions for the applicant? Anybody have any kind of questions? Okay. All right. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward to speak for or against this item. Please come forward now. State your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes. Does anybody want to come forward and speak regarding this public hearing? Yes, ma'am. Hi. Hi. Please state your name and magisterial district. My name is Brenda Cattlewell, and I live in the Opecan District. Thank you, ma'am. I live across from the property that Mr. Stoesel was requesting to be removed from the ag district. Thank you, ma'am. I live across from the property that Mr. Stoesel was requesting to be removed from the ag district on Grimm Road, the Fairview Spring Hills Farm, ending in 2025. Many issues have surfaced in the past nine to 12 months, which has caused me some concern. In summer 2022, last summer, we viewed a copy of the subdivided land on the Stoesel property that Tom had shared with some neighbors. So, we knew that this process was already beginning. In fall of 2022, we noticed nefs excavating. Back and forth on our road on Grimm Road, which is a very narrow rural road. I don't know if you all have been out there or not, but they were moving dirt and debris. This went on for weeks. We noticed red flags on the hillside across from us, which is out my window, and a realty sign that was placed outside on Wellsville Lane, which we found out was for five acres. And it had been approved for a well and septic we found out later. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. At that time, I called Mr. Wells to ask about the activity. He stated that he had talked to John Tomstad around the kitchen table sometime back, he said. So, I'm not exactly sure of the time frame on that. He said that he called me back and stated the property can be subdivided if they choose. Two-acre lots can be surveyed out. And I had always thought that it was five acres lots. And the county. Unless it was a family member. And then you had the opportunity after you owned it for a few years that you could give it to your children. No notification was needed, he told me, to the public as long as the roads on this proposed subdivided land of two acres didn't intersect anywhere. And then that would make it a subdivision and not just lots being sold. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. hard. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. and development. I called Mr. Pearson. He returned my call on Monday, March 27. He informed me a mistake was made when the five acres was removed from the farm from the Ag District. The mistake was going to be reviewed, but no actions would be taken. He also informed me of a potential subdivision that would have two-acre lots with the potential of 20 homes on Grim Road, which confirmed what was circulating in the community before. Mr. Stessel, John Tomstad, is a member of the Agriculture Advisory Committee and a contact for the Apecan District who committed his farm to the Ag District for 2020 to 2025. How did Mr. Stessel not know the rules to have it removed and then sell? I believe he knew the rules very well when he proposed the pig farm, which I never complained of, nor the noise nor the smell. He used the Ag District for his benefit, but now the rules had been forgotten. The process of five acres of land being surveyed, deeded, and reviewed by the Ag District was a process of five acres of land being surveyed, and the process of five acres of land being surveyed, deeded, and reviewed by the Ag District. The process of five acres of land being surveyed, sold, and removed without notice, being sent to the community or at least the mention in the letter sent for this meeting is also concerning. As a farmer taxpayer in the Apecan District, I question how this was handled and not halted. The events had been acknowledged by a supervisor, an Ag District Committee member, and Planning and Development, and it still went through. It saddens me that the whole farm will not be offered for sale. John's parents, Louie and Betty, Tomstad, and my father, Stuart, were chosen by Bud and Ethel Rittner to be good stewards of his land. They put their blood, sweat, and tears into the farm, which I understand after farming myself, and wanted it to be farmed and kept for further generations. I am fulfilling Mr. and Mrs. Rittenhour's request. The fact that they removed five acres without the proper process, knowing the timelines of the events, the informed individuals involved, should be enough to have the request denied. I would ask that the planning and development take these next few years to evaluate our small rural community if sub-debatting is to be considered. I ask that you look at the potential hardship for the farmers and the residents in our community with 18 to 20 houses on our water source. One person uses 100 gallons a day. A family of four uses 400 gallons a day, 12,000 a month, 144,000 a year, times 20 homes is 2,880,000 gallons in a year, and 11,520,000 gallons in five. On a well, which is on our water table. I would ask the planning and development persons to use the time given until 2025 to look at the capacity of our schools, look at the terrain, the bridge traffic, drive the area in which these cars, 60 to 70 extra cars potential will travel in all those seasons, check the accident reports on Grimm and Double Church Road, talk with the neighbors, ask the community how many times someone hit their mailbox, drove through their fences, ended up in their fields. The concern is that the community is not able to do that. The concern is that the community is not able to do that. The concern is that the community is not able to do that. The concern is that the community is not able to do that. The concern is that the community is not able to do that. If you have concerns for their children catching the bus on a rural road, then you will be able to make a good decision for our county or for our community. I am requesting that the county not release Fairview Spring Hills Farm from their commitment from the Ag District 2025. The request for hardship seems insincere due to the events this past year. Thank you, ma'am. Would anyone else like to come up and speak for or against this? Yes, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else like to come forward? Yes, ma'am. Hi. Hi, everybody. I'm Lisa Anderson. I live in the Opec in District. Thank you. And I'm a fairly newcomer to the area. I've only been there for 22 years. One of the reasons I chose to purchase my old farm was that it was in a protected agricultural farm. It was in a protected agricultural district. I felt safe to pursue my own future there. I know it's a matter of VDOT's concern, probably not yours, but my husband was recently driven off the road with a horse and had to have surgery with a broken arm in two places. It is a road issue, I understand, but it's also a quality of life issue for us. Many of us not only pursue agricultural and country pursuits as our life, but we support one another in that. There are plenty of other areas where there are houses and more yet to come that are zoned for that. It's already been stated by Mr. Gore. He, Mr. Cecil, has other options as well. I would sincerely request for other neighbors who are also not here that at least it remains in the Ag District until the term is up. This happened shortly before I moved in, but I have it on good authority from neighbors that he is not here. He went door to door and basically roped them into having it zoned agricultural and then proceeded to put in a commercial pig farm, which no one could do a thing about because they had just agreed to go into agricultural zoning. Aside from anything else, there's a strong sense of he just wants to do whatever he wants to do whenever he wants to do it, and we just don't like it. But truly, the traffic... The concerns about water and just quality of life out there are our primary concern. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. There's a gentleman over here. There we go. Greg McCauley, Opecan District. I live on Canterburg Road, which turns off of Grimm Road. I've lived there since 1984. And y'all need to ride... You need to ride down Grimm Road to appreciate what I'm saying. There is some very narrow, twisty turns. There's a one-lane bridge. And since I've lived there that long, you can't believe how many people not in that area that goes around those turns in the middle of the road. Anybody that lives down in there knows, hug that shoulder and that bank. There is so many strangers. I go in and out of that road every day. They take them sharp turns in the middle of the road, and it's like someone just said, it's a lane and a half wide. I have a pickup and a trailer for my personal use. I get run off the road most of the time because you're meeting and there's not enough room. Plus the farmers with the tractors, the hay balers, there's not enough room on that road. They have a farm on Double Churches Road. If they need the money for Betty Stesel, go up there and subdivide that farm on Double Churches Road, which is a lane, a road, two lanes, stripes on it, double line down it. They can come right out of that. They're almost in sight. Okay. The stoplight up there at 277. That road can handle that traffic a whole lot better than what we can down in there. Plus the fact of the water usage and the sewer and everything else that we're going to have to put up with. The road is dangerous enough as it is. And we are getting a lot more traffic since that mess was done up there on 277. And people don't want to go through that median strip and all that construction. I have watched in the last year by my house is just unreal the traffic that has picked up. Since the time I've been there. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Anyone else want to speak? Okay. At this time, I'm going to close the public hearing. Before we have discussion among the commissioners, Mr. Pearson, do you want to explain the difference with the two acres versus the five acres? I think that also needs to be pointed out here. I'll count on my colleague, Mr. Chair, and if I get any of this wrong, he's been doing it for a couple more decades than me. But the two acre lots reference our rural preservation ordinance allowance. And so typically in our RA areas, five acre lots is the norm. However, if you have a contiguous 20 acre lot or higher, you can do a rural preservation subdivision, set aside 60% of the parent tract into rural preservation, which just means it cannot be further subdivided. And then you can do two acre lots. That's for the remainder of it. You typically end up with the same amount of houses at the end of the day, based on how much you're setting aside, as long as you can configure your site correctly. I wanted you to say, I actually had that happen right next door to me. So I think it's important for people to understand, everybody's under the impression, oh, it's got to be a five acre lot. It does not have to be a five acre lot. So thank you. Family lots and rural preservation lots. Okay. Now, discussion among commissioners. I'll start on my left. Any discussion? Ms. Brannon. Well, farmers depend on the value of their land when they're retiring or need money. So it's a by right use. I don't see how you tell them that they've worked hard, they've struggled through, and I don't want you to earn the money off of your land. Go earn it off of different land. It's their land. It's their right to do this. And they do need the money. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Walker. It seems like if we say no, in two years, it's inevitable to happen anyway. So what is the value of two years? Totally sympathetic to the small road that it's so difficult to drive on. And I've got a land and a half and have to deal with farm equipment and a variety of things. I'm not sure how best they should pursue on that. But that seems to me to be the main focus that people should apply to improve the quality of life that they've had so far. Because that's probably the thing that's taking away the quality of life the most. and so I don't have an answer except that I understand how difficult it is when you got a transportation problem and I question the value of the two-year delay for to happen so that's all I had. Thank you Mr. Marker. Ms. Broomback did you have anything? Yeah, I mean the one thing that I and I am sympathetic to all parties because I understand the farm side, I understand the tractor coming down the road, all of that and the traffic side and I agree with Mr. Marker that it that's a transportation and a VDOT concern and I don't think we have any control over that but I do I do like the fact that this is a Rural Preservation Subdivision and there is 60 I think it's 61 acres preserved and that will be you know forever I think they can have one house on that 61 acres and they'll still be cattle and they'll still be you know hay made and all of that so I think that's a bonus rather than having five acres all over you know five acre lots all over that hundred acres thank you mr. Thomas I have real mixed feelings on this I certainly understand that in two years they can divide it it will be a rural preservation in two years or five acre lots unfortunately I've been here long enough that I can remember mr. Stetzel coming into the Planning Commission and complaining about developments down there and you could have taken the verbiage that the first speaker used about traffic traffic traffic the road problems and if we would have recorded mr. Stetzel 20 years ago that's exactly what he would have said so I can understand how his neighbors feel like they've maybe a little deja vu and maybe he wasn't totally genuine at the time but I'm also very sympathetic to the family if they have to start paying exorbitant medical costs to keep mrs. Stetzel in her declining years this is their 401k this is their savings account and I know we've had a lot of farmers in Frederick County who sold off five acre lots when their kids went to college to pay for the college costs and to pay other things so it's this is a very difficult one to talk about it's difficult for the neighbors it's difficult for the Stetzel family I'm not sure there's going to be any winner in this I think everybody loses I'm sure the Stetzel family would like to have a better future I'm not sure there's going to be any winner in this I think everybody loses I'm sure the Stetzel family would like to have a better future I'm not sure there's going to be any winner in this I think everybody loses I'm sure the Stetzel family would like to have a their mother home and healthy and not in a nursing home and I'm sure the neighbors would like to have it as a farm but you know it we are where we are and it is her savings account if it was her farm she's entitled to the money to help keep her comfortable in her declining years and having said that I would reluctantly support withdrawal because like we've all said in two years it's going to happen anyhow and I'm sure the Stetzel family would like to have a better future and that's the only way for them to grow out of here so everybody job sounds pretty meet and you would show the council have a favorite thank you I won't should we go into working people and would my make sure I always recommend to do tirar volunteer work scale back to ourолн Motion, do I have a second? Second. All right, we have a motion and a second. I will start on the right. Ms. Cosell. Cosell, yes. Manuel. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Brumback, yes. Brannon, yes. And the chair votes yes. This will go before the Board of Supervisors on April 12th. So thank you. Thank you for your time. Regarding the, that takes care of public hearings. Regarding action items, we're going to be postponing the subdivision waiver discussion tonight. We've had a request from One Logistics, and that will come before us on the 19th? May 17th. May 17th. So we'll move on to the UDA exception for Sandy Carmel Home Park. Mr. Pearson. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. This is a request to provide an exception to the board policy to allow for residential uses to make use of public water and sewer service outside of the urban development area. The property in question is about 25 acres in size in the Opecan Magisterial District on the south side of 277 at 2044 and 2046 Fairfax Pike. And it's currently zoned. And the mobile home community district. You all may be familiar, but I'll reiterate for your benefit that the urban development area is a policy statement for Frederick County. It was established in 1987 with the initial boundary. The boundary's changed many times since then. But it has been long-held board policy that residential uses cannot access public water and sewer unless they are within the urban development area. There are many exceptions to that rule. That are either. Pre-date board policy or have some other extenuating circumstance. So to reference where we're at on the map, you have Fairfax Pike or 277 coming down to double toll gate 522 here. Dinosaur land. Sandy's mobile home park outlined in blue. The green line is your sewer and water service area, which applies primarily to commercial and industrial properties having access to water and sewer service. And then the urban development area you can barely see over in here. Right along the. Side of that map. So there are a fair bit outside of it. And speaking with staff, we didn't think it made sense to do an urban development area expansion. Just for an existing mobile home park. And we were willing to consider an exception in this. Circumstance. Here's a recent aerial showing the property as it exists in 2023. About 120 mobile home units out there on a regular basis. The pond you see here is actually the private sanitary sewer system. It's a lagoon system. Um, for those who aren't familiar with that. It's operates in a similar way to a septic system. So there is a tank and then the resulting liquid flows into the lagoon system for treatment prior to being released. Currently, the property does have public water service that does predate our board policy, and they're requesting sanitary sewer service. Their private lagoon system is currently under a consent order from Virginia D Q, and they will either be forced to upgrade that lagoon or connect to public sewer. Hence the onus for the request. Your comp plan and the southern Frederick area plan specifically designates this property for mixed use industrial office, and it is part of the Lake Frederick neighborhood village. It's located within the swaza, but outside the U. D. A. Frederick water has provided comments noting their willingness to serve the property and actually have a project that's going to be constructed. They hope in the next three years that may function well and that they can work with this property owner on to complete if they are authorized to serve it by the board. Again, the applicant is requesting an exception to this board policy, and we are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors regarding this exception. I'm happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions? Mr. Thomas? I remember, I don't know how long ago, it was maybe 10 years ago when they got the public water, but there were essentially all of the homes on the south side of the drive there. Are they being reused? Yes. Yes. They are. They have failing septic systems. Is this the only location that is requesting an exemption? I know there was a lot of discussion on connecting all of the homes out through there to public water and sewer because of the failing sewers and failing septic tanks and water wells and everything in there. Admittedly, I can't speak to the history on it. I know that as of right now, the request is only focused on the property that is being used by Sandy's Motor. I don't know if it is going to be used by Sandy's Mobile Home Community. Okay. Once they provide service to Sandy's Mobile Home, is the line that's going to go to Sandy's Mobile Home be sized that it can accept the rest of the homeowners along Frederictown Pike there? I think potentially. It's going to be a north-south line that runs along 522, so it may not be commercially viable to extend it again to the east to serve those residents, but I do believe it will be sized accordingly. It's intended to run all the way to the Parkins Mill wastewater treatment plant and carry Lake Frederict as part of that. It's going to be a substantial... It would not go west towards Stevens City? I don't think that's the plan right now. I'm not abundantly familiar with the project because it's in the conceptual phase with Frederict Water, but that's my understanding of what they're thinking right now. I hate to see us serve Sandy's Mobile Home there and not serve the rest of the residents south of Frederict Drive there. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and ask the question. Because I know they have failing wells and septic systems there. We can have a conversation with Frederict Water as it relates to a separate initiative, but the Planning Commission for this specific request is limited in its scope for the decision making. I understand your concern for sure. And I would note that we do expect a comp plan amendment in this area this year that's going to look at expanding the urban development area potentially, and there may be an opportunity to address your concerns at that time. Okay. Anybody else? I have a question. Will this allow them to expand the mobile home park? Potentially. They are zoned for I think eight units per acre, and they could conceivably fit 200 units, and they have 120 right now. But given the age of the park, it likely doesn't meet a lot of our requirements related to the provision of recommendities or settings. So I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit of a sense of what the plan is for the next phase. Okay. So the plan is to expand the mobile home park, and we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. And we're going to have to do that. So I would be very surprised if there is a vast reconfiguration to use up the rest of that acreage. And I imagine most of what's in the lagoon would be unusable for future mobile home locations. Any question on the right? Okay. Again, this is a discussionеты, an action item. So need a roll call? no roll calls not necessary all right all those in favor moving board aye okay they'll go before the board of supervisors on April 12th Thank You mr. Pearson I would suggest that there we do follow up with Frederick water about that discussion regarding the other yeah I think happy to pass that along yeah yeah while they're in the especially if they're in the comprehensive stage take care of the citizens of the cat okay so are you up there mr. Pearson thank you the other yeah absolutely just two kind of specific items to note for you from as far as current planning applications are concerned the site plan for a hang ten car wash on Maranto Manor Drive near the Walmart area and then Trex has submitted for an expansion of 2,000 square feet for their existing location and then just an update since you all are involved with the short-term lodging ordinance that went active obviously we've accepted and approved 19 short-term lodging operations in the county since it did go active and we're working with applicants to continue getting them in compliance and bring them in accordance with the new ordinance happy to answer any questions that you all might have on anything related to planning development well I will so mr. Ludwig did bring that up earlier about short-term lodging and I believe we have time for questions so if you're interested in that you can just I'm just going to go ahead and I'll let you know if you have any questions about that and I'll let you know what's in the comments and we'll get to that in a minute and then I'll let you know if there's anything else that you want to ask but I just wanted to make sure that you're understanding that we're working in this and we're working on it and I think it's important to understand that there's a lot of work going on here and so thank you for for the staff's doing working on that there was two sides to this there is the planning side and then Frederick County is responsible for it but the damage that utility companies do in utility easements on personal property someone should be accountable I know it's not Board of Supervisors I know it's no one in a county but I think I would ask that the county put something on their website or do some research to find out what recourse property owners have and potentially this is a big question what we also have last time we were talking about the mommon type complex property owners have do you think the most that's going to be done to reduce the damage and the damage is Social Security now anyway what I do think it's important we we're luxurious to explain to you what it is what it really is we will be going through it and when Mr Whitman spoke to it that was just multiple answers and I think it'll be really helpful to talk about it but in some ways Chief that's a great point lot of yards old trees total disregard for personal property and someone in the county should be able to represent the county citizens I mean we're worried about 19 requests for permits and a couple complaints well I probably had 19 complaints in the last two weeks about glow fiber and the work that their subcontractors have done down there so somebody I mean we ought to be able to tell citizens they have some recourse and I know it's come to the board before and the board you know we don't Frederick County I guess has no ability to do anything but somebody ought to have the oversight of what utility companies do in utility easements or utility right-of-ways because when they have no supervision they go in there and just destroy stuff and it's going to cost property owners a lot of money to put it back to the previous condition you know I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point you were correct at the beginning of your comments that I'm not the right person along to who I believe to be the right person as best I can well who should I refer people to and I know we do feel a lot of calls at the planning department I think it's okay for people to continue doing that because we have started to work with glow fiber we have a daily sheet that they give us of where they're going to be locating or where they're going to be working and who the contacts are for that specific job and we've as many calls as you've gotten I can assure you I've got a lot of people that are going to be looking for that specific job and we've got a lot more of them and the best that we can do right now is it's almost entirely a subcontractor issue and it's up to glow fiber to hold those subcontractors accountable so the complaints just need to be routed as best we can so our departments happy to facilitate other departments in the county are doing the same thing because they call everybody so but I will pass your comments along County administration what I understand a lot of these have been going on three and four months and they've been contacting low fiber and everybody else with no resolution so but I just would like to have somebody to refer them to yeah in the meantime send them to me okay thank you mr. Pearson all right that I have an emotion to adjourn so moved all right we are adjourned they're digging along that driveway
