Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-01-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=263
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you I'm just going to take it down. That's a lot harder to do. Yeah, I know. You have a harder commute than I do. I have stairs and all. You have stairs, yeah. I have to walk down the hall. Yeah. Base was not finished, so there is no... I'll bet you're buggered. I'm going to wear a good sweater and turn on the room on the station. Okay. How do you... Well, it's in-ground basement, so it stays about 60-65. It's not a problem. It's reasonable. Yeah. That's not a problem. That's good. And then the cat gets behind. Who what? The cat gets behind. Oh, that one. That's right. That's good. You're good for that. Thank you. That's how it works. Yes. Oh, since they've been here. That's good. It's a good thing. Right. We've got a lot of places. Coming in and getting out. And you have a... Yeah, it's... Attached. Attached. Put some... We haven't had a lot of traps. We haven't used them in a while. The cats take care of it. In 10-degree weather, I'm sure cats are fucking well. Yeah. We've got a whole lot to move with that 10-meter. Thank you. Thank you. We'll go out in the snow. We can go over. . . That's . . Inside. . Yes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I call this meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, Wednesday, January 22 to order. We are very pleased today to have Pastor Jonathan . . . and Martinez of Calvary Covenant Brethren Church to offer the invocation. Pastor. Thank you. Will you pray with me? Father, we come before you at this time. We recognize that you are so good to all of us. We thank you for the work that was done today, for all that you have enabled us to accomplish and to do. Father, as this meeting is coming to order, I pray for your Holy Spirit's presence in this place. I pray, Lord, that every decision and every conversation that is had and every decision that is made, that it is done seeking for your righteousness first, that it is done seeking to lift your name up first. I thank you, Lord, for our leaders. I pray, Father, that you will be with them. I ask that you will give them your wisdom, give them your guidance. May your spirit rest on this place. And I pray, Lord, that you will lead all of us to follow after you. I thank you and I praise you for your goodness and your mercy to us. In Jesus' holy name, amen. Thank you very much, Pastor. Vice Chair? Yes, let us please stand and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance. To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you all. Now we move to adoption of the agenda. Board, how should we handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the agenda? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Citizens' comments. This is an opportunity for citizens to speak on items on the agenda, unless it's a public hearing item. In that case, you'll want to wait until we get there so we can have your comments to consider on that item at that time. Again, for anyone who'd like to speak on items that are on this agenda, do we have anyone signed up? No one has signed up. Is there anyone who'd like to speak? Seeing no one, I will close citizen comments. Consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. This requires a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Loffler? Aye. Aye. Vice-Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye and the consent agenda is adopted. Just for public information, these are minutes and reports from previous meetings and there is one refund for a business that was due a refund on taxes. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Supervisor Dunn? I have three comments to make. First of all, we're going through public policy, we're talking about budgets, transportation, etc. So I will hold the town hall meeting on Saturday, February 1st at 10 o'clock at Greenwood Mill Elementary. There'll be information about this on the Frederick County website but if you want to talk about Frederick County policy, please come. We'd be glad to entertain you. Number two, committee appointments. Mr. Chairman, I sent you an email seeing if we could reconcile some differences prior to this year. Unfortunately, you weren't able to respond. So in looking at these comments, you have four supervisors that basically have nothing. I'd ask you to reconsider the appointments. Mrs. Slaughter has some excellent expertise on finance and transportation. Mr. Wells has some expertise on public works and public safety. Mr. Jewell has information on IT and transportation, so I'd like to see if you can reconsider those. They would be excellent additional members to those committees as we go through a transition. And third, developers. I've seen comments that developers control the county, that the staff is in cahoots with the developers. I've heard comments such as on-the-take etc. and that is wrong. The planning staff that we have is top-notch, very good. very good. I'll give you some examples. Planning director and I have had conversations on certain items and there's another board member who's had conversations with that same planning director on the same item. That board member and I disagree but we're getting the same information from the planning director. He is good and the planning staff is good. They are fair. They do pros and cons. They're analytical. So those people that are making disparaging remarks without foundation need to stop that. We have a good staff and we need to keep them. So for those of you to say there's a secret plan to deal with the government, that's not true. And so just keep the thoughts in mind. If you have a disagreement on growth, then come talk to us. I've laid out comments on growth on impact fees for the last three or four years and if you have an interest on that, then come talk or come talk to any of us. But we have a top-notch staff. They do an excellent job. They're doing excellent work. They're doing excellent work. They do an excellent job for all of us. We are the decision-maker. We are the decision-makers. They are not. They do an excellent job of laying out policy. Here's the pros. Here's the cons. So just please respect the staff and just recognize that we are not on the take from any developer. We're trying to look at this stuff from an analytical viewpoint and make the best decisions on behalf of Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other supervisor comments? Seeing none. We'll move on to the county officials. Item 8A, Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study. Do we have a presentation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. I'm going to pass the floor to Mr. Wittenberg. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. To those of you that have seen this a time or three, I apologize in advance as we've worked through the various work sessions and transportation committee and that sort of thing. I would like to also recognize we have with us this evening Mr. Brian St. John from McCormick Taylor, who was our consultant for this study. And also, though she is not here this evening, recognize Mrs. Alexandra Castracini, who has also been one of the primary workhorses from McCormick Taylor on the study as well. To jump right into it, as we entered this clip here, I don't know what to do with this clip, was intended to refresh the work. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Route 37 has been long on your plan as four lane divided, interstate style, limited access type highway. Wonderful, they're very hard to get paid for and built So we we looked to jump into an analysis that said which parts are truly the most needed and further What can we get by with for a quite a long reasonable amount of time? For potentially a lower cost if we were willing to look at different facility types, etc, etc And so that was what we set out to do when we issued the RFP for services and one thing McCormick Taylor did from early on is Recognize that some of our earliest work the page on the screen in front of you is from the 2001 Study that was done that projected traffic volumes out through 2020 and one of the things when they were bidding on this and I believe it was 2021 or 2022 Was look back at that and say Those volumes that were projected have still not yet been realized and so They pointed that out in it was one of the things they pointed out in their proposal and helped them Frankly stand out as a as a contestant among all the firms we had putting on But basically as noted on there you see that at that at that time We were projected to have on 81 north and south approximately 110,000 trips a day Which at the time of bid depending which segment you're talking about anywhere from 69 to 74 thousand, etc, etc route 7 was projected Was projected at that time to have grown to forty six thousand six hundred trips a day Which once again at the time of bid it was actually closer to thirty thousand still quite substantial very serious amount of traffic But I think the point is made regarding the need to okay. Let's look at this again. See what we're dealing with So as noted the point was to examine the past route 37 study Helped different determine which portions were the most important evaluate Various alternatives to get us toward a perhaps a more buildable and easily more easily attainable segments not cheap but cheaper Re-establish the purpose and needs Key component of any environmental impact statement as was the previous environmental impact statement is to have that purpose and needs section Why do you need this road? What is it for? And once and finally to conduct a very serious and robust public input element of the study That was one of the reasons frankly for the cost behind the study is the extensive public input It has its own entirely adopted public engagement plan It was backed by a webpage There was in addition to the public meetings you see listed on the screen, which I won't read back at the back at you There were also targeted Direct interviews with with key property owners the folks who run the industrial parks Over there major landholders And the public engagement plan And then there was a public engagement plan Which was a very broad and comprehensive plan And it was based on a number of stakeholders Such as the the glaze corporation that owns the cross point development on the south end of plan 37 and and numerous folks from the business and transportation community So as noted purpose this study was developed and evaluate a range of alternatives to improve mobility and safety for all road users And this was based off of in large part your own your own Board of Supervisors vision statement from your concerns plan Which is ensuring ensuring the quality of life of all Frederick County citizens by preserving the past and planning for the future Through sound fiscal management I'd say the fiscal management pieces that we're trying to find a billable road for a reasonable price Reasonable as speaks to road costs anyway So as as the public input process was going going forward and and breaking down the new purpose and needs statements Were drafted and those are in the plan which you've been provided a copy of But we didn't just say hey, this is what it's for because of this little bit. We heard there was a survey that was in turn pushed out and And the different elements of those purpose and needs statements that are part of the plan were evaluated through that survey And just to break down Specific to bicycle and pedestrian items that were that were noted on there 86% of respondents agreed with that particular specific to congestion needs 88 driver safety needs 91% and specific to 81 80% so Not exactly a simple majority there a fairly robust endorsement of what was there in addition to that process a The current studies that were undergoing at the time and recent studies were also considered we had a number of pipeline studies that were going forward with VDOT and the office of intermodal planning and investment which is really long way of saying the Secretary of Transportation's office the ID 1 exit 317 study 81 exit 307 50 West MPO transit feasibility Safe streets for all action plan which we were doing in partnership with the city of Winchester and through the Winfred MPO Which actually also was won by McCormick Taylor in terms of services for that so that actually worked out well for us in terms of seamless integration of those two plans and Finally of course the Eastern Frederick County transportation study itself Jumping right into the modeling. This was the the model was updated in concert with VDOT and Was pushed out through 2050 for this analysis? I'm not going to go This is always model outputs always look like spaghetti not just to me But to everybody so I apologize for that in advance But the the key analytic that was used for this was vehicle the capacity ratio And as you look at it, it's it's as you might expect Green is pretty good red is pretty bad But I would I think sometimes when people see yellow and orange they're thinking about yellow lights You know an orange is kind of bad yellows yellow is probably okay when actually the thing to remember with vehicle the capacity ratios Is they're based on the usage? Of your facility over the course of the full day a 24-hour capacity compared to traffic Tias and that sort of thing which you're used to seeing with the rezoning for example that focus on that peak hour The point there being there are still point times of the day where? Your trap you've got a higher percentage of your traffic compared to the rest of the day So while you may look at a yellow and think oh, that's not too bad yellow is probably still pretty bad during your peak hour, so just That was probably a very long-winded way of telling you how to interpret those colors, so I apologize for that The color scheme matches as we go to this with the bypass and without bypass comparison But some things should jump off the map Pretty well because in general as you look you will see a fair amount of areas Such as this where you see over here with without bypass. It's it's it's still orange over here Going back to green but even in areas where maybe it's not getting wonderful We're going here even on the 81 corridor from red down to orange and there's a difference there only of about 7,000 trips You see bigger impacts on say route 7 where you go from in 2050 without the bypass Nearly 50,000 trips compared to with the bypass closer to 30,000 trips so even out through 2050 similar to today's traffic on route 7 now I know somebody's saying you mean it's going to be the same way in 2050. No, it's not It's only going to be this managed to stay the same way as it is today If you get elements of this bypass take pressure off, otherwise, it's going to be a heck of a lot worse, so Coming out there were five key recommendations that came out of the study which which I will boil down While you will see potential cross sections For two lanes of maybe an eventual four lane road where you've got a medium and one lay Median and one lane on one side one on the other I would ask you not to get too tied to that specificity of that type of a section because My experience doing this job has taught me that if there's anything that's for sure It's that V dots opinion on what how they want two lanes of an eventual four lane to look is going to change from project to Project a project so I wouldn't get too tied to that the point Is the capacity and how you protect that capacity? Through access access management because even though we're not building in a limited access facility you protect that capacity by limiting access I digressed the first Recommendation, you'll see these are not in priority order by the way. I want to be very clear on that point is from route seven over two Rue big issue with our graphic here This is supposed to go all the way to 11, but it doesn't right now. But you'll see that that roadway capacity expected to be 23,000 to 29,000 vehicles per day with a two-lane section of an eventual four-lane section. So once again, it'll maintain that kind of capacity if you're very careful about how many access points you add and that sort of thing. It's once you start getting, for lack of a more technical term, a way to put it, loosey-goosey with access points that you start to lose your capacity because every access point is a conflict point, which creates safety and speed issues for ability to move through traffic. The second of these is actually twofold. At our earliest public meetings, one of the big feedback items we were getting are concerns with Cincinnati Road. Largely closer to the city, which you'll see here from right about Greenwood, into the city, you'll see one of the recommendations there is to include a center turn lane. But another key component there is to go ahead and continue. Right now, it says Hagerty Boulevard on there because we called the Opec and Crossing main road Hagerty Boulevard since I worked here. But they are actually calling it that hallowed crossing way. So you actually can't see. They've also added that hallowed crossing way there to the slide. But the point is, if that can become a full connection between Route 7, and Cincinnati Road, that has a lot of value as shown in the model as a two lane road. Right here down on the southern end of the 37 loop, you have a mixture of lanes. So I'm going to be pointing at this. Of course, we have a key connection to continue Route 37 over to Route 522. However, from roughly where Warrior Drive would hit it, and as you see Warrior Drive is also recommended to be brought north to that connected, that's a big component, important part of that. This would be four lanes from Warrior Drive back to Existing 37. But only two lanes are needed through 2050 from that point over to 522. Number four is Widen Airport Road from Route 522 to Admiral Byrd Drive. This is largely for traffic that is trying to get basically from 522 over to Route 50. but that you don't necessarily need a full 37 link to accommodate the actual demand that there is through 2050. So you see a more modest improvement there. Frankly, another component to that, or possibly even alternative that we've talked about fairly extensively that didn't quite make the recommendation list would be to extend Justice Drive. And I'm sure I'm not gonna point at the exact right spot, but from roughly right in here over to that airport road roundabout and bring folks to 50 that way from 522. Once again, both much cheaper than building a segment of Route 37 from 522 all the way to Route 50. With that, and that was very quick, but we're very welcome to questions and all of that. We are seeking any questions or feedback you may have. We are seeking, should the Board feel that you're comfortable with what has been accomplished to date. This really is phase one of what would be at least a two-phase study effort because there's another layer of study required to meet smart scale requirements for VDOT. It was something that we probably would have liked to all have included in one study, but two things. One, that new requirement came after we had already begun our study. And two, I think it would have been fairly costly, cost prohibitive. Cost prohibitive at that time. And finally, really looking for guidance from the Board on how you'd like, once again, assuming you like what you're seeing, how would you like to see those results incorporated into the comprehensive plan. We have a fairly large scale comprehensive plan update that is upcoming. You could ask us to roll it in there. We could roll it in as a separate effort to perhaps avoid the potential of a plan update that is not yet in place. And then, of course, we have a lot of work to do to get that done. We have a lot of work to do to get that done. We have a lot of work to do to get that done. And then, of course, we have to make sure that we're not just making a referendum on Route 37. There's some fear with staff because there's a lot to accomplish with your comp plan update. We would be a little worried about that taking place, making it becoming all about 37, and some of the other important things getting lost in the wash. So there's some fear there on the staff side. Or even elements such as, you know, right now, your comp plan has this full limited access. Route 37, now you've got recommendations that say at least through 2050, which frankly is beyond the timeline that you're going to be able to do. Route 37, now you've got recommendations that say at least through 2050, which frankly is beyond the timeline that you're going to be able to do. That you would normally be looking at for a comp plan adoption. We have these smaller bits that will work quite well to meet your existing and projected traffic demand. So a lot to consider there. That's also something that potentially, in terms of that specific item and how you'd like to see it go to the comp plan, you can kick to the Transportation Committee for more discussion as well. So with that, I can take any questions you may have. We did have, as I noted earlier, multiple visits of this to the Transportation Committee and feedback from them, as well as a visit to the Planning Commission work session. If I could, I believe, accurately characterize the feedback we received at the Planning Commission. It was quite supportive of the effort. At the Transportation Committee level, I got more detailed type questions as far as in terms of like, why does it look like this here? Why does it look like that there? I think we answered those pretty well. But once again, I also have, you know, I think we answered those pretty well. But once again, I also have, you know, I think we answered those pretty well. But once again, I also have, you know, I think we answered those pretty well. I think we answered those pretty well. And I think we're going to get into some of those type of things. I also have Brian here who can support me on some of the more technical sides of that as the firm that completed the study. Mr. Good actually, our CTB member and obviously a fairly prominent local businessman had an extensive comment which we shared out. And if I can try to encapsulate one of his main concerns is he doesn't want to see us studying this thing to death forever. In general, he's supportive of this while not finding it perfect. And so, I think we should see it move forward. So, with that, questions? So, just a clarification or two before we pass it to the board. CTB is the Commonwealth Transportation Board. Yes, sir. Sorry for my acronyms. In seeking state funding and coordinating with the state on our transportation needs. Did you go over any of the times that the public has had a chance to see this? I know we hold an annual transportation review in this meeting. And I think it might have been discussed there and perhaps other meetings. That's correct. We had it, of course, immediately after we had hired McCormick Taylor. We had it at that very, not the completed study obviously. We had them at that very first transportation forum after they were hired to seek input from the public on things they'd like to see addressed. It was once again at the following November, which was November 23, that transportation meeting. And then in March of 24, we had another quote unquote forum where we combined with the MPO on a fairly robust public meeting they were having that was covering transit and a number of other items. We had that here. And also we're seeking input from the public at that time on some of the early returns, which frankly in terms of the recommendations, they really haven't changed since that time. So, we've had all of those opportunities as well. I just wanted to wrap up. Thank you. I just wanted to remind the public there have been chances to see it. We haven't gone over this as a public hearing matter here, right? This is not a decision document, just a study. No, we're simply, you know, we're seeking acceptance at this time. I mean, if the board had major foundational concerns with the study, you could perhaps choose not to accept it at this time. But by accepting it and giving us direction to work to incorporate it into your comprehensive plan, we would go forward in that way. And then once again, when those actual changes came to your comprehensive plan, that's yet another public hearing item. Thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to explain to the public where they have opportunities, that they have questions if they're seeing this for the first time. Yes, sir. Very good point. So, they'd want to give us comments now or give you comments now and also watch out for the comprehensive plan review next. Yes, sir. When they can come and speak. Thank you. Do any in the board have questions for Mr. Bishop? Good. We've all seen it many times. Yes, sir. If some of the public has. I haven't. So, very good. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'll just make one comment. Sir. Mr. Bishop, I think you're doing a good job. I mean, I think this is something that is needed and necessary, I'm highly supportive of it. In Redbud, it helps to relieve the traffic. We have more than 1,000 homes are being developed there. And so, parts of 37, for example, from Cincinnati to Greenwood are going up, sorry, from Cincinnati to Route 7, from Route 7 up to 81. And so, I think, the use of the construction system is really important for the community. It's not just for the neighbors. It's a very important thing for the community as well, and I think it has been in stone wall. All those things help to relieve the traffic issue. As we continue to grow, we need to be able to do this. So, I think you've done a good job. And I'm highly supportive of it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? Very good. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to accept the report. I believe it is a good foundation for us to continue on with their various grants. Thank you, sir. and such, in particular in this proposal, we had the Route 7 safety initiatives that Mr. Bishop and the Transportation Committee could look at next September and apply for grants for some safety initiatives on Route 7. So I would make a motion to accept this as a foundation for us moving forward with various opportunities. I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, the only comment I'll make to you is we go through this process. I think that if we start to let the state know this is something we are considering, so as they go through on their budgets, not necessarily this year but this year, if you put it onto the agenda, it will start to stick. And so I'd rather say this is something that's coming, this is what we need the money for, and here's the timeframe we need it. That gets them, you know, an idea of what we need to do and when it needs to occur. Okay. Any other discussion? I guess I'd just say for anyone in the public, I get comments. Some people are wondering why we're only looking at portions of what was envisioned as a finish to Route 37, and that's because building the whole thing is unaffordable and the state is very unlikely. They've told us to let us connect Route 37 to I-81 in the north. So it'll never be a full beltway, at least as the state envisions it. I've also heard comments, I've heard comments from other people who hate the idea of completing Route 37. So we've heard that what we're really trying to do is just look at the most cost-effective solutions on the eastern side of the county, whether they're big roads or small, to solve our transportation needs. I see a lot of nods in agreement. I think we're all in agreement that's what we're after. So we have a motion and a second. Do we need a roll call vote to accept the report? No? Very good. Then all in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Aye. The report is accepted. Thank you very much. And we move to 8B. This is an update from all points broadband on the broadband initiative across the county. And is this Mr. Carr? Yes, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Jimmy Carr. See if I can get this for okay. Good. I'm supposed to go to full screen. Yes, I can. Okay. Thank you for the opportunity to come tonight and give you an update on this important regional broadband initiative. Just to remind folks at the outset about the structure of this project, Frederick County has joined an extensive public-private partnership. My company, All Points, is part of the private side of the partnership. We're also working with Dominion Energy Virginia as a major participant and contributor to this project. On the public side, Frederick County and seven other counties throughout this part of Virginia are participating. The grant is actually the recipient of the grant that is funding this project is the Northern Shenandoah Regional Commission, which acts as the grant administrator and the fiscal agent on behalf of all the counties. And the rest of the public side of the partnership, is the state level Department of Housing and Community Development in Richmond and its Office of Broadband, which oversees all broadband related programs in Virginia. There's also a substantial federal element to this project in that substantially all of the county, the local investment and much of the state level funding that is participating in this project is all being funded through various federal programs. I know that the county administration is involved in all states, the 삼ous counties are involved. We are the 이렇게 same Fed week. We're co- marble that all regions, the됬tgg where it regards subunit network, replacement line network, like resources, simple Beginnings mother and final work to support thebound expenses of all then part of the갈 part of the actively been the Fairbanks community and investment, I was, aESONAL Tool for developing and mapping projects, as well as the plan. Our opportunity is think about building a new urban residents in our entire planning budget with specific requirements for all all similarly situated projects throughout the state recognizing that the general assembly and the office of broadband over the last year created a number of options for projects like ours to make sure that they could get over the finish line and as i'll talk to you about on the next slide we went through that process with the department of housing and community development last fall and our plan was approved we appreciate the support that frederick and all of the participating counties gave in that process which was important to a successful outcome fiber construction is now underway throughout the project so all points the first county where our the last mile network has gone to construction the first county is augusta county that is underway now dominion not here in frederick but in three other counties that are part of our regional network dominion is building a substantial volume of miles that we will use to connect customers so dominion has construction under way in frederick and in the west and west of the state of california we'll go through that and then we'll talk about the next steps as we get to the next steps and then we'll talk about the next steps and then we'll talk about the next steps and then we'll talk about the next steps way now in augusta and also falkir county and rockingham is next on their map plan to go to construction a couple of months here all of the dominion middle mile network that we will rely on is scheduled for substantial completion by the end of this year something else that we've reported on frequently at our quarterly management meeting with county representatives is working through a process with one of our utility partners the shenandoah valley electric cooperative and the county electric cooperative and the county electric cooperative and the city of california will be working with the state of california to bring in another utility partner the city of california will be working with the state of california and the county electric cooperative to go through the process they have to with the usda to bring on another vendor to help offset the significant workload associated with making polls ready so svec got that good news from the department of agriculture at the end of last year and we're moving forward with that at a high level what we have done to make sure that the project is completed as intended is we've that were originally planned to be in the air and attached to poles, and we move them underground. That is, generally speaking, a more expensive option, but it gives us a little more control over the project schedule. And so what we've done throughout the project is substantially reduce the sheer volume of utility poles that we are planning to attach to. And in Frederick County, we've reduced that number of poles across all pole owners to under 3,000 poles to get ahead of the make-ready issue that we've seen. I've got a slide later in the presentation that's an updated timeline for Frederick, but we do expect to begin network activation early in the third quarter of this year. So that starts when we light what's an initial cabinet and begin building out to get what everyone cares about, which is when your constituents can actually go and sign up. And that's when they can sign up for Internet and have service at their home. We've talked a lot, again, about make-ready undergrounding and permitting. Generally, we've been collaborating with all pole owners to do what we can to reduce the cost and improve the efficiency of the make-ready process. In the meantime, Virginia will be receiving, has received from the federal government, another $1.48 billion in one-time broadband money. And recognizing that the state has significant additional federal resources, the state budget mandated a couple of options for projects like ours to make adjustments like this. So we went through that process. We're very appreciative for the technical support that the Department of Housing and Community Development showed us over the second half of last year. And we have executed on that strategy. That involved taking across the project. A backslide. A backslide. A backslide. We broke out 19 percent of the locations that were intended to be funded through the VATI program and shifting those into the BEED program. We did that because the state has this substantial additional federal resources available. And this was the way to make sure that all intended locations are covered without increasing any match commitment at the local level. So the county's financial commitment is capped. The private sector is not. But this is a strategy. to make sure that all of the locations that are intended to be covered are covered. This next map lays out what are called fiber service areas. I have a couple of maps in here. But as we begin last mile construction, we divide our network into what are called fiber service areas, FSAs. Those are in turn divided into smaller subunits called FDAs. But we've told you before, a frequent question we receive is, okay, when are you going to start talking to locations that will be served by the project? We begin talking to locations 60 days before we expect their specific location can sign up for broadband. If you contact people too far in advance of that, when the service is actually available, they don't sign up. Because we have learned over time that the very best time to contact, is about 60 days before the service is actually available at their home. So as each of these geographic units in the county is released to construction and the miles begin to be put on the board, then we will, on a rolling basis, communicate first with mailers, with all of the locations, again, about 60 days before we expect service to be available. The best way for locations to make sure that they are included in those communications is to contact the FSA. If you are in the project area, if you are in the project area, you can tell us your preferred way of being contacted. So that means 60 days in advance of when service is available at your location. We know whether you want to be emailed or called. And so instead of getting sent to the FSA, you can send a series of direct mail pieces and door hangers. You're just going to get an email that says, in about 60 days we expect service to be available at your location. Would you like to sign up? A note about addresses and maps. And this is very frustrating, but it's just part of getting broadband service to people who don't have it. Believe it or not, there are many, many different databases for how addresses are categorized in the United States. So sometimes, this is a true story, someone will go to this map, this website, and they will say, I live at 123 5th Street, and I spell that 5th, and they will get a result that says that is not an address, you're not in the project area. If they had wrote, I live at 123 5th, F-I-F-T-H Street, ah, that address is in the database. So we try to correct for that type of thing. That's just my way of saying if you or any of your constituents go to this website, put the address in, and you get a result that doesn't make sense to us, please go to Canada.gov. We have a lot of great county staff. They will talk with our team. We deal with this all the time, and we do find lots of errors in just the way that the addresses show up in the database. So please, if you get a result that seems counterintuitive, do follow up with us. This is a pretty routine occurrence. The next slide is the overall project management summary. So this is a more detailed look at the timeline here in Frederick County. We are planning to begin last mile construction in July of this year. Then the volume of crews will ramp up once we get to peak. We plan to be at about 17 miles per month of construction. That's going to be on average probably six or seven crews, the Mexodrill crews and aerial crews. Network activation, that begins when we take the first active cabinet. So each one of those fiber service areas that I showed you has a big cabinet in it. That redistributes light over the fiber optic network. That's how the signal gets around. So we'll begin lighting those cabinets in August of this year. And generally, we will submit the VDOT permits and the pole attachment tickets in the logical order we want to build. We're going to start at those cabinets that are active. That's where we have a signal source, and we will build out. Next, I want to give you a little bit of detail about the BEAD program that I've mentioned. Next, I want to give you a little bit of detail about the BEAD program that I've mentioned. Next, I want to give you a little bit of detail about the BEAD program that I've mentioned. So again, Virginia is receiving just under $1.5 billion in one-time federal money for broadband deployment. There are approximately 130,000 locations throughout the state that have been determined to be BEAD eligible. So as part of our strategy, all of the locations that we intended to make sure were BEAD eligible are showing up on the map. That's something we work with the Department of Housing and Community Development on. That's something we work with the Department of Housing and Community Development on. They're able to extremelyahead and make that beura Acquisition So Virginia has this $1.48 billion that it is required by law to use to get broadband service to the additional locations So Virginia has this $1.48 billion that it is required by law to use to get broadband service to the additional locations So Virginia has this $1.48 billion that it is required by law to use to get broadband service to the additional locations that have been determined to be BEAD eligible. And I'll talk about BEAD eligibility in a second and have some slides of some information where you and your constituents can get more detail about that. In Virginia, the BEAD program opened on December 1st of this year and all the final documentation is due on March 1st. And all the final documentation is due on March 1st. Excuse me, December 1st of this year. And all the final documentation is due on March 1st. of last year and applications are due in March of this year. As part of our regional strategy we are obligated to participate in the BEAD program for all of the ZCTAs, that's alphabet soup, the zip code tabulation areas. That is the geographic unit for the BEAD program. It roughly corresponds to a zip code, it is modified according to where a postal driver can actually drive a vehicle, if you want to know where where that comes from, but in Virginia the BEAD program will be done at the zip code tabulation area, that's the geographic unit. Now so we will participate in the BEAD program for all the locations that I mentioned earlier, fortunately those are all included in our overall network design. Something else that has happened since when this project was awarded in 2022 and in March of this year is that we are going to be able to participate in the ZCTAs. What has happened today is that the federal definition of broadband has changed, and the way that the federal government determines broadband eligibility has changed. What does that mean? So a few years ago you were considered unserved by broad... sorry let me say this, I'll reduce the double negatives. A few years ago you were considered served by broadband if you had download speed of 25 and upload speed of at least three. had that minimum level of service, you were considered served by broadband. So, state and federal broadband programs could not be used to get you broadband. The other thing is that the federal maps a few years ago, if anyone in a census block had broadband service, the federal maps assumed, ah, everyone in that census block must also have broadband service. So, since 2022, the federal definition of what broadband is has gone up. So, now, in order, you have to have 100 down and 20 up. So, a lot of new locations that were not eligible for our project a couple of years ago because they were considered served under what the definition for served was at the time are now eligible. In addition, the maps, while still not available, are now eligible. So, the federal definition of broadband has not been used to get you broadband. So, instead of using whether or not anyone in a census block was served by broadband as a proxy for, oh, everyone must have it, the federal maps now try to be much more location specific. It's not perfect, but it's a lot better. So, those two changes mean that there are now a lot more locations in Frederick County that are eligible for federal broadband dollars than there were just a few years ago. And as part of our project, we will be expanding our network to serve the federal government and the federal government to serve all of those additional bead eligible locations. There's a whole lot of information about the bead program available at the website here that I've listed for your reading pleasure. One key point, and this is a source of frustration, I mentioned that the maps are getting better, but they are not perfect. So, the list of locations that Virginia is allowed to use its federal bead dollars on is set. So, if you're looking at a map that's been used for a long time, you can see that the map is set. Over the course of the last 14, 18 months or so, the state has gone through a public challenge process. They've invited localities, internet service providers, homeowners to participate through a process, and the map is now fixed. That map is a lot better. It's not perfect, but that means that if your location is unserved by broadband and you're not listed on the current federally approved map, you're not going to be able to use the map, the bead dollars cannot go to your location. But there are some avenues available to you, which I'll touch on in a second. So, the best place to go to get information about the bead program and broadband locations and whether or not they are in a funded broadband project or eligible for bead is connectingvirginia.com. This is the website and the map that is managed by Virginia's Office of Broadband. They're at the Department of Housing and Community Development. And this is the state's official broadband map. It's a little, well, you can see it. There are a couple of different colors. So if you zoom in on this map and you get close enough, it switches from the kind of black and white map to more satellite imagery. And you see all those dots, those dots are on locations that have been identified by the federal government as being a location where service could be available. You look at some of those and say, oh, that's a barn. Some of them you will say that is a pile of rocks. But most of them you are going to look at and say, yes, that is an actual home. If the dot on top of the home is blue, that means according to the current federal maps that location is served by broadband, no state and federal broadband dollars can be used on it. That data is largely based on what internet service providers have to report to the federal government twice a year. If the location in question is green, that means that it is not today considered served by broadband, but it is funded through our project. If the location is pink, that means it is a location and recognized as a location on the federal map. And it is not considered served or part of a funded project. And so those pink locations will also be considered as a funded location. That is a very important thing to remember. And it's going to be a very important piece of information that we are going to be working on in our next steps. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. be eligible for the federal BEAD program. Now if you or any of your constituents have a location that does not show up on this map, that is not served by broadband, it cannot be served through the current federal BEAD program, but that is not the end of the process. It is very important and again this is something we can help you with. You have to go to a different map, this one maintained by the federal government, at broadbandmap.fcc.gov. This is the official repository for all the information on what's called the broadband serviceable location fabric. And when you go in there you can pick up a particular location and if that location does not show up as a location that needs to be served by broadband, you can add a new location. If you go to the location and you click on the location, you can see that the location is not served by broadband. You can now navigate to the top right. It's hard to see here in the room but there's a big red arrow going to a button called location challenge. You need, you and again this is something we can help with, the homeowner needs to go to that location and submit a location challenge. They'll have to go through a process to document there's actually a home here, it is not served by broadband, but it is critical that any location that is not served by broadband that doesn't show up on the BEAD eligible map go through this process. Because this is the federal source of truth about what is and is not served by broadband. So again we are happy, we've already worked with your county staff and we do this with all of our county partners are happy to work with any individual supervisor or your constituents if you need help navigating the various maps available. And with that I'm happy to take any questions you have. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Carr? Mr. Carr, I I represent back Creek district and I sat here when you originally gave your presentation how back Reek and Gainsborough we're going to be really a very important part of this because they do not have internet access I just did your link and I'm currently listed as not in your area or planned service area I'd sit on a major road I'm not even sitting in the back back part of our County what I need from you I don't need to give the constituents a bunch of links and say you go look to see I need you to tell me where are you running where the home runs running well you've got to be laying out a map process on the roadways that's what I need from you I mean I just sat here and listen I've been going and looking at all the different you go to this link go this link you go this link you're providing a service to the county show us a map that you're going to use to help us get to our home runs and you're providing a map that shows where those runs are gonna go it's not that hard you've already got planned out please yeah we'll be happy to do that and we'll set up an appointment to go through that with you a lot on a computer screen and go through any questions in any specific locations you have thank you supervisor done I have a similar issue three years ago I heard your organization make the comments that the Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission you're going to cover 100 percent etc and you have the body item that you showed her earlier if you can have and give to our staff the bead connection so somebody can go to that plug in their address and look forward that would be extremely helpful but the initial item you have on that fatty item I can give you some addresses that did not show up I've been told that you show up on beach so if you had something there and said at that website if you don't see yourself that here go to you know and then put the bead item there that would be helpful and if you just give our staff that we can get back to them or get back to you but there's certain areas in redbud that like you know my colleague mr. jewel has that are on major roads they're not getting covered that don't show up in that II the beach situation may address that but right now constituents don't know that that's an option they're only going to that first item so if you can pull that together that'd be helpful yeah we we'd be happy to do that we would do that with individual supervisors or constituents at request because that type of local knowledge is very important both of you have mentioned major roads an issue that we do see on major roads is that if you look at the Census Bureau data the boundaries of centrist block groups are usually on major roads and so what frequently happens and and again I'm gonna go through this with you and we'll set up a meeting go through in detail locations along major roads there may be broadband infrastructure going down the major road that is not accessible right you can't tap into it along the way but if you drive down the street you see fiber or cable on the poles so when we do a field survey which we do initially to try and figure out to supplement the federal maps we don't always know we usually can't tell hey there's fiber on those poles but it's long-haul fiber or it's not being tapped into the other thing that you see along major roads is under the old federal mapping system if remember if anyone in that census block was served by broadband the the maps made the shorthand assumption that everybody was and so the major roads comes up a lot and and I look forward we will follow up with you and go through those in detail thank you appreciate it any other questions mr. Carr I am in Stonewall district and we too have people that have nothing and no no broadband service either so I would like to be included on this list for a map and how best do you suggest we set up a meeting with you to accomplish that why don't we go through the county administrator and we'll we'll set up a meeting with each and every supervisors interested in doing that and we'll we'll commit to do that in the next two weeks or so as soon as we can get it scheduled secondly will you be back in a quarter to give us an update to the map that we put into the map and then we'll go to the next meeting with you to get it scheduled secondly will you be back in a quarter to give us an update to make sure that this timeline that you've proposed that we're still on target for our citizens to be able to receive this service and I guess the other part of this is you're talking about this turning on the system turning on so that people will have access to broadband as you are installing this at different locations will everybody be able to turn on the broadband at that point or is this going to be a system why you listed several zones there that you're starting with so yeah so it's it's not everybody gets turned on it once at the end it's a it's a rolling first we have we light and you can see them by the road there's a you know it's a cabinets usually a beige thing it's about this tall usually be on private property on a concrete pad that is where you know what we're seeing is that we have a lot of people are saying that you're going to get a service in the city and the traffic is going to be there and that's what we're trying to do and that's why we're doing that right now there's a signal between that and some data centers over that way over in Ashburn and so we bring the internet signal in we use a partner from one we will lease that type of circuit and then from that active cabinet then we will build our lines outward and as long as we have continuity between that active cabinet and the lines that we've built then we will light on an ongoing basis as service is expanded. And would you be able to provide us a timeline with that as well so that we could share that with our citizens as far as when they might be able to expect this service? Yes. So we will, the primary determining factor there will be the order in which the permits come back. We will submit permit applications. All the work will go in in the order that is logical, doesn't always come out that way. And then as we know where we're going to release crews first, we'll communicate that information with the county. And then we will begin doing a series of direct mail pieces and email contact for anyone who lives in the project who's pre-registered and then door hangers and yard signs during construction. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions? I just like to add, I've also heard from some constituents. One told me that they didn't believe the first link you gave when the inter-addresses that it's all included. It's not just that they might have typed their address wrong, but they had heard that there's some addresses that are not in your database, but which you are going to serve. Maybe that has something to do with the fact that you said the federal definition has changed. So are there addresses yet to be added? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe. Okay. Is there any other addresses that you have added? For example, from those people who now meet the definition that didn't meet the definition before? So if you are not part of our project, but are BEED eligible, if you go to our website today, it is not going to say you're in the project because you're not. I don't, without a little more detail on what the question is about or some specifics on the address, it's hard for me to respond. But if you go to apbfiber.com. Okay. You're only going to get a yes, you're in the project if you are a grant funded location in the project. Does that answer your question? I think so. There's some confusion among people who think they should be included and are not. So you would suggest, of course, they go to the links and investigate it as best they can, maybe submit a challenge. But also contact us and we can... The first thing to do... Forward addresses to you? Yes. The first thing to do would be to go to apbfiber.com, insert the address, and see what the screen tells you. It should tell you, you are in a planned fiber service area, give us your information. If the location believes that they should be included in our project and get an answer contrary to that, I would ask them to either submit it through our website or they can go through our website. If they don't, we will go through the county, we will aggregate those and go through each of those addresses on an individual basis and make sure we get an accurate answer. Mr. Chairman, so on that website, on the initial one, can you have something on that website, maybe you don't control that, that says if you are not shown up here on the first one, then go to and then put the second link there, which would tie the bead thing in? That is not a request I've received before. I think it's a good idea that I will commit to look into. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if I may, just for clarification, because I was claiming the map, you and I have been talking. So I've gone to the bead map, I found the addresses with the pink dot. You can actually click on the address and it will even pop up a little box that says you are a bead eligible. So my understanding is once you are a bead eligible, the state is required to provide it and now that they are bead eligible, that house with the pink dot, now you will be providing service. Correct. So they are in the bead program? Right. So one of the key things I've learned is when people aren't finding the address in the first site, go to the map, then look, then when you see the pink dot, you know, oh, now I've been added to bead and it states on that. Any other questions? Mr. Bolhoffer, what address did you use again for the blue, green or pink dots? What I can do is I've been playing with this. Isn't that a great service getting on the Knights work? That looks really good. I can look down and has the material but there's also a general site. Ok, so, if you on your way back out to somewhat non alcool island, not even the southern Logan Island you came from then that's not. Ok. So you can have these address addresses on the lamppost and any arrows. That's at the very bottom with theseío. month that was also included under B. Mr. Bolhoffer, is there someone on staff, we do have a communications officer that we could put this on our website, that someone would have a contact if they had an issue with this that could help direct them through this process? Absolutely, and I have been working with our public information officer. Sometimes though for people just directing them it gets a little confusing and sometimes they do need assistance on it just to figure it out. Would you agree I think sometimes it is tricky? But once shown then it seems simple. I think it would be helpful if we had something on our website that walks people step by step through the process or to have maybe a contact person that could help them go through this process to know and make sure that they are still included in this process. If they are not able to accomplish it by doing the things that you have said this evening. Okay. That is something we can work with county staff and the public information team and try and make it digestible. Thank you. I would be happy to do that. Any other questions? I would just say as you know from your work we are a rural county. There are a lot of people that don't have broadband. But we are also one of the fastest growing counties. So there may be a home that wasn't even in somebody's dream in 2022 that has now been built. And I would expect there will be quite a lot of interest and you may have a lot of work to do with us. So I would be happy to help us help them get identified and included if at all possible. We are making a very long term investment in Frederick County. So we will be pleased to work with you and to get service to everyone we possibly can. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. So that concludes item eight. Item nine. Appointments to boards, committees and commissioners. First one is 9A, the Historic Resources Advisory Board. An open position for an Opecan District Representative. Supervisor Wells. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mullins. Mr. Mullins has decided that he can no longer serve. And we have another person who has turned in their application. And I certainly would recommend that we have a meeting with him. I would like to see him. I would like to see him. I would like to see him. Lister in there. Hang on just one minute. I will go over here to. I have got 90. I have got it. Thank you very much. Delena Carlo. I think if you take a look at her resume, she certainly is qualified. That's a lot of educational background in historical knowledge. And I would move that we do not approve of that. Thank you. But Delaney, I'll take the position and fill that out that Mr. Molden is leaving. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and Ms. Carillo is appointed. The next one, 9B, is also for the Historic Resources Advisory Board. This is an at-large position, so it's mine to nominate. We had a member whose term expired, and he's eligible and willing to be reappointed. So I make the motion to reappoint Elijah Philbert to the Historic Resources Advisory Board. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye, and Mr. Philbert is appointed. Next is the extension. Extension Leadership Council. I note there are three openings, and exactly three people who have applied. This is Mr. Jewell's, but I'd like to ask Mr. Bolloff for just this procedure. If Mr. Jewell prefers, can we just have one vote on all three, or do we have to take them individually? How would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, that's what I'd like to do. I'd like to make the motion to approve all three for the Extension Leadership. Virginia Cooperative Extension Leadership. And Mr. Bolloff has other opinions. I'd like to make the motion to approve the two of them. I'd like to make the recommendation to approve the two of them. I'd like to make the recommendation to approve the two of them. Mr. Chairman, I think we have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Next, there are two more. 9-D, on the Tourism Board. This appointment, I have to scroll to see this here, is one that has been approved by the Board of Directors. Okay. So it's 9-D. on the tourism board. This appointment, I have to scroll to see this here, is one that has some requirements. So the board has interviewed, this has to be somebody with county, from the county lodging sector and they have made a recommendation. I believe Supervisor Liero? Yes, Mr. Chair, I can speak to that. Our current member on that board, Gordon Stearns, has done an outstanding job, but he has left local employment and gone to work in a company in Martinsburg, West Virginia. Karina Rice-Roberts, interviewed for that position, was a strong candidate, works for Courtyard by Marriott, their intersection of 37 and 50 West, and a management position out there. And I would highly recommend her, I'd like to nominate her for that position. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a motion? Yes. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the appointment is made. The last one, Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. This is Mr. Jewell. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion to reappoint Mr. Jason Crowsdale to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee, please. Mr. Chair? Aye. The Chair votes yes. Mrs. Chair? Aye. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A second? Mr. Chair? Truly, we are chim awakened by what they believed they had aolan to avoid, but do we know now what I mean? It is correctly observed from the last time that Mr. Jerusea spoke of his plans for route safety to this land, Stanley and Renie, the next thinking. This time, he said it ismayly borne into her coin, said immediately that he feels it should be kept behind him. Mr. Chairman Gray said as such that Mrs.worth has<|tr|> effectively added out who've already funded the land in this region. If it weren't for those senior countyordu rebuild into scrap jobs, the building would have been dismantled. and I know serving on these boards that many of you bring you're a great help to us so thanks again mr. chairman I'd like to point out that there's still an open position it's been posted for the Shawnee land Paul passed away so that there's currently an open position up on the website and it's been posted in Shawnee land so if there anybody interested I hope they would apply thank you and they have to be a resident of Shawnee land all right thank you for that next we move on to item 10 committee business the Finance Committee yes mr. chairman we met last Wednesday morning and departments were there to discuss but I would like to go ahead and make a motion for items 10 a through 10 e to all be done in one motion as there are no local funds and are pretty routine in nature I'll break them apart for a minute you can see that we have a motion to approve the motion and I'll move it to the next item. Thank you. 10 a B and 10 e are all insurance claims so they would go towards vehicle repairs or replacements 10 C is just a donation for a bench and 10 D is a donation as well to the impound lot so I would go ahead and oh and 10 F is the all in Virginia grant funds for the Frederick County Public Schools and that was a roll-out whatever about the of it and I think it's a resolution and it's still on vamos bono and your board some aommen all of the other items I would like any dollars. The insurance companies or donors have provided these funds. So then we'll go to a vote to approve. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. I believe there's one remaining item. There is one more. 10G is the Old Dominion ASAP Director requests a court services fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $59,329. This one, we, although it says no additional local funds required, we discussed this one being, this one-time funding but there are continued costs. So we wanted to point that out. We did discuss that in committee, but we did go ahead and recommend approval of that, of those funds of $59,329. So your making a motion to approve. Thank you. Do we have a second? Any discussion? Yeah, there are, that's a self-funding program by the people who take that course. They've kept the fee very low, if I remember correctly from the meeting, and there, if the state doesn't change the fee for that service, there's a chance in future years that they'll run short and we might have to provide funding. That's why I believe we decided to call, as a committee decided to call it out separately, just to make the public aware, but at this time there's no county tax dollars required. Did I get that right? Yes, you did. All right, thank you. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Mr. Chair, one more thing. Ms. Shiffler is the Director of our Finance and I would like to go ahead and just, to appreciate you and your staff, during our Finance Committee meeting, we were made aware of three awards that the Finance Department has received. The first one is the Government Finance Officers Association awarded the Award of Outstanding Achievement and Popular Annual Financial Reporting, June 30th of 2023, and this is the 18th consecutive year that Frederick County and the Finance Department has received that achievement. And so, two more. The next one is they have been awarded the County Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting for June 30th, 2023 and this is the 38th consecutive year that Frederick County has received that achievement and the last one is the Government Finance Officers Association has awarded the County the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award. Okay, so, we've won the award, so we're going to go ahead and get started. Okay, so, we've won the award. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Shiffler. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ms. Lerner. Thank you, Ms. Lerner. award for the 2025 fiscal year and again the 38th consecutive year that Frederick County has received that award so thank you for our finance department and your staff Ms. Schiffler thank you. Thank you much for that report we move on to our one public hearing tonight it's Planning Commission business the capital improvements plan five-year period 2025 through 2030. Mr. Pearson. Thank you Mr. Chairman members of the board as you mentioned this is your CIP that you hear annually the time frame this year is 25 through 2030 as you all well know this is a schedule for your major capital expenditures for the ensuing five-year period. We have a lot of time to think about this and we have a lot of time to think about what we should be doing in our capital impact model. We work to have our CIP correlate to our comprehensive plan and those items that serve as projects in the CIP also serve as inputs into our capital impact model which you all are familiar with uses we use for new rezoning applications to calculate the appropriate amount of cash proffers to offset the impact on our capital facilities when new residential projects are approved in accordance with state before was first year where we had tailored the plan back to truly meet the plans horizon of FY 30 and cut anything outside of that horizon out of the plan at the direction of the County Administrator we are hoping to adopt this capital improvement plan with the intent of meeting the Code of Virginia section 15.2 2232 and for those not familiar with that before you construct any public facilities state code requires that it be shown in your comprehensive plan as something that you're intending to do and us adopting this on an annual basis meets the intent of that item by incorporated as an appendix into the comprehensive plan and in turn everything in the capital improvement plan can be proceeded for construction since it's shown in that appendix we did use a new format this year that you may have noticed it's only available electronically through a link but we think it presents a lot more neatly and in a more readable fashion than our previous versions of the plan and we hope that you will be able to use it in the future. we're welcome to any feedback if you like that change or if you want us to go back to the old PDF compilation that we did in previous years just call your attention to a couple changes from last year you'll note that there are three new school projects you'll still see that the projects you funded are still represented on the plan but the three projects you approved prior to or after the CIP we adopted last year the number for parks is up but it is predominantly smaller projects than the projects that we approved last year. projects that are intended to be funding in the insisting fiscal year which is very which is very normal for that department because they often come up against these small expenditures and aren't there of a size where there's not really able to foresee them five years out necessarily didn't see the creep out through the years of the plan and that's not uncommon in any sense for and rescues has the volunteer projects incorporated back in which bolstered that number of 2-ыеa Schwalbe years out and a new category for the landfills been added with their three projects, I would clarify that the landfill operates as a separate enterprise fund and is typically not involving any of your general funds in those sorts of projects. I think that's a decent summary of the things that have changed. These are large tables that have always displayed poorly on PowerPoint, but I'm happy to pull up the plan itself and walk through any specific project or any of the compilation of these tables and the dollar values associated with them. Mr. Chairman, your Conference of Plans and Programs Committee discussed the plan and had some discussion regarding whether or not staff could include a debt affordability component to the proposed plan in the future, but at the end, they also recommended approval of the plan. Your Planning Commission also discussed it, recommended approval of the plan with a single Planning Commissioner objecting for the reason that they felt the Recreation Center lacked sufficient efficiency. The Planning Commission also discussed it, recommended approval of the plan with a single justification. It is presented for public hearing and I have the link pulled up for the plan. I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have on the 2035- 2030 CIP. Thank you sir. Yeah I noticed the new format and I think it's very good for the public. If we have the link available, I don't know if it's on our front page of our website, it's much easier to read than trying to download a document for the public. Any questions from the board for Mr. Pearson? I have one or two. So you showed some summary cost tables. Are they in the plan? I scrolled through it briefly and I didn't find that information. So the the overall tables are right at the forefront of the plan. Okay. And then for each individual project on the left side after the text and justification, you can pull up the proposed funding sources and proposed expenditures which are those sort of more project detailed plans. I noticed in your resolution that you provided this board, you noted that to undertake a project, it has to be something that's in our CIP. So I didn't remember that from past years. So that would argue that the CIP should be large. It should be inclusive of everything we might want to do. Yeah at least in the ensuing fiscal year. It's not, you don't have to necessarily have everything for five years, out that you would plan to construct. But prior to expending public funds, that state code section requires that public buildings be identified in the comprehensive plan. We had always done this, we just never been so intentional and clear about it. In a departing conversation with Mr. Williams prior to him leaving employment at the county, we talked about that and he reminded me just make it clear that's the intent of the CIP because some communities do review every individual public funds project. And have it approved individually, but we've always done it as a batch as part of the CIP. So what happens if you have parallel possibilities? You could build a new building, fire station, school, etc. Or you could renovate and expand an existing one. Can we put both on the plan since we haven't decided? Do we have to put both on so that we're able to pursue either one? No you don't have to. If you were to have one on the plan and then prior to that, you would have to have a new building. So that's something that we're going to have to consider. So that's something that we're going to have to consider. So that's something that we're going to have to consider. So that's something that we're going to have to consider. If you were to have one or two expanding public funds on it and you were to choose a different option, it would be prudent to then update the CIP and readopt it in the comprehensive plan. You have in the past demonstrated where you can have more than one option. I think a couple years ago we had a couple high school additions as well as the fourth high school in the plan. So those options are both available to you. So we could quickly, if we changed course, I doubt something's going to pop up we hadn't thought of that we need to do right away. But if we change course and how we wanted to do it, we would just amend the plan and we could do that quickly? Absolutely. I think actually last year, give John a hard time, a couple months after we adopted the CIP, he needed to get a transportation project to qualify for grant funding and brought in an amendment to the CIP very soon after we had adopted the full version. So many years ago the plan was very big. It was more than we could possibly have done in five years. And so we had a debate about what the state law really intended in requiring us to create this plan. Is the grand total still larger than we're likely to pursue? We would not do all of these things? And is that appropriate for this plan to have all these projects in there? I think that's kind of where your Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee was focused on this idea of some component of debt affordability being incorporated. We would certainly need to work with finance and maybe the treasurer if we were to platform such an inclusion and maybe even start the process a little bit earlier. But I think it's certainly a pretty good idea. I think it's certainly a pretty good idea. I think it's certainly a pretty good idea. I think it's certainly a pretty good idea. I think we're putting into consideration the typical general fund tables total to about $330 million of expenditures in the five-year period. A significant chunk of that is your school expenditures. At least actually I think $200,000 of that is just the school expenditures that you approved with your last action related to the fourth high school and the elementary school expenditures. $200 million. And then when you look at the transportation table, it can look daunting because it's an additional $160 million of debt to the school. $150 million. But a vast majority of that is funded through state grants that either accomplish 100% funding of it or 80-20 and sometimes 50-50% funding of it. So I don't think it's an unreasonable plan to answer your question directly for a five-year expenditure of a county our size. With that said, I don't think any of us, I imagine you wouldn't tell the public that if they find it in there, it's going to be built. No. And normally we have a statement in our presentation every year. It's a statement that says this is not a commitment to construct any of these facilities. This is not a funding action to allocate funding for any of these facilities. It is a budgetary tool for the board to use as you work on your budget every year and think about your capital needs moving forward. And also as you think about approving new rezonings and how it might impact your existing needed capital. So I guess this is a living document we take on over time. I personally don't feel like I've had enough time to think about it. I think it's a good thing that we have time to go through it. If we delay, you know, in the past I've argued some things should be removed if they were just very unlikely to be done. What happens if we delay approving this plan? Does it impact our ability to apply for grants or calculate proffers or? No, I don't think we have any significant at least transportation grant deadlines in the near future. And the plan is normally presented to you a couple months from now. We tried to expedite it this year. And start the process earlier so that you'd have it before you before you got deep into your budget process. So you could use it as the tool it's intended as. The only timeline that I needed approved by is to update the model on an annual basis, which I typically do in July. But as long as you have the time to deliberate it, we'd certainly appreciate it approving it prior to July. So, okay, thank you. Just want to be sure before we begin discussion on it. Any other questions for Mr. Pearson? Just a comment. Mr. Pearson, we've had other chats. But I just want to thank you and your staff. The amount of work that goes into this on top of everything else you're doing is significant. So you and your staff have done a good job. Just want to say thank you. Thank you, sir. And for all of the project detail work, please direct your thanks to the department heads who spend year and year out getting bugged by me about meeting the deadlines to get us this information so we can compile it in. They do the grunt work that results in this outcome. And then Kayla Peloquin and Kirsten Twarden from our office. Thank you. And thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your time. And I think I'm going to add to that, too. One thing I would say is that I want to thank all the staff who worked with us. You know, you know, we're the ones who put it into the flashy new format that we think is a vast improvement over it. So kudos to them and all their hard work. And the same thanks to them. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to jump piggyback on this because this is my fifth year working with the, I mean, this is fantastic. What your staff, what everybody's worked on. And I really think, I mean, it's pretty clear cut. If you want to dig into it, you can dig into it. But thank you for the work that you all have done. It really is well done. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? No, sir. So if there's anyone who would like to speak and comment on the comprehensive, the capital improvement plan here today, please come forward. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Would you like to postpone this? The table up for a moment? I'll postpone it for a while and give the board more time. I ask the question because I haven't had time to go through it in any detail. If the rest of you have, I'm not going to protest if you're all comfortable with this plan. It's a living document that I believe we can amend as we go. I mean, if you want to wait for two, four, six weeks, Mr. Chairman, that's fine with me. I think that we should do it sooner than July so the staff has what they need to do to be on board. If you need two or four, six weeks, I'm okay with that, so it's your call. Okay. Any other discussion? If we did something, maybe the second meeting in February, would that give you enough time? I think so. So we wouldn't do another public hearing. It wouldn't have to take much of our time if it got squeezed into a busy meeting. If that works, if that helps you. That helps me. I don't know if anyone else had. This is a new format. Does anyone else have thoughts on how much time you need? No. Or a preference? I think that's sufficient. A little bit more time, I think, is reasonable. Okay. Yeah. Supervisor Wells, if you want to make that motion, I'll second it. I'll move that we table, postpone the moving forward on the Comprehensive Plan vote until the second meeting in February. Is that all right? I'll second that. Okay. Very good. Thank you. That also gives the public time to see it if they were unaware that it's a public meeting. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And so, Mr. Offer, I think that this is a very important public meeting. Is there any comments that we could make to the public? The number of speakers out there and provide us any comments. They might have something we're missing, something that we should change in there. So, Mr. Offer, do we have a link on our front page? This would be another good one. I don't believe so. But I will talk. We'll check what our public information is off, see if we are able to establish a link. Okay. So people can look at that. Thank you. We have a motion in a second. Any last discussion? Mr. Chairman, just recognized on the 12th, there are a couple of other public hearings. that may turn into a long evening so just recognize that did we say the 12th or the second meeting in the second meeting and this doesn't require another public hearing the vote doesn't okay so we have a motion to move it to the second meeting in February do we need a roll call for that since it's an action yes consensus all in favor aye okay we'll move it to then thank you very much and we don't have anything for item 13 item 14 board liaison reports do we have any yes mr. chair Planning Commission met last Wednesday January 15th they did election of officers and community assignments etc there are three top officers were all reelected in other positions very strong team chairman Tim Stowe vice chairman mr. Roger Thomas and secretary mr. Wyatt Pearson so congratulations of those three and appreciate all the work that you're all doing for the Planning Commission and the county of Frederick they did four public hearings last Wednesday the 15th rezoning 1024 for Winchester East at Opec and Creek which is in the Redbud district that was right before the election and we have a motion to move that motion to the second meeting in February do we need a roll call for item 13 item 14 board liaison reports do we need a roll call for item 13 item 14 board liaison reports that will come to the Board of Supervisors on February the 12th second planning public hearing that they had was rezoning 1124 for route 7 self storage in the Redbud district that was tabled to the second Planning Commission February meeting comprehensive plan amendment for 01-24 for Apple and properties and the City of Fort Worth and the City of Fort Worth and the City of Fort Worth and the City of Fort Worth and the City of Fort Worth and the City of Bat Creek district was approved that will come to the Board of Supervisors on February 12th and capital improvement plan was discussed last week obviously we just heard from mr. Pearson on that that's all I have mr. chair thank you thank you any other board liaison report mr. chairman jewel the Hanley Regional Library Board met last night and their annual audit was completed with no deficiencies were found a request was made to the friends of Hanely Regional system allowing for the purchase of a pop-up mobile library and the Frederick historical locality percent live chart was put out and Frederick County is the biggest user of the of the system and that has grown fiscal year 21 it was sixty three point seventy eight percent and to this year to date it's sixty eight point zero four percent so that's Frederick County Winchester City and Clark County Thank You mr. thank you any other liaison reports so I'd like to make one on the Frederick water board Frederick water voted yes so we had a lot of community members some of you may recall who came here from the Lake Frederick community very upset about the fact that we had a lot of community members say they wanted to move down the road and the city said they had no interest in moving down the road they were upset that that a major new project for an inter County service area had been started and they felt like they were bearing the burden they had substantial fees beginning at $20 a month and then increasing to 45 and $50 per month per home in future years they felt like they were the ones paying for the expansion unfairly so we had a work session we could work with Frederick Water on a solution. And Supervisor Wells did most of the heavy lifting. Thank you very much for your work, sir. He has identified a grant that they are pursuing. And they hope to get the money, which will help cover a shortfall. So let me explain what happened. It won't cover the whole project. Frederick Water reviewed after all these customer complaints. And they appear, from what I saw yesterday, to have assigned a lot of revenue that they have from other sources against this project. So a lot of it will be funded from their own revenue sources rather than going to the public. They were able to get that to within $5.6 million through other funding mechanisms. They also applied for this $4.8 million grant they hope to get approved for this coming March. So that would only leave them $600K or so short, if I got all the numbers correct. They plan to cover the remaining $600K by increasing availability fees. That is the fee to hook up if you're building. The developers pay. Of course, they pass the cost on to the homes or businesses, the people who are buying. So what? I don't know. I don't know. They don't know. To do that, they voted last night to remove the surcharges on the Lake Frederick community. So for that community, their issue has been solved. There was talk about, if they don't pay for it, then we're all going to have to pay for it, all the rest of us who are customers. This plan doesn't, at least now, move any of those costs, doesn't increase any of the other users' fees. The $600K or so, $1,000 shortfall in availability fees would be paid. They don't have to pay for it. They don't have to pay for it. They don't have to pay for it. But the cost would be borne by people who are buying a new home because the developer is going to have to pay more money to hook up that home. So instead of having, you're trapped, you have to pay a higher rate. You have no say in the matter. But the person buying the home or constructing the business building would know going in that they've got more to pay. So it's kind of like an impact fee, Supervisor Dunn, that you're talking about a lot, that the cost would be borne by the new people coming here and building. So I think it's a very positive development. I appreciate it. The fact that they're applying a lot of their current revenues against this, though, I guess raises the question, they're not going to have those funds for other purposes. So will we see rate increases this spring or later? I don't have enough information to know. But at least we've solved the problem for the short term. I do remain concerned how we got in this situation. Frederick Water was responsible with the developer. Frederick Water accepted the plant design and operation. That plant was never able to cost-effectively treat wastewater. It was cited for environmental violations from the EPA and other organization for chloroids and other emissions from the very beginning. To be fair to Frederick Water, the plant was designed for a much more rapid buildup of homes and businesses than occurred. So it wasn't very efficient with the lower flows. Also, the EPA changed standards of the requirements of what the plant had to achieve after the plant was built. Still, it's disappointing to abandon a multimillion dollar facility that's barely 15 years old. So I think it's a success story, but some things we need to keep an eye on. Water is the one, I've said this before, critical infrastructure that we as a board are solely responsible for. Our power is on a national grid. The internet is on a national grid. But water, if we're not able to keep this up, well, we'll have to do it. We're not careful when we overtax our aquifers. Frederick Water is drawing from underground. We did not build a large reservoir of above ground water. We are using the quarries for water. However, there's a question about whether drawing so much water from them also affects the water table. I think, Supervisor McHanslotter, you've had that concern in your district. Wells are going dry, but that might not be anything the county is doing. It might be due to the drought. So it's a difficult situation. I just think it's very important. We should not presume that Frederick Water owes the county to solve all those problems. Some counties have an extensive system of retention ponds. So you've seen them in some new developments when there's storm water, they have ponds. But we don't have that all over the county. The advantage to that is water is gathered when we have rainy times, and it seeps back underground to replenish the water. So that's a good point. We can't do this without the aquifers. I've spoken to Supervisor Wells recently, and Supervisor McHanslotter before, about their concerns about their constituents on wells and having difficulties. I'm not ready to make a motion yet, but I think this board should consider making an independent study of the total water-carrying capacity of the county. If we overdo it, you can actually destroy underground aquifers, I've been told, the long term. If we found in a study that we can only develop so far and still be able to supply water we'd have to look for other solutions that would tell us what our impact fees need to be and what measures we need to take to protect ourselves from running out of water. I'm sure you've all heard from constituents who are worried that we're the county's building too fast and what if we run out of water. So in the near future I hope to make a motion after some more discussions about undertaking such a study and I think it should be something the board does. We don't outsource it to Frederick Water or any other organization because only we are responsible for the water for everyone in the county. Frederick Water only serves about half the people in the county. On a separate item Frederick Water approved a new pilot project for bulk water hauling stations. There was some objection at the meetings about the rates to be due. The project was a little bit more expensive. We've got some people who are not in charge of the water. We've got some people who are actually being charged. So they decided to do a pilot project and see how it works. The idea is instead of letting developers and others open up hydrants to get water, they would and some of that is not charged for, now they're gonna charge for all uses of the water and reduce uses of the hydrant which protects the hydrants from damage, it reduces the chance of theft when we don't have people. You might drive by and think someone's using a hydrant they don't have to do so and you don't ask the question. They think it's a much better system although it it will raise the cost of water for some of the water haulers. One business did show up and complain so that's a long way of saying there's something to come there. A pilot project will be run and we'll be hearing in the near future what businesses think of how it's working. That's my report from Frederick Water. Mr. Chairman. Could I just jump in on the end of that? Please. It deals with Frederick Water. I'd like to thank Eric Lawrence, Gary Oates, all the folks that worked with me from Lake Frederick. They had a committee there that I worked closely with over many, many months and the committee itself to work together to come up with the solution we came up with. It was not easy but we got it done and it certainly helped. I appreciate all the help they gave me. Thank you very much. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, as liaison for Frederick Water, my comment to you to take back to them would be look at what happened this time to cause the problem and cause the issue that you are addressing and then figure out how do we not avoid how do we avoid in the future because they had some assumptions by the developer etc so if you can just address that so we don't have another issue on this that'd be helpful. Thank you. Yeah I don't think now's the time in board reports to have a long discussion. It's a matter of being able to project forward. You know EPA changes were coming should they have been able to anticipate those I don't know but the plant was never able to meet the need. We've had some other projects that were supposed to open that have not been able to open yet so I think we need to really look at the water situation in this county at some point. So that completes the liaison reports. Ms. Phillips do we have anyone signed up? Rick Miller. This is an opportunity to speak about anything involving county business. Please start with your name and magisterial district. Yes my name is Rick Miller and I live in the back Creek District. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors and county staff. I'm very familiar with our Frederick County government as I was a director of elections in this county for 15 years but I'm very perplexed by you Mr. Ludwig with your recent committee appointments you have made. You have made some great progress in your work. As you see I'm very very happy to be part of your made for the current Board of Supervisors in 2025. Frederick County has six magisterial districts, Back Creek, Gainesboro, Stonewall, Shawnee, Opecan, and Redbud. These six districts have approximately the same number of residents and the same number of voters in each one. Each of these districts is represented by one member on the Board of Supervisors elected by the voters in that district. The chairman is elected by all the voters in Frederick County. With your recent appointments for the seven standing committees of this Board of Supervisors for 2025, this is the breakdown of assignments for each supervisor. Chairman Ludwig, seven. Supervisor Lockridge of the Gainesboro District, five. Supervisor Liero for the Shawnee District, four. Supervisor McCann Slaughter of the Stonewall District, zero, per her request due to not running for reelection at the end of 2020. Supervisor Dunn from the Redbud District, one. Supervisor Wells from the Opecan District, zero. And Supervisor Jewell from the Back Creek District, my district, zero. So, from your committee appointments, over half of the 96,000 people who have been appointed to the committees, over half of the 96,000 residents, and over half of the 73,000 voters in Frederick County, have no representation and no input on these seven committees, their meetings, or their reports. So, Mr. Chairman, I think there are two possible solutions to this issue. One is for you to redo the appointments so that all six magisterial district Board of Supervisors members are appointed to each, each of them are appointed to at least some of the seven standing committees. Or, two, for you to issue a public statement on the logical explanations and the reasons three Board of Supervisors members were basically excluded from the seven standing committees. Thank you. Christy Scarborough. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . Even though the desk that I may be floor, I will be 이것도 your seat, Mr. Chairman, and on behalf of all ofw東 prompt the employ слunders we live in damage due to overwork, emergency of employees, or any platform that may cause additional hazard, what we with meeting boards and staff members, the key priority rather is to make the committee, of lersonable news and private Hello board members, I'm Christy Scarborough from the Stonewall District. Just want to say I think your appointments, great. Well because you guys fund FCPS, I'm here to discuss some issues within Frederick County Public Schools and the school board. Think long and hard before you vote to fully fund them in the future because doing that is nothing shy than rewarding bad behavior. Last night I was removed from the school board meeting after I read one line from an explicit book at Jameswood Middle School. Judith, there are students that are in your district that have access to these kinds of books. Interestingly enough, our school board seemed oblivious to these books even existing in the schools, which is strange because they're all listed to the public on FCPS website. Should be noted there is something seriously wrong with the school board. I'm not sure if you can see the screen. I'm going to go ahead and read the first one. It says, what is wrong with our school board members and the public schools if parents are being removed from the public meetings for reading material that the schools have provided to the children? Out of all of the explicit books they have listed, I have obtained two of them and let me tell you they are bad. These books were purchased with the tax dollars you gave Frederick County Public Schools. If FCPS does not have any of your rubber stamp on any of these books, I suggest you make it very clear to the citizens tonight. Also, if anyone in Bat Creek is interested in signing a recall petition to remove Sturdivant from the school board, please reach out to me and I can get you in contact with an organizer. But be prepared, John Jewell will be upset and he will likely try and convince people like he's done before not to sign it. Now I'm going to give a disclaimer. What I'm about to read is nothing short of disgusting and yet I want you to remember one important element to this. These are books FCPS has available to our children and if it's too inappropriate for our children or I'm sorry the board meetings then it's too inappropriate for our children. Miss Garborough, could I interrupt you for one second? Yes. Can I see the two books? You have multiple books with you? Do you want me to just bring them up to you? If I can for a second you'll get your time back. I was aware of your presentation yesterday, I think on one in these books? Yeah so I did some research. This book is in the library and this one I saw I don't remember which library is it in so since it does concern the school board and the county then I'll let you proceed. I'm guessing this will be unpleasant to hear but. It will be and I apologize. The book this one Beyond Magenta I'm not going to read from this one today but it is in Sharando and NREP. It is a book about transgender and non-binary teens that speak out. It's disgusting. So this is Flamer from Mike Corrado and in this book there is and mind you this is for middle schoolers. We're each busting a load into this bottle. If you don't come you have to drink it. That's disgusting. Talking about jerking off in here again absolutely disgusting. Okay. Okay. Motherfucker you fucking faggot. You're the faggot. You're you're the fudge packing fairy cock sucking queer pansy faggot. That's the statement that got me removed from the school board meeting and your best friend Sturdivant had the audacity to say I wasn't even reading from a book. Here it is. I was reading from a book. It was not a personal attack against him although if he wants to pretend like it is that's fine with me. The last thing I want to show an illustration of a student attempting to read a book. That's what we're talking about here. That's what we're talking about here. We're talking about when they're committing suicide and they're committing suicide with a knife to their wrist. For middle schoolers this is garbage and every single time I get to that school board meeting they shut me down. They don't want parents to know about these books. They say that there's a process. They don't want parents talking about these books at their public meetings because they really don't care and they don't want the heat them whether I get removed or not. I will be reading them until they are removed. Thank you. Would you like to keep these? No, I would prefer not to. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here who'd like to speak on a matter involving the county? Seeing no one, I will close citizen comments. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? None to the right. Supervisor Lockridge. Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. So I did, I believe that speaking to our last citizen comment, Sturdivant is the chairman of the school board and his sole promise to the people was to get these books removed and he says that he's gotten these books removed. I met with Dr. Hummer it's been a year ago at this point and he pointed me to the website, so you can go on to Frederick County Public Schools. I'm on there right now. I just decided to pull it back up as she was speaking. You can search the sexually explicit materials and he promised me that it's not a big issue because parents can remove themselves from this. But my question is and the reason I met with him is I think a lot of parents believe that the schools are doing the right thing and they're working, probably mom and dad are both working and out of the home. So my opinion was that a parent shouldn't have to go and remove themselves from their child checking this out, but that it should be an opt-in. So if you want to expose your child to something like that, I know an R-rated movie, a parent has to give that permission. But the stuff that she was reading and the books that I pointed out, a parent can remove their child, but they also, and it's on their website. But I just, I don't agree with this. I think we need to be protecting our children. And I've been very vocal and public about this. I have a situation with Apple Pie Ridge Elementary. I think we need to protect our children. So I just want to say that I'm, this topic is the, the sole topic, the schools, getting schools back on track. This is the sole topic that got me involved in my position today. So something I'm very passionate about and I'm very, very, very against those books being in our schools. Thank you. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, I'll make mine to conclude the meeting. So I agree. I have the same concern about books in our schools. Certainly, and I'm aware that the current school board chairman did run on that as one of his major campaign issues. He has asserted that all these books have been removed. But I didn't watch the school board meeting last night. I did. Can, can we get my charts up? Thank you. But I did hear about it. And so I did a little research this morning and I put a chart or two together on a couple of matters.uf These are books that are a little bit different from the previous part of this presentation. These are books, some of the prevailing effects on certain early success enlightenment skills in the education and employment objective. And so, I feel that thiscoyk is sort of a multibare advantage of any of our schools plan the activities within the county. There if you were in régiment council, and there is a lot of τοungtai kongと思います that working in some etc. I妹ww as acid here criança there may be Shanahan here in theSek<|ar|> her work in college. She's been super supportive, click on that and it brings down an option to do a search on the website. If you put in the word, just the word explicit, you'll get to this page that you see here. Next slide please. So, sorry, yeah, no, no problem. So that's just a few of the results I put in for one particular school and you'll notice the bottom one is one of the books that the Ms. Garbour was reading from. So you can go see this on the page. You do have an option to opt out, which I presume means your child would not be allowed to check out a certain book. I don't know how libraries work today, but that still wouldn't stop them, at least in my day, from going to the library, grabbing a book off the shelf and sitting and reading it anyway. So I'm not convinced that opting out will keep your child from seeing these materials. Frankly, I prefer it was opt-in so that one wouldn't have to fill out paperwork to keep debatable, inappropriate material away from your children. And then I want to move on to the next subject. You can go to the next slide and I'll address it in just a second. So Supervisor Dunn had a complaint about committee assignments and we had a county member also come up and speak. So I have to address it. So the county maintains many boards and committees, only six or seven. One is really defunct. It hasn't operated in years. So there's really six that the chairman can appoint and that's been true for many years. But there are many others. So the statistics that we're given are incorrect. It is not true that there are supervisors with zero committees or boards to serve on for this county. We have some joint committees with Winchester City, Clark County, or the City of New York. We have some joint committees with the City of New York. We have a board that is the secretary of state. So there are a number of committees with the city of New York, or even larger regional areas. In addition, there are other boards just for this county that you'll see us vote on appointments to who serves. No supervisor has almost nothing as Supervisor Dunn had stated, there is no supervisor with less than three assignments. Now, some of them may be committees where you serve as a liaison rather than a voting member. just as an important assignment as any other. The average is maybe four per supervisor. I don't think it can be as high as five, but no supervisor has less than three. For many years, Vice Chair McCann-Slaughter carried a heavy load, and we thank her for that. She led the Finance Committee, Transportation Committee last year. For personal reasons, she wanted to be off of any board's meeting in the morning, so that made me shift around, but I wanted to respect those personal reasons, not mine to discuss, and so I did make some movements. Thank you for all your service over the years. You carried a heavier load than normal most of the time, so it's appreciated. You deserve a lighter load this year. There is no board or committee that we have that's unimpeded. I know supervisors want to be on finance or transportation. They're thought of as more important. When I was new to this board, I wanted to be on those boards, too, but I never asked for them. I accepted whatever assignments Chairman DeHaven gave me, and I never quit from any board or committee. Along the way, I learned that some of these supposedly smaller boards are really important and really interesting. The Tourism Board, for example, they design advertising campaigns that you will see online or elsewhere. They're not just for the board. They're for the community. They're also for the public. That's what they do. They're really important. They help schedule and advertise Apple Blossom and many other events that we run in the county. They also work on signs to put up for historical sites, so there's a lot they do, and I'm just picking on one board that's considered by some people a smaller one, and, again, I think that's something that's going to be a very important part of the board. I've worked in other districts, and I've worked in California, and I've worked in many different cities, and I've worked in many different cities, and I've worked in many different cities, and I've worked in many different cities, and I've worked in I don't think any board should be beneath any supervisor. I've served as liaison, a non-voting member on many boards. My first two years, I wasn't given much important to vote on, but it was important work anyway, and I was proud to do it. Last year's supervisor, Dunn, was also given three boards, and he declined to serve on two of them. So Supervisor Liero picked up one. Thank you, sir. And I think you picked up both. The NSVRC, which meets in Front Royal, and tourism. And at the time last year, Supervisor Dunn said that I had been inconsiderate of his schedule, but that was not the case at all. He'd sent me an email. I declined to make an issue of it, but it seems like this is going to continue, so I feel like I have to address it. He had sent me an email when I asked for people's schedules, and instead of giving me that, he told me which boards he would like to serve on. That's not how it worked. It's not how it worked under Chairman Dan. He said he didn't want to serve on the Haven either. He then came here at the meeting a year ago and said that I had been inconsiderate of his time and had put him on the tourism board, which does not meet his schedule. However, he had asked to be on public safety, which meets on the same day of the month, at the same hour every month. So I would suggest that Supervisor Dunn did not have a schedule conflict. He just didn't want to serve on the tourism board. Again, there is no reason for me to say that I don't want to serve on the tourism board. I don't want to serve on the tourism board. There is no board that we serve on that is irrelevant to the county, or else we wouldn't use them. One board is a code ordinance committee. Since we've had a county attorney's office, it's really gone dormant. It's still officially there, but it doesn't meet in work, and I'm not counting assignments there when I say that every supervisor has at least three. So Supervisor Dunn is often every year making a motion or suggesting that we don't make enough money here on this board, that we should vote to a new board. increase our own salaries. We don't get paid enough to do all the work that we do. So if he wants to know why he doesn't have a lot of assignments, it's precisely that. He's declined to serve on boards that he's been asked to serve on. Nobody else has done that. I know for a fact that the reason he's given is false, in particular with the tourism board, and that's just how it is. I hope that he doesn't decline to serve. He's already sent me an email saying that he wants to not serve on one, again the tourism board, and I would encourage him to reconsider. It just leaves more work for the rest of us. This is a very busy thing that we do up here. We put in a lot of hours and time, a lot of travel, a lot of our own time and money to travel around and meet with constituents. I do it almost every day, and I think that all the supervisors owe it to their constituents to do that. Kalau aye, Mr. Chairman, and I would like to add that with a slightly different segment up on, as Mr. Chairman said earlier earlier, I would like to have even more time to continue to serve on boards and various things like zdję�ary documents, and email iMusic, and name paper, presentation files, to serve stain boards and did as many shows and appear atmosphere of other kinds. It allows another year we work with the board to hear what the Damnen on a meeting. Some of you are talking very tired, a lot of knowingly Yes. You made a statement about standing committees. The standing committees are very important committees. You don't want to put us on there, that's up to you, but own it. I just want you to own it. That's all I'm saying. You have three boards you serve on. They are all important boards, sir. In fact, two of them are reserved for your district, and you can make, you're the sole one to make appointments on one of them. We don't even have a vote to override or to nominate you. So these are, all boards are important, and every supervisor has at least three. So that's the end of my comments. Vice Chair. I move we adjourn. Thank you. Second. We have a second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
