Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-07-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=55
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This is with regard to an item on the consent agenda. Should that come up now or later under the consent agenda? I'd like to have 6D move to the regular agenda versus the consent agenda. Move 6D? Yes, sir. Let's move that then to why not 6G outside consent or 7.1 and make Supervisor's comments 7.2? How's that? All right. All right. All right. Beyond that, any other changes, proposed changes to the agenda? Mr. Chairman, we have a couple items. All right, sir. First, it's just a minor change to 6F. Sorry. A minor change to item 6F, which is the resolution of the agenda. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. These items were sent out ahead of time, and there should be hard copies at your desk, but I just... We have them. The second item is actually in addition to the agenda. We're proposing that as item 8E, and that's an invite from Valley Health to a meeting with the board to meet the new CEO. The third item is, again, a minor modification, but, again, to bring your attention to, it's item 11c, the resolution. You have a new version in front of you with some minor changes which I'm sure Mr. Klein will point out when that item comes up. So those are the three items I wanted to bring to your attention. Thank you sir. All right, any further changes? Motion? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I would move that we adopt the agenda with the updated resolution for item 6f, adding agenda item 8e and the updated ordinance agenda item 11c. Second. Second. Further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor aye. Aye. Opposed no. We'll adopt our agenda as amended. Citizen comments? Did anyone sign up? No sir. All right. Consent agenda. Aye. Opposed? Aye. Opposed? Aye. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? With one item removed, 6d. I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the removal of item 6d. The motion is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All right. Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Weil? Aye. Supervisor Dye? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. All right. So that will take us to 6d which is now 7a. Approval to amended rules of procedure. This was at my request. It is the date that things needed to be in for the agenda has always been Wednesday. I missed it when I reviewed it and it's a simple change of date one day. Yes. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I certainly understand the desire to have it done by that date and I think it's a sufficient date most of the time. I would point out the irony though of the fact that I just voted in favor of an agenda that violates the rules and that we added things 10 minutes ago to an agenda that came a request that came in after the deadline under the current rules. Would have been even a day later under the new rules. I'm wondering if you could just comment on that. Sure. I'm wondering do we need to have such a strict timeline in the rules or can we say that the recommendation is that item should be in by a particular date versus must be in by a particular date because I think tonight's agenda shows that there are things that we want to discuss that obviously didn't get in under the current rules that would definitely not have gotten in under the new rule so I would just like to see if we could do a modified version that says that it should be in versus it must be in by that time. Well you know the agenda never is adopted until we adopt it and so we're we're looking to get it done. But my comment is that if we do have a rule if there's not a rule it's useless. Now we quickly'd like to get back to grilled fat. The primary reason to change the name of this process is because we are still likely to still be changing the agenda when the Board gets ready to act with it the reason that I asked for this was so that when staff has time to prepare the draft agenda for achieving when the Board before we send it out. We're talking about Valley Health's request. Valley Health's request in this particular instance. Yes, thank you. And I'm not opposed to considering it. That's my whole point is I want to consider that tonight. I think it's appropriate and it's timely. But under our current rule, it would be a violation of that rule. So I just wonder, should we have such a strict rule or should we, as a group of honorable supervisors, say that we'll do our very best to make sure it's in staff's hands by Wednesday at noon so that you have an opportunity to discuss it, but that we're not in violation of a rule if we want to bring something forward at a later point if it's necessary? That's my only comment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to follow up with what Supervisor McCarthy just stated. I'm in full agreement with what he just stated, especially during the summer months when we only meet one time a month. If you have that one-week lapse where something comes up and you do need to insert something, as was mentioned this evening, I do think it's only fair that it should be a suggestion instead of a rule, because if you have a rule, it's only understood that all should follow the rule and not be exceptions. So I think that, Supervisor, Supervisor McCarthy has a very valid point there. Okay. Further discussion? Anyone? Did someone want to make a motion, or are we just going to bypass? Yes, sir. I would move to approve the memo rules update with one change being that rather than the requirement that it be submitted, that it's strongly recommended that it be submitted by noon on Wednesday in order to have orderly agendas and meetings. Okay. I've heard the motion. Second. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the amendment. Brings us to Supervisor's comments. Are there any? Hearing none. County officials. Tourism update. Mr. Kearns. Thank you for being with us, sir. We always look forward to it. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? We can. All right. Good evening, Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, as always. Good to see you, members of the board. Thank you so much for the opportunity, as always. I really wanted back in about February or March to give an update to all of you. I like to do that about once or twice a year, and I'm glad that all of that got pushed back because it's a significantly different update than I would have given then. So we're going to kind of go through here. I wanted to kind of tell you how we're doing, what the tourism industry is seeing right now from the ground level, some research that we're seeing, some effects that we're seeing, feedback that we're getting from our local businesses, that sort of a thing. So I'm going to kind of go through, and you're welcome to ask any questions at any point that you like. All right. So take you back a little bit. January 17th, my face mask. It was for doing guy things in the garage with power tools. I could turn on the TV, find a live caps game. I almost put a Redskins game, but were they out of it by then? I think they might have been knocked out by then. And then January 17th, this was the toilet paper aisle at the store, obviously. We have 34 lodging properties. We were enjoying very good numbers, very similar to year-over-year numbers. We had one brand-new property that had just opened, October 2019. We had two new properties under construction. We had group travel that was increasing. We had strong indicators for 2020. Our restaurant shops, everything was enjoying the trickle-down of this increased number of tourists that were coming in and spending nights. They were spending a lot of money in our communities. And then, obviously, the trickle-down for the communities, we have the lodging and meals tax revenues that were very strong, and they were growing as well. Before we knew it, we blinked March 17th. Our hotel parking lots were empty. A lot of our locally-owned shops, restaurants, they were closed. Our entire tourism engine was broken. Everything was broken. We have never seen anything in the industry like this. We had a loss of desire to travel by travelers. We had a loss of method to travel through airfare, through ways to travel. Traveling through the air. We had stores. We had the destinations were closed. We had nothing for people to see when they got to places. We've never seen anything like this. No one had a playbook for this, and nobody could have seen this coming. Our economic losses, they were very swift. They were very brutal. We reached out to our hotels. We started immediately reaching out to all of our hotels. We learned in the first week, we lost over $500,000 in booked hotel events within that first week. By late March, we were estimating an approximate 80% decrease in visitor spending. We have about $247 million in tourism spending a year. That works out to about $50,000 a day in lost tourism spending. So half a million dollars a day in lost spending in our community by the time we hit late March, early April. Very significant numbers. We had hundreds of hotel, restaurant, and entertainment workers that were quickly furloughed or laid off. The tourism industry improved. Employees, about 2,800 employees in our community, and a lot of them lost their jobs or were furloughed. We had one hotel property that was closed the entire month of April, and then we had a new build that was supposed to open April 1st, and they just opened last week. So they were pushed back several months. These are numbers from Smith Travel. They track daily lodging numbers and statistics. We get this on a monthly and a weekly basis. We're going to actually a daily basis. By April, our hotel occupancies were down 71%, and revenues were down over 75%. So you kind of look at that. Blue line is the occupancy, the revenue per available room. So basically how much money you're making per available room is very close in line with the occupancy. The red line is the one that we really, really, really don't want to see come down because that's really hard to get back up, and that's the average daily rate. That's how much each hotel is charging for a room for the night. It's really easy to come down on price. It's really hard to go back up. We don't like to see that red number go down. So that was a very, very bad indicator. Our tourism office, we had about four hours on the morning of the 16th to kind of let this really sink in and be depressed, and then we had to react very quickly. We looked at all of our peer groups. We reached out to all of our local partners. We reached out at the state and the national level to all of our peers, and we started talking, and we started sharing. We started sharing ideas and saying, what are we going to do? How are we going to fix this? How are we going to be a solution to the problem? We created almost immediately a travel advisory page. We populated very heavily with closings, but the way we did it differently than a lot of destinations, we actually led off with positive information like what was still open, special offerings, restaurants that were offering to-go offerings. So instead of just negative messaging, we were trying to stay positive in there and say, this is how you can spend money in our community still. This is the way that you can still support our community. And we kept it heavily populated with that. Thank you. We also immediately began collecting impact data. Like I said, we captured that half a million dollars in losses that very first week. We collected that data immediately. We put together a ladder, and we sent that off to our state and federal elected officials to show them on the ground what the impact was, because we knew that there was going to be reaction at the state and federal level, and we wanted them to know how incredibly bad it was here on the ground. So we gave them some numbers. We gave them some numbers just so that they realized, wow, this is really impacting our communities that we cover. So our tourism office, we shifted again. We were trying to-we always market. That's our job. We market. I'm a marketer. And all of a sudden, it was like, don't market. What do I do? What do I do all of a sudden? So we said, okay, we're going to switch over to local support and information. We ramped up our social media efforts. Our March through May Facebook reach went-actually increased 300,000. That's a lot. It actually increased 305 percent, and our engagement increased 144 percent. We just-we hit it really hard, and we really hit the local audience really hard. We began biweekly communications to our lodging partners, our local tourism industry partners, our tourism board, focusing on data updates, opportunities, anything that we could give out to our local community to try to provide that support and show some togetherness so people didn't feel completely alone during the situation. We tried to be kind of that beacon of information and, hey, we're still all in this together. We're still here. We're still all in this together. We quickly began creating fresh content by the end of that first week. Actually, the beginning of the next week, we started just creating videos. Me and my mobile film studio here went out and started shooting video and started just collecting new information, new positive messaging in our community to say, hey, we're still a good community. We stick together through this. And we tried to build on that. We tried to build on that local community pride that we have that's so prevalent here. Through about a month and a half, we created 22-we produced and created 22 360-degree videos. The 360-degree videos, I have a 360-degree camera. Ran around. We went to one of our wineries. We went to the Hanley Library. I did a tour around the dome of the Hanley Library. Went to Belle Grove. We filmed a concert at the Museum of the Shenandoah Valley with four people, and you could kind of see it in 360. We went to a lot of different locations. And just pushed out this fresh content because we knew people were stuck in their homes, but we wanted to bring the destination to people in their homes. And we partnered with Virginia Tourism and U.S. Travels Efforts. We created this video. This was a local guy who has a drone and me sitting there on my Mac. And I am not an expert, but this is what we created and released. The we Again, we spent almost no money on that. That was the best we could do with very little money and very little time frame. But we pushed that out and we had a tremendous response to that. We actually pushed that out into our feeder markets trying to say, maybe you're not comfortable traveling right now, but when you are comfortable traveling, please think of Winchester. Have Winchester top of mind when you decide that you want to get out. At the instigation of Patrick Barker's Frederick County EDA office, the Northern Shenandoah Valley, we love acronyms, the Northern Shenandoah Valley COVID-19 Emergency Response Team. We put together six different partners, the EDA offices, tourism, Clark County Tourism and Economic Development, Lord Fairfax Small Business Development Center and the Top of Virginia Chamber of Commerce. We got together our leaders, these leaders from these organizations. We've met weekly since March. We share idea, data, creative initiatives, whatever we can do, whatever we're hearing in our community, we're trying to share this so that we're all, we have this line of communication between these different entities. So we're not duplicating efforts and so we're helping each other. We've had two town halls. Again, we talk a lot and we created the Open and Safe Initiative to provide business to business support to businesses as they adjust and evolve. So we're trying, you sign up for it and you as a business owner, you sign up for this pledge and you say I'm going to take this pledge. And you get the, you get on the website and then you get some materials that you're able to print up and put in your window. Basically just saying we are open and safe and we are doing the best that we can. And so we have a bunch of businesses that have already signed up for that. That's an active website and we are continuing to get, I just had two people sign up for it or two businesses sign up for it while I was waiting for the meeting to start. So people are signing up for that. And then we have our own initiative just through the tourism office. We have some pretty posters that we sent out just saying our entire community thanks you for your help and understanding. We're all doing our best to follow the rules right now. So thank you for your understanding. Trying to, you know, positive messaging, not we're all going to die. But positive messaging. So now moving forward, some data for you. This was the projected industry revenue. These were the losses that were projected by Oxford Economics back in March. So right middle of March, this is what they said. This is our best guess of what the impact is going to be with tourism revenues. And now I can show you what ours were. So we were down. The green line is occupancy at our hotels this year, or bluish green, and then the yellow is occupancy last year. So that's kind of year over year. Our hotel occupancy began April about 71% down and ended June about 38% down. So actually that projection by Oxford was actually pretty close. We don't know to go back. We're very cautious about July, August, September. We're not sure what's going to happen in there. Nobody, you know, this was very early on. Nobody had any idea really what this was going to look like. And we're not sure what it's going to look like in the long term. But we did use this to help project our budget when we went out. So I just want to kind of show you what some of the good minds were saying out there. Our budget impacts were very significant. We met very quickly mid-March. We adjusted our FY20 and FY21 budget on the tourism side. Fortunately, the crisis is splitting fiscal year, so the impact is a little bit spread out for us. We anticipated loss from the county's lodging revenue contribution of about 91,000 this year and then 95,000 into the fall. So that's the fiscal year that we're coming into right now. So that's early projections that may or may not change for the positive or negative. But we tried to be as conservative as we possibly could. And then we paused all of our media buys from March through June. And we're just starting to enter back into the space right now, into the marketing space. Our strategy, we don't need to change very much. We have a new campaign already under development. It focuses on leisure travelers and urban markets escaping to our area. So that's not going to change much. We have a lack of large conference space. So we don't have to worry about all those large conferences that have been canceled everywhere. We're actually, and I've been saying for five years, I really need conference space. And now I'm going, I'm really glad we don't have conference space for right now, for this moment in time. Because again, those are all canceled for the foreseeable future until we confidently get out of this. Small groups are still traveling. Destination weddings are still happening. I was talking with our hotels yesterday. I was out and about. And we're hearing again that weddings are still coming. They're a little bit, a little bit smaller, but they're still coming. People are still traveling. They're still getting married. They're still doing destination weddings. So that's good to hear. At the tourism office, we have, we're very lean. We just have two of us, myself and Renee, and then we've got five part-time travel counselors. So we have very, very little overhead. So the budget impact is almost entirely on the marketing side. So our staffing is not going to be impacted much. And then just a couple little things here. We got a grant, Virginia Tourism Grant, 25,000. We just applied for another 10,000. That'll help us out. Our ongoing research, we see research, Zoom meetings, you wouldn't believe. So we see so many Zoom meetings. We see so much data. And the data is saying the same thing over and over again. It is saying that people have pent-up travel desires. They really, really want to travel, but they want to go to less crowded destinations. They want to go to destinations via car, and they want to go to destinations that are about one to three hours from home. And they also want affordable destinations. And places that have lots of beautiful outdoor scenery. So we check off all of those. We've always checked off all of those. So we don't have to change much in what we're doing. We just have to make sure that we continue being safe. People are checking now. One of the main indicators that we're finding that people check before they travel is they're looking at COVID hotspots on there. It's so easy to do. You can do it right now and look up anywhere. Okay, hey, I want to go somewhere this weekend. Wait, is there an outbreak there? Are they having a bad outbreak right there? So it's so important for our community to continue moving forward as we are and continue being as safe as we can because people see those outbreaks. And if those outbreaks start to go up, people will stop traveling. We see that people will stop traveling. We are not a beach, we're not a beach destination. Some people are going there no matter what. But smaller destinations like us, that can have a very, very negative impact on us if we have a spike in cases. So where can we help? We're okay, we're doing our jobs. We will. If it's going to be hard for us, we'll be able to survive. Our tourism industry businesses, they're the ones that are extremely stressed out. We need to listen to them. We need to hear their stories. Their financial losses from March through June cannot be recouped. They're gone. That revenue that they were gonna get March through June, it doesn't matter how good they do from now, if they're back to full business tomorrow for the rest of the year, all that revenue from March through June is gone for the year. And we're not gonna go back to normal tomorrow. So it's, they have to do it. They have been hit really hard. A lot of these small businesses, they lost 30, 40% of their revenue for the year. So that's extremely difficult for them. The frontline staff were exposed day in and day out. Our hotel workers, our restaurant workers are exposed day in and day out. There's big concern with the frontline staff of, they have the same family members that we do. They have the same at-risk family members that we do. A lot of us are able, very fortunate, and we're very fortunate to be able to work from home, telework where we can. Bartender can't work from home, they can't telework. The front desk manager at a hotel, they can't telework. They have to go into work. They are forced to go into work. So they are exposed day in, day out. This is a concern from management and frontline staff. So we just need to listen to that. Their staff have desperate childcare needs. That's only gonna get more abrupt in the fall when we get back to school. This is gonna be something serious that we need to, we're gonna hear this from the staff that cannot telework. They have to be into work and their children, potentially, are not gonna be in school. So this is only gonna, that's gonna be a big need coming up soon. This ongoing uncertainty, I hear this all the time from my restaurants, from my hotels, from all the businesses. It's almost impossible to project demand, almost on a daily basis. It's very, very difficult for them. And then many of them are feeling forgotten and overlooked. So basically, just, we need to listen. We need to help wherever we can. And we need to work together day in and day out. I would just ask from the, from the staff, I would just ask from the staff, I would just ask from the staff, I would just ask from the staff, from the Board of Supervisors, from the Board of Supervisors, when there are policies that come up, when there are issues come up, or just businesses in your districts, when you're talking to people, just listen to the businesses. These frontline employees, these small, mom and pop businesses, just listen to them. They have a lot to say. And it takes, it means a lot just to pick up the phone and call them sometimes and just say, how are you doing? We've found a lot of success in doing that. So that's pretty much it. Thank you for your leadership. Again, I've got tons and tons of data, but that was kind of a 30,000 foot kind of overview of this. If anybody has any questions right now, anybody? Questions of Mr. Kern? Anyone? Your video is top notch. Oh, thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? I was just gonna comment. The video, I've lived here my entire life. That video makes me wanna take a vacation here. It was really well done. And it cost us almost nothing. Okay, thank you. Well done. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for all you do and for sharing with us. Thank you. We're here to help. If anybody has any questions afterwards or any members of the public that sees this, we're in the office seven days a week. We're always there. Our visitor center's open and Renee and I are there. So if anybody has any questions, we are more than happy to listen and provide any other information. So thank you for your time. Well done. Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. Committee appointments, community policy and management team. We have a recommendation. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the approval of David S. Alley to community policy and management team. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. David S. Alley is appointed. Board of Building Code Appeals. Mr. Wagner is eligible and willing. He served there and with great distinction. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reappoint Mr. Wagner to the Board of Building Code and Appeals. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Wagner is reappointed. Proposed joint meeting with the Planning Commission. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. Before you move on to the next item. I'm sorry? Before you move on to the next item. Yes. In Redbud, there is a Social Services Board appointment that will come due. And so if you're in Redbud, you're concerned about helping people, I'd love to talk to you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir, thank you. Proposed joint meeting with the Planning Commission. We have a consensus, I think, that we surveyed and we're going to do it. So I know this, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So we had put forward August 12, September 2, and September 16th. If we're all amenable, and if it works for them, I think August 12 works, or this September 16th. I'm hesitant to do September 2nd, but that's where I am. But it's what the rest of us want, plus the Planning Commission. I think we did attempt to poll the Board, but I think, I think we did attempt to poll the Board, but I think, I think we did attempt to poll the Board, but I think, it's not going to work. Did we have responses? It was not posted. Okay. Should we try again? Well, your discussion, I hope, tonight, with all of you present and your calendars, I hope you can narrow down one of those days. All right. It looked like your August 12 meeting was probably the one that was the closest to suiting everyone. Okay. 12th through the 16th, can we help staff out? The 16th? September 16th? 16th is on a Saturday. Of August? No, it's on a Sunday. September 16th. September, I thought we were talking about August. August is the 12th. August 12th and September 16th. Okay, got it. To make sure we're following that document . All right, we'll call attention to the 12th . Okay. Did anyone else ask any questions? Let me potatoes this. Anyone. Marian, you may leave the room and the rest of the room to quite comment on the groups, add each of those dates if everyone wants to. Yes, Miss. Oh, I think President Buttigieg asked a couple ahead of me. May. Okay. 5.30 time is good too, I'm guessing. 5.30? We okay with that? Give us an hour and a half. Okay. August the 12th, 5.30. Thank you, Mr. Ruddy. Okay. Proposed joint meeting with the school board. Here, I've talked with their chair. We really, I think, need to look at sometime in September. Obviously, November didn't work, but they have their hands full trying to figure out how to get schools open. Does that work for everyone? Something in September? It's better than nothing, so yes. Well, can we start looking at that? Sure. Chairman? Yes. I'm unavailable the second week of September, but other than that, I could work in September. From the 6th to the 12th? Yes. Yes, thank you. Okay. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I'm also unavailable the, I guess it would be the 13th through the 19th of September. Okay. Other comments? Mr. Chairman, based upon those two comments, then the week of the September meeting will be the 13th. Okay. The September 21st is a possibility. Do I have comments about week of the 21st? I'm okay on that week. There's a board meeting the 23rd. I don't know if you would want to try and do it prior to that. I think we would like to have a separate meeting. It's a consensus that I have heard. And we'll have to, of course, see if their board can respond. So let's not pile it behind or ahead of a board meeting. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I had a conversation, an email exchange with Mr. Foreman. And so anytime after the 21st is fine. They're going to have a discussion, and they're going to see what we offer. So if we offer, for example, anything on the week of the 21st, if that all works for us, then that gives them multiple days that they can, they can choose for their own schedules and see if something works out. And for my purposes, that could include Saturday of that week. Just as a thought. What do we want to offer them? 21, 22, 24, 25, 26? Let them choose? If you'd like. I'm sorry? Mr. Chairman? Which one? Yeah, I would offer them all those. I think. Supervisor Graber, you had a problem with some of those? Yeah, the 26th does not work at all for me. Okay. Nor would the 25th. Okay. So 21, 22, and 24. Does that work? 22nd or 24th being optimal. Okay. Any problems? Let's try that one out. Thank you. And I'd just like to see if we could have a two to three hour meeting. It may not take that long, but we can walk through issues and not be pressed for time. Okay. All right. Mr. Chairman, just to make sure we're on, we're looking at the 21st, 22nd, or 24th. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. With the 22nd or the 24th being the preferred. Okay. Let's see what they can send back to us. Jay's expecting it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. They just offered up, I'm looking for my email as we speak. Thank you. Thank you. apologize. They proposed hosting a breakfast or lunch in August or September, so they really left it fairly open. We're more restrictive in our August discussion than we were in our September discussion. I certainly think that we ought to take advantage of that opportunity. We want to ask them to propose some dates. You certainly can. It may be the 22nd or 24th that the school doesn't choose. Given your limitations, is there any desire to see if they're willing to push it out to October? We crossed out a lot of dates in September. That's the problem with August and September. Do you think they're willing to push it out to October? I have no objection to meeting with them at their leisure. We just should take advantage of the opportunity. So why don't we ask them for October? Does that create a problem for anyone? The beginning of October will create a problem for me. The end of October is going to be okay. Can we define the beginning? First two weeks. Got it. Second two weeks of October, Chris? Let's try it. We can play this game. That works. It works for all of you. Until we find one. Okay? Does that work? That works for you all. We think it will. Okay. We'll ask for some time during the second two weeks of October. Yeah. Great. Thank you very much. Okay. There was no committee business. We're now in planning commission business. We had something that was C. So that brings us to rezoning 0-1-2-0 for RCS Investments, LLC. Ms. Perkins. I'm going to take that off so you don't hear me mumble. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board. This is an application to rezone 12th and 13th Street. point six one acres of land from the M1 light industrial district to the M2 industrial general district with proffers. Now subject property is located at 220 M Bowdoin Drive. It's part of the Baker Lane Industrial Park which was subdivided back in 1985. So interestingly enough the property was originally zoned M2 as shown on the original zoning maps. It was then down zoned to the R3 district which was a residential district with the comprehensive rezoning of Frederick County and then back in 1984 it was then rezoned to the M1 district with rezoning six of 84. And this is just a general location map for the property. As you can see you have route like Interstate 81 and you have M Bowdoin Drive and then the cul-de-sac at the end. The subject property is this entire property. And as you can see on the bill that date mountain center in the area of Lumber encore where you know � leg of the苦 and this So to interpret outside of this route and to give you some previews all of the uses on the property to all uses allowed in the M1 district, which they can currently do, and they've also proposed to limit their M1 allowed use to only recycling operations. They've prohibited outdoor storage of materials that would be used with the recycling operation. They're prohibiting waste transfer stations and they're also proffering a monetary contribution of 10 cents per building square foot for fire and rescue. So the Planning Commission at their June 3rd meeting did recommend approval so tonight following the public hearing staff is seeking a decision on this requested rezoning. I would be glad to answer any questions and Mr. Evan Wyatt is here on behalf of the application. Thank you. Questions for Miss Perkins, anyone? Yes, Supervisor Dine. So in a conversation I had with Miss Perkins, I asked her if she could comment on the proposed on the drywall and the Puppenberg earlier today, my understanding is that the applicant is looking to have no more than 10% of excess waste given away. In other words, that has to be a clean situation. I think that's good. The question is, if this applicant then sells this property to somebody else, will that be continued to be in existence? Does that transfer with this proper? Can you walk through that process? Proffers that are included in the rezoning, which are in the signed proffer statement, are all that are going to go with the property. So they would still be able to do a recycling operation, but that limitation isn't a proffer. So that may be an industry standard, but I couldn't speak to what would happen with the future user. Thank you. Other questions? Ms. Perkins, anyone? Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Wyatt, anything you'd like to answer? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Evan Wyatt with Greenway Engineering. The only thing I'd like to add to the presentation that Candace just did, is the basis for requesting the rezoning. As she said, the property's already zoned light industrial. Unfortunately, the county zoning ordinance does not define recycling, and it only lists it as a permitted use in the M2. So that's the reason we're here. We looked at this, and of course, you know, the face of recycling has evolved since the days when I was picking up beer cans as a young man. I've been doing that for a long time. I've been doing that for a long time. I'm a young guy to cash in at Zuckerman's. So I think it's just one of those situations where the ordinance is really not caught up with the land use. As the county knows, you went through a fairly substantial study for recycling struggles and challenges that you're facing. And the recommendation, of course, is that in order to overcome that burden and not have 100% of everything go to the landfill, the private sector is going to need to start stepping up and taking a role. So this is one of those opportunities. How do I get to that? So really what we're asking for tonight is, and the way the proffers are structured, as Candace said, it prohibits outdoor storage of materials with the recycling operation, and it prohibits waste transfer stations. So very simply, like most warehouses you're familiar with, product, the recycling material, and the recycling material. So we're asking for a role. So the materials that are collected come in, they are disloaded internally, they're put into a pit where the baler is, they go through a baling operation, they become bail materials, and then they're distributed and go outside to the market. So the way the proffers are written, that's what this operation would be. And we did that purposefully to allay any fears that it could be something different. So I just wanted to give that brief explanation. As Candace said, the Commission unanimously recommended approval, and we respectfully request that this evening. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Any questions of Mr. Wyatt? Anyone? One. Supervisor Dye. So Mr. Wyatt, as we chatted earlier, I think that your applicant is doing a good job, and we appreciate what he's doing. My concern was that at some point in the future, if the applicant is going to be a good job, I'm going to have to make sure that I'm doing a good job. I think that's a good point. So I just want to get back to where I was. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. And I think the fact that the applicant sells this to another entity, and that other entities decides that from economic purposes, instead of having a 10% or less rejection rate, they decide to raise it to 30 or 40%, is there a way to address that? And I'm asking you this question, but I'm also making the same comment to board members. If it had always stayed at 10%, I wouldn't even be asking the question. But because sometimes you've had recycling centers that have been bought out by others, that things change. And so the fact that you've gone and changed the way that you're doing it, I think that's a good point. prohibited transfer centers is good? That's the other piece of the question that I was just asking on the rejection rate. And how would you address that if it can be addressed? I think the answer very simply is the way the business would operate, it would not be financially feasible for an operator to bring in, basically for lack of a better term, garbage that would then have to go to the landfill. Because if you think about it, if they have 10% or less contaminant, which is apparently according to the recycling coordinator kind of the average when you go to pick up stuff, that waste has to be put on a truck, it needs to be hauled to the landfill, it needs to pay tipping fees to cross into the landfill. So the more a business operation is not careful with what they bring in the door, the more it costs them to run their business. And then it becomes financially infeasible because this isn't necessarily such a lucrative market that you can afford to do that. So with this particular operation, and my presumption is with others that are doing this, the opportunity is to get the clean recycling materials and not have to deal with garbage. You're saying basically that it self-regulates because of the economics? That's right. Because once again, if you're only getting so many dollars on a ton after you bail it in, it gets... It gets picked up to go out, and then you're losing money because you have to haul it and pay tipping fees, pretty quickly you're not going to have a business venture that's going to be profitable. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Wyatt? Thank you, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this application? Anyone at all? Anyone? Anyone? Last call. Last call. And we'll close the public hearing portion of this discussion. This is Stonewall. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve rezoning 01-20 for RCS Investments LLC as presented. Heard the motion. Is there any discussion? Second to the motion. Second. Second. Yes, I'm sorry. Thank you. End discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. I'd like to point out several things regarding this. This facility has the possibility to reduce the fill of our landfill, the fill rate of our landfill. It could possibly create an opportunity to partner with a local business. And it also has significant potential to reduce the cost to the county as far as our hauling fees for recycling at the present. I think this is a win-win for all involved, and I'm very happy to see it before us this evening. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dye. I think that what they're trying to do is good. I do have a concern on another firm coming in at a later point in time, 10 years from now, 15 years from now. And I don't know the economics and the margins on the profit margin they have based upon Mr. Wyatt's comments being self-regulating. That at least allays some of my concerns. But I think that at some future point in time, the next proponent of this... piece of land needs to go and honor what we're doing here tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Dye. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries, and it is approved. Mr. Chairman. C-U-P-0-2-2-0. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board. This is a conditional request for a conditional use permit to construct a 199-foot monopole commercial telecommunication facility with accessory structures. This telecommunications facility will be located at 141 Fairview Road. It's in Gore. It consists of 14 acres. It's currently zoned to R-A rural areas. It is in the Gainsborough Magisterial District. The comprehensive policy plan of Frederick County identifies this area as a county to remain rural. It is not a policy plan. It is not part of any current or any future land use study. Turn your attention to the map on your left, the outline of the property where this telecommunications facility will be located. Obviously, the applicant put the drawing where the tower is going to sit on the property. Should the Planning Commission actually review this at their June 3rd meeting, I recommend the following conditions be assigned to it. One, I'll review agency comments you comply with at all times. The other is that the planning commission should review this at their June 3rd meeting and recommend the following conditions be assigned to it. One, I'll review agency comments you comply with at all times. The tower should be available for colocation of personal wireless service providers. Number three, a minor site plan should be approved by Frederick County. Number four, the tower should be removed by the applicant or the property owner within 12 months of abandonment of the operation. Number five, in the event the telecommunications tower is not erected within 12 months, the approval of this Conditional Use Permit, the Conditional Use Permit will be deemed invalid. And number six, any expansion or modification. The modification of this use will require a new Conditional Use Permit. There were no comments that were brought forward at the Planning Commission on June 3rd. And following this public hearing, Mr. Chairman, staff is looking or seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this request for a Conditional Use Permit for a 199-foot telecommunications tower and facility. The applicant is here to answer any questions you or any board members may have. Staff is here also. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? No. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Welcome, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. My name is Doug Sampson. I'm here on behalf of New Singular Wireless, also known as AT&T, which is the applicant for this particular proposal. We're pleased to bring improved wireless and broadband service to the area, specifically the Back Creek Valley area here in Frederick County. I won't re-enter the microphone, but I do want to thank the Board of Supervisors for their support in this proposal. I'm going to turn it over to Doug Sampson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Amen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Question 4, do we approve, purchase or lease of old Component interessante. 됩니다, USDA Direct Fund 스타일, 1995이면.於10ASE10 Fayette는 ig少rpgf0cru2com. Dow.Big Program responding9 Voroyaurudue Ur instead. I just want to point out briefly that the need for wireless and broadband services has never been more prevalent, as millions of people across the country are teleworking, virtual learning, virtual worshipping, having telehealth doctor's visits, and just keeping in touch with family and friends. In fact, over the past three months, AT&T has seen a 20% increase across its network nationwide in usage for both cellular and broadband. I also want to point out that this is a FirstNet site. Now, real quick, what FirstNet is, it's approved by Congress following the 9-11 Commission. And during 9-11, there were not enough bandwidth for first responders responding to the crisis there. And so this is a dedicated bandwidth for first responders, and AT&T has an exclusive contract with federal agencies across the country to provide this at all of its sites. Just to give you an idea, during the COVID-19 emergency, 12,000 agencies across the country have used FirstNet, including FEMA and the U.S. Coast Guard, and they've connected to 1.3 million connections nationwide. And that includes the hospital ships that were in the New York and L.A. harbors during the height of the pandemic. Again, I won't repeat everything that's been said. The county agencies that have reviewed this had no objections. The fire marshal did ask that we widen the fire lane and include a turnaround for the fire trucks. We've already included a turnaround for the fire trucks. We've already included a turnaround for the fire trucks. We've already included that in the site plans, and they will take a look at that during the site plan review. We ask that you accept both the staff and planning commission's recommendations and approve this conditional use permit, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Any questions? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I plan to add one more condition for you because it's something we typically do. Somehow it got overlooked on the airport's report. But normally we have lighting on these towers. I know you do 199 feet to be right under the FAA, but with air care and the use in this area of helicopters, I'd like you to go ahead and meet the requirement for the FAA with strobe and the red light. So I hope you won't object to that because I think it's a service that we need. I would just say that under 200 feet, the FAA does not require any lighting, and typically when it's not required, we don't put it on the tower to reduce the visual impact at night for local residents. However, if the board really would want a light on that, given the air traffic in the area, we would be happy to comply with that if the board approves of it. I think that's what we typically do. Then we would be happy to comply with that. Thank you. Any other questions? Anyone? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this application? Anyone at all? Anyone? And we'll close the public comment portion. This is Gainesboro. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the CUP with the addition of Supervisor Fisher's recommendation to add air traffic safety lights to the tower. Sir, you've heard the motion. Is there a second? And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Dye? As for the applicant, I concur with Mr. Fisher's comments. Any other discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor? I've had no negative feedback at all from residents in Gainesboro District. This is going to really help that area of the county that has almost no service. This is going to really expand the coverage for that area. And as I've said before, I think this is one of the top priorities that this board needs to be looking at moving forward. So I wholeheartedly encourage all the supervisors to approve this CUP. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. As amended, it's approved. It'll bring us to Conditional Use Permit 0320. Mr. Klein? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. This is Conditional Use Permit for the Foxglove Solar Entity. And I'll go ahead and jump right to the map. This project is generally located south of Marlboro Road, east and west of Heights Road, which runs north to south, south of Vaucluse Road, and north of Clines Mill Road. The properties subject to the application are outlined in blue, and they total approximately 668 acres. And this project is for a utility-scale solar power generating facility, which will produce approximately 75 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy. Of that 668 acres, 370 acres will be utilized for the installation of rows of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, which are commonly known as solar panels, and other necessary equipment for facility operations, access paths throughout the property, security fencing, and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be combined, converted, and increased, and allowed delivery to the adjacent First Energy 138 kilovolt transmission lines. The proximity to the lines was one of the most important factors in siting this facility in this area of the county. It's necessary to get the power from the solar modules into the electric grid. In regards to the comprehensive plan, the 2035 comprehensive plan, envisions this area of the county to remain primarily rural in nature, and for the agricultural land to be preserved for future generations in use. The project as proposed is generally compatible with the comprehensive plan, with the preservation of the underlying land, maintaining the ability of the properties to be used in the future for agricultural uses. In regards to the zoning ordinance, the setbacks for solar arrays, or the panels, will conform to the setback required by the plan. The zoning ordinance will be a setback for the principal setbacks in the R.A. rural area zoning district. Under the zoning ordinance requirements for public utilities, including utility scale solar facilities, the zoning administrator has the authority to determine those setbacks, and it's determined that the principal setbacks in the R.A. should apply. What that means is that for, from road, right of ways, and streets, a 60 foot setback is applied, a 50 foot side and rear setback from adjoining parcels of six acres or less, a 100 foot side and rear setback from adjoining parcels of more than six acres, and a 200 foot side and rear setback for when adjacent to agricultural and forestal districts more than six acres and orchards, regardless of their size. Addressing the zoning ordinance requirements, the applicant has provided a preliminary site plan as part of their application. This includes landscaping and screening through a landscape screen, as defined in our ordinance, which contains a mix of deciduous trees, evergreen trees, and shrubs, and that's shown on the preliminary site plan, sheet five. They've included a notation that they're proposing a woven wire fence, or a chain link security fence around the perimeter of the property, but the preference would be to do a woven wire fence that conforms to the other agricultural fences in the vicinity of the project. And the applicant has proposed access to the site from paved public roads, including Marlboro Road, Falklose Road, and Clark Road, and Clines Mill Road, and they are prohibiting access from Heights Road, and that has been included on their preliminary site plan and also as a condition of approval. Directing your attention to the screen, this is the concept plan provided by the applicant, again, for your orientation. Marlboro Road forms the northern boundary of the property. Heights Road bisects their subject properties. Then you have Falklose Road here, Clark Road, and Clines Mill Road. The subject properties are outlined in red, and the transmission lines that I referenced earlier in the presentation are shown in orange, and again, you can see the proximity, and it actually bisects their property that abuts Marlboro Road. The areas you see in blue on the preliminary site plan are the panels, so that's your 370 acres of panels. They are proposing a substation on the Marlboro Road property here, and then they depict their site access along Clark Road, Marlboro Road, and or Falklose Road. You all were provided a revised preliminary site plan this morning. There was only one small change as part of that. The applicant did move the fence line to align with the proposed substation and not be in the setback, but they actually moved it further away from the required setback to be up against the proposed substation, addressing a concern raised by an adjoining property owner. Again, just some more detailed imagery. And then again, on page 5 of the preliminary site plan, they have included a detail of the proposed landscaping, which conforms to the zoning ordinance requirements. Further in addressing zoning ordinance conformance, the applicant has submitted a decommissioning plan, which is part of their application, and the decommissioning plan includes provisions for the removal of all equipment, including the mounting posts, and the site to be restored to the pre-development condition if the facility is no longer in operation. Their decommissioning plan specifies entering into a written agreement with Frederick County in providing financial security for the life of the project to ensure that at such time, again, that the project is obsolete, that all that equipment is removed and the land is restored to its pre-development state, so it can be reused for agricultural purposes. And as part of their decommissioning plan, estimated cost for the value of that equipment is re-evaluated every five years. In addition to the requirements for conditional use permit with Frederick County, the applicant is also required to get a permit by rule through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality, and the permit by rule, or PBR, is a state-level administrative review and approval process which includes an extensive environmental and cultural review and study. One component of the state PBR process is local jurisdictional approval of the application, and this CUP application, if approved, would otherwise satisfy that local jurisdictional approval as part of the PBR. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed CUP on June 3rd and recommended approval with conditions. Following that Planning Commission recommendation, the applicant has made several small, minor revisions to their application to better address comments from the Planning Commission and those concerns expressed during the public hearing portion of that meeting. That includes increasing the required setback from Heights Road from a 60-foot setback to a 75-foot setback. They also have agreed to use woven wire fence for perimeter security if feasible, and they've modified the fence line adjacent to that substation to better address a concern raised by a neighbor. They've made a commitment to install the landscaping along Heights Road and Clines Mill Road prior to the start of construction, and they've agreed to restrict site access from Heights Road and the siting of a lay-down yard for the construction period of the project to make sure that that is not adjacent to Heights Road either. And they have agreed to a limitation on pile driving of the posts for the solar arrays as part of their construction activities, and they've agreed to do that only from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Again, these changes are reflected in that amended preliminary site plan that was dated July 7th, which was provided to you all today, and it's also included in the revised conditions for approval. So should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the following conditions of approval are recommended, and again, those changes from the Planning Commission meeting are included in yellow. Number one, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineered site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Frederick County zoning ordinance shall be submitted to and subject to approval by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan shall address the additional regulations for specified uses outlined in Section 165-204.26 of the Frederick County zoning ordinance, and that the plan should be in general conformance with the preliminary site plans included with the CUP application prepared by the Timmins Group and dated July 7th, 2020. That buffers and screening shall be provided around the perimeter of the project in general conformance with the quantity of the proposed plantings depicted in Sheet 5 of the preliminary site plan, the landscaping and vegetative screening detail, and included with the CUP application prepared by the Timmins Group dated July 7th, 2020. And that buffers and screening shall fulfill the landscaping requirements in Section 165-203 of the Frederick County zoning ordinance. And this is the change from the Planning Commission. The landscape buffer planting shall be maintained in good health for the life of the project. The landscaping and buffering shall be installed around the perimeter boundary on the east side of Heights Road and along the property boundary as adjoining pins 84-1-1, 84-3-2, 84-1-3, 84-1-4, 84-1-5, and 84-A-33, and 84-A-35, and along the perimeter boundary on the north side of Clines Mill Road and within three months of the completion of the commencement of construction on the property is identified with pins 84-A-50 and 84-A-29. An extension of the time limit may be granted by the county prior to the start of construction upon the recommendation of a licensed landscape architect or horticulturalist to ensure that the plantings occur during the optimal seasonal conditions in order to improve the survivability of the required plantings upon submission to the county of a letter from such licensed landscape architect or horticulturalist. Specifying the appropriate time frames for plantings to accompany the site plan application project file. Number four, that prior to site plan approval, the owner shall enter into a written agreement with Frederick County to decommission the solar energy facility equipment, facilities, or devices pursuant to the terms and conditions of section 15.2-2241.2B of the Code of Virginia, and that the written agreement shall be updated every five years and in due course, in general conformance with the decommissioning plan included with the CUP application prepared by Walsh, Colucci, Luebley, and Walsh, revised June 24, 2020. Number five, that batteries for the purposes of mass storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid are prohibited as part of this CUP. Number six, that entrance to the site from Heights Road shall be prohibited. Number seven, that lay down yards shall not be permitted to be accessed from or located directly adjacent to Heights Road. Number eight, that the pile driving of poles for solar arrays during construction shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. All other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturdays. No construction activities are permitted on Sundays. And number nine, that any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. Following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation or, sorry, seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed CUP for a utility-scale solar power generating facility. Any recommendation for approval should also include a statement affirming that the proposed solar facility is in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have, and Mr. John Foote is here representing the applicant, Urban Grid, this evening. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graves. If you would be so kind, Mr. Klein, I've had a lot of questions from folks asking what the 75-foot is versus the 100-foot setbacks from road structures, especially along Heights Road where those movements occurred. Would you please be so kind as to explain the additional 25 feet, where that comes from, and how that plays into the scenario? Yes, sir. If I can just scroll back to one of the images. So the setback in question is along Heights, on the east side of Heights Road, along this parcel identified here. Originally, a 60-foot setback was required. After the Planning Commission discussion and the public comments, there was concern from adjoining property owners that the setback may not be sufficient. So in negotiating with Supervisor Graver and staff, the applicant agreed to a 75-foot setback with the understanding that the width of Heights Road, which is generally 25 to 27 feet, depending on where you stand in the road, would total a 100-foot setback from all of the property on the west side of Heights Road. So if you're standing on the west side of Heights Road, which would be any of these properties here, and you include the width of the roadway plus the required 75-foot setback to the fence line, you effectively have a 100-foot setback. And that was a change that was made from the Planning Commission meeting to this meeting this evening. Questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Klein. I've been told, I've read the, I've read this proposal, and it says that all the pilings upon decommissioning will be removed. But I've been verbally heard comments that they only have to take out the top 2 to 3 feet of those pilings. So is 100% of the pilings, if the pilings are 6 feet deep, are all 6 feet going to be taken out or just the top 2 to 3 feet? The reason I'm asking is because the number of pilings that we use, the number of people that we have on the land, the number of people that we have on the land, is going to be significant. I had a conversation with the landowner, and if a future generation had to go plowing through, his comment was 2 to 3 feet, but what if you decide to go and build a building? So can you address that issue? A part of the decommissioning plan, and I can show you, in item 2, subsection 1, item B, or item C rather is the mounting post, and it is the entire mounting post, the entire 6, 8, 10 feet, whatever that is. However long it is, the whole thing comes out, they cannot just cut the top 2 to 3 feet off the property? Correct. Okay. The decommissioning plan ensures that all equipment listed in that subsection, including the modules, the racking, the mounting posts, concrete, anything that they put on the property, is completely removed, and that the site is restored to its pre-development condition. So in this case, it would be returned to viable agricultural land. It would be returned to as it is today then? Yes, sir, that would be correct. And that's guaranteed? That would be, as part of the decommissioning plan, that is correct. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any other questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Mr. Foote, always a pleasure, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm always happy to be back in my second favorite county. I would have to admit to my people in Prince William that I didn't say exactly what I mean when I come out here to call you my first favorite county, because I'd get back to them. But it's a pleasure to be here with you. We have to say that we're grateful for the support that we've received on a new kind of application for Frederick County from Ms. Perkins, Mr. Klein especially, who spent a great deal of time working with us on this application. We also have received a great deal of input from the community. We were tested in this matter about community outreach for obvious reasons. We couldn't do the kinds of community group meetings that we would ordinarily have done, but we did conduct a virtual town hall. It didn't have the outreach or the number of people join us that we wanted, but we sent out a whole bunch of invitations. It was reasonably successful, and there were people that were on the call with us that weren't part of our team, as it were. We had a number of people in the neighborhood who did join us. We received input from the community and some of that has informed the application as it has changed. This is, I say, a new kind of land use for this county, and as a consequence, as you know how much I like to talk and how much I've learned in four years about solar energy, I'd like to introduce you to our team here. James Crawford, who is the Vice President for Development for Urban Grid. Each of these, as you know, is operated and owned by a special purpose entity, in this case called Foxlev Solar, and Brianne Eberlein, is an engineer with the project, back there. And I'm going to turn the presentation over to Mr. Crawford, who will tell you a little bit about the project, sir. Thank you, sir. We'll be here to answer any questions. Welcome, Mr. Crawford. Good afternoon, Chairman, members of the board. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Feel free to flip that up. Maybe a little bit taller for myself. That's a little bit better. Good afternoon. Chairman, members of the board, thank you for the opportunity to be here this evening and for the consideration of this project. As Mr. Foote had stated, my name is James Crawford. I'm here on behalf of Urban Grid Solar. And I have a presentation tonight, but Mr. Klein may have covered several of these slides, so I may not be redundant. So, first off, Urban Grid. We're a utility-scale solar developer. We were founded in 2011. We have a headquarters in Richmond, Virginia. We also have an office in Washington, D.C., and Stevensville, Maryland. We currently have over 300 megawatts of solar, either in construction or actively operating here in the Commonwealth of Virginia. And we actually have over 7,000 megawatts in active development throughout nine South-Etheron states. So, I'd just like to talk a little bit about the solar development process. Solar sites are highly site-dependent, location-dependent. Urban Grid goes through an extensive analysis process to identify sites that would be suitable for solar development, both from a site perspective and a grid's perspective. Once a site is actually identified, then we actually commence discussions with the landowner to find a suitable arrangement, either through a lease or purchase, to benefit that solar facility. In parallel to that, we submit an application to, and actually a very extensive application process, to an entity called PJM, which would provide the regulatory approval to inject the power that the facility produces into the local grid. The reason we're here tonight, the next step is local land use and other regulatory approvals. As Mr. Klein had articulated, local land use is actually a prerequisite to the DEQ permit by rule process, which is the state-level regulatory approval that this project will have to receive. If we're successful in securing all of these regulatory approvals, at that time we'll be able to commence construction, and once construction's complete, the facility will actually be able to enter into its operation and maintenance stage, which is essentially the life of the project. So much of this is already covered, so I'm going to go ahead and get started. So I'll just hit the highlights again. The site that we're here for consideration tonight is approximately 700 acres. 370 acres of the site will be used for the solar facility. Urban Grid has already commenced an extensive study process in support of both the local application and subsequently the PBR application that will follow. The system size is 75 megawatts AC. That's the amount of energy that will be injected into the local transmission line that's located on the site by way of a substation that will be constructed. And the transmission line here that I referenced is the 138-kelvolt first energy line that already exists and, again, is on site. Pending all regulatory approvals, construction would commence in 2021 with construction completion sometime in early 2022. I'm actually going to skip this slide because I think Mr. Klein covered this quite well. I will just add that it's a very extensive process that is governed by the DEQ but obviously takes into account all of the sister agencies of the DEQ, DGIF, DCR, VDHR, any adverse impacts that are identified by any of the reviewing agencies. The project is required to provide a plan of mitigation before regulatory approval by the DEQ will be issued. So, Foxglove Solar and its specific development timeline, we made our CUP application in May. We're here tonight for your consideration for local land use approval. If we're successful, then we will commence and continue with the PBR process. We hope to have all regulatory approvals in hand, including local land use, state, and PJM by early 2021, which will allow us to commence construction and we anticipate construction completion sometime in early 2022, at which time the project would enter its operational life. Again, this is the preliminary site plan that has been submitted as part of our application or concept plan, as Mr. Klein stated. This is a blowup of the northern section, and this is a blowup of the southern section. As he stated, the blue is the physical panel locations and blue is the site. There are four different types of panels. There is a torsion tube that runs north and south. The panels are attached to the torsion tube as the sun moves throughout the sky during the day. The panels rotate and follow it. You can't even tell they're moving. It literally moves at the speed of the sun, so never sit around and watch the sun move, but you really can't tell unless you look back. To always be in the optimal location to absorb the sun and to move the sun, you need to be in the optimal location to absorb the sun. We're going to move the sun to the north, which is the same location we moved the sun to to absorb as much sunlight as possible. At the end of the day they revert back to their beginning position and the process commences again the next day. So this is a slide again Mr. Klein has captured almost all of these but I just wanted to highlight you know during this process and in collaboration with staff and the Planning Commission and public hearings we've had considerable feedback and we've obviously taken that feedback and incorporated both into our preliminary site plan and many of these have been incorporated into the conditions for this project. I just like to go through and hit some of these bullet points if you don't mind. There'll be no construction access points along Heights Road. No construction lay down areas will be cited adjacent to Heights Road. Installation of the foundation post will be limited from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. The setback from height parcels adjacent to Heights Road has affected the planning of the project and the planning of the project has collectively been increased to a hundred feet. There's a commitment by the project and been memorialized in the conditions for the plantings of the vegetative buffer at the earliest possible time at the commencement of construction. We've expressed the desire to use a woven wire agricultural style fence if possible to fit in with the local surroundings. And we have made a commitment to maintain the So, the next two exhibits are exhibits that Urban Grid put together to quantify visual impact of the facility. The first one shows essentially year one, the visual impacts of the facility. The blue is areas, I think from a height of, you know, maximum height I think is 10 feet, that the facility would be visible. As you can see in year five, once the establishment of the vegetative buffer has occurred, the visual impacts have been mitigated significantly. In addition to this, Urban Grid has performed several renders from vantage points along public right-of-ways adjacent to the proposed project site. I'd like to just take you through a few of these. The first one being along Clines Mill Road. This is the existing conditions. This is year one, after construction has been completed and the vegetative buffering has been installed. And this is year five. The next vantage point is along Heights Road. Again, existing conditions. The second one is along the My apologies, there's a little lag here. Once again, year one. And finally, year five. One last one. A vantage point and a render was done from Vucluse Road. Once again, existing conditions. Year one. And year five. So this slide here, I'd like to just talk a little bit about the benefits of solar. Not only solar development, but utility-scared solar in general. And then, of course, the benefits of solar. So, the benefits of solar are the following. First, we have solar. This facility will require no additional county infrastructure. We don't require sewer. We don't require county water. We will put no additional burden on existing county infrastructure. Once the site is operational, we'll have no daily traffic. The site will be remotely monitored. There will be periodic visits to the site for operations and maintenance. Maybe a motor goes bad or a panel needs to be replaced. And obviously, vegetative control mowing, essentially, grass mowing. There's no negative environmental impact. Renewable energy. Renewable energy over the last five years in the Commonwealth, I won't go into a lot of detail here, but has completely revolutionized and is revolutionized power generation in the Commonwealth. Fortune 500 companies are being attracted to localities that have renewable energy. Fortune 500 companies are being attracted to the Commonwealth because of the Commonwealth's commitment. They are committed to pursuing renewable energy and most recently, set forth mandates to be completely carbon free by 2050. This facility will further aid in reducing greenhouse gas reductions. Lastly, which I'll detail further in the next slide, local economic impact at a time of need. This slide... Column one shows the taxes paid, essentially the local taxes contributed by this land and its current use, which is approximately $3,300 a year. In over 35 years, that's a total of $123,000 approximately. Once this facility is operational in year one, this facility is projected to contribute $135,000 in local tax revenue. And over the 35 year life of the facility, approximately $3 million. In addition to that, during the time of construction, while a one-time influx of economic stimulus, there will be a considerable influx of money spent here in the locality by the workers that will be needed to construct this facility. These will be people that will be using local restaurants, local hotels, and obviously any equipment suppliers or machine shops. Anybody that sells bolts around here will do very, very well while construction is ongoing. And lastly, but last but not least, lease payments. This project is supported by a local landowner and these lease payments will obviously be going to local, a local citizen that will allow further revenue to be spent in the locality. So in conclusion, we agree with staff's report and accept the conditions that have been presented. I'm available for any questions. I apologize if I was redundant in any manner. Thank you for your time this evening. Thank you, sir. Anyone have questions for Mr. Crawford? Supervisor Graber. Mr. Chairman, this isn't a question, it's simply as a comment. I would like to commend Urban Grid for their commitment to the residents and so much as the conditions have changed. As you are well aware, the conditions have changed, I think 12 times in the last seven to 10 days. It has been extensive. I appreciate the commitment that you've tried to make to the citizens of Frederick County. So that's the end of my comment, but I appreciate it very much. Thank you. Anyone else, questions for Mr. Crawford or Mr. Foote? Anyone? Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Appreciate it. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this application? Mr. Chairman, I have the signup sheet and I will point out that you received one comment electronically. I did leave a copy of that at your seats this evening. We have about five folks who have already signed up and the first name is Lane Link. Lane? If we could have your name, Magisterial District, and attempt to limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. My name is Lane Link and I'm with the Back Creek District. Mr. Chairman and members of the Board of Supervisors, thank you so much for having us here this evening. My name is Lane Link with the Back Creek District and I'm here on behalf of Woodbine Farms along with my father, Harmon Brumback. We are here today to discuss with you our objectives in collaborating with Urban Grid regarding the construction of a solar farm. Our family began farming in 1898 on 280 acres of land. Through many years of hard work and the contributions of six generations of family members, we now farm 1,400 acres of land in Frederick County. We work hard and take pride in providing the community with fresh local produce. We love this community and want to see it continue to flourish and prosper. The construction of the solar facility, which is now the home of the Woodbine Farms, is a key part of our business. It is a key part of our business and it is a key part of our business and it is a key part of our business. We are committed to helping our community and our community to grow. We are committed to helping our community to grow and to help our farm to continue to thrive as a farming business. A business that has represented the backbone of this area. Unfortunately, over the course of the last five years, we have seen a steady decline in market prices in all commodities. We do not see these prices improving in the foreseeable future. The uncertainty created from the current COVID-19 health crisis also puts agriculture in jeopardy. We worry that with market prices not improving, costs of living increasing, and the new uncertainty created by the pandemic, we would need to move forward. We worry that with market prices not improving, costs of living increasing, and the new uncertainty created by the pandemic, we would need to downsize by selling land to offset these factors. Through thoughtful review of our options, we believe solar farming to be the one least adverse to our community. It would also keep our land out of land development and housing. Over the past several years, we have seen an increase in housing development in the area, and it's something we hope to avoid. A solar farm would be our best option in maintaining the peacefulness and integrity of the natural lands and landscape. We love the land and have been farming the majority of this proposed property since the 1930s. Installing a solar field would allow us to maintain ownership of the property while leasing it for the duration of the project. Areas of this land on this farm property not being used to generate electricity would remain in agricultural use. Currently the land is being used to graze cattle and would continue on acreages not being used by the panels. There are also innovative agricultural options available within and around the solar panel area that allows for multiple agricultural enterprises. Some of these options include grazing sheep, pollinator habitats, and honey bee apiaries. We have been in contact with the North Carolina State Extension as specialist about grazing sheep around the panels. Sheep grazing in solar facilities has been done successfully as a way to maintain the vegetation around the panels without extensive mowing or herbicide treatments. The use of sheep continues the agricultural aesthetics of the land. The Virginia Pollinator Smart Program would allow us the opportunity to raise honey bees and other species of the land. We are also working with the state to develop a plan to create a solar grid that would provide clean energy to the solar grid. We are currently establishing a pollinator block on our farm. Initiatives like these would allow us to keep this land in agricultural use. The construction of the solar farm would also provide clean energy to the power grid. It is a safe and renewable way to generate energy. We are excited for the opportunity to help facilitate this for the area. We sincerely appreciate your consideration of proposal and hope we have provided you with insight on why we feel this venture would be in the best interest for our family, our neighbors, and friends of the area. We are also excited to be able to provide a plan to create a solar grid that would provide clean energy to the solar grid. We are also excited to be able to provide clean energy to the park and also for the friends and family of the area. This is a sustainable, productive, target-oriented effort that could help our neighbors in or around their yards. We couldrimp up the health care care when we need it to. If this wasn't a great or forgettable way of doing it, how would the government be able to contribute to this? Back Creek District. I'm here this evening to speak on behalf of my family, particularly my generation who will one day be owners of Woodbine Farms. Agriculture has been a part of our lives since we were born. Our great grandparents, grandparents, and parents have worked tirelessly to keep our family farm running. We have been blessed to grow up around fields, orchards, and cattle. Many of our fondest memories are playing in the barns or sitting on apple crates eating lunch at a family picnic. We love our farm and we want our children and our children's children to have the same experience as we had. Some people know how grueling and thankless being a farmer can be, but the majority of people have no understanding regarding the physical demand and little return that is actually made working the ground. A farmer today sees little profit from their products considering the amount of work involved. For this reason, more and more families are selling their properties in our area for commercial and residential developments. We do not want to sell land. We love our land, we love our heritage, and we love this community. Thank you. We want to preserve what we have and honor previous generations who have given so much. However, in order to continue to farm, we must look for alternatives to help sustain our family business. This solar project that we are asking you to consider tonight was not planned in haste. Family members and Urban Grid have done a tremendous amount of research and planning to develop the best solar facility for the land and for our community. When I learned we were exploring the possibility of installing a solar farm on our property, I was excited. This is a chance to help our environment and our community. We are proud to be a part of this community. We are a strong partner and a known economic partner and we are going to continue to do this. We are looking to move forward in the field of solar pieces to help our community and to provide a clean environment by providing a clean energy source while keeping the land out of housing development use and this opportunity will also help better position my generation when we take over Woodbine Farms. Many of us still work on the farm in various capacities and we will be the ones who decide the future fate of our farm. I do not want to see houses built on portions of our land and I know my cousins do not want that either. Yes, the view and the look of the land will change if the solar farm is built, but our intentions for their land will not. We will remain good stewards of our land and continue our farming heritage. So on behalf of the fifth generation of the Woodbine Farms family, I hope you will vote in favor of our solar project, because by voting yes, you are helping to secure another generation of farmers in our county. Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman and the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dana Newcomb. I'll hold my comments to item 14, citizen comment. Thank you, sir. William Shoemaker. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you for having me. I'd just like to say a few things. Yes, thank you. Have your name, Magisterial District, please. William Shoemaker, Backstreet District. I live on Heights Road in the Backstreet District. My first issue tonight I would like to discuss is that my property rights have already been violated, and this project has not even been approved yet. Numerous times over the last several months, vehicles related to this project have been using my private driveway and my land to park and walk through. There's no public right-of-way. My family has discussed this numerous times with Graber and Klein. Over the last several months, I've been using my private driveway and my land to park and walk through. There's no public right-of-way. My family has discussed this numerous times with Graber and Klein. Over the last several months, I've been using my private driveway and my land to park and walk through. There's no public right-of-way. My family has discussed this numerous times with Graber and Klein. Over the last several months, who started, who stayed at the company had a right to use our property. While they say issues is now resolved and it will not be happening again, I have a hard time believing that, so I ask that all adjoining property owners are provided with information on who is to contact in the county when this company violates the rules and regulations. Considering they violated property rights prior to the project, even before approval, I have no doubt that they will do it again and feel like our homeowners should be protected. I do have the email printed along with the pictures to show the board members who would like to see showing company vehicles on my property. I've asked the question a lot, why can't you move this somewhere else where it does not affect residential properties? Their answer is always the same. It has to go here because it lights up and don'trais it here. Many of those vehicle parts again go in and out and sort of Henry Vf Id respectively, poor construction looks like aorrshire concept, which goes back to the Tom blood test. For your region. I asked the question that unfortunately it doesn't make sense. Much of what I have written is positive. Davidson� berries haven't died and they were put out of my property. There have been some reconstitution services to help the clearng of the building issue, but it's not progressing. The state also asks whether the rôle of milliards would be a problem in the current development 20 30 40 years these families these family homes for families that raised their children grandchildren how much more do you expect the people of this area to accept the power connected is going to be sold on grid which means there is no guarantee that there will be used locally or help anyone in our County electric bill go down I feel like one person doing in like not one person doing this entire process has given any consideration to the neighbors and their lives this isn't a farmer changing patterns changing livestock changing equipment or building a bigger barn this is a neighbor bringing in an out-of-town company to build an industrial farm that will lower neighbors property values has a risk of damaging neighbors properties and violating the property rights along with destroying wildlife in our area thank you thank you Glen Red Miles good evening everybody my name is Glen Red Miles I'm from back street a back Creek District my approach I wanted to clarify one thing about the condition the applicant did agree to move a fence against the substation away from our home but one of the main things for that reason was to retain the trees that were there you and it's it wasn't not mentioned I like that to be included the reasoning that we want this the fence closer to the substation proposed substation so I'm fogging up to leave the trees existing trees there so it'll be a better screen for our property because they they're gonna have lighting on the property on the substation so that's all I would like okay if you thank you sir okay thank you that's all we have signed up mr. chairman did anyone else come to speak about this application anyone anyone at all thank you we'll close public comment portion of the discussion this is back Creek mr. cant板 and that's who there is the motion given that Monday my recent proposal under which to move away to too muchㅇf we really 3 teammates are already not doing this we want to get a bodies so bring bring in dites can dan and m 개ennan and Frank wounder Под terminate just 9 minutes ago and then sunday's home and 7 I got ardently , let's do 5 minutes and five minutes bort which will two minutes in half an hour. I saw. Is that correct, that that vegetative state stays intact? So there's Mr. Redmond's answer to his question. The other idea or options, as I stated earlier, there were a lot of citizen requests. I've met with over 40 folks, spent well north of 200 hours on this project. I've walked the property or walked or driven the property in its entirety. I've had a good opportunity to look at this. There were some really needed concerns brought forth by the citizens that have been addressed, and I'm very, very thankful for the hard work that Mr. Klein and Mr. Ruddy have done in this process and the county attorney. There's been a lot of staff time put into trying to make the citizens' requests become reality. I'd like to just highlight a couple of those. The first one was, is the landscape plan. It was a pretty big deal to try to get that changed from the end of the project, as it was proposed, to the end of the project. So I think it's a pretty big deal to try to get that changed. To near the beginning of the project, to allow there to be additional screening and buffing for the citizens of the county, for the residents there. I think that was much needed. Another item of concern was all the traffic on Heights Road. I know it was very challenging for Urban Grid to make this work without having an access site from Heights Road. However, due to the 25 mile an hour speed limit on Heights Road and the school buses and the traffic they're in, they have agreed not to utilize Heights Road in any format for this project, which I think is a huge extension of goodwill. On their behalf, this takes away a little bit of the conversation that was brought forth by Mr. Shoemaker, William Shoemaker, regarding Heights Road and the vehicles on his property. I'm thankful for the opportunity to meet with Mr. Shoemaker, as I've had that opportunity, and he has shared his concerns with me. Just to give this board a little bit of feedback, the vehicles and the right-of-way that were utilizing his property, Mr. Klein did due diligence and went to the clerk's office to assure that either there was or was not a right-of-way there that was permissible to be used. The right-of-way was not a right-of-way there. The right-of-way was not a right-of-way there. The right-of-way that Urban Grid was using at the time was thought to be a right-of-way onto an adjoining property owner. It was found that that right-of-way did not exist. Therefore, the planning department has sent to Urban Grid, and they have agreed to, they will discontinue and not utilize that right-of-way in any format in the future. If you do experience problems with that, folks, I encourage you to contact the planning department and let them know. And I believe that that was sent in an email format. With all the work that has transpired, Mr. Brumback and the SNAPs have done a lot of work to try to make this project as community-involved as they can. It has been a challenge. However, I would like to make a motion that we move forward and approve Conditional Use Permit 03-02 for the Foxglove Solar LLC with the conditions that have been presented this evening. Second. Mr. Faber, did you intend to confirm the conformance with the comp plan as well? I did. Okay. I would like to add that. Thank you, sir. Confirm the conformance with the comp plan. All right. So you've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion is carried. That will bring us to Board Liaison. Reports? Are there any? Anyone? Hearing none, it's citizen comments. Mr. Newcomb? My name's Dana Newcomb. I'm with the Gaines 따라 District. And I'd like to make a comment with regard to this whole issue of solar power. And I guess what I'd like to lead out by saying is before we as a county reasoned, we shouldn't have agreed to, so let's have a forever description. I guess what I'd like to say is before we as a countyили after the first election of John cherchead, and what we had to considerедay was to respondoj that it was the lung use policy prom pulsed to allow for pomoc all units , in the tools to ensure that this was the best solution for Everland or the terrestrial utility space, commit thousands of agricultural acres to green solar power implementations. And I know that this is only 700 acres. However, we do already have a facility at the intersection of Route 522 and Route 340. And I understand people are lining up at the door, and they're just waiting for this thing to go through before they come rushing in to see how much more land they can plop solar panels on. So I would request that the board give consideration to other means of implementing solar power. I'm not against solar power. It's a great implementation, I think, if we do it smartly. And I'm specifically talking about residential and commercial use or implementations. Now, sadly, and coincidentally, my wife and I had a discussion this week with a solar power company and discovered that implementing retroactively whole house solar on our home was not even affordable. It wasn't even close. And however, it seems to me if we as a county develop the policies and that encouraged and facilitated, collaboration between builders and solar power companies, that there's no reason why you couldn't have a large number of commercial and residential construction projects that implemented solar power and used net energy metering to, first of all, support whatever facility was being built, and then secondly, feed any overage back into the grid, thereby taking stress off the local power grid. For example, envision a home developer who's building energy efficient homes with increased insulation, dual pane windows, all that sort of thing, and who's encouraged to orient that house and construct the roof in such a way that it optimizes placing solar panels on the roof. Then during construction, obviously, you're going to get a much more efficient implementation of solar power because they don't have to go back and retroactively create an energy efficient home upon which the panels are placed, which may or may not be optimal depending upon how the roof is laid out. So this, I think, is an example where if you then ended up with a house that was built on a solar panel, the solar panel would be placed on the roof of the house, and then the solar panel would be placed on the roof of the house. And then, in the end, that would be the end of the house. So, that's the whole idea. So, that's the whole idea. So, that's the whole idea. So, that's the whole idea. If we had a solar panel for housing development that, if in large percentage, was powered by solar power, it could have potentially no impact at all on the local community. And, in fact, might contribute kilowatt hours back to the community. Similarly, on the way over here, I was thinking and noticing all of the hundreds of acres of vacant commercial warehouse roofs we have that could be installed in an area of a certain size. be a valid implementation for solar power first to power those facilities but then also again to feed power back into the community so what I'm recommending is that the board turn over to whatever the appropriate committee is the project to look into potential policies that could encourage and facilitate those kinds of implementations within the county which then means that there's less of a drive if you will to commit hundreds of acres to solar power fields because we have hundreds of acres available on our rooftops thank you thank you sir and anyone else signed up miss Phillips okay this is our citizen comment thank you sir had anyone else signed up miss Phillips okay this is our citizen comment period where we receive comments from any any citizen on any subject you might like yes ma'am we could have your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please my name is Gwen Thomas and I'm from Stonewall and no one told me it was limited to three minutes so there's no point your choice well I can't how long would it take 20 minutes no sorry Sorry, give you four. Then you're also welcome to use three and come back for a second three after everyone else who would like to speak has had an opportunity. You could also have Ms. Phillips forward your comments to the entire board in writing. Okay, then I will do that. But then let me see if I can do three minutes. Thank you. It has to do with civil rights and it has to do with the subdivision that I'm in with Snowden Bridge and Snowden Bridge Boulevard. And those lift up Snowden, who was, how do I say it? The lost cause mythology. And before, the reason I wanted to speak is before. The park is connected to his name in any way to try and I can't do it in three minutes. I'll just leave this. But I wouldn't make the comment. Somebody should have told me that it was three minutes. And I'm sorry. It's our normal policy. But I don't know that. So if you raise your hand, please. There you go. Thank you, ma'am. Is there anyone else who would like to comment? Share your thoughts with the board. Anyone? Anyone at all? Then we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just as a follow up to the discussion we're having with regard to the solar panels. Any time I see farmland in Frederick County being taken out of agricultural usage, it makes me sad. But I think I'd be a lot sadder if I saw houses being put up on that land, even if they had solar panels on the roof. So despite the fact that it's not being used in an agricultural use specifically, there's a lunatic farmer, and he calls himself that, down in Swope, Virginia. He's a famous farmer by the name of Joel Salatin. And he once said that all farming is solar farming. Whether it's the grass that's growing in the field, harvesting the solar energy. Or it's the solar rays that feeds the cows. Or it's the vegetables that are being fed the solar rays that are feeding us on our dinner plates. It's all solar farming. So the fact that you're coupling the sheep farming with the solar farming, I think this is a wonderful thing for people in our area as young people start looking at agriculture again. Is looking at what is modern agriculture going to look like. And I suspect it's going to look a lot like what old fashioned agriculture looked like. Where we're actually putting multi-species back on the land. We're using grass and the green vegetables. There to harvest for use. And using what is called multi-layering is what this lunatic farmer talks about. Which is exactly what the Brumback family and the Snap family is doing. They're layering their land with multiple uses. So I commend you all for doing such a good job of this type of new type of farming. In an age where most people would have taken the easy way out and just sold their land. And we'd have houses popping up. I appreciate Mr. Chairman the opportunity to mention that. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Graber. Mr. Chairman, thank you. I would concur with Supervisor McCarthy's comments. I have two separate statements I'd like to make. The first is we are looking to have a meeting with the school board. And I kindly ask the superintendent of the schools back in February when we had our joint meeting. If I could have a line item budget. And I was told at that time that he needed to see the funding that he was going to be receiving prior to giving us a line item budget. We are now in that fiscal year. And he has received that money. In May, I asked Mr. Foreman, the chairman of the school board, if he would be so kind. Just to follow up on that request. He has done so. And as of to this date, has been unable to get us a line item budget. Mr. Superintendent, if you are watching, I'm still waiting for my line item budget. Because I believe that we have some shared goals. I believe that we desire to see our school system be successful. I believe that we both desire that our students receive the best education that they can receive. However, I believe that it is very difficult for this board, especially for this supervisor, to come and find common ground with you on what those shared needs are without seeing what your line item budget is and where your priorities are. So, Mr. Superintendent, I would kindly ask again, I would desire a detailed line item budget. Item number two. After having received multiple phone calls and a lot of input from constituents in my district and neighboring districts, I've had a lot of folks ask me about impact fees and why the state hasn't moved on doing impact fees or having really any advocates. I've been a great advocate in Richmond to do implementation of impact fees at the local level to try to assist us in our fire rescue community, in our law enforcement community, in our educational community. A lot of folks also know that I'm a staunch constitutionalist. I believe in the Constitution, all of the Bill of Rights, especially the Second Amendment and First Amendment protection of speech. With those thoughts in mind, I have decided to pursue forming a committee to, possibly replace Chris Collins' seat in Richmond and will be looking for folks or input from folks as I pursue seeking Delegate Collins' seat in Richmond. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, first of all, to the Brumbacks. When I met with your dad initially, I was not in favor of your solar project, but I appreciate what he's trying to do with putting sheep through there. I appreciate what he's trying to do so that you can continue to do that. So I just appreciate the work that he's done. It looks a whole lot better than houses. So, you know, when you're our age, you know, keep going, but thank you on that. Second comment is, Mr. Graber, your comments are new news to me, but I've been longing for an advocate for some type of impact fee to cover the cost of new people that come in here. We've had a 30,000-person, 50 percent increase in the last 20 years. If you can help to go and address ways to cover those costs with the cost of construction, I think that would be great. You'd be good at that. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Anyone? Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Is there a second? Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. We'll stand adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for their time and attention.
