Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-05-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=282
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you don't you here don't you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Thank you. Vice Chair. Let us please stand and join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. Now we move to item four, adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the agenda? Hearing none, all in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. I should comment we do not have anyone to dial in remotely, right? Supervisor Dunn will not be joining us? That's correct. I just want to make the public aware. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. On síplice, on yes. We will go for information from the panelists. All right. We do have plant first. Circuit lawyer Hope nobody else, Putin? Most likely. See you do that with some confidence with the súbalization ofülデонáci. Disputes. temas, it seeing you all are willing tolands, no восuggling party. Delegates that are currently enrolled on the agenda. about items on the agenda tonight. Seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. The consent agenda, we have three items. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of these items? The consent agenda are items that we don't go over in detail for the public. They involve things like minutes and reports. We will take a roll call vote. However, one does involve accepting $5 million on the local economic development incentive grant from, I believe it's the state, and then you can read this there. There's a lot of text. And appropriating $3 million of that to the Economic Development Authority. That was a program that we successfully applied for to bring in Klassen quality chocolate into the county, which will provide many good jobs for the county for some time to come. So there are minutes, reports, and this item. So we'll move to... Yes, please. Just for clarity on the Commonwealth Development Opportunity Fund performance agreement, the $3 million is state funds, and the $5 million would be local dollars. So I just want to make that clarification on that. The county had to do somewhat of a match, just for theほll texting. Do you understand? I will not speak on this. So we were talking about contractually using state funds. We have median cardなくs, but we do have the surcharge. I should note, we avoid suchantly méth können einwergel an Coast Guard roach mark is typically published on a Three Day Plan COVID-19 page. Which is the final collection. . The得 hundred dollars of locally adopted state funds comes in the costumes I issued a call earlier in the afternoon to begin the ADA visiting the Philos slides. All three were from this current SB Dark combined IPS and League ofFAQ. You did this in six days. However, the Aflatz ftees from confused by those of us who have an advantages among the Village Collegeer groups and the Dolph Dunn on delegate as routine law and then report them to the Might Camp Alguipp formal знаете. That was one. Repeat, question. . The Board of Supervisors Commentsorang yang y. like to take this opportunity to thank all those in law enforcement. It's National Police Week, and you get a chance, just stop and thank the officers for every day what they do. They protect us, and it's just greatly appreciated. Thank you. Any other comments? Seeing none, I'll just echo those thoughts. In my part of town, we had a rash of arsons you might have seen in the news, and I appreciate law enforcement as well as the fire and rescue response to make an arrest, and we've had nothing since, so it looks like we can pray that that problem has gone away. Again, it's a great time to appreciate our local law enforcement. I agree with Supervisor Jewell. So that's the end of Board of Supervisor comments. County officials, we have one item, a request from the superintendent. Mr. Ballhofer, are you going to discuss this? I was going to allow Dr. Hummer came here. To address the Board if they had any questions regarding this. Very good. Dr. Hummer. Good evening, Mr. Chair, Board of Supervisors. Thanks so much for having me this evening. This is a pretty straightforward request. The state approved the $1,000 bonuses for all staff, and this is for you all to just approve the appropriation of additional dollars that we are receiving from the state. This is something that Governor Youngkin supported, and we are appreciative of you all for that. Thank you. Thank you. And I appreciate you taking this into consideration, so I'm available for any questions that you might have. Thank you. Are there any questions from the Board? So these are state funds, no local? Correct. We're not asking for any additional local dollars, correct? Very good. Well, this is an easy one. I guess no questions for you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thanks, everybody. So this is a supplemental appropriation. It will require a roll call vote. Any discussion among the Board? Do we need a motion on it? No? Yep, I believe we need a motion. We do need a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we approve the request from the Superintendent of Ferry County Schools for the appropriation of funds as coming from the State General Assembly. Second. We have a motion and a second. Now, any discussion from the Board? Very good. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the request is approved. Appointments to Boards, Committees, and Commissions. So I wasn't prepared on this one. I was going to leave it to Supervisor Dunn to make, since he is our liaison to the Social Services Board. We have one appointment that is open. He's allowed a second permitted term. I did receive some contacts from citizens that wanted to do this. I'm not sure if they were willing to apply and thought we were going to have one more meeting before this date expired. They might have been willing to apply. So I'm willing to wait. However, if a Board member would like to make a motion. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion to reappoint Dr. LaMotta. Very good. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chair? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes no. But the appointment is made 4-2. We move on to Item 10. Committee Business, Public Safety Committee. Designation of Lake Holiday as a golf cart community. This is for information and discussion. Mr. Ballinger. Good evening. I'm going to go give you a brief presentation. I'm going to go over this ordinance. And I've handed out to you all a separate sheet. There's been some minor changes. This does not change anything of substance. But it does change some of the verbiage to make it better match the state in our previous code. The proposal is to approve the use of golf carts within the Lake Holiday community. Previously, the Board of Supervisors designated the roads in Lake Holiday as public roads. Thank you. And the public highways for the use for law enforcement. Because of that, they will need the Board's approval to allow golf carts. If they had not done that and they stayed private sheets without being designated that, they could have done golf carts without the Board's approval. On April 24th, the Safety Board voted unanimously to recommend this, that this go to public hearing. And as you see up here, we have a lot of public hearing. And as you see up here, currently, golf carts are not allowed on any roads within the Frederick County. This change will allow golf carts on roads within private streets that have been designated public roads. That's the only place it would allow them. And it will furthermore, this code will specifically allow them only within Lake Holiday. So if indeed this ordinance was passed, it would allow the use of golf carts only on the streets in Lake Holiday. Any other community would have to go through this process and get authorization from the Board. And I think this is the key phrase if you read this here in the ordinance that's most important. Golf carts shall be allowed only on private streets that have been specifically designated highways by an ordinance adopted by the governing body of the County of Frederick and approved for golf carts. By an ordinance adopted by the governing body of Frederick County. So it's a two-pronged test for any community to have this done. And the way this ordinance is written, it would only be allowed now for communities that had private streets. If indeed a Board wanted to change to public streets later, they could always adjust their ordinance and do so. Here's some key things, and these are right from the state statutes. You can only drive the golf carts, and this is limited only to within Lake Holiday. You can only drive golf carts on streets within Lake Holiday. You can only drive golf carts at speed limits of 25 miles. You must have a driver's license. Every golf cart must have a slow-moving vehicle emblem. If you do not have lights, you can only drive between sunrise and sunset. And the drivers and passengers of golf carts cannot exceed the recommended limit for passengers within the golf cart. Communities, if they are approved to have this, to allow golf carts within the community, they would be responsible for the purchase, the setting up, and maintenance of any signs within the community, so the county would not have any responsibility to do so. The governing body of such community, whether it's the HOA, POA, etc., for Lake Holiday, I believe their governing body is called the Lake Holiday Country Club is the name of it, they are allowed to add further restrictions as long as they're more stringent than the restrictions required by the state and the county. The last phrase there has an exception, which is, in state codes, which just allows government workers, if they're using golf carts and utilities on road work, so they're still allowed to use them, and this comes straight from the state code. This is a real simple pros and cons. I will tell you, I've had extensive use working with golf carts and then studying golf carts, as you can imagine, coming from Florida, it's like the golf cart capital, and I did a lot of analysis on, I can't remember the name of the community, but it's down in Lake County, and there's over 300,000 seniors and probably more than that. I think it's probably 150,000 golf carts. I'm not kidding. Very expensive golf carts. The pros, first and foremost, the reason people like these is it's an affordable, convenient means of getting around on local streets. That's why people like them. In Florida, they use them to go to shops, and they use them to go to restaurants and such. Within Lake Holiday, they don't have those same options, so my guess is they would go to the post office, they would go to a friend's house, or they may go to the lake, so they wouldn't have as much need for using them. One of the pros of golf carts is they do tend to slow down other traffic. The cons of golf carts, they do tend to slow down traffic. I will tell you the number one complaint you will hear about golf carts are those people who don't drive and get caught behind a golf cart, and they're late somewhere, and they're not always happy they're behind the golf cart. That's the number one complaint. The real issue, I think, though you may argue it, is golf carts, G-U-L-F, it was corrected everywhere else, I missed that one, Ann, that's my fault, and golf carts, they're not always happy. The problem is that golf carts do not meet the Federal Motor Vehicle Standards. They don't have to meet all the safety standards that a car has to meet. You know, if you're hitting the front end, the side and such, cars are all designed to protect you. Golf carts do not have to meet any of those requirements, so anyone who chooses to ride in a golf cart realizes they're driving a vehicle that is subject to that accident could be hurt. When you study the analysis of accidents with golf carts, the place where golf cart drivers are hurt the most and they have the issues is when they're crossing the road. That's the problem. They're crossing high-speed roads and they're T-boned. Within this community, that will not be taking place, so the most risky maneuver you would see with a golf cart would not take place within the Lake Holiday community. I will tell you from my look now, I think the greatest concern one may have, and it always goes back to the argument of how paternal does a local government or any government want to be regard, is do you have irresponsible people using them and not, you know, safely putting their children in golf carts. You always worry about someone driving them with too many people. Maybe they've drank and somebody falls out and lands on their head and gets injured. That's probably the greatest risk there. I can tell you when I was down south in 10 years, we didn't have a single accident like that. I can remember two accidents. Both involved golf cart drivers and they were drinking. One ran into the gate and they were going to the neighborhood and the other one ran into a little pylon and it was downtown and it involved drinking. The action request is that if this board wants to move forward, would it be to set a public hearing for the board? Public hearing for June 11th, 2025 for the public to come out and express their views. And I can answer, I'll try and answer any questions you may have. Very good. Board, any questions about the presentation? I see none. Thank you, Mr. Ballhofer. Thank you. This is something that I sent you some further. This is in the Gainesboro District. Well, this is a public hearing? This is not. This is our recommendation that we would have, we would allow it to go to a public hearing. That's right. I keep thinking we're almost done with this one because we've been considering it in other committees. For almost two years. Yes. This has been a talk and discussion for a very long time. So, no. I would like to go ahead if, well, and I can make a motion to go ahead and approve this to go to public hearing. It would be June 11th. And I'm hoping we can at least let the people of that community speak in favor or against. So, I can. Thank you. Thank you. We have a motion to second. Motion of the motion. Very good. Then we'll move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Lierro. Aye. The Chair votes aye. This will be a public hearing at our next meeting. June 11th. All right. We're moving right along. The next one. Item 12. Planning Commission. Item 12. Planning Commission. Item 12. Planning Commission. Item 12. Planning Commission. Item 12. Planning Commission. Business. This is a public hearing. An ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code. In short, it involves chickens. Ms. Paliquin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to allow backyard chickens in the RP. Residential performance R-4. Residential planned community. And R-5. Residential recreational community. Zoning districts. To add some additional regulations for backyard chickens and chicken coops. And also to add a definition for chicken coops. I would note that the original proposal that was authorized for a public hearing by the board will be presented first. The Planning Commission, at their public hearing, did recommend some modifications that I'll go over later in the presentation. This is a public hearing. The Planning Commission will be presenting the proposal. I want to thank all the folks at the Board and all of the board members for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. did recommend some modifications that I'll go over later in the presentation and then compare the two. And this amendment was initiated at the request of a member of the board. So currently, backyard chickens are not permitted in any suburban residential zoning districts. That's RP, R4, or R5. Chickens are permitted in the RA rural areas zoning district as a by-right use under the agricultural and farming use, and there are no additional regulations for chickens in the rural areas. And should this amendment be approved, that would remain the same. So the proposed ordinance would allow backyard chickens and coops in RP, R4, and R5, subject to the following requirements. Roosters and other species of fowl are prohibited. Chickens shall be permitted accessory to single-family detached residences only, and a maximum of six chickens, hens only, would be permitted with each single-family detached residence. And the proposed ordinance would allow backyard chickens to be permitted in the rural areas zoning district as a by-right use under the agricultural zone. And the proposed ordinance would allow backyard chickens and coops not to be permitted either in the hungry sale areas zoning district or in theropod improved, or other disadvantaged houses in the equations period. Thank you. Chicken waste must be stored in an enclosed container and properly disposed of by composting or other means so as to not create a nuisance. And chicken feed shall be stored in an enclosed vermin-proof container. Should this ordinance amendment be approved, homeowners associations regulations and all private covenants would still apply. They just would not be enforced by the county. The proposed amendment adds the following definition for chicken coop. It is a fully enclosed and covered structure, permanent or transportable, that provides a living area for chickens with adequate protection from the elements and predators. Chicken coops may include an outdoor running space or a pen. The Planning Commission recommended some changes to the amendment and they're outlined on this slide. On the right, you'll see the Planning Commission recommendation. They asked that the RP zoning district be removed from the ordinance, leaving only R4 and R5 zoning districts. They also requested that an administrative permit be required. And they also recommended that implementation of the ordinance would be delayed for about six months to allow HOA's time to add regulations prohibiting, chickens, should they so choose. The Board discussed this amendment on February 26 and authorized public hearings. DRRC Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed the item on March 27 and supported the amendment. Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 16 and recommended approval with the changes noted earlier. This item is presented for public hearing and staff are seeking a decision from the Board on this ordinance amendment. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions. So let's see, to summarize again, what were the changes that the Planning Commission recommended? So the Planning Commission recommended removing the RP zoning district. So that would just leave the R4 and R5 zoning districts in the amendment. R4 currently is just Snowden Bridge. R5 is a lot of the mountain communities. So Shawnee Land and Wildey. Lake Holiday and Lake Frederick are also R5. Thank you. Do you happen to have a map of where those zones are? If not, I prepared one and sent it to Patrick Fly. So it's not showing up super well, but any place that's white is just there's no zoning on it. So that's the rural areas. On the left side, you'll see the brown color. That's the R5 zoning district. And then the bright yellow. That is mainly on the east side of 81 and east of Winchester. And that's the RP zoning district. And R4? R4 right now is just Snowden Bridge. Right. You said that. Thank you. Yep. Appreciate it. And sorry, I went first. Any questions from the board on the presentation? I do, Mr. Chair. So just to clarify, on the brown areas of the map show Lake Frederick. And Lake Holiday. They both have HOAs, I believe. So they would have an opportunity to have that provision of six months to put regulations in if they so chose to do so. Correct? Yes, that's correct. They may just simply not have addressed them until this point because it's always been restricted by the county ordinance. So they could rely on the planning department for enforcement. But yes, the grace period would give them an opportunity to update those regulations. Should they want to. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? I do have a question. Can you speak to the RP that they got rid of? Where is that currently? And what are those lot sizes that they've excluded? So the RP zoning district on the map is the bright yellow. It's a little hard. Okay. Thank you. It's a little hard to see. So I zoomed in a bit. But. The lot sizes vary in RP for single family homes. It can be between 15,000 square feet to 30,000 square feet lots, roughly. It just depends on what housing type they chose because we've limited it to single family detached only. Is that the reason the planning commission decided to get rid of them? Your original included them? Yeah. Yeah. I believe they just fell. The lots were too small. Okay. Thank you. So please. Mrs. Peloquin, with regard to the Snowden Bridge community, the HOA that they currently have would prohibit chickens in their neighborhood, correct? Yeah. I believe they do already prohibit chickens. Okay. Thank you. Yep. That was related to the way I was going to ask the question. And that is for anyone who is not in favor of their neighbors having chickens, none of this would override any HOA rules. Is that right? Correct. So if you live in an HOA that prohibits animals such as that, this ordinance would not allow your neighbors to have them. Correct. Thank you. And is it correct in stating, or I think you already said it, but are for the only subdivision is Snowden Bridge? Currently, yes. That has been built out. The only R4. Is Snowden Bridge. There is some other land that is currently zoned R4, but has not yet been built. Okay. And the reason I ask that is because does this put pressure on, I mean, we have R4, but they actually can't get it. They can't actually put chickens on that land according to their HOA. So what would be the reason for including that? I mean, their HOA is always going to be above that, right? Yes. Or determine whether they can or cannot. It is. But since there is land that's already zoned R4. Okay. That's why. That would leave the door open for them when that community develops. I think they are wrapping up their site plan at this point. So when they were to build, if they wanted to establish an HOA, they would have a choice. Okay. To prohibit chickens or not. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Any other questions? Ms. Paddlequin, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, is there anyone signed up? Joe Brand. Evening. Joseph Brand from Stonewall District. I just want to speak in favor of the amendment for allowing chickens. Being in the rural areas, I get the benefit from having neighbors that have chickens. And so I'm able to go and get chicken eggs that are fresh, farm-raised from local people doing it well. And it's been very helpful. It's been very healthy and beneficial to our family. I think expanding it and giving more people the choice is useful and helpful. I don't see a need for administrative permits and adding the extra bureaucracy onto the planning commission or the planning department who would be having to administer and receive process permits and figure out what fees and whatever you're going to be charging. So that is my comments. Thank you. Thank you. David Kern. David Kern. David Kern, Gainesburg District. I'm in support of people having chickens. Broadly speaking, each of you ran on the belief of small government. The mere idea of needing permits to have chickens on our own property flies in the face of that idea of small government. Plus, the government will never pass up an opportunity to expand revenue. If you were to do the permitting and at some point somebody is going to say that even ag and R&D, you're going to have to pay for permits, which I believe the comment was made already. Now, I can imagine some of the reasons against chickens that you have heard from your constituents. Having lived in a subdivision, I can tell you, though, cats and dogs have been a bigger nuisance than any chicken would be. And finally, in my unpopular opinion to the board, if this were to pass, I would say for my fellow citizens to do civil disobedience and still have their chickens. That way, it's their property. It should be their right to have it. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak on this? Please come forward and queue up. Robert Gallilee, Bat Creek District. I got this bracelet that says WWJD. Some of us older people remember when that was popular. And it makes it hard to be aggressive sometimes. Because you have to ask yourself that question. So I often think about Jesus flipping tables when people were dishonest. And I think that's an important thing to think about. But we could also say, what would the founders do? And the founders of this country that we have all been beneficiaries of would look at the fact that we're talking about whether or not people can have chickens. What do we think they would do? I mean, heat up tar and get some feathers? Call up the militia? Like, hey, we got to get rid of these people. They're talking about, can we even have chickens? We need to look at things. Dogs are in every way more dangerous than chickens. So we shouldn't even really be talking about it. Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right ? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Right? Correct? Correct? Perfect. Okay. Correct. I'm not in the right place though. I thing for that policy. I really appreciate , I think we have drawn despite this conversation because we agree that people expressable actions we're trying and open these kinds of things. That's why, to this I have most of myself. Thank you so much. Thank you very much Tom. Chris, is that a rookie thing and I see we need some answers or a까 tags. Yeah. Yeah. You made the best. Yeah. Good evening. My name is Christiana Marr of the Batcure District. My husband and I own three-quarters of an acre zoned R5, so currently we're not allowed, but it's always been our dream to be able to raise backyard chickens. And we did look very thoroughly at properties within Frederick County that were within our budget, that met our needs, and the only place that was available was our home in Shawnee, which we do love. But this ordinance amendment would make me really happy. Not only would chickens provide nutrient-rich eggs that are ethically sourced, because as we know, cage-free doesn't mean cage-free, they also provide food waste management. You know, if you're cutting your strawberries or your lettuce, then the chickens can compost that, and then you can use it in your gardens. And then their waste can also be used as natural fertilizer, so you don't have to rely on chemical fertilizers, which can wash into our aquifers and streams. They also reduce the need for chemical pesticides as they forage on their own. They eat roughly 50 ticks per chicken per day, so that can help protect our children from Lyme's disease. And they also are the top two predators of lanternflies, which are hatching right now. I'm seeing nymphs all over. The amount of times that I wished, oh, if I just had a chicken, I could eat these nymphs right now before they get too bad. Let's see what else. They provide routine, which is good for our mental health. They're an educational opportunity for homes with or without children. I'm a teacher, and any opportunity I have for my students to learn science on their own at home, I think, is so beneficial, because they can bring those real-world experiences into the classroom. They also provide us with independence, that way we don't have to rely on the grocery stores or on these big companies that don't put the health and the livelihood, or the healthy livelihood of the chickens at first. Instead, they put cost efficiency and how many chickens can we fit in one square foot? I do believe that the six-chicken rule, only hens, all those factors, I think, would really benefit any neighbors that maybe are opposed to this, while also allowing us to have chickens and to be able to live this lifestyle. So I hope that it gets passed, and thank you for allowing us to have this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think this is just the point where you go, what she said. I think you gave me like five more points for really wanting chickens. So I can't add to that. That was an incredibly well-thought-out verse. As a matter of fact, three of those points were what I was going to say, you know, food sufficiency and, you know, food security for individual neighbors. I have kids. I grew up on a farm, educational opportunities. for our children is absolutely great. I'll just speak to the one last thing, which would probably be the permit. We're talking about six chickens, you know, per an individual family. At the local community, you know, this is the best we can do, you know, for our community. And so I think adding, you know, more government bureaucracy on top of six chickens, it's a little much for me. So I would just say, I'd say keep people in mind, you know, don't make them jump through extra hoops for six chickens. If they were building a farm, absolutely. But if they're feeding their family, sharing it with their neighbors, a little bit different. So that's my two cents. Thank you. Appreciate the time. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak on this? No? Are you coming to speak on this issue? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I'm from the Gainesboro District. I'm here to advocate for the passing of backyard chickens in RP, R4, R5 without permits, fees, or registration. My neighbors supply our eggs, and they have become like grandparents to my children. We share our flowers and veggies with them. And I want this quiet change for these neighborhoods, too. And I believe it makes us stronger. I came to the East Coast in 2011 with a quiet dream to help grow the Garden of Eden, and I just happened to land here. And I'm very grateful to be here. I homeschool. I natural and home birth, and I home grow part of my food and do what I can't ever do to be close to God. Micah 4.4 says, everyone will sit under their own vine and under their own fig tree, and no one will make them afraid, because for the Lord Almighty has spoken. I said this morning, I'm scared to speak. It was like God had said, why are you chicken? I said, I'm feeling selfish. And he said, I think in this moment, you might be selfish for hiding the gift I gave you. So I want to say that right after Mother's Day in 2009, I received a life-saving surgery. I was five and a half months pregnant, and I fought them to wait, and they fought me with even more scans, proving to me how aggressive my stage four cancer was. I began learning how deep I could hope and how to live. And I was so excited to be here. I was so excited to be here. I knew how to trust that even in the hardest moments, something beautiful could still grow. And I redesigned my diet, my lifestyle immediately, but I was already eating well with my husband. I have studied a lot about chronic disease diets and the missing factors. This approval will do a lot of good for that direction. I am not a special person, but I am sacred, and you are too. And every morning, I would visit the I surrender my heart to God, and I'm sure many of you do too. I think that we are all walking each other home. To plan a garden even, I had to look up a ton on ecology and regenerative agriculture and also healthier food for health. At the same time for funding, I became a stock market investor. It's like God is saying, also look at all this. And right now, for many parts of it, it's hard to look at, but especially for food. But remember, this is me, and from a hard situation, I learned hope, and now a beautiful gift can grow. Backyard chickens are already happening by the millions in so many major cities across America. We are not radical. We are not doing anything new. And this is an amazing hope. Please trust mothers like me. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this item? Hearing no one, I will close the public hearing. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a comment on the last item, the last item, and then I will take the second portion of this item. Board, I'll send it to you how we want to handle this. Technically, by Robert's Rules of Order, we should make a motion and then have discussion and amendments. But I want to make one comment about procedure first. I have argued in favor of this. It's come to the board at least twice in the years I've been here, and I'll be voting in favor again. However, procedurally, last time this came up, I was not chairman. A motion was made. Okay. I was the one who gave people the most freedom. And when it didn't pass, I wasn't allowed to make another motion to try again until we could get a consensus of the board, if at any point, with, let's say, with a larger acreage or, in this case, what seems to be at issue is exactly what zoning districts to include. Well, now I'm chair, so I just want to let you all know, you can, I would suggest making a motion against if you're against, or making a motion in favor and go for the most liberal policy, if you want. Okay. And I'm not going to make a motion against, because if it fails, I will allow the board to continue the discussion at least one or two more times to see if we have a consensus, rather than just kicking this down the road yet another year before making a decision. So with that said, I'll open it to the board for, to begin with a motion. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion. I like the idea of the R4 and R5 zoning districts. I'm on the fence about the permit, so I'm not going to throw that in there. And for the six months, I'd rather see it three months, because right now it's May. If we did three months, then they're going into August, September, and it would give families a chance to go and establish the chickens before winter gets here. So I would make a motion for R4 and R5 zoning, and for a delay of implementation on the ordinance for three months, not six months. Okay. I think that's clear. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I will second that. Very good. And now discussion or amendments? Board, how would you like to handle this? Yes, I'm in favor of no permit. I actually knew a family who lived in the city and couldn't have chickens, but they did it anyways. They started out in their basement. And I feel by adding permits, you're only making people kind of go around it. My only, well, and you're adding another layer for our planning. There are six hens. Of course, we're not putting the rooster, and I think the rooster is the most obnoxious part of the plan. Okay. We have chickens at home. I live in the RA, so I don't have to abide by that. But I would agree that is my husband every night. It's like, I'm going to kill that guy because he wakes us up for everything. I mean, any predator, which he's doing his job. So I like that for people who live much closer. I don't have neighbors that are offended by it or bothered by it. But because this is going to be a much smaller acreage, I think that no roosters is probably a good thing. Well, less complaints, but no permits for me. So your motion, we're with no permits right now, and I'm happy with that. That's right. Thank you. Thank you. So I'll just comment, if I may, on permits because we didn't discuss that. So I think as this was considered by staff, they did it with and without permits. Permits make us seem more bureaucratic, make people fill out a form, pay a fee in order to be able to exercise this right. I think the idea that Planning Commission thought in favor of permits was that it tells the county who has chickens, and it gives us perhaps, I'll ask Ms. Peloquin or, why it's not here tonight. So I'll ask people there at our staff, do the permits give us any rights to inspect a property? So if we exclude permits, is that going to restrict us? Should we have a complaint? The permits would not necessarily give rights to inspect the property. Okay, that's an argument I had heard made in favor of permits. So if that's not going to help, so I mean, I would think if it's an immediate neighbor, we can at the very least go on the neighbor's property and witness it from there. So I didn't understand it, but I wanted to have a discussion of what the logic was for the permits then. I think it was more that they wanted some kind of record of who had the permits, especially with the concern about bird flu that one member had. If there were to be an outbreak, we would have some kind of list of who has chickens. Okay, I appreciate that logic, although I think if there was something endangering the community, people would immediately be telling us who around them has chickens. Mr. Chairman, I talked to several of the Planning Commissioners, and that's exactly what they took from it too. It's just a means of tracking in case there's a problem with the environment. Okay. I mean, I don't know if it's the avian flu and being able to notify, but like you said, if that happens, you're going to know it. It's going to get out very quickly. Well, that and these animals, we're requiring them to be caged. So these backyard chickens are not going to be the ones spreading the flu like the birds that are flying. And so that to me doesn't seem like it's going to stop. I mean, I just don't like it for that reasoning, but yeah. Thank you. Any other comments from the Board? Well, Mr. Chair, I have a question on Supervisor Jewell's motion in terms of cutting the HOAs down from six months to three to make a decision. I'm just curious, do we have any knowledge of where those HOAs are and which ones are out there that haven't already made a ruling on this, such as Snowden Bridge? No. We may have some idea of the HOAs that are out there and could certainly notify them of this ordinance if it passed. I'm not sure that we have a list of every single active HOA, but we could dig into that. I guess my concern is just with summer coming up and people going on vacations and that type of thing and not having an idea of what the HOA meeting schedule is. Do they meet once a month? No. I mean, once a month or once every two months or whatever. Three months might be a little short for them to be able to meet and make a decision on the ordinance. The R4 and R5, R5 is Lake Holiday, Lake Frederick, Shawnee, Mountain Falls. So we would just need to notify Lake Holiday and Lake Frederick. I think that's the only R5, if I'm correct. I believe you're correct. You've at least captured the lion's share of the farm. Yeah. So we would be able to, I mean, we'd be able to notify those groups. And we've already learned Lake Frederick's HOA moves very quickly when they want to do something. So I just think it'd be a great opportunity. I'd just like to see it move a little quicker, again, for families and for kids. So that's why I'm going for three months. And I mean, if you want to change it to four or five, I don't care. I just would rather have it be a little bit longer. I mean, I think that's the only R5 that we're going to be able to do. I think that's the only R5 that we're going to be able to do. I think that's the only R5 that we're going to be able to do. I think that's the only R5 that we're going to be able to do. And I think that's the only R5 that we're going to be able to do. So I just think it'd be a great opportunity. I'd just like to see it move a little quicker, again, for families and for kids. So that's why I'm going for three months. And I mean, if you want to change it to four or five, I don't care. I just would rather, six months puts you right in November, December. So you get into the cold part of it. And that was my thinking. Mr. Chairman, I apologize if I can just interject at the cost of this meeting. I think that this is a very important discussion. I think that this is a very important discussion. I think that this is a very important discussion. Technically a permit could be set up that would allow us to do an inspection. Technically a permit could be set up that would allow us to do an inspection. Similar was done with the short-term rentals. Similar was done with the short-term rentals. I'm not sure if that was actually the intention to go there, because we are in a zorbant timeframe. I'm not sure if that was actually the intention to go there, because we are in a zorbant timeframe. But I mean, there's no guarantee you'd be successful. But that is the conclusion that it made. But that is the conclusion that it made. Low interest rate voluntarily or manual rich interest, you know, are all in the v вод shed. We don't have to feelunciuously felt that. with the short-term rentals. I'm not sure if that was actually the intention to go there because as was accurately represented, the discussion was much more about bird flu and that sort of thing. And we also do have a list of HOAs. So while we don't know the content of every single HOA restriction or permission for that matter, we will not have a problem sending out those notifications that are needed if they should wish to change their bylaws to account for a change in the ordinance. So your list of HOAs, does it include HOAs in RP? It includes all HOAs. So I realize RP is not part of the motion currently, but I'm gonna make a motion to add that to see if that passes. So you do have the HOA list for the RP area? Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. Any other comments from the board? So I'd like to make very quickly my case that we brought this up before and we had many, many people speaking on the subject. I don't know if they've given up on us as a board at passing this, but I do want to bring up one chart. Could you just bring up the adjacent county table? No, I didn't update this. This is from when we did this, I think in, my data was as 2022, last time we voted on this. So in our case for all acreage now, our proposal is up to six hens. So as you can see, if we pass this, we would still be the most restrictive county of any of them out there. And I don't understand why that is. We pride ourselves in being a rural county. Warren allows more chickens, so does Shenandoah, 12 even on the smallest plots of land. And I've never heard of a great cry or problem from those counties. So I certainly think it's time. If you decide to put the city first, and if you have to музы and put a lot of pressure on large queries coming in, that's what I would say. Actually, I think that if it's six that's too low, there's nearly not any rates. Six of those pass this. And I guess from the state of Iowa, as I'm talking about, regardless of whether or not it's going to be six, our Maps plan, one of the things I think is key is make sure that we have a approach so that that we're using the AgA putting in our funds, but not just putting in the others. small farms. I think this is a great opportunity for us to strengthen our commitment to remaining rural. It's also an opportunity to reduce unnecessary restrictive regulations, as was commented by a couple of the speakers. They don't understand why we would have permits for, frankly, in my view, such a small right. And I appreciated the speaker who brought up the permit, so we would have that discussion as well. We had, when we had many people speak before, we had a lead of a local county homesteading organization who's not here tonight. I know she's had a small baby, so maybe that's the reason. And she brought those people all speaking in favor, and they gave many reasons for why we would have permits. And I think that's a great opportunity for us to strengthen people should be able to raise more of their own food. We also had a lady who I also won't name. I was hoping she'd show up tonight. She really impressed me. She moved to this county because she wanted to live a rural life, and she bought a plot of land whose neighbors had cows, had all sorts of animals, and she was just, it was her dream to move out here and farm and have chickens and other animals. Well, it turned out her land was not RA, although all her neighbors were. She was, I think it was R5, and so she couldn't have anything, not even chickens. And she made a great argument in my view, and that is that, you know, as a rural county, people move out here, and they just don't expect some of the regulations that we have. And so I think, personally, I just think it's wrong to be having no rights in some of these areas. And I think that's a great argument to make. I think that's a great argument to make, and I think that's a great argument to make. And I think that's a great argument to make. And I think that's a great argument to make. So, that's my pitch in favor of the motion. However, I'm going to try an amendment first, and if not, we'll fall back to the original motion, and that is as, exactly as Supervisor Jewell motioned, except I would add RP to the districts permitted as well. RP is the yellow area on the map that you saw before. It's some of our densest housing, but again, you still couldn't have it if your HOA says you cannot, and you would still have to submit to all the same rules. So, I will make the motion to amend the original motion and add RP. I'll second that. So, we do have a second. Any discussion about adding RP? And then we can vote. All right. The vote to amend to add RP to the original motion. Supervisor Liero. No. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Jewell. No. Chair votes aye, but the motion to amend fails. So, we're back to our original motion. Does everyone understand what was proposed in the original motion? Any discussion, last discussion of the original motion before we vote? I will. I would just want to point how excited I am that people will have the ability to raise chickens on their property if this goes through. My daughters, years ago at Southern States, we got a movable coop. So, they were still cooped up all the time, but they could get the bugs that you've heard some of our people talk about. So, you move it around, they were on fresh grass every two days. We started out that way. Now, we have a permanent coop, but it's just my daughter's now hatching. Of course, we don't have a limit on chickens, but she's hatching her own birds. We've done the incubator. We've done the incubator. We've done the candling. It's just a wonderful opportunity, and I'm excited that we're allowing people to utilize their land and have some food security, because six eggs a day once they are laying daily, I mean, that's very good protein. And if you've ever had farm fresh eggs, they are bright or a very dark orange, the yokas versus store-bought, are not as nutrient dense. And I have heard that eggs from the farm are very, very good for the market, or from the grocery store can be up to six months old before you are actually eating them. So, farm fresh are literally one or two days old, which is really nice. So, thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion of the motion? All right. Then we will move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Wells? No. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the ordinance amendment is approved with the stipulations that Supervisor Jewell had specified. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Very good. We move on to item 13, planning commission business, other business. This is road impact fees and transportation cash proffer considerations. I see Mr. Bishop coming up to address this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My apologies for not being Mr. Pearson this evening. Unfortunately, he has been infected by his offspring and has listened to us and stayed away from the rest of us. So, we appreciate him for that. Thank you. Thank you. To begin, first let me introduce, we have with us this evening, Mrs. Julie Herlands from Tischler Bice, who is the brains behind the report which was included in your packet. As you have already noted, we work under consideration of road impact fees versus transportation cash proffers. As you get into this, those were the two options that we had to evaluate. So, while they have similar amounts in the terms of actual finances and fees per type of land use and per unit, they are very different in terms of implementation. Cash proffers, you already have that system. However, this would be adding transportations. Implementing road impact fee program would be directly in accordance with Virginia 15.2-2328. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To briefly compare some more high level differences of the two, of course, as you are aware, cash proffers are voluntary while impact fees would be mandatory. Cash proffers are somewhat negotiated under that voluntary stricture, whereas impact fees are on a strict schedule which is required to be adopted and renewed on certain intervals under the state code. Cash proffers would apply to rezonings only, while impact fees would apply to all road impact fees. So, the impact fees would apply to all new development, including buy right. Cash proffers are a little more typically residential, whereas the impact fees would be required to be residential and non-residential. And finally, both are calculated based on impact benefit and rough proportionality. And the impact fees, while new to us, would be handled much like they are in other states, but once they are in the state, they are considered as residential. So, the impact fees would be allowed for other states, but once again, only for transportation. There is no allowance for impact fees for other service types under the Virginia code currently. However, there are strict stipulations of Virginia code how such a program would be administered here for transportation. I'm not going to go deeply into the methodology because we have Julie here for that if we get into detailed questions on the actual report and that sort of thing. But I will note, Tischler-Brice has evaluated our existing capacity. We have a lot of capacity. We have a lot of capacity. Valued our planned capacity expansions and proposed a method for fairly distributing those costs amongst new development using vehicle miles traveled. Now, those resulting values are shown in the table on the right side of this slide. And as noted, that calculation is the same, whether you're talking impact fees or proffers because of how you calculate for an individual unit. It just applies to fewer units, as the case may be. Road impact fees would need to be assessed on all development, residential, commercial, and industrial, as I noted earlier. Cash proffers would only apply to new rezonings and would be negotiated at the rezoning stage, which is why you have a little more flexibility in terms of who you apply it to and that sort of thing. Both programs would require us for evaluating potential credits and or unique land uses. But just in case you can't read it, even with my glasses on, it's boring. I'm sorry. I don't know if my glasses on, it's borderline for me. Single family detached is the highest under residential with a single dwelling unit would be $3,655 per unit. Commercial industrial uses are based on per 1,000 square feet of development. Retail is the highest there at $5,906. And the lowest is industrial at $1,149. Once again, that's per 1,000 square feet of development. Now, that may sound low to you as you compare your experience with rezonings and whether it be a cash proffer or your perception of the value of physical improvements to be done. That's why this is probably a good point to note, which these dollars are completely separate from your experience in a rezoning where the transportation impacts analysis is really only looking at that fairly immediate area to that rezoning. One thing that continues to be the hole in the donut in those discussions is the fact that while, yes, every development's largest impact is right out their front door, but that doesn't mean that somebody at the hospital isn't traveling over to Millbrook High School, isn't traveling down to exit 307, et cetera, et cetera. So it's about finding that missing element that has not thus far been getting contributed to, which is system impacts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. So this was heard by the Development Impact Model Oversight Committee, or DMOC, at their August 22nd, 2024 meeting. And they did recommend not pursuing a road impact fee program at this time. Supervisor McCanslaughter can speak to it more eloquently than myself. But my boiled down reason for the key concerns there had to do with competitiveness on an economic development roadmap. landscape in terms of an industry that's looking at us as opposed to a neighbor might see that as a significant issue in their location choice. The committee did recommend implementing a cash proffer calculation for transportation impacts. We are presenting this to you for action this evening. We are seeking and seeking your direction for which program structure to implement cash proffers or road impact fees. If you were to go with a cash proffer situation, crash proffer, no pun intended, your structure is already there. The model has been created and is up to date to where that's something we could begin with immediately. Impact fees would take a bit more time to make sure you have everything in line with every detail of the fairly rigorous state code on this issue. With that, we can try and take any additional questions you may have. Well, no questions have made contact despite the fact that we've been able to get hold of your presentation. I'm not going to rely on the statement, so one. Thank you. And if there are any questions or emocion in any of this, including the attached report, which I've not gone into all that extensively. would you present to the board the number of localities in the Commonwealth that are currently utilizing the it would be the impact fee model versus the cash proffer model that we discussed yes since this legislation I'm gonna get to get the year wrong in terms of I want to say this legislation goes back to about 2005 or something like that when it was first adopted to this day Stafford County remains the only county that has taken advantage of it and a lot of our discussion was you know we we as a board have looked to attracting businesses to our community and the discussion that we had in these meetings centered around the fact that would we be inhibiting attracting businesses to our community because as mr. Bishop pointed out if you go with the area of the county and you're not able to get the cash proffer model that we mentioned in the last session we had the impact model fee then it would be mandatory on residential as well as businesses you have no choice so the impact fee model would be attributed to both and so that's why with only one municipality in the Commonwealth that's you utilizing this model it was felt in our work and trying to make sure that we are trying to attract businesses to our community. Thank you. Other questions for Mr. Bishop? So there's only the one county that has used this particular impact fee. Yes, sir. But there are other counties that have other impact fees, right? That we cannot, there are some that are exempted from the prohibition on impact fees. I would have to defer to Mrs. Harlins on that. She's definitely much more well-versed in who has it. Yeah, and I don't mean on these road, but there are counties that I've always been told that certain ones were exempted many years ago, fast-growing counties down in the Virginia Beach area, and they are allowed to impose impact fees. They're an exception, one of several. Mr. Chairman, no other county jurisdiction in the Commonwealth implements impact fees by that definition, impact by the standard, you know, general impact fee definition and or the legislation that was adopted by the legislature to allow transportation impact fees or road impact fees. Cash proffers, yes. Other impact analyses, yes. Those that occurs. But an impact fee, capital I, capital F, no other jurisdiction in in the Commonwealth implements those currently, and I always hate to talk in absolutes, but to our knowledge, that is, it's not allowed in the in the state. Well, thank you for keeping me accurate and precise. But in other states, yes, impact fees are a common tool used elsewhere across the country and And your county administrator comes from a state that has a rich history in using impact fees. Other intermountain states, Arizona, Colorado, California, Idaho, many states, some of which have enabling legislation from the state. Others that do impact fees more on a home rule basis. And those that are allowed that have those kinds of governmental structures. So it's a common tool elsewhere, but in Virginia, it's not used. So did you say, though, that there are some counties that are allowed to require proffers or have some other leeway that we don't have? Not require, no. Cash proffers and proffers are voluntary throughout the Commonwealth. There are parameters for those counties, and maybe this is what you're referring to in terms of high growth. Sort of those eligible to collect cash proffers. That was a change some years ago. There are more restrictions that have been put in place in the last 10 years or so to require a finding of capacity, that there's a capacity need. Some other restrictions and limitations that were put in that enabling legislation. So there are sections of the Virginia statute. There are statutes that set out those parameters and those limitations and restrictions. But there are sort of those thresholds to be met in terms of high growth localities and adjacency and towns within counties that meet those standards. Thank you. And as I recall, we weren't one of the fastest growing counties back then when they made those legislation, and now we are. So that's my argument. Got it. That in addition to the one county, we do have a lot of... development coming here that highly impacts the county. And so I was looking forward to having... I'm disappointed Supervisor Dunn is not here. I won't presume to say how he would vote, but he is our most passionate advocate for having some kind of impact fees to help us build our roads and schools based on how much development is coming here. So I have a question for you, I guess, based on what the vice chair said. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Good. we'd have to apply it to them too but then if they're to remain competitive if they have this fee placed on them they could adjust their proffer their proffer is flexible it's voluntary right that they make with for example zoning requests so they could offset that by proffering less is that true or not not I know we do a calculate certain calculations into to mr. Bishop's point about the what this is covering and so rezoning come in they do a traffic impact analysis to deal with project level sort of site specific immediate impacts and there is a proffer that's negotiated and accepted or just you know determined for those needs this dollar amount is then above and beyond that for something that's not a project level project level project level project level different if they were to come in and say we're gonna proffer a system level improvement one of the one of the roadways that that we've identified or the county's identified through their long-range plan in terms of their short and long-range plan in terms of those capacity needs if they said we're gonna build a section of this road yes there would be a credit and it could be that would be determined to have them not pay the same for the same capacity however if it's a a standard you know if it's a standard you know if it's a standard you know if it's a standard you know if it's a standard you know artifucky or k fell and a some specific Coastal Project board and I guess it's the standard sister state county system level improvements two we'll talk more about that in my next session with 그다음에 that make-believe of you know I'm differently okay with another one is a you know of your point eatingお 可以病casert that is dealing with project level improvements those costs these are the improvements or the dollars that are accepted however that that works out and then a separate payment made for these system level improvement so we're they're two separate types of impacts, they would not be eligible for a credit or a waiver of that impact fee. So you would assess that on, you know, again, residential and non-residential. And the reason for this is just governed by legal precedent becomes we get into takings issues in terms of folks paying, if some portion of folks are paying and others aren't, then by default, they're paying more than their fair share. And there can be an argument for, a legal argument for a taking for not receiving the full benefit of that program. So there's just more requirements on that. out there under the impact fees than there are for under cash proffer procedure. Thank you. So keeping it simple for me, if we did adopt impact fees, that would be calculated. So the proffer, they would be paying for their immediate effect on their neighbors. The development would be paying for the calculation, by the calculation of how they impact the nearby roads, and in the case of homes, nearby schools, et cetera. And the impact fee isn't double dipping because that's looking at the larger community. So for example, if we have a development in a busy part of the county, like off Route 11, north of town, and they're only paying for their immediate impact where they're at, the impact fee would help with the fact that they're going to put cars down on our busiest intersection with 81 further afield, right? Is that correct? Yes. And let me clarify my statements, too, in terms of the difference between the impact fees and the cash proffers. What the recommendation is, or what the the ability, the choice is that the cash proffers would, the recommendation here is sort of an either or, road impact fees or a system level road cash proffer. So you would be getting that, those dollars for those improvements that are the system level improvements, plus the negotiation on the traffic impact analysis for the project level improvements. So the choice really, I think, is that the cash proffer would be paying for the road impact fees, and then the residential, non-residential, and the cash proffer would be paying for the road impact fees. So it really comes down to who pays, you know, who pays for those system level improvements. On the road impact fee side, it's residential, non-residential, a schedule buy rate, everybody pays. The cash proffers, there's still that system level recapture for those those dollars, but it's only on the rezonings and typically only on the residential, but negotiated and voluntary. So it's just the pot of money, essentially. You would likely, you know, be paying for that. So it's a really good question. You would get more on this side from the road impact fees and less because this is only on rezonings and likely only on residential and voluntary and negotiated. So, but you would still, it's still covering those system level improvements. And you would also still continue on with the process, your process and procedure and policy of traffic impact analysis to get the immediate improvements, the project level improvements. So if we went with the voluntary cash proffer approach, is it likely that the home builders would be paying more than under the mandatory impact fees process because businesses are not kicking in for those costs? No, you're just receiving less. It's calculated to be their fair share of those costs. So that's the, the, what's, you know, why, why we get hired, what we do in the study is to identify what that fair share of the cost is to allocate it to residential, to non-residential. We're not taking the pot and then applying. If we don't get it from everybody, taking that big number and applying it to fewer folks, it's still that same, your, those fair share, you know, the trips that are generated from a house, what that cost, what that cost is. You're just not making your, it's just not being made whole without charging everybody, essentially. It's, it's your, you're subsidizing it from other funding sources, essentially. Okay. Thank you for fielding so many questions. Sure. Anyone else have any more questions? No. Seeing no one, thank you very much. Thank you. So this is not a public hearing. What is staff looking for? At, at this time, we would be basically asking the Board which, which program, if any, you would like us to go ahead and, and pursue. Thank you. Yes, sir. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that we concur with the Committee for the DMOC, and that was the off-site cash proffer approach, which could be implemented immediately and updated with the existing model. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Yeah, I do have a few questions. So, we are currently not receiving, for the, Mr. Bishop, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Is Frederick County currently not receiving cash proffers for road impacts right now? We do at times get cash toward a project, particularly where perhaps the developer is having a major impact, as, as expressed in their traffic impact analysis, but maybe they don't control the right-of-way. Maybe the overall improvement is still more than is actually due to that developer. So there definitely are cash proffers. We certainly do have cash proffers out there, whereas this, but they still are addressing TIA-identified issues, whereas this, whereas where we're not collecting is that more system-level impact. Snowden Bridge was mentioned earlier, I believe. And so, for example, they've got no proffers down at the Woods Mill Road and Route 7 intersection. But, of course, they're obviously contributing to that area. A whole impact. Right. So, that's, that's sort of things. That sort of thing is really what you start to talk about when you're talking system level, the stuff that's not outside their front door, which they're still having input into. Right. And they immediately came to my mind because they paid their proffers, even because you said every zoning, but that was in 2003. They still have another thousand homes, maybe a little bit less than that, homes to be built out. And yet they're paying 2003 money. Would the impact model grab it at different intervals rather than at a rezoning that's 22 years old? The impact model has potential to correct some of that. They would get credited back what they're already paying to that system level stuff, which you probably have to go in and do some calculation. Julie can speak better to how we could calculate that. However, yes. Is the answer to your question. There would be some ability to hold them accountable for that under an actual impact fee program. Yes, because we look at exit 317, right? That's Snowden Bridge going off on Route 11. And I mean, that development has really created havoc in that area. And I don't think their cash proffers from 2003 are covering it, but we as taxpayers are. So to me, I feel I understand. The sympathy of not wanting to hurt harm business. But at the same time, we're harming. I see it. Maybe I'm wrong. We're harming all of our citizens here by not collecting the impact that they're actually. I feel like this is a chance to grab money for the actual impact that is happening. Is that accurate? By doing the impact fee model? That's that's the key difference, if you will, because it treats everybody the same. Right. In terms of whether they have their zoning or not, the trade off. And this is where the crux was at the Development Impact Model Oversight Committee is that concern over the fact that as you apply it to industrial commercial that you may miss out on commercial locations in Frederick County as they're choosing if they're they're an industry or a business that has the ability to be choosing between multiple localities, that that fee could potentially be a difference maker. And in winning or losing that that user. I understand that. But commercial development is still putting an impact on our roads, essentially. Yes, ma'am. And please remember, that's not necessarily my argument so much as me relaying the discussion. No, I appreciate you giving us where the discussion lies. But I guess for our board, this seems like an opportunity for it, for the for the impact to be paid by that. Those. I mean, it's a good point. It's a good point. I mean, it's a good point. So that person who is impacting that developer, whether it be residential or commercial. So that's I don't think we're grabbing that right now. If we continue with the cash proffer. Also, the cash proffer can be negotiated, whereas this is across the board consistent. So to me, that makes more sense as well. Is that accurate? Yes, ma'am. I mean, it is even across the board. Okay. The impact fee. Thank you. So I'd like to ask the. I mean, I mean, I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer this question. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer this question. I'm going to be able to answer this question. But if we do the impact model where we do apply it to businesses, they're going to have to pay based on their impact to our roads. So if they attract a lot of customers, for example, to a retail business, there'll be a fee for what we calculate will be the impact to our roads. Right? yes sir it's not i'm sorry go ahead if they're a trucking firm so they're putting a different kind of traffic on the roads maybe not so many customers maybe none but heavy trucking vehicles that's calculated as well it's it's calculated based on and once again julie may need to supplement me here um it's it's based on those those few fairly generic overall land use types as opposed to doing a new in-depth analysis of each of those users right mr bishop is correct it's um an impact fee is a land use regulation and so it's the land use that drives that that drives that dictates the fee and so our categories now retail industrial office institutional they're meant to capture you know 95 percent of all land uses that come through on the non-residential side there are occasionally you know land uses that would come through where we would um we can assist or they would look up it's basically off of um the institute for transportation engineers ite code you probably may see those through in the transportation of the tias uh there are you know hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of land use codes uh that can then you can you can calculate you can do it you would include this in your ordinance and the impact fee ordinance that would allow for a special either a special study or a special calculation in in uh when we would we would recommend sort of not having that be the the um the the standard it would be an exception so you would say you're gonna fit within these categories and if there was an issue or had some we wanted to you were going to continue to pursue the road impact fees we could expand you know if there was an interest in expanding that list we could do that as long as the data is there from from the i.t manual so um but it would it would be set as a schedule and and uh cross-reference with when building permits come in those would that would be you would find that category and what's category and uh pay under that category so it seems like we would have the ability to adjust the fees for the kind of impact we're on as you may know we're on i-81 and we get many calls from constituents upset about how many heavy trucks are on our highway and you know locating in the county getting on our county roads and bridges the warehousing doesn't pay a huge amount of tax income to the county so to me i think now i respect the dymox and the vice chair's comment that we don't want to drive away some other kinds of businesses but i certainly want businesses as well as home builders to pay for the impacts they have on the road so i think i'm more in favor of the of the impact fees but we'll see how the board wants to handle this and anything i said was wrong anything you want to add nope yet it's all good thank you thank you very much any other comments the only other comment i would make that if you if you know the board can always take this up at another time i mean it if we decide if you all decide that you want to take it up again next year and revisit it and maybe go into a little more depth of examples and such i mean that's certainly an option just throwing that out there i don't myself i really don't want to delay it i think we need to get some of the impacts of development paid for if we approved one what are is it a final and and permanent decision for example if we approve cash proffer could we continue to look at the road impact fee or vice versa the road impact fee will take some months to figure out if we look at that and the dime act comes and convinces me to change my boat that we really should have gone the other way as they recommended we could do that right that's essentially what i was trying to say is if you if you decide to approve what we currently are doing we can always change we what is in the we can always go back and revisit the impact fee models. Correct, Mr. Bishop? Yes, sir, and I'm sorry, yes, ma'am. And if I may interject, if you will, theoretically you could say to move forward with proffer model impacts today and tell us to begin work on the ordinance and an additional structure that would be required for an impact fee program because there's time involved in all of that, of course. You could give that, frankly, concurrent direction should you so choose. Very good, so I think we have a motion on the table. I won't motion to amend, but I'll ask, excuse me, I'll ask for a consensus afterward if the board wants to direct staff as a secondary step to look at the structure and revenue that would be generated from an impact model approach. And we could go ahead with the subcommittee. I would say yes, sir. I would say yes, sir. Yes, sir. So the motion on the table is for now to immediately implement the off-site cash proffer approach. So we'll take the votes two ways unless anyone else has a comment or an amendment to make. So the motion on the table is for now to immediately implement the offsite cash proffer approach. Supervisor Lero? No. Supervisor Laquerage? No. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair will vote no, but I don't think we had enough votes to pass anyway because we've only had three. We wouldn't have had a majority of the board. So I suppose I will make a motion to implement the, instead, since that failed, the road impact fee approach and begin studying that. If that fails, we'll be probably asking staff to do some more work and we'll, I imagine, have another vote when Supervisor Dunn is present since that may be, a seventh vote may be needed. So I'll motion to adopt the road impact fee. Okay. So I'll move on to the road impact fee ordinance. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion on that? I'd be very, I'm very concerned about business, the impact this will have. I really am. I agree, I'm on DIMCO and there was a lot of discussion about this and I think we need to be very careful. You've got one, one jurisdiction in the commonwealth that's doing it right now. That should say something right there. Okay. I appreciate that. We are, though, one of the fastest growing counties, so by definition with some of the highest impacts in the state. So I'm going to stick with my motion. We'll see if it passes. Any other comments or amendments? Just a comment. Our infrastructure in Frederick County is way behind and so maybe this is an opportunity to grab funds for those that are making the impact. And I honestly, I mean, we, just speaking from my own experience, I think that's a great point. Just speaking from a business standpoint, if this were passed on to a business, they pass it on to their customers. We, consumers, are paying that. So I don't know what kind of, and I guess that's where the research would lie, but I don't know what kind of impact that would have. But it does have an impact on our ability and our infrastructure for people to move effectively throughout our county. So if we have an opportunity to grab funds and fix some of our road problems, which is where we are right now, I think that's a great point. I think the road problems, which is where Mr. Bishop said this is like the hole that, you know, we're not grabbing these funds. I just feel like it's a missed opportunity and other counties may jump on board. And I don't know. That's just how I see that. And I'm going to counter that because if that was the case, you would see Fairfax County and Loudoun County and Prince William County doing the same thing. They were growing faster than we were. Yes, we're in the top five based on Walden Cooper. My concern is just being able to get businesses to come in here because they're going to look at that and they're going to consider that. And you just make the statement about the consumer. The consumer is already paying enough right now with the way prices are. So I don't want to put any more on them. So that's where I am on this. Very good. Any other comments? I have a question, Mr. Chair. So I'm reading off the agenda. So the last portion of a sentence there says that we're drafting a road impact fee ordinance and program framework for future adoption by the board. Would that ordinance come back to us once it was drafted? Would there be a public hearing on that? Yes, sir. Okay. So right now we're just voting on whether to draft the road impact fee ordinance at this point, right? Correct. You've already acted regarding the proffers. That could have been implemented immediately because that structure is already. Impact fee would require ordinance and all that goes along with it to operate that program under state code. Thank you. Thank you. So this would enable staff to begin working on that ordinance and we would take it up again, hopefully with seven supervisors present. The motion is to adopt the road impact or to begin work on the road impact fee ordinance. Supervisor Jewell. No. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The chair votes aye. So we are directing staff to work on that ordinance. Had it been tied three to three, I would enjoy someone telling Supervisor Dunn that he's on the spot at the next meeting, but we do have a path forward. So that completes item 13. Item 14, board liaison reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. ELC. I have a question. I have a question. We the extension leadership council met and ironically, one of the big discussions was on embryology. And they talked of spring Ashby as our 4H agent and educator who supports Frederick County and there was a four-week program and Frederick County and Winchester City schools regarding almost a thousand students in the grades kindergarten through six who went through the process of doing the candling. And I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. I want a million compliments for all you guys just talked about this year. And I want to thank the whole cheek district for participating at this conference. It was an amazing opportunity. Thank you. sculpt ihre Network the kids. Are re cares for this month and I was a huge fan of the university team and I enjoyed being here last month but it's not like a Uni student council fund that's located here on one of the campuses where we recently hosted the university doors forgiveness council. So you guys are welcome to come in. I'm like I'm excited to come in on this given the importance of four weeks because we definitely know it wasn't back-to-school west. I know you're happy and happy to be able to spend time together and I will do great trying to get our country all together. And I just want to thank the four each and spring for all they do for our county. We actually, our 4-H program is growing, it's growing immensely, and it's great. And then on the second piece, I had a privilege of being part of a group that met in Shenandoah County yesterday. There were supervisors from Shenandoah County, Warren County, Clark County, and Frederick. And we met with Dr. Gutter, who is the head of, for Virginia Tech, of the extension program. And it looks like things are moving forward where we are going to get some additional positions filled that the extension leadership's been trying for a long time to fill. I want to thank our chair, our ELC, Kylie Gore, for attending and for Mark Supton and for all that they're doing. And it just, it was a very positive time, and it was interesting because all the counties really, when it comes to 4-H and agriculture, they really just, good bonding experience. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Hearing none, I'll just mention Frederick Water does not have a meeting in May. However, I've asked the director of Frederick Water to keep us apprised on what our wells, how our wells are doing, our groundwater level. I was disappointed to hear that not this most recent rain in the last couple of days, but the rain that happened a week and two weeks ago, and it's not going to be the same rain that it was a week ago, but it's going to be the same rain that it was a week ago. And I think that's going to be the same rain that it was a week ago. The well showed an uptick in the groundwater, and then it went right back down toward minimum. So the drought situation is still worrisome. I'm not an expert in the area. However, the fact that we get a lot of rain and don't have any sustained increase in our groundwater level is very concerning. We got a whole lot more rain last night and all week this week. So I'll keep the board appraised at our next meeting on how that is going. My sympathies for those who got flooded last night. And I think with that brought to mind, we may have missed something on the agenda before we go to citizen comments. Mr. Ballhoffer, there was an amended agenda that I'm not working from here on an emergency declaration. In the consent agenda? Okay. And that gives resources to our emergency. Personnel. It provides resources, enables us if we need reimbursements and such, and it will stay in place until at such time that we send it. Thank you. So I neglected to mention it because I didn't see it on the agenda that I had. Citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Joe Brand. Joe Brand. Good evening. I'm Joe Brand from Stonewall District. Your mic, please. I think it's off. There we go. Okay. Not in my control. Hi, I'm Joe Brand from Stonewall District. I'm disappointed that Mr. Dunn is not here tonight after he stated in his letter to the editor that I have constantly refused to speak publicly about the issue of water. I have been told that Mr. Dunn is not here tonight. I have not been able to speak publicly and be available to the public. Well, I spoke at the FCRC on March 25th. I spoke at the Women's Republic Committee on March 5th. I spoke at the FCCC on February 20th. And I also had a meet and greet on March 29th that was open to the public. So I have been available and open to the public. I wish Mr. Dunn would stick with facts instead of lies about what people are doing as they're running for supervisor positions. Maybe if he had told the truth in the past, he might not have come in dead last. So I was just going to say thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. to the public. Where has his preferred candidate been all this time? I can tell you. Of course, he wouldn't be able to attend those meetings back when I was because he wasn't living in Frederick County. He was somewhere else. And even after moving here in 2022, he never cared enough to show up at these meetings or attend a single school board or board of supervisors meeting. So the person that Mr. Dunn was describing was not myself, but my opponent. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on a matter concerning the county? Seeing no one. Oh, there are. Okay. Please queue up. Robert Gallilee, Back Creek District. After reading in the Winchester Star today that I am an occult, please reset my speaking time to five minutes and I will be back in a moment. As I am here speaking on behalf of the cult. Back in 2023, I was asked by someone at the FCRC, that's the Frederick County Republican Committee, to write a letter to the Winchester Star. I was given subject matter and talking points. So I know what today's hit piece against the chairman was all about. It's the local Republican rhino party trying to take down a real Republican because in this county, and I'm sure around the country, there are people who pretend to have principles but really all they care about is money. They pretend to care about the kids, but you won't hear them say a peep about a book in the school library that explains in graphic detail sadistic and grotesque sex acts. Our conservative school board declined to take the book out, but fortunately for us, my friend Christy got the book out of the school library. Only two of our supervisors had the decency to speak up about atrocious things that happened in our school. Chairman Josh Ludwig, and Supervisor Heather Lockridge. The other supervisors say nothing and reward schools that can't produce literate children with hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars. So I say thank you to Chairman Ludwig and Supervisor Lockridge. Frederick County Republican Committee is putting out other lies attacking Republican candidates who are not aligned with the land developers. The general population of this county has zero incentive for the massive spending and development that the Republican party, the Frederick County Republican Committee, has facilitated and controlled for decades. So please, residents of Frederick County, don't fall for the propaganda put out by the RINOs. They are pushing for candidates to continue lining their pockets and producing higher taxes and failed results. There are a few good people at the Republican Committee, but the truth is that the Republican Committee is full of a bunch of big government, big spending, lying Democrats. Thank you. Lance Allen, Stonewall resident. Since Blaine's not here to defend himself, and I just don't believe attacking people when they're not here to defend themselves, I would just say I can't put words in Blaine's mouth, but as the candidate that Blaine has endorsed, I would just say I appreciate his endorsement. And you might want to get your facts straight about when it moved here. I know that's a really big one, but anyway, wrong place, wrong time. What I would say is, I didn't plan to speak on impact fees tonight or cash proffers, but I would say you have a really unique opportunity in front of you to do something good for our county and our community. And what I mean by that is, for as long as I've been here and well before I got here, the proffer system is not working. Everyone agrees. Developers are not paying their fair share. The person who just stood in front of you just told you, and one of the biggest accusations that we throw around in this county right now is, the bought out by developers comment. You've got an opportunity to wipe that from the slate. I would just say that right off the bat. Number two, Blaine talks about impact fees a lot, and I agree with that. And I think Ms. Lockridge made some great points. I would just say two things. Number one, you've got an opportunity to make sure that developers aren't paying prices that are 20 years old, because that's absolutely ridiculous. And oh, by the way, there's still land here that developers are planning on developing that their proffers are still going to be paying. And so, you know, that's why I think it's important that we get that. You're still 20 years old. It's coming. So you've got an opportunity to make it square, make it fair, and get rid of that argument. The other thing that I would say, and, you know, I, listen, I did my searches while I was here tonight. I'm not going to pretend to know the ins and outs of Virginia Code, but I will just say this. As you have your staff prepare that ordinance, the things that I would have them look into are special tax districts. And I think this applies to both, by the way. So you're not locked into the motion, if I heard you right. And I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't think I get to ask questions. But the question that I would ask is, special tax districts, according to Virginia Code 15.2, apply in both systems. But to your point, Supervisor Lockridge, they would allow you to create special tax districts where you want businesses to come in so you don't negate them, you don't keep them out, Supervisor Jewell. But you're making sure that the people who are here creating an impact on the community are paying their fair share. And so the last thing that I would say on it, as my time gets close to expiring, is the thing that bothers me about the cash proper system is, you know, I'm in international partnerships for the company that I work for, a multibillion-dollar corporation, and I love negotiating. But negotiating happens in good faith. I assume everyone here acts in negotiation in good faith on behalf of the county. What I would say is you have to consider those who wouldn't, right? I sat in your living room one day, Bob, and we talked about, you know, those who just want to get rich by sitting in the seat. You have an opportunity. You have the opportunity to stop that once and for all. So anyway, that's what I didn't plan to speak on it, but I think you got a really great opportunity in front of you. And, yeah, I would encourage you to dig more. Thank you. David Kern, Gainesburg District. With the impact fees and proffers, I know you have to walk a fine line to balance what is right and what's going to work. I think there might be a third option. Again, it's going to be for you to side with legal counsel. And, you know, you're going to have to think about what's going to work for you. And, you know, we're going to have to think about what's going to work for you. And, you know, I think this is an opportunity for you to get a little bit more of a sense of what's going to work for you. And I think that's what we're going to have to do. I think we're going to have to work a little bit more on the I think an opportunity there would have been to work with them to get Brucetown and Hopewell realigned because VDOT's probably not going to do it, at least anytime soon. And had that happened and had that been an option to work with them to realign Brucetown Road and Hopewell would have been a major correction to that and would have been a boon to the citizens. I know traffic backs up the Clearbrook Fire and Rescue, which has a detriment to their response times to Route 1181. And any type of public-private partnership that we might be able to work out to fix our road issues would be a benefit to us. And that might be a third option. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? My name is Leslie Spencer from the Gainesboro District. I would also like to support in favor of the new impact fees. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I will close the citizen comments section of this meeting. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? We do. Mr. Chairman, I just want to thank our emergency operations folks, Mr. Bolhoffer last night, Fire and Rescue and our Sheriff's Department. We had a lot of emergencies that happened last night with the flooding. All the volunteers who went out in the storms and saved those that were trapped with the floodwaters. I just want to thank them for that. Thank you. Supervisor Wells, any comments? Sure. On this side, anyone with supervisor comments? Supervisor Lockridge. Mr. Chairman, yes. I know we all received an update from Mr. Pearson in regards to the wells. Of course, now we're seeing all this water, so hopefully we're seeing less dry wells. But I actually had a constituent reach out that's in my district, so nothing to do with Stonewall or even Carmoose or any of that, and struggling with their well. And I just encourage people to reach out so we do know and are aware. I think our groundwater is, I mean, obviously, very... very valuable resource, but we need to know what is happening. And this person did reach out and has had a lot of issues, redrilled a new well, and the quality of the water is just not there. So, again, I just... Please encourage you to reach out to me if you're having issues. Thank you. Last call. Any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, I will make a few comments. I've been upset lately by some of the talk. The tone of comments and letters things put out in the public and posted online. At our last meeting, there were some citizens who were upset about what they saw as a conflict of interest, and a long response by Supervisor Ligero to that. I decided as chair not to get involved. But since I didn't, since then, I've seen postings online and even letters published by the Winchester Star that had, that had been written about the I want to give a few examples. A few years ago, Supervisor Dunn made false statements about my wife, no less, and claimed that she had made derogatory statements toward veterans. He said, He said this at an event which he did not attend. He said, and it was published in the Winchester Star, that he had three witnesses, all of whom emailed him. However, when a FOIA request was filed, which he legally has to respond to, he could produce no emails. So I wish he was here to hear that I have never gotten over that personal attack on my family, which was false, proven by the fact that he could present no evidence that he claimed to have. The reason I go back to Supervisor Dunn in the past is because I also saw the article that some people mentioned that he put in the paper stating that one of our candidates, Mr. Joe Brand, was hiding from the public and not making himself available. I was astonished to read that. Another blatantly false thing to put. And I cannot for the life of me understand the motivation of why you'd want to poison your working relationship with other board members by doing this kind of thing. Joe Brand has spoken here many times. He has spoken at school board meetings. I've gone back to the past many years ago, before I was on this board, and found that he's been in this district and county for over a decade, and in the Valley for 40 some years, so he has been involved in meetings as far back as I can see. He went to, I am aware of all the events he mentioned that he's been out. He didn't give himself enough credit. He also served as a chief of staff at the University of San Francisco. And he was also a member of the board of trustees. And he was a member of the board of trustees, and he was a member of the board of trustees. And he was a member of the board of trustees. And he was a member of the board of trustees. And he also serves on some of the county's committees, donating his time, and learning about how the county works. So to say that he's not available, either to county staff or to the public, either to county staff or to the public, it's just plain nonsense. And I really don't appreciate false information being put out there, And I really don't appreciate false information being put out there, and I wish it would stop. I did not, moving on to the next item, I did not appreciate Supervisor Liero's post I did not appreciate Supervisor Liero's post calling some members of this board, calling some members of this board, a anti-education faction. Nothing could be further from the truth. He included a supervisor, perhaps the only one that has children in public schools in that accusation. I myself had two graduates of Millbrook. I myself had two graduates of Millbrook. So I've also been a believer and a participant in my family in the public school system. I don't understand how you would say someone is anti-education. It's wrong, and it's unnecessarily offensive. Perhaps it's because it's referring to Supervisor Lockridge and I. it's referring to Supervisor Lockridge and I. We voted on an amendment to fund the fourth high school, However, to only fund the first phase, architecture and engineering, and then follow up once we see the design with the rest of the funds. I don't see that as anti-education. Our titles are supervisors. We are supposed to supervise the spending of taxpayer dollars. In my opinion, that was our job. That motion did not pass. However, as a result, I did not pass on the motion that would allow over $140 million of taxpayer funds to be spent without any formal oversight by this board. That doesn't make me anti-education. That makes me pro-responsibility That makes me pro-responsibility on taxpayer dollars. There was a Winchester Star article this week calling citizens who vote a certain way cult members. I just need to leave. I'm not leaving because you're speaking. Very good. I didn't expect to go this far. Thank you. This is actually a short meeting. We have no more votes today. Okay. Thank you very much. I'm almost done, but please, if you need to leave. I've got a couple minutes if you're okay. That article calling people cult members, I think people need to be careful. I know politics is passionate, but you need to be careful to avoid insults and possibly defamatory claims. I would urge the Winchester Star to be careful about what they're publishing because they could be liable as well for anything published that violates the law. Lastly, the people who were upset at the last meeting were complaining about what they perceived as a conflict of interest of Supervisor Liehra, because his wife is a teacher in this school district. He did vote on the school budget and it did include funds for the overall system, which they will apply to raises which his wife and his family will directly benefit for. He said that's not a conflict of interest because he didn't vote for his wife to get a particular salary or indeed for the line item of what the schools decide to apply as a salary for a raise level. And that is true. So he did nothing illegal. I think the question is, however, I should have spoken up at the time and said that I believe it's a conflict of interest. I've been very concerned about that since for all my time on this board. I don't think we should be voting on things which we have a personal benefit. All you're doing is campaigning for your last candidate. Sir, you had a chance to speak twice. Please leave the meeting. Hey, I'm happy to, man. Deputy, please remove him from the meeting. You don't have to, buddy. I'm on my way out. So I made no comments about him. That's disappointing behavior. But to conclude, it's just a fact that there are conflicts of interest that we run across sitting here as a board. It's a small county. That is something we all have to deal with and we all have to recuse ourselves from time to time if they occur. Mr. Chair, am I going to be given an opportunity for a rebuttal? No, sir. You had a chance to speak and you spoke for like 15 minutes at the last meeting, and you spoke about conflict of interest. Here's what upsets me about your denial. I'd like to have time for a rebuttal. In Robert's rules of order, there's no rebuttal at this phase. But here's what upsets me about your speech last week. You said that you had no effect on teachers' races. And therefore had no but on your flyer that you mail out, you say what Bob Liero has done as Shawnee District Supervisor and one of your five prideful points is you supported a 6.6% raise for teachers and 4% raise for other county employees. So I wasn't aware of this because I hadn't gotten your flyer or I would have commented at the time. You state right here that you supported as a supervisor a 6.6% raise for teachers. Yeah, am I going to get a rebuttal? Which you benefit from as a family. So you do have that conflict of interest. Now you did nothing illegal, but I have to set the record straight because I let it pass at the last meeting. So we are done with Board of Supervisor comments. Am I going to get a rebuttal? No, sir. You're out of order. Mr. Chairman, I think we should let him rebuttal because I think I would like an opportunity to speak as well. My name was brought up in yours, but it was also posted on his Facebook. So if he gets a chance to rebuttal, I would like to chime in after. But that's completely on you. Well, we cannot have a debate that goes on because he's going to make points and then I'm going to want to respond to them. I gave him like 10 minutes at the last meeting without any contradiction or interruption and I just don't want this to continue. I gave everyone a chance to speak here tonight. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move for adjournment. Do we have a second? I will second that. All in favor say aye. Aye. All opposed? All opposed. I'd like to have the ayes have it 3-2. We are adjourned. That was a professional looking stuff. Is there a candidate behind the desk? Now shut me out. Getting started with what? The FKKK? With what? The FKKK that you're running? I forgot what he said to you. Good night. Good night. Good night. That's not what he said. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I would not do whatever we want to do. I have a job that I would have to do. I have a job that I would have to do. The FKKK Yeah.
