Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=265
========================================================================

And the gold knight is, once again, no decisions have to be made. It's more for providing information and receiving questions. And with that, I'm going to hand it over to Cheryl to start. Okay. So everyone has one of these yellow things. This is, I couldn't remember who wanted electronic and who wanted paper copies from last week's meeting, so we just did both. So that's what that is. And then she'll have two handouts. It's one of them is Mike's handout, and then one of them is something that starts with blue and white sheets. So I'm going to go to the blue and white sheets, and then I'll give it to Mike. So we got the updated numbers from the schools. So behind the tab, actually it's the first tab, you can replace the last page with this. It's got new totals and new school transfers. Which tab? I'm sorry. The first one, behind the first tab. The last page. The general fund summary? Yes. The last page. Chair the other one out and put this one in. So the deaf service number went down between the school operating, so the total has increased. The next one is the purple and white one, and that is behind the fourth tab. That's its capital. Jennifer tried to put the dates on the top so you kind of know those terms. Awesome. On this one, we changed. The commissioner of revenue asked for software, and then we updated it for the license plate readers, the information that we got last week from the chair. That doesn't really impact the blue and white sheet, but it'll come back to what Mike talks about. Did I replace the top one that was on there? Yes. Okay, good. Yes. It should have been just one page. Okay. Ready? Okay. The next one, when Mike did his presentation last week in the community development, it kind of went up and down. But the reason for that is because it depended on what kind of document you were looking at, but we pulled the EDA out of community development and created a separate fund. So now we've kind of made it comparable and included the EDA in all the numbers. And Mike will touch on that when he does his presentation. Where does this go, Sheryl? Excuse me? Where does this go? It doesn't really go anywhere. Okay. Okay. The chairman asked for information pertaining to the school operating transfer last week. So we have provided the school operating transfer number, and I think Mike is going to touch on that as well. The next sheet is the school operating transfer number. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Great. It's a great change of program. Great change. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You've gone in a good mood today. the rent for the health department so we try to she provided additional information but on the back there's information regarding the rent so that doesn't answer your question we also requested from CSA Jackie jury on information on understanding the crisis for mental health and children she's provided this information and is willing to provide more I think I checked off everything that I had written down on my list that was requested I found this something please let me know and we'll take care of it all right I'm gonna go right into the calendar we've given you two versions last week of calendar trying to establish I think what we put the key days we made some changes one way we look at it we think this is probably the best calendar to work with and give you an idea of the timing the goal would be on this calendar to have a reassessment workshop that would be this group here on the 26th and if this group could come up with a decision at that time we could advertise it on March 4th and that could still be changed the key dates on this is the budget public hearing on the 26th and the reassessment hearing on the 12th you cannot have those hearings on the same night that has to be at different times and I think that other one on there is adopting the budget on April 9th and that's when you'll actually establish the final rate your taxes and this would be a goal for moving forward on the reassessment workshop for establishing the tax rate that doesn't necessarily have to be your final tax rate that would be able to establish your upper bound on your tax rates going forward you can still lower it before you up to the time make your vote on April 9th if you chose to do that on April 9th so I was going to go over some items some of these were items requested and some were just put more information if we'd look through themboluim process and we're trying to update numbers find more ways to improve the revenue projections and to reduce expenses it was a ask about the Pavetta kind of public schools budget transfer and this is a graph of a transfer that goes to the schools nimes you see back into our 2014 it was sixty million and that was a budget transfer that we e-mailed out this year this new budget ultimately turned out active and million and this currently now it's approximately 110 million. I will tell you it has outpaced population inflation and inflation by about 12 percent but also as you know schools have been asked to do more and more but that shows you the history the transfers to the public schools. Is that operating only? Yes. I believe that's operating only correct? Yes. Does that include capital? Correct. Okay so the phrase that it's outpaced inflation plus enrollment increase. Not enrollment population I use not enrollment and enrollment and population may not be the same. Okay. You said by more than 12 percent. That number 12 percent which is similar when you look at our budget I'm gonna go into that currently yes. And this is similar graph we did there's been a few minor changes these updates and numbers. This gives you a picture of a real property taxes. All the items in the blue those numbers are right from the audit financial statements. The orange one is 2025 the budgeted number. Then you see red and yellow. The red one the 79,575 is the tax rate at the the constitutional rate. So what is the super çocuk? It has to has to be estimate E. 17th. because that's the one most people look at the most in local government because that's the one that tends to be the one you have the most ability to adjust. Or most likely to do so. I shouldn't say ability because they all probably have equal ability. This is a graph we looked at last time. I just wanted to go over this again. This is using that same measure we used with the schools. The blue item shows you your property taxes over time, and these are all budgeted numbers. I wanted to keep the same measure. So if you look at budgeted numbers, and once again, if you look at the last two, they're both 2026. The next to the last column is at the 42.4 cents, and the last column is at the 51 cents. Then you go back a step. In 2013 year, you would track what would that number be if you increased it year by year by what they call the PPI, which is your population plus inflation. As I've stated, that's a measure used in government. It's as with any model, there's a lot of issues with it. You know, one of the issues with that model is it doesn't take into consideration new services. The other issues is does the CPI fairly measure the cost increases for a government? I mean, people will say all the time there's all sorts of issues with the CPI, but it is a readily available piece of data, so it's good to use. So that shows you a picture of that. So question. In 2014, I'll start with your number. In 2014, I'm assuming I'm paying $1,000 in real estate taxes. So this is a combination of appraisal and tax rates. So this graph basically is saying that in 2014, if I'm paying $1,000, then in 2025 or 2026, I'm paying that figure? You would pay. Is that what? Yeah, what would happen is if you were paying $1,000 in 2014, what I did on the chart is I took each year, the CPI for the year, I added it to the population growth of the year, multiplied that times the base year. So year by year, you would increase that. And I can send you the chart if you'd like to look at it. It's a pretty standard measure. Matter of fact, in some states, it's a legal measure they use when states have to adjust their taxes. Okay. Now, there are a lot of issues with it when you talk about the ICMA, but it is a measure used. I may be wrong. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The ppi is you just took the CPI and then adjusted for inflation. And is that what I'm understood. Yeah, I took that. let's say, for instance, in the based year the next year, if your inflation was Point 25, picture, propagation, group. Point 25, you just add those two numbers. So be 1.5 times whatever it is. So it's just simply in addition of the CPI and the population growth year by year. What I think I'll do is I'll take that table and I'll email it out to everybody. If you look at the table, it makes sense. It gives you much more valid number than trying to go here's the number here and then multiply it 10 years later by a single number. So I will show you then one of the problems with this measure and this is when you start looking at it, where are you spending your money and why would you, your costs, have they increased the same as a CPI? And this is particularly I think probably the most significant cost driver for Frederick County is in 2013, you have 77.5 firefighters. This has increased, the orange column is increasing your number of firefighters year by year strictly by your increase in population by year. The blue is the number of firefighters that are in the fire department. The blue numbers are the actual number of firefighters you have hired over that time. So if you would have increased your fire department just by your population growth, 2026 you should have 96.7 firefighters. However, because you've been growing the fire department, it's actually gone to 193 firefighters. So this is your biggest driver in cost and this is because, as you know, there's been less use of volunteers and the county has started way back then adding firefighters. One year I can't remember there was a significant amount of firefighters. So do we have a way to analyze how much volunteers we've lost? It could be done, yes. Because that would be, you know, in theory the difference, but it may not. You would think in theory they would match. I don't know. Mr. Chairman, sorry I'm going purely by memory, but in 2000, I think it was in the mid-2000s, I think it was in the mid-2000s, I think it was in the mid-2000s. I don't know. I don't know if you remember. I don't know if I remember. I think it was in 2000. In the year 2000 I think we had like five or six paid fire staff. Judy may remember that too. It was a really small number. It was probably less than ten. And since that time we've had that evolution over the last 20 years. And that's why when you look at that measure there, the PPI, what it doesn't take into account is an increase in services. And what you're doing here is you've increased your services significantly in the fire department. Now theoretically you had volunteers doing it, but that means the county wasn't doing it. So the county has actually picked up those services. So I took this a little further and decided let's take a look at some of the other departments to try and figure out what your cost drivers are. And I picked these departments for all different reasons. But the key ones are, if you look at it for real costs, is the sheriff's department. You see if his department would have grown by population it would be 157.8, but he currently has 168,000. So that's 168.5. That difference is SROs. So if you were to take out SROs, his staff has grown by population. The other measure next to it you will see is the fire department. So what that's done, it's driven is, and this is an approximation, that's added another $8.9 million a year in cost every year to pay for those additional firefighters. And then as you were probably, it's easy to guess, your other big driver in there is the Department of Social Services. As you know, they've had a lot of staff and there's been a lot more requirements, a lot more mandates and such. And that shows you the cost there in staff. Now, this number needs to be worked on further because some of it is probably paid for by the state and such. But this is just to give you an idea of where your cost drivers are. The state pays towards some of these other categories, too. Right. I was saying, not so much for the sheriffs because we've always been below the comp, so, and not for the fire. Okay. . Yeah. Because if you go by, I'm sure you remember Lenny's famous story about the compensation board, they owe me this many sheriffs. So that number hasn't increased significantly. That's a given across the state. Yeah, statewide. What this also doesn't show is, and I'll tell you that I'm not going to have a good way to measure this because it's going to be very difficult for you, another cost that's really increased significantly, and we've talked about this, and that's the subscription cost for software. It's a real racket. I will tell you, I looked at the number in this year's budget, and it's about $2.6 million we pay every year for subscription costs for software. Because in the past it was measured in different line items, I guess some might have been capital, it might have been licenses, it's hard to determine what that number was. But we talked with Patrick. We believe that number back in 2013 was a lot less than a million dollars. So that cost, and that's hit everybody in government, that's hit everybody in the private side. I believe the software companies have a great racket going. They found a way where you have to keep paying and paying and paying, and you don't have a lot of choice. But that's affected the cost for us in Frederick County. I have a question for you. You can't do it for all programs, but there are some programs that you can do it, write the code, and then you don't have to pay an annual leasing fee? I mean, you know the program you're running, but are there some of those that you could hire somebody, write the code to duplicate what you're doing, and they don't have to pay a leasing fee? Yes, you can actually do that, but I will tell you, it's usually not very successful, and that's why you very seldom see anyone doing that. Okay, I'm just asking a question. But it is an option. And it also depends on what kind of software. Certain software, people build, they're very specific. I know, but it wouldn't be necessary for everything, but you can do it for some of it, just a thought. This we looked at last time. This is just to show you also who's your, which categories have your highest costs, and there's no secrets here. This is standard throughout government throughout the country. Public safety is your biggest expense for local government. As you go from the bottom of each one of these sections to the top, that's going years to show you how they've been going up year by year for each category. And just a normal version of it. Why did Administration Administration, Usually, when you're an administration, you have to explain for Adequate HI, because what you will be was above and Consequent Сейчасério Before or Takeover Why did administration drop. I'm going to Administrator. I'll explain that. That's coming up in another slide. It's an outlier. It's very easy to explain. not include the EDA transfer, so that needed to be fixed. So when you fix it, this is what Cheryl gave you, this is what that graph looks like and it makes more sense. And then that outlier you saw with the administration, why you had that one-year jump up, that year's the year we did the personal property tax rebate and it was paid out of the administration number. So it really wasn't administration costs, that just happened to be the category it was paid out of. So if you take that out of there, it levels that number out. This is just a simple history of revenues and expenses. The dark and the orange, brown and the orange, those are actuals from the audited financial statements and the blue and red are budgeted. Obviously in 2025, both numbers are the same because when you have to have a balanced budget, you have to have a balanced budget in government. And then 2026 has the projected expenses and revenues as they stand now. This is going to be a changing number. Unless you're the federal government. We can print money. We just have to budget a printing machine, right? And the software. And the software. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to go to this now to get into some worksheets. Just a quick question on 23. Expense outpaces revenues or... The expense is outpaces revenues? Yeah. Just to know if there was something that was an outlier there. Yeah. I'm not sure why, but we can find out for you. I think that's when we started transferring money to the capital fund. Got it. And so when we did that, that was a coming out fund balance and that's kind of stupid. Got it. Hand those around. It's just the only outlier, so. I think that's it for that. I don't have a question. Did you get that one? Yes. Thank you. Can I ask a question on that slide? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a question on that slide right there. Yes. So far in the few meetings we've had, I've seen the calculation that one cent of real estate tax increase would equal about 1.8 million or so. I did some quick math on this one. Looking at the red and the yellow one, if you subtract 79 million in change from 93 million in exchange, you get 14,205, 14,205,000. And if you subtract 0.424 from 0.51, you get 8.6. All right. So I did division there and it's looking like that number has come down to like 1.65 million per. Am I reading that right? You're reading it right. I probably wrote it wrong. I think what's happened there is because. We've been updating these numbers. This may not have been updated. I'm going to get into some numbers that will get that exactly right or get that much, will give you much better numbers. Yeah. As we've done these graphs over time, they've changed and updated them. And it's quite possible on that one, I didn't update that number. Okay. I had Cheryl went through a lot of these numbers today and on these final sheets, she verified them. So. Okay. So this is actually going to get into the numbers and the actual crunching. This is the budget summary sheets that were handed out to you earlier. And this is the actual last page 12 on there. This is going to be sort of the starting point going forward. And I will tell you as you're going through your budget, from my experience, this budget summary is one of the most useful tools you will use when you're looking at the budget items. So when it comes down to the budget items, the capital Furthermore, a lot of the things we did so far has been we did try the volume, which is if you go to control form page 12а you are going toed to control one type of equipment, the application there is 15 perús s 287 contingency. county debt service. And you'll see the plug, and that's $5.5 million for general fund capital. That number is not exactly that. And the last number on there, you'll see it's in the wrong. It's the $3.1 billion. That is actually $300,000 contingency and $2.8 billion COLA, which is a 4% COLA that's in the budget for employees. And that is for FY26. Six. Six. Okay. The other two columns to the left, the other two columns to the right, what... The other two columns to the left, we're not going to be using those, but if you use that whole sheet, those are just tools to tell you the actual change in each of those line items and what that percentage of that change is. Yeah, but I don't know what the header is. I'm asking you if the second column from... If you go to these blue sheets... You'll see one is, the left is your 25 budget. The next column is your 26 budget. Okay. Yeah. And I wouldn't get too caught up in it, because the next lines are going to fix that. It's going to take you from these. Okay. I just mainly have a question around the COLA itself. The COLA is different than the Governor's proposed, if a budget were to come out, the Governor's proposed to decrease. Is that correct, or...? I'm not sure the Governor's, what he's proposed for the state or the schools yet. This was proposed based on, when we looked at the factors, there's the CPI, and actually this year there was a CPI plus an additional 1%, and the primary reason was because our employees, and the county's been very good, have received CP... Pay increases over the last three years based on the CPI, and the same effect. What happens is, is after three years, they're going to get a little bit above the CPI. And also, I think the schools haven't been paying their employees, because in one or two years, their increases have been more than the county's increases. Yeah. And we're trying to bring some parity. So last, so last, so the year we're in now, we didn't go to the CPI. We went four. Okay. I think, I'm not sure what it is now, but I can get you the latest numbers on that. All right. No, it's around three or a little less, the last I looked. Okay. So, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, I think, see any of them? Kevin? I think theninete other them, I greet ou well. Okay? Guess we have to get you between the east and the west. Let's take through message three, can you come and talk to the effective numbers? Certainly. Because they don't add up to these 28,000, you know. So, and then turn over, can you walk me through what discussion did you spend roughly 2 hours? Well, I think the 18,000 through the last. they received and the 85,000, the team member on describing five of three days, I bet she was learning, a lot. Do you consider the three times casting or 지금까지? No, absolutely. Okay, does anyone have theονkey for listing from the uncomfortable analysis? What's the primary two? No, I am not sure. And I will tell you, and this is the key to this, this is not a final recommendation. These are working numbers that we're working with for everyone to use as tools going forward. I'm just trying to understand. Yeah, and that's what I was trying to do today is have everyone walk out of here. If you walk out and say, I got it, I know how these sheets work, I know how this all ties together, that's the primary goal. We have an advantage because we look at this all day and that's all we get paid to do. You all see it on a part-time basis. It's much trickier. Mike, let me stop you for a second here. Yes. Stay on that page. So we got this sheet back on the 22nd, okay? Yes. And it showed a $10 million gap between $261 million proposed revenue and $271 million proposed expenditures. And then it said that school operating budgeted at present level. Okay. So tell me if I'm figuring this right. So I'm seeing we're increasing the school operating transfer by $8 million. So we're having to add that to the $10 million. So I'm looking at an $18 million gap plus whatever additional the capital expenses for the school system. So that's correct. And I'm going to go, I think the next spreadsheets may help with that. Okay. All right. So I'm trying to figure out what that gap is because it's looking to me like it's about $30 million right now. That's where I'm going next. Oh, got you. All right. And that was the whole goal here is to get to the gap, let you know the different ideas and let's see. I think he said he's going to solve it here in the end slide. I won't let that work. That was too easy. This here, when you look at this now, is pretty much similar to that last slide. Okay. Yeah. So this is the last page you see on the blue sheet. When you look at that $123,904,000, if you were to look at that blue sheet and take $279,453,687 and minus everything above it, that's what you would come up with is the $123 million. So you're going to start out with this is with your operating expenses for the county or the $123,900,000. Okay. All right. All right. So now we're going to add to that the $118 million operating transfer to the schools, $19 million for the debt transfer, $7 million for transportation, 1.9 for the debt service. This capital number you'll see later, this is calculated on what was submitted by the department heads plus several items I've removed. I will tell you, we're still working on that. Okay. So the $7.3 million is a fluid number. So the $7.3 million is capital funds requested by county departments. Yeah. The $7.3 million- Not including the schools. Correct. It has nothing to do with the schools. And I'm going to get to those numbers. That's fine. I'm just, I'm just, go ahead. Yeah. And then what you have in there, that takes you out to expenses before the CA adjustments. The next item I add in there, and this is still a fluid number. Is the new positions. You'll see a sheet in your book, new positions. I've modified that a little bit. That's 1.6 million. And then at this step, we were plugging in numbers, or I was plugging in numbers, trying to get closer to, you know, making the budget balance. As you know, in the years past, I just put in a number to reduce the school's request. I put in a number of $3 million to re reduce their $118 million request. That's not a scientific number. I didn't come up with any formula. I just picked the number to start reducing it. And that's 3 million. No recommendation. Just a number. Yes. Next in there was I took $7 million you have up there for the transportation, and I moved that to the capital fund. You know, in years past, I think we've done this, you know, to in order to balance the budget. So trying to get closer to that magic balancing number. I moved the transportation to the capital fund. And I also moved the general fund capital to the capital fund. So you say moving capital to the capital fund. What's that first capital coming from? What is it? Not capital fund. If... I know what the capital fund is, I think. That's the one we have. Correct. What's... When you say you're moving capital to the capital fund, so you're moving excess dollars from our operating budget into the capital fund. Is that what you're doing? No. What happens is, you know, the capital fund, the debate has always been, is it yours? No. No. What do you spend? You know, we've had ordinary capital that... It's the GF capital. ... we generally spend out of operating. Okay. So this is ongoing annual capital expenses. Share of cars. You got it. Okay. Okay. Okay. That's... Yes. I just want to know what we're doing. Yes. Absolutely. That's here as a... So, if I had any sense, I'd probably put the other sheets first and these sheets last, so... That's fine. We'll go... ... and learn. We'll go back one slide, once. Does this slide reflect in any way that increase in the school capital funds that they're looking at from like $3 million to $15 million or something like that? No, but that needs to be added in there, and I will show you when we get to the last sheet. That's not in there at all. Got you. And to follow up on Mr. Lerner's comment, I thought it was like $19 million minus the three, but that's what I'm asking. Because for a five-year time frame, not one year. Am I wrong on that? I thought it was a one-year thing the way I read it, but I could have read it wrong. Okay, I'm just asking. Could have read it wrong. At one point, they had $19 million in there, fully realizing it could never be done in one year. But that was in one year their estimated needs to do all their ordinary building maintenance and capital, not including school buses. Correct. School buses, sometimes it's operating and sometimes it's in capital. Right. I've not seen the document, but I would tend to lend that it would be a one-year. Okay. Knowing what I've seen there. It's on the school website under FOI 26 budget document. It's like a 416-page document, but it's in there. Yeah, what they give us is they gave us that sheet, and it said, this is a list of everything we need to do, $19 million, fully knowing they weren't going to get the full amount. But that was a list of all their capital projects, ordinary capital projects. And they will be bringing that updated list. When they come next week, let's know what that number is. So, just so everyone can get an idea of where you are, we plugged into there three different levels of revenues. The revenue neutral, 42.4. The mid-range, 46.8. And the current, level 51 cents. To give you an idea of the way the budget stands. Where we are today, what position you would be in, based on all the other parameters you've seen. As you see in the second column, if you go to 46.8 cents, that generates $7.9 million in revenue. And if you go to the 51 cents, it's $15,840,000. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Where are those other sheets? What says CHP-N? The calendar. I think they're put in my office. But I don't prescribe them to you. And then I will give them to you. I've got… malaria. I think we have access to a laptop here. Patrick? Do you have access to a laptop? Mr. Blahoff? Yes. I get where you're going, so this is a big question, and I'm just trying to make sure I'm on the same page. But the 265 that's derived here and these just examples to chart out what the differences would be, that is under the assumption that there's a transfer from the capital for transportation, a transfer from the capital to cover the GF capital, and a reduction in the three. Absolutely. Correct. I was trying to log in, and then if I could get it to this screen. Is that going to be possible? Probably not. Okay. I'm sorry. Would you like me to go grab yours? That'd be fantastic. Is the room unlocked where he can get it? Excuse me? Is the room unlocked where he can get it? Yes. If it's in your office. Yeah, it is not locked. So the slides you're getting are these now, these are the slides you're going through? Yeah, what I'm going to give you is, if you've seen them every year, I give you the county administrator adjustments. Right. You will see one slide that will show you the personnel. The one side will show you... I'll give you the capital. But the real slide I want to show you is the actual fund balance and what happens... Excuse me, the capital fund balance and what happens to there, because that's the slide everyone wants to see. We have this. Is this what you're laying out? This is what you're laying out. It's just on the front. Yes, you do have that. Okay. Yeah, they have it. Okay. Perfect. We don't have to see that. So if you go to the very last page on these lists, the ones I handed out. And it says, I think capital fund balance at the top. What you will see is, by doing, if you followed all this, which is not a recommendation, your beginning balance of 50 years, $27 million, that's different from the number you see with the $47 million, because you've subtracted out the money you have for the buyer station, and the other one is the money you have for the buyer station. So that's the adjusted amount in there. So you would take your balance and your capital fund. You would take out the capital expenses as they stand now, the 7.3. Take out your transfer to transportation, $7 million. And Supervisor Leary, you see that $4 million? Right. That's the $4 million as a plug each year to bring down that number they have for ordinary capital. And then that year, we put in there the $9 million. And the rollover, I guess you know last year, that number was significantly higher than that. This year, I think the revenues are below expectations, so the rollover won't be as much. I always use a very low number because I'd rather be pleasantly surprised every year when the rollover is more than we projected. But I feel very comfortable with the safe number of $9 million, which would leave you the $17 million there. On FY26, the $27 million. So that is the uncommitted dollars today. The fire station is totally paid for. The equipment for the fire station is totally paid for. Is that what that number is representing now? Correct. Okay. That has the fire station taken out and the ambulance 22 taken out. Correct. Thank you. Yep. Thank you. I won't be able to get on here, though, will I? If you email it to me, I can put it up there. Wow. I'm going to steal the computer from you. I'm going to steal the computer from you. I'm going to steal the computer from you. I'm going to steal the computer from you. Perfect. All right. So I have this lord office here. I can have a realfrei launch, I can make that a higher number. Do you have this list, I Anybody left a lot to sign the non- م Okay. Does that work? You see it, in the bottom? Yes Is that the link to your project? Got it. Okay. Did that answer your question? It does, but that leads me to believe that if there are projects — so I see, like, transportation, Physics Administration of Sanford, like,вод etc. Those areımicha'y'levels, bun'r' kilometers is miles, it's miles. Si, si,400m amAh � four. and there's other projects that if the board same manner of funding that they've done to kind of input and that number would be potentially higher that's kind of a base number that's correct you let me go to this you make one change to this all right so i've adjusted this table you have it makes these numbers look a lot better i saw supervisor mccann looking at the that number going wait a minute that looks awful low this is the correct number in capital when you start 36.4 yes i will send this to you at 36.4 okay still trying to figure out i'm on page 24 of the school's budget yes yeah and yes they have a table that shows um capital projects fund in fiscal year 25 adopted was 3 million that's correct fiscal year 26 proposed is 14.7 million increase was 11.11 million 798 361 if we funded all those projects in one year 26 so my question is where is that 11 million 11.7 million reflected in these numbers it is not because we have historically not funded all their requests so you know that 11 million is the remnants of what we have done from what that was 19 million years ago if you were to do it all in one year you would probably i think the only way you could do it would be to take it all out of your capital fund so and supervisors so theoretically if you pay four million 4 million 4 million slowly but surely you're getting that up working that down we're doing that over i mean this is much faster then the we're going to end that up this is what Peck's been claiming this year for the five days passed so that so all of I mean, this is showing it over five years, whereas they're showing an increase in $11 million in one year. Correct. So, Mr. Leroux, you used to work for schools, so you've been on the receiving end of these dollars. The policy question I put to all of you is, I had a conversation with one of the board members yesterday. I asked her, if you could tell us what you need this year, F-2026 and F-2027. That way it gives us an idea. So, if they say we have a boiler or an HVAC system that we know is going to die in the next year or two, do you need to replace it as opposed to just wait? So, I mean, if they provide us with a schedule, that helps to figure out what's really needed now. If it's $19 million that's needed now, then we have to address it. We had a similar conversation this morning. And he sends it over in a prioritized list, working down that list. They fully realize that the county's not going to be able to fund it all in one year. But I still want to know what's critical. If it's critical, then we need to solve the problem. If it's not critical, then fine. But if you're saying fine, you know, you're on life support now. If you don't get something in a year, then you're dead. Then we need to address it. If you're on life support now, but you can wait 10 years, it's a different question. I can't speak to what they're doing now. But I know two years ago, there was a pretty thick document that would project out kind of what you're talking about. In 2030, here's what they anticipated. Knowing that you... The reality is you couldn't fund all that in one year. I think the change to that would be each year we prioritized that. So there is some at least identity. And I think they have that same document. I think you have access to it. I think it's on their webpage now. Capital Asset Preservation document. I can try to find that and send it out. And if everyone... I'm going to send this to everyone with the updated numbers. Somebody asked, this is how we came. I'm going to come up with that 17 million. Or the 7 million in capital. Started out when you go to your budget book, you have the capital request in there. And I've gone through that mix of department heads and done some cutting already. Because if you saw that original number, it would just... It was not even possible. Even this number is exceedingly high. So there have been several items removed in here. You will see. I can tell you off the top of my head because they were the easiest ones. Were the... Command vehicle was 1.5 million. There was a vehicle for the dive boat that was 500,000. So a lot of those items have been removed. And I did meet with the sheriff and let him know I was doing that ahead of time. And there's been other items moved out of there. All these items in yellow, they're either paid for with proffers, grants, or revenue recovery. So once I got to the total cost of 11.9... I subtract those out because they have no effect on the budget, which came up to 73 million. Obviously, as you know, our previous years, our ordinary capital has been in the $5 million neighborhood. So this is quite a bit higher than usual. We're still working on looking at things, cut, beaten with all the department heads, figuring out what's most important and what's the least important to them. I want to thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So in other words, the schools are this year asking for approximately eight or so million dollars more in operating funds. So this is proposing to only give them five instead of eight. Exactly. Okay. It's not a recommendation. I was starting out with numbers trying to figure out how to get these numbers to balance. Okay. That's totally policy. I was tossing numbers in there. I'm going to ask another question since I'm fairly new on this. I'm going to ask another question since I'm fairly new on this board. I got the former school board chairman here sitting here with us. Last year, I came into the joint meeting. This is a question in preparation for next Wednesday's meeting. Last year, I went into that meeting with specifics, number, specific ideas. Like I have some specific ideas for that that I could put towards that three million. It seemed like they didn't really want to hear that though. They just wanted a number. And my framework was I need to justify that. I need to justify that. I need to justify anything, any number that I throw out there. So what do they want next week? Do they want specifics from us or do they just want a number? I will tell you just from witness meetings, I know Brandon, you know this very well because you've seen this for over several years, is by law, and I don't remember, the county's allowed to specify by category but not pick out what they can reduce their budget. Okay. And so you can recommend. We think you take it from. Here, here, and here. But that's really the school's purview to decide exactly where based on state law. And correct me if I'm wrong. No, you're exactly right. If I was in your role, I might do what you're doing and say, hey, this is where I'm justifying it to my constituents around a reduction. But I think from a school board member perspective, it's their obligation and responsibility to make a decision around where they go. So they need a number to then make those assessments themselves. But. But. But let me just add to that. I think that all of us can go to the schools and say, fine, I think program A and B is great and program C stinks and here's why it ought to be eliminated and program D is fine. You know, you go down through the list. I had a meeting with a client. I said, here are things that I think from my perspective will not be in their budget. Now, when we give them dollars, they can ignore my stuff completely. And I understand that. But I think there's nothing wrong with us saying here is where, in my opinion, you can save money. And you can't save money in these categories to pay for something else, like capital funds, or where you save money and you just don't use it because it's not coming from our money. So I think there's nothing wrong in saying that. Just recognize that when we get done, you know, we're going to give them a number and they can spend it any way they want to. But, you know, I think there's nothing wrong in laying out areas where you can save money. So the categories are pretty broad. They're pretty broad. I don't remember off the top of my head, but they are broad. It would be good to get those, I guess. There's eight. Eight. Eight. Sorry? You said, I believe there's eight categories that they would fall under. And a couple of them are really big and several of them are very small. That's correct. So it's not like they're in eights where you actually have controls. I thought I was talking about bulk. Yeah. I agree. If I could throw out a number just to get you thinking about this for next week. In my conversations with the school board member this morning, I've been thinking about the number of students that are going to be enrolled in the school board. And I think that's a good question. So we understand that generally when our CEO OWN is lucky enough to raise a set of Box this function for me to spent to actually foothold the resolutions and give me a three you're supposed to. You treat me as the best teacher. Like one of their staff members and we all should be good teachers at least we are. But we are lucky. But there is another question that came in from a área. See if I'm. We have a question from our district through the twitter on this list. All right, 막 we're prettyüchting. A question from Mark Nowarov from kxwac. My question is if there has to be equal set of district that says F tablets complex or could this premiere any digital F tablets and that level merit. We look at our records and anything shifts of the thing that's done does that 40 times a year so we see changes in the roaa installation rates. So we've got 45 positions that were authorized this year. According to one person, that could be a little bit off, but authorized positions this year, we had 45 that we could not fill in the school system. And over and above that 45 number, they're asking for about 40 more. That's not all teachers. I think it's like 22 teachers, but 18 other staff. So that's kind of the way I look at things. That's what I'm looking at in the operating budget. So what I understand on some schools, some schools have permanent substitutes. They don't have a teacher. Now, you've been a principal there, so you know this better than I do. But if you have an ongoing permanent substitute, then what does it take to fill that position with an ongoing teacher? The ongoing substitute. It's not going to solve the problem, I think, unless Brandon or Bob, you think otherwise. I mean, I can go be a permanent substitute for history because I know history. But if you ask me to be a permanent substitute for woodworking, I don't know diddly squat. Maybe you get Bob, but not me. What I would say to that is, and the conversation I had with a school board member this morning is, we're three or so years out from opening a fourth high school. Okay. If we got 45 positions now in 2025 that we can't fill, how are we going to staff out that high school in three or four years from now? And my statement this morning was, if I had to pick and choose in operating funds between raising, like, I know we gave them a good raise last year. We gave teachers a 6.6 average percent raise last year. This year, we're looking at 4.9. If I had my choice. Between a 4.9 percent average for teachers is in their budget. If I had my choice between a lot of new positions and a pay increase, a better pay increase to keep people, keep them from going to Loudoun, I would err on the side of the pay increase and just tell, just be honest with people and say, this might mean one or two people more per class. You know, everybody knows the bad effects that a large class size has on students. The bad effects of the I just think we need to, that's just my opinion. We just need to keep, retain our teachers that we have and take a real hard look at those new positions that we're trying to get. Because how hard is it going to be? I don't know. I don't know. We need to fill those anyway. We get those. So one argument I had made is that you have a fourth high school, but you don't have a high school full of students that are arriving. You have the same number of students, maybe 0.1 percent more the year before it opens to the year it opens. So if you're realigning the students of the county into the fourth high school, why wouldn't you be realigning a lot of the teachers and other staff? I get that. Yeah, you may not have to fill them. So you don't need to. You can't have to fill the staff at all. You can't have to fill the staff at the first year. The day it opens. And I do not disagree with anything you've said. I will say if I was on the school board on the other end of the call, two things that I would bring up for your consideration. One is unlike, and you know this, so mainly just a topic of conversation, but unlike many other entities, the school, kind of the window of when folks apply for jobs is that space. You're asking, you know, employers. You have the right to figure out where to invest the vara. Are you going to be gonna apply? You just hear us out and then feel the situations with the home. And I just, I put out a discount for my house andAU bez. And with that as your decision. Yeah. your first response. Yeah. teacher or something that's more unique. And then the second kind of piece that I would consider as well if I was in your role is that although those positions aren't filled, the fund balance that comes back, I know when I was there it was three point something, two point something, then typically you all would approve a supplemental appropriation to go into capital. So if those positions aren't there as not filled, then that supplemental appropriation would be lower, so there may be a higher capital need. But not advocating for anything, but I think it's just the context is important. I have a question. The budget that we're going to get from the school board that we're going to look at next week, is it going to come to us? Have we already gotten it? Is it this? It's a big old thing. It's the full budget book. So I handed out a copy that we put behind your school board tab last week. It was the presentation that was given at that time. I think what's being sent out tomorrow is like 400 pages. It's additional information, but this is summary. Right. Yeah. Okay. So we will be getting the full thing, you said, tomorrow? Yes. It'll go out tomorrow. Okay. It's posted on the website now. Yes. It is? Yes. Oh, okay. Great. Thank you. Does it have like an executive summary for the first five or six? Yeah, yeah, yeah. As it goes, it gets more broken out into greater detail, doesn't it? I think it seems well organized. Okay. Bedtime reading? It's a lot more information you'd ever want to read, I assure you. It's taking more than one night. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So in essence, that coincides with the time frame of when, if we followed suit with transferring transportation and all of those things from the capital fund, that would in essence run dry almost simultaneously. So it would be a multi-pandemic because we'd have that $7 million if transportation was continued to 5.5 plus whatever the new debt service. I hope and I believe, but this is pure speculation, I think I've been very conservative on these numbers, on the $9 million and such. But once again, I'd rather be conservative and say too much and then you run out of money sooner. $9 million was the amount that we had in excess before COVID. That was kind of the average. That's right. That's right. That's right. But even if that's concerned, I mean, the way that I'm looking at it and I'm having crunch numbers, but it would probably need to be double in order to extend it out to 2030, 2031. I mean, it would need to be significantly higher. So I don't know. It's not going to last so long if you're taking out more than you're putting in, absolutely. So what's the assumption on tax rates? And? I think the assumption is that you're projecting out revenue because you're projecting out multiple years. Or you're looking at the capital fund balance. So we've been drawing from that partly to plug a gap, right, to balance the budget. We've been paying for ordinary capital for a few years, for example. Right. But our budget situation could be different easily in a couple of years. I think the assumption, I think you can make the safe assumption that obviously, you're going to have to pay for the capital. Right. The insurance policy is taking the full дом but you want to make sure, again, you're paying for the capital. And our version of the future of payments is הואれない flexible barrier. Also, we all hope to have a gew Polish part. Yeah. 100%. back in the offices. So we just don't know what tomorrow's going to bring when it comes to the housing growth. Are we having a free discussion, Mr. Chairman, or are there topics that we want to go through? I don't have a particular agenda. I mean, let's make sure everyone is exhausted with their questions at the moment on what we have in front of us. If I may just interject on the last part of budget, please, anyone, because a lot of this stuff is confusing and these books can be tricky if you don't look at them all the time. We look at them frequently and still they can be tricky. Feel free to call, set up a meeting, anybody, come in and meet. We'll be willing to go over and go in detail and they can help you out. It's much easier when you're sitting at a table. Going over this stuff on this and a meeting like this. We're willing to do that. I want to raise a couple of issues. One is transportation and two is revenue. So on the transportation issue, right now we're scheduled for February 26 to talk about a rezoning in Red Fire. In that rezoning, there's a discussion on a Route 37 first leg between Sensany Road and Route 7. The reason I want to have the conversation now is just so you guys can think. I'll probably raise it again in a week. Two years ago, the board came out and said we, the board, want to do something for this. And Heather, you're on transportation. I think you've seen that Route 37 situation. A week ago or so, John Bishop put up, here's what happens if we do nothing for transportation where the red stuff becomes. Here's if we put in Route 37. So you've seen that. My question to all of you is, and I said last week, I think the $1 million I think is short. That represents like 2% of our total budget. If you double that to $14 million, you're still only in the 3% to 4% range. If Route 37 is important to address road issues, then I think that we ought to have a consideration on how to do that. And one of the questions I'm going to pose is that in this rezoning, one developer is willing to put a road in, don't quote me on this, up to the back of the road. If not, it's on through Perché Establece Kelvert or Southb wagons Road. You don't have to do you have to. So there's 2% of our budget for tirage. And ultimately, we're Tigra Park-Raw Action Initiative Neighborhoodniejdio pointed out 3% of the $3 billion to deal with for road ав disguise or flooding in this area. Promo code is 3%. Are there any questions? I'll be clear on modelling to what extent we should be setting this to 2% and just bring up relationship balance? initially is, does the county want to consider putting some money toward that? And I'm not going to give you the number here. I mean, if it's $5 million or $2.5 million split, but if that is the case, then this could be the first leg of Route 37 where you can literally drive on that. If you can do that for the first leg, you'll only be able to do it for a second leg or the third leg. I'll give you more details, but I just want you to think about it, because if that's the case, at the end of this year, we're going to have X dollars. I don't know what Cheryl's going to give me in the way of X, but X is the overflow, 9 to 12. And that would provide the money to do that without changing any of these budget numbers at all. We'll put it in the first leg of 37. So I just want you to think about that. I'll probably make some other comments in more detail, but that's one. The second thing is, and you've heard me say this before, how do we pay for growth? I've advocated for impact fees. I think there's a bill there, but that stuff's probably not going to fly this year. On the real side, I'm not keen on having real estate taxes go up because I can't pay for my extra bedroom, I can't sell it off, etc. It's a tax on an unrealized gain, essentially. So then you need to take a look at what are the alternatives, whether it's a sin tax, whether it's a meals tax, whether it's a 1% sales tax on the state in which the voters get to choose, not us, the voters would have to choose. That raises $20-21 million. So we just need to think through how to address the revenue issue, and it's significant. So I'm just going to put that on the table for us to chew on it. If you have questions, we can chat. That's my concern. My question on the box culvert is, I've heard in the planning commission meetings, a bridge, $20 million and up for a bridge. Now I'm hearing from developers, we can do a box culvert for $5-7 million. My question is, what entity, is it VDOT or what entity, decides that that box culvert is sufficient over a full bridge? And is that, can that decision be made prior to February 26th? Are we going to be having to make a decision about that development, not knowing the outcome of that question over what type of bridge is going to go in there? So two developers, independent of each other, have both come back to me with a $5-7 million figure. So that's two independent analysis. That's number one. Number two, the road has to be built to VDOT standards. So I think that the $20 million, a realistic number today is $5-7 million. And by the 26th, I would like to have a hard number and a commitment to have a road. That's where I'm going from it. And as I say here today, that's not yet there. There's revised proctors that are being discussed. I haven't seen those yet. But I know that, does that answer your question? The $5-7? I'm still kind of questioning, like, who's the ultimate authority to decide what type of, to meet the standard? What's the minimum standard for that? I believe that VDOT has to sign off on any road. So VDOT has to sign off. It has to be built to VDOT specs. A private developer, from everything I've seen, I've seen a lot of people say, well, I don't know. I don't know what the standard is. I don't know what the standard is. I don't know what the standard is. But I think a private developer, from everything I know, can build a road cheaper than VDOT. So if you said, Blaine or Bob, you know, I want to build this five-mile road, VDOT will give you one price. A private developer can build that road for less. In the neighborhood, I've been told half less. But you'd have to still meet the VDOT standards, irrespective of the cost. So it's a VDOT signoff if that occurs. Does that answer your question, Bob? Okay. The bridge could be built for five to seven million. We don't want to be in a position where VDOT says that type of road building is not acceptable. We agree. So how do we get independent verification that that would be all it would cost? How do you get it before the time you have to make a decision on that development? That's valid. I mean, you know, if this comes before us on the 26th, yes, I want to have answers to that. So you can make a yes-no decision based upon good information, not on speculative information. Or not on perhaps information. I mean, it is, you know, it is or isn't. With guarantees and contractual guarantees. I don't know if we could take that idea and ask VDOT to weigh in, but VDOT's usually not very fast on getting us an official answer. And furthermore, a year later, we're going to have to wait. Okay. So, you know, in the next couple of years down the road, regulations could have changed where a box culvert's not acceptable anymore. So that's another risk that we could have. From what I've been told recently, a box culvert is an acceptable solution to this problem by the developers. VDOT would have to sign off on it, but that's, I've heard nothing that says that that's not an acceptable solution at this point in time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do we have any other questions? Yes, in regards to that. For the developer, they get into this and then the developer gets, goes bankrupt because it costs way too much to do that. I mean, is there any way to get the road before their development? We don't necessarily, we don't want to be left with the county being responsible for that. We've seen it several times. So, I understand that any development requires a bond. So we're going to do X, Y, and Z and you have to have a bond to back that up. The county got burnt a few, a number of years ago. And so we revised that. So on any new development, the developer has to put up a bond to cover what's being laid out. And I believe that bond also has a CPI adjustment to it. So you know, the million dollars today, the CPI adjustment, you know, three years, four years out, takes care of that. So I think that can be carried out, even on that as well. But I think we can cover that legally. So the developer has to put up the bond. If the developer goes bankrupt, we can't do that. Okay. So we're going to have to put up a CPI adjustment. And we have the money to finish what's been laid out. Because the Iowas Lane in my district, there's a bond on it, but it won't nearly cover what it actually... And the old bonds didn't have that. And apparently when we do a new bond today, we can put a CPI adjustment. The old ones did not have that. So we're burnt on that score. Right. Thank you. I have one other topic, but I don't know if we have time. Is the room being used, et cetera? Can you Doe roll the roll here? You go first. 1% wanna go? That got nämlich do. 3% wanna go? 3% wanna go. Equal 3% wanna go. Okay. Can you say 3%? Can add all the $10 of 50,000? Okay. Because we're close. And then it cannot be fixed? Noam doesn't do that. All the already both Once and basement. So I get sorry. I had to cut in. Yeah, basically. They'll get to it on될 You promised we'd have something if they met it was here. It's not recommended to have anything on there. That's not supported. You could do this. Vaco email about bills. And it had told us there was a House bill and a Senate bill, one of which would take all the revenues from speed cameras that we'd given a consensus to the sheriff about and take it to Richmond to apply to the CTV, which would mean the sheriff can't go ahead or had he signed a contract, he wouldn't be able to fulfill the county's end of the contract without taking out of his own funds or without asking for us for an appropriation. The other bill was to just take excess revenue so he could pay for it, but there would be no other money. And we talked about it briefly based on Vaco's summary. We agreed unanimously that we would oppose it and I would get a letter out for us. So the problem is that was Vaco's summary. If you go online, I went down this rabbit hole, you can download the actual text of the bills and then they get, as they get amended, so they go to the transportation committees and the Senate and that. And they get amended again and there was new text. So there's a lot of detail there about definitions about where they could put these cameras and what would be done with the funds. So rather than trying to figure all that out, I spoke to one of our representatives. I went to Richmond trying to meet with all, but they adjourned early on the day I went down there. So I didn't get to have the kind of meetings I wanted. And from one of our representatives, who's very pro-local authority. Is that one of our senators? One of our three representatives. I don't want to, without giving a name. They, I'm going to try and use pronouns that escape. So they said that there is a sentiment in Richmond that some counties might abuse these systems to raise revenue. And so it is a tall order. So I said, Okay, this bill may pass. One of the two versions. Take funds away. and not oppose the bill that would allow the speed cameras to pay for themselves. Then I got into other bills, and I should probably send you an email on this. I'll give you a few numbers if you want to look them up. If we're talking about local authority, if that's the principle, there are some bills under consideration that have much bigger impacts on our local authority than the speed camera bills. One of them is Senate Bill 1190, Senate Bill 1190. That would require counties to include clean energy generation targets in our comprehensive plans within a couple years. And I don't know what other. Some of these bills would take away our authority to say yes or no, for example, to solar farms. So you need to look at those bills. Maybe we oppose all these ones that take local authority away. Another one that alarmed me was House Bill 2641 and Senate Bill 975. They both require statewide housing targets. They require every locality to increase their total housing stock by a certain percentage per year. They would further require a housing board of three. Which would put local authority and county government together on a priceク to bring them back into a state by a lower price tag or keeping housing law swipe or natural gas tax-free diningatos back into state by article 491 of 167 and Evening Target Code 2 parts 139 8. And an additional benefit is even more because this is going back and forth. If you're talking about already측 Looks like we're getting a few milk cocktails. and similar Senate Bill 975. They're not identical. So I wasn't rushed to get the letter out until I talked to you all because the individual bills completed work last week. Yesterday was crossover day, so the committees were sending, the House and Senate were sending the bills to each other, and now they're beginning to go in conference. So we had a little bit of time to at least have this discussion. So what I'd encourage you to do is go to the Richmond website where these bills are posted and look for the latest one. They should be posting their form as they cross over. Maybe they already have. I didn't look at it yesterday or today. And see if we want to weigh in on some of these bills in addition or in individual letters or individually. We may call. Let's do our representatives. But I think some of these. It's very quick and easy to make calls and leave a message. And they, you know, especially if you have the House bill numbers or the Senate bill numbers, you can give them that. You say, I am, you know, tell them who you are, where you're calling from, and that you support or oppose. It's very easy. So probably, I'm being naive, there are probably big bills every year that could have a huge impact. And I haven't paid attention in the past to some of these things. Some of them may have no chance of passing. Some of these would be huge. I have no problem. I will call our lobbyist tomorrow and say, could you give us a summary of the bills and what the atmosphere is, what's the likelihood, and what he's hearing. You know, he's pretty much in the loop of what's going on there. And I can get him to provide that and just forward it to everybody. Yeah, I was drafting a letter. But they were changing, you know, out from under me as they were being worked on. So just to respond, without getting into specific bill numbers, I don't think the local authority, namely us, run funded mandates. So when the state says you should do X, they're not going to provide the money to do so, maybe that's a no. Don't tell us what to do and we have to raise our taxes to fund a request. That would be number one. Number two, on the housing issue, I think we have to raise the housing issue. So take Clark County, which is pretty rural, but there's between two large counties, Loudoun and us, which provide hospitals, food, et cetera. You're saying to Clark County you have to raise that? So, you know, I think the private sector can determine where to put houses. I'm not keen on the state telling me to put houses there, nor the type of houses. I think that ought to be a local authority. Well, I don't know how it works. So if we don't meet the target, the state, feels we should be meeting, would they then start overriding our decisions? Yeah. With developers that come? And what about those counties that have declining populations? What kind of sense does it make to tell them they have to increase their housing stock? So I'm just not sure where these bills are going, but I wanted to call them to your attention. And then on the license plate, if we do that, there ought to be enough money to cover our costs. We shouldn't have to put money into that. That is a safety issue. I would say to the state, now you're just going to, you know, you think there's abuse in the system. I don't think we're abusing it, but don't force us to fund something, and don't take all the money. At least live with something to cover our costs. And I think that, I'd say that basically if I could say to them, you know what, it's our money, it's our program, leave us alone. Thank you very much, because we're not going to abuse it. If you speed and go 50 miles an hour in a 25-mile zone, you get taken. If you do 25 in 25, you don't. Another unfunded mandate, there is a bill in the House and Senate that tells counties they have to pay transportation employees as if they're public employees, even if they're not. So you're paying bus drivers, school bus drivers. I don't know what the impact is, but, you know, that could be an unfunded. I presume that's the reason they have the bill. It's an unfunded mandate telling us we have to pay more, it's certain. So I'm just saying to all of you, I mean, you know, we have a chairman, I mean, I made some comments, you can make comments too, if there's a consensus, then the chairman could write a letter saying conceptually A, B, and C without necessarily bill numbers, and if you want to add a couple bill numbers after that, at least you can say to them, conceptually, you know, we're opposed to unfunded mandate, if the rest of you are. Conceptually, we're opposed to you telling us where to go and put housing, if that's an agreement, you know. Some of us have a different view on the license plate readers, but at least conceptually, I don't think we should have to put a lot of money in for something that was designed as a safety issue. So maybe the way to do it would be to say we want to preserve our local authority, we're against unfunded mandates to the degree that you're passing, taking away authority or passing new mandates on us, and... And local government is closer to the people than the state, so therefore... And give a couple examples. So some of these bills that we have time to research say, for example, for this bill, we don't... Chair, may I ask, though? It moves very quickly down there. It's best to have the bill number when you're calling your representatives so that you can say that you support, you oppose, because without that, it's really... You're wasting... I don't want to say you're wasting time, but it's convenient. If Josh writes a letter... If Josh writes a letter... Tonya, you're right. If Josh writes a letter, and our administrator can give him HRSP numbers for that, then you can put those things together, and we ought to be good. No, I agree. You're valid on that point. So you can't just give the principle as you stated it, because they don't have time to read every bill and think through, is this an unfunded mandate or not? We have to tell them, or at least give them the principle and then give them specific principles. We have to give them specific bills that we believe are unfunded mandates and we're opposed. Yeah. There's so many committees and subcommittees that, you know... Our representatives are under several different committees. So just something... But it's when they come up for the final vote, right, that we want to influence how they vote. And include the Lieutenant Governor, because the Lieutenant Governor is the tiebreaker in the Senate, so I would include her, too. I would say include the Lieutenant Governor, because if there's a tie in the Senate, she breaks ties. Right. And it wouldn't hurt to let the Governor know, too, because if he puts out the word that he's going to veto a bill, it gets dropped right away, and I think that's what just happened with the religious homeschool thing. So, I pulled up the bill for the Children's Services Act, and it's from 1992, and the bill is in the House of Representatives. And I think it's a very important thing. I think it's a very important thing. In 1992, and the bill is 12 pages long, and they want us to cover everything. And with the way services are going for children now, we're still bound by this 1992 act, and this is why we can't keep... I don't see how we can possibly keep allowing any more unfunded bills to get passed. I mean, this is really a problematic situation. Mr. McEwen, you had your hand up. It just was down there Monday. I don't even know what today is. I'm chatting with Senator Marston from Fairfax. I think the reality of the situation is that there's many, and you mentioned our three, chatted with all three of them as well. I think that they're inclined to believe, similar to what I've heard today around local control. I know Bayco is as well. The issue is with our legislators in more urban populated districts, such as Senator Marston from Fairfax, that believes that now that they're experiencing some of the budget crunches, that the rest of the Commonwealth shouldn't burden that. The solar bill is one I was speaking with him specifically about. It was passed last year. The governor vetoed it. The governor was already committed he would veto it this year. But I think the implications are in my brain for some of those things down the road a little bit when you don't potentially. I don't know what you do about that, but it's not once solar gets passed. There's going to be some other local control bills, I think, that come up because you've opened up the Pandora's box. I also think the lobby, I mean, as the commissioner shares as well, if you're able to connect with the lobbyists, they should give you a data summary with those. I know for many of my clients, it's one of the bills that are of interest to them. A data summary sheet and then a connection. So I feel like they should have that easily available of ones that impact local control. The only problem is when you look at the summary and then you read the multiple pages of the bill line by line, you find there's definition changes that are not in the summary. For example, with speed cameras, if they're just talking about funding, in the bill, they're actually changing what kinds of... Cameras. How many can be... What kinds of intersections they can be put at, then that's an important detail that wasn't in the summary. I don't want to speak to their association, but it sounds like they're just using LIS as opposed to updating the summary. Okay. Well, I want to have that discussion and explain to you all. The letter hadn't gone out, but we do need to weigh in. And there may be more than the original bills we're talking about that we're coming in on. So... If you have time through the ice storm tomorrow and over the weekend, let me know. But we shouldn't wait longer than that because I don't know when they start... So they've had... They were reading third readings last night on their current side. So I would say within the next week, they're going to be on third readings on the other chamber in some cases. So by next week or the week after, they could be voting on... I would say that in the next week, they're going to be voting on certain bills. On the opposite chamber. Okay. All right. And if I may, we were going to move forward with this calendar as written. Okay. As the key dates. And then we were also... Please email, call, come in with any questions, comments, and such. And we'll be there willing to meet with you. We're good. I'm nodding. All right. All in favor of adjourning, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? I said aye. I don't have a vote. I don't have a vote. Everybody gets to vote for adjournment. Thank you. Thank you.
