Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2020-10-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=65
========================================================================

I would last that you join me in a moment of silence and also during the moment of silence we remember our former commissioner is no longer with us, Mr. Larry Ambroji. Moment of silence, please. Thank you. Before I move on, I will say just a few words about Mr. Ambroji. Which one is that? Can you all hear me? Okay. We're just having some technical difficulties, but we got it. It's on. Okay. I'll slide down. I'll slide down just a little bit so I can be closer to the mic. I will say a few words about Mr. Larry Ambroji. He's a dedicated loyal servant, public servant to this area. He served on our numerous committees with us in the planning commission, and his passing was a shock to us all. So we do have an open seat. We will have a brief ceremony at our next meeting two weeks from now to honor him with a resolution. So, again, keep his family and himself in your arms. I appreciate that. Thank you. The next item on our agenda is the adoption of the agenda. If there's no changes to that, I'll take a motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you. The next one we have is two items. It is under our meeting minutes. We go for approval of our meeting minutes. The first one is for the August 5, 2020 meeting minutes. If we have no changes to those minutes as they were printed, I'll accept a motion to adopt those. Motion to adopt the August 5, August 5 minutes. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you. The next one is the August 16, 2020 minutes. If there's no changes to those minutes, I'll retain a motion to accept those. Motion to adopt the August 19th minutes. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you so much. Our next item is our committee report. And our first up is Mr. Bone with the Comp Plan Committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Comp Plan Committee met on September 14th. We had two items on the agenda, which are also items on this evening's agenda. The Waverly Farm Sewer and Water Service Area Expansion Request, which was a proposal ultimately to include 171 acres in the SWASA, and also an amendment to the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, to the Northeast Land Use Plan, to expand the sewer and water service boundary, or to make adjustments to that boundary, kind of to right-size it, and which has a net increase in that process of 335.43 acres. And that's inclusive of what would be adjusted for Waverly Farm. These efforts are both endorsed by the committee, recommended that they be approved. And these were also done in close collaboration with the committee. And those are in close collaboration with the planning process for Frederick Water. So again, those are on this evening's agenda. Thank you, sir. Thanks. Next one is myself. My committee chair is not here tonight, the DRC. So I'll just go down briefly, if you'll bear with me. We met on Thursday, September 24th, and discussed the two following items. The Board of Supervisors' adoption of the Ordinance Amendment to expand the definition of daycare facility, to include adult care adopted. Adult care also was adopted on September 23rd. And the second item was discussed at that meeting was the proposed Ordinance Amendment from a citizen through the Board of Supervisors representative to allow chickens in the county's RP, which is our residential performance zoning district. Discussion of the amendment also included the discussion of supplemental use regulations to address screening, noise, and odors from such use. This item will come before the Planning Commission for discussion on the October 2nd Planning Commission meeting. I think that date is wrong. I think it's October 20. I think it's October 21st. So thank you for that. And that takes care of that. And I'm going to change faces. I'm now the Transportation Committee representative. They met this past prior Monday. That was October 5th. There was three things that came before the committee there. And I believe one of them was the calming, striping in the Ravens and Oakdale Crossing to help alleviate some of the speed. The one ask for yourgrant concerns about regards to what hanging driving with the Street employee's parking there. I'm just going to put that there. If there's nobody else that has to do those functions, and everything else, the debate can continue. Certainly, I am not always at a lower place than everybody. So I was kind of looking ahead and having discussions about those issues. so moving right from that bear with me as i give you a quick and down and dirty update on the transfer county water uh report uh the new water treatment plant is soon to be under contract and up and started the contract the design is 60 complete and they're moving forward with the new water treatment plant and the swaza and connections and the northeast land use plans with sonar agenda tonight was also discussed at that meeting so that's what happens when we have numerous members not here that you get my smiling face so to give me a break now i'll go to winchester planning commission liaison mr mark loring i believe he has a report for us thank you mr chairman mark loring uh yesterday the winchester planning commission reviewed 11 action items three rezoning requests two site plan reviews three conditional use permits and three text amendments i'll just highlight four of them two of them i think you might be interested in the first of the rezoning of the former frederick county middle school site from low density residential low density residential with a planned unit development about 314 units somebody's come in and they've got a pretty interesting looking plan next is a site plan for a royal farms gas station on bearville avenue where the old pizza hut is right now uh the third is to relax a tech relax the ordinance on keeping chickens in the city so you might be interested in to see what we're doing there we'll take action on that in two weeks last is a site plan for the former sarazane fire house somebody wants to redevelop that and that that looks pretty good too thank you all interesting our last one is a board of supervisor liaison mr craver thank you mr chairman nothing to report from the board of supervisors however uh on behalf of the board and being on the representative of the board i'd like to pass along my condolences to the larry and brujie family and close personal friends he did a lot to serve the residents of the community and county and thank him for his many years of service can everyone still hear me hear me and if i look in good shape all right our next item is our citizen comments portion let me make a brief announcement on citizen comments are there any comments on that cna hearing uh procedurally we do not have public hearing tonight we had our public hearing for the tipping industrial park rezoning we had that 60 days ago we do not allow citizen comment portion to be a public hearing so that being said we have got your correspondence we have got all your information your your emails and and you've really your your desires with the tipping industrial park rezoning we understand that unfortunately procedural wise we're bound by those that we do if I ask for citizen comments please do not get up and speak on the tip in industrial park rezoning the citizen comments is for anything that's on our jet that's not on our agenda tonight and unfortunately that is on our agenda but it's not a public hearing item that public hearing now you will have your chance at a public hearing at the board of supervisors meeting will be your next form that you can get up and express your desires your complaints you know what have you like that at the book at the public hearing at the board supervisors meeting so I just want to clarify that there was any misunderstanding so at this time open assistant comment portion so if anyone like to speak to us about anything that's not on the agenda there's not one of those three items on there this is your time to come forward okay so just not this meeting and I'm sorry that's just how the procedures are I didn't write the procedures I'm just trying to follow them best I can but that no sir not at all and you see we don't want to appear that way but it's just we're just following procedure now what usually happens and I'll and I'll address everyone again is that when we get the changes that come forward tonight that don't mean what's going that we'll address tonight we'll go to the more supervisors it gets tweaked again so what you're going to see is maybe a different version even again so that being said I understand your your your comments and I'm just trying to follow the procedures I'm sorry I'm a closest citizen comments I'll go right to the action item up on our agenda which is the rezoning 0 to dash 20 I got this you mr. chairman members of the Commission this is a rezoning request for 19.8 acres to be rezoned from the RA royeries district to the b3 industrial transition district with prop proffers as you may recall the Pippin property is located on the western side of rod 11 South adjacent to the Apple and sports property it is also situated south of the limits of the Bartonsville historic area. Now you may recall this item was postponed for 60 days at your August 5th meeting, so tonight we're back in front of you with the applicants' revisions and to discuss this project again. So just for reference, the location map for the property is on the screen to your left. It fronts Route 11, and as you can see, the Apple and Sports property is that one to the south. So just to kind of a little history back from when this was first considered, the commission discussed a number of concerns from the initial application. They consisted of comments regarding the intensity of the use about the requested B3 district and conformance with that and the comprehensive plan, which calls for general business uses. There's also discussions on the buffering from Route 11. For the adjacent properties, due to the visibility and topography of the site, and then the screening of outdoor storage, visibility from the residential properties in the historic Bartonsville area, as well as concerns about accessibility to Springdale Road. Now since the August meeting, the applicant did submit a proffer statement revised dated September 4th. I'm just going to kind of go through those bullet points of what has changed, and then following that, if there is desire by the commission. If there is a need to do anything about it, I can then go through any of the other information from the previous discussions. So first, the changes include there's a right of way increased dedication for Pippin Lane, should it be needed in the future, should the Stevens City bypass need to be relocated from the Apple Land property a little south to this property. They have proffered to not allow any traffic from the development to access Springdale Road. There will be non-stop traffic to the area from the development and the east side of the property. There will be no additional traffic to the area from the development and the east side of the property. There will be no additional traffic from the development and the east side of the property. no parking or buildings within 250 feet of Route 11. They are also proposing a woven fence that would kind of run along that 250 feet in order to really kind of enclose that area so it would be able to grow up in the future. There's no outdoor storage permitted between Route 11 and the rear wall of the nearest building. All outdoor storage that faces the northern property boundaries will be screened by a six-foot fence or berm. The existing trees and vegetation in the shared fence line of the northern property boundary will remain undisturbed. And they also did proffer maximum building square footage of no more than 35,000 square feet. And they've also, to the list of prohibited uses, included gas stations, laundry, and labor unions. So that's the summary of the changes. And then the revised general generalized development plan does show the road locations, the buffers, the additional right-of-way that is proposed. So that's really, like I said, it's just a summary of the changes. If there's any desire, I can go back through the full list of proffers as well as what the comprehensive plan for the Kernstown area plan discusses. Any questions? Ms. Perkins. Ms. Perkins, have they committed to incorporating the VDOT comments? Transportation, and Mr. Bishop is here for any discussions about the transportation portions of it. They have discussed the road construction and as well as the phasing of it with the new proffers. So the new proffers do address all of the VDOT comments because there were a lot of comments by VDOT. Mr. Bishop, I'm not sure where. Like I said, I do want to defer transportation to the expert. I can pull up that section if you want. Yes, frankly, my understanding is that even the previous comments had already addressed, or the previous proffers had already addressed concerns with VDOT regarding entrance location and all that sort of thing. So we were comfortable from the VDOT perspective with the proffers already. So those should be fine. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How do you think they would meet their proffer that they will not allow any traffic from this area to Springdale Road? How would they enforce that? Frankly, it would be for us to enforce at subdivision and site plan. We wouldn't be allowing them to show a connection to the neighboring property. I mean, I admit it's somewhat in the eye of the beholder. It's a bit difficult to enforce. But I... I mean, frankly, you're talking about a commercial development with a direct access to Route 11. Take kind of a special individual to go through a back road that's not been allowed to be developed to go onto another windy, narrow road to get back to Route 11. Yeah, well, his... The property behind the 75 acres is right next to Springdale Road. So that concerns me a little bit. Consider that I... Consider that I was out there this afternoon and just about got run over by a dump truck just past the Anderson's front yard on Springdale Road. Luckily, there was a place for me to get off into the ditch and into an area where he didn't hit me. Well, and that's one of those things that as we proceed with the Renaissance Drive project, that's going to be a cul-de-sac on the Springdale Roads, on the rather the east side of the railroad track as well, which frankly is going to make it that much less desirable. Okay. Mr. Triplett. Yes, as far as transportation, total vehicle trips per day not to exceed 646. Yes, sir. How is that controlled, monitored, and what happens if it exceeds that? Once again, that's something that would actually get worked out as the site is developing using ITE trip generation rates for the proposed use. Any other questions? Mr. Joseph. Joe? The Springdale Road, that's already in the proper that they will not use that. But isn't there also, they'd have to build a bridge or something to even get back there on Springdale from the property? I believe they actually could technically go through the adjoining property and access. The adjoining property does have access to Springdale Road via just a normal driveway. I believe it's a shared driveway with another neighbor. My comment earlier just… Had to do with… I just don't see that as being a reasonable path. Right. And I'm not trying to in any way set aside the concerns of folks who have brought that forward. It's just if I'm going to a business on this road that has direct access to Route 11, it's very difficult for me to picture going all that way around to go to, frankly, a less desirable road. And the 646, is that right? 646? That's for vehicles, period. Yes. Right? Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. And that's different from… Okay. You'll notice in the proffer there's a design standard that refers to a higher number, but that's basically referring back to a VDOT design standard that's different from this trip generation restriction. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else? I don't have any questions for you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you. how much can't if i may and may may have to ask the applicant we're dealing with 19.9 acres 20 acres basically how many acres is out there total that could be on that we could be looking at something like this again down in a few years and this is just a tip of what we're starting with right you're referring to the back parcel um i honestly do not have the acreage of the back parcel um and just given looking at this map i mean this piece itself is 19 acres so you're looking at a good bit larger i can go i have a location map that actually shows the aerial a little better that's a zoom in so sorry there i guess you can see the the back property goes back a good ways but i defer to the applicant um to see if he had the actual acreage of the adjoining property okay thank you no sir there's no questions from the audience i'm sorry thank you any other questions miss perkins mr moldy um the comprehensive plan shows this as um rea right now and it could be moved up to general business which would be b2 zoning but we are considering moving this to b2 zoning so we're going to be moving this to b2 zoning and we're going to be moving this to the wtu zoning and we're going to be moving this to b2 zoning and we're going to be moving this to three is that correct that correct the Kernstown area plan calls the for the property would be general business which would be consistent when you look at the zoning ordinance of the b2 business general district so the property is currently zoned our rural areas the applicant is asking for a rezoning to the b3 industrial transition district okay any of the other property that's touching this this 19 acres would it have to go through this same process to be brought into the b3 or to be considered for b2 any property that wishes to be rezoned would one have to meet the intent of the comprehensive plan so within that area if you look to the screen which would be to your right as you can see that's a kind of a snippet of the Kernstown area plan for this property that orangish color is the general business and then you have north of that the developmentally sensitive area which is the Bartonsville area yeah so this is not consistent with the comprehensive plan is what I'm saying if we're asking for b3 I just that's all I need to say thanks sir there's a Platin our package that shows the parcel 75 has been 75 acres the parcel to the rear set tax back 74 75 is so I see that now so that okay thank you any other questions miss Perkins no thank you is that what we able to help determine how much you get from a comprehensive plan for this data use award space yeah good ponto is mentioned the policy in thecitizens review code of standards courts had announced the requirement says by 판 giving immigrants the option to have only two the last time I was here representing Mr. Gregory with this project. First is Springdale Road. We've talked about that a little bit. Our intention is to prohibit that connection to Springdale Road. It's not practical. If you look at the floodplain, if you look at the terrain, why would anyone want to drive back there on a curvy, windy road? It really is a difficult road. As Roger, you found out this afternoon, I used to live back that way. I understand. What's really interesting is to see a low boy on the railroad tracks when the train's coming. The traffic volumes, as was mentioned by Mr. Bishop, the 646 trips per day is total traffic. Generally speaking, that averages nationwide about 8% of that would be trucks, which ranges from the UPS truck to tractor trailers. It's not all tractor trailers. There's employees, there's customers, a variety of other traffic. It happens there. At our last meeting, the planning department expressed some concern about a single large building that may go there and be, quite honestly, visually unappealing. We've limited the size of the building to 35,000 square feet. That enables us to put multiple buildings on the site, but as we've looked at the terrain, we don't believe the buildings in the rear will be visible because of the viewshed and the angle from Route 11. We have a profile of that. Which I believe Ms. Perkins has, and we can look at if we so choose. Again, as I mentioned before, Pippin Lane is not co-linear with the Stephen City Bypass. They're two different roadway projects, and they're separated geographically. We have agreed to reserve an additional 30 feet of right-of-way along Pippin Lane. Should it be decided by this body and by Stephen City, that that should become the Stephen City Bypass. We're not going to be able to do that. We're going to have to do that in the Stephen City Bypass at some point in the future. So we've accommodated that. The buffer along Route 11 was a question last time. We offered an option for a 50-foot landscape berm or 150-foot natural vegetative buffer. As Ms. Perkins mentioned, we've increased that. We've gone to a 250-foot natural buffer. I mean, that's almost a football field. It encompasses about three acres of land. There will be stormwater management in the midst of it. But the goal is to... We're going to preserve that so that it's natural, and we'll blend in with what we see in the Bartonville Historic District. Outdoor storage was a concern the last time we were together, and the visibility of things that would be around these buildings, whether it's equipment or vehicles or construction equipment or whatever it might be. So we've added a proffer that says, hey, everything's got to be behind the building that's closest to Route 11. And we'll put an opaque fence up that's six feet high to screen. We'll do as much of that as possible. We also heard comments that B3 was too intense for this area. And we've proffered out additional uses to try to mitigate that concern. I will say, if you look at some of the B2 uses, I mean, we're talking general business here. There's motels, restaurants, and other things that would be a much more intense use than what we're proposing. Bars, hotels, shopping, grocery stores. That would generate tremendous amounts of traffic, far more than what we're proposing. So we think this is the appropriate way. There were comments about visual aspect from Route 11. Again, we think, based on the profile that we've looked at, the front building is going to screen those that are behind it because of the terrain. And we think that'll be beneficial. The comprehensive plan was recently updated, and the historic overlay for Bartonville, and the Kernstown plan. And areas outside of that were designated for commercial development. So it's clear where that historical district ends and the commercial begins. And it's interesting, on the north side, there are areas that are designated in the comprehensive plan for commercial. And there will be three uses to the north of this Bartonville district. And, I don't know of any problems that have existed from, for example, shine trucking or some of the businesses up that way. So, so we've tried to take all these things into account. And, that's a brief summary of how we've gone about that. And I would be glad to answer any questions that you might have. Any questions? Mr. Stowe? Mr. Joe? Mr. Joe, circling this back, the purpose of, this is for Mr. Gregory to move his business on this property. Is that correct? That is, that is, yes. He wants to move his business here. Yes. In order to do that, it has to be B3. Correct. Okay. So I just wanted to confirm that. Yes, sir. Mr. You say it's for Mr. Gregory to move his business on the site, and I understand it has to be B3. But, in his proffer, he has left a large number of items that would be allowed to be moved. That would be, that would be, that would be, that would be, that would be allowed on the property that really aren't needed for him to move his business there. The ones that you've proffered out, for the most part, you wouldn't put there anyhow. So if it's just for Mr. Gregory to move his business there, why haven't you proffered out a lot of the other uses that are allowed on a B3 property that wouldn't be needed for him to move his business there? As I stated earlier, in response to a discussion we had, at the last meeting, rather than one large building, we're going to put multiple buildings and limit those to 35,000 square feet. So we want to have the flexibility for not only Mr. Gregory, but maybe complementing businesses to come in as well in some of the other buildings. I understand. That doesn't really answer my question, because complementing businesses, there's still a lot in B3 that wouldn't be considered complementary businesses to his business. So, that leaves me with a question. It leaves a big opening there. It gives him flexibility is what it does. Yes. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Stowe, describe a little bit this woven fence. Are we talking just like a chain link fence, or are you talking about an American wire fence type? We're talking about an American wire fence that would not be visually obtrusive. So it would look more than nothing, more like a bed of pasture down below. That is correct. And that plan, if you, like I probably did with the rest of everyone else, to refresh them, I remember you had a plan to be here all your life. That land pretty much was not going to be used for anything anyway for developmental purposes, because the way it lays. So we're really not talking about a big sacrifice here. And what it does is allows the vegetation to grow up, the trees to grow up, which will provide additional visual buffer for Mount 11. That's the benefit of it. By my lack of hair and the color of yours, that vegetation could grow for our lifetimes again, and not get tall enough to obscure them, buildings on that elevation that I'm looking at today. And that would have to be some fast-growing vegetation. So it's a little disheartening that that's in there, that it really does nothing other than it's a drive-by type of situation. But I understand what your intent is on that. So thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Monk. Just a clarification, Mr. Stowe. Just to confirm, the limitation on square footage is for any one building. So the total square footage for the site's not limited to 35,000 square feet. It's that no single building will exceed 35,000 square feet, correct? That is correct, yes. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you. This is an action item. It's a discussion item also. So that means we have comments and discussion among the commissioners. So at this time, does anybody have any other comments or questions they'd like? Mr. Thomas. I'm a little concerned about that. I'm a little concerned about this. I agree. I do not think this is in accordance with the comprehensive plan. And once we, if this would be rezoned to B3, that sets a precedent that all of the areas around it can be rezoned to B3. Because if we rezone this, what reason will we have to turn down adjacent properties being rezoned? I look at this as being a very piecemeal approach. We're looking at it as a very peaceful approach. We're talking about 20 acres, and there's another 75 or 70 acres behind it that I have no doubt once this is rezoned, it will come in to be rezoned, which is a significant development. Now, yes, the area behind, maybe the neighbors wouldn't see as much. But if we're going to do this, I'd really like to see the whole package and not a piecemeal approach to rezoning this. Rezoning at the B3? Yes. Because it is open to all parties for me to talk to as many waterfall Fahrenheit or whatever I'm Bi MARK Alex and Director لANDL. And add a trivia, what should we talk about now? If you interact with the community, your next smile will be fired. Springdale Road, but it was impractical for that dump truck that almost ran over me today to be on Springdale Road too, but yet there they were. So I'm not sure that does us much. As you mentioned, the 250-foot buffer in the front, that area in the front's not economically developable anyhow, so that proffer sounds nice, but it really isn't anything. It's just recognizing that, yes, we couldn't develop that anyhow, so we'll proffer this to you. Addressing the VDOT comments, I'm still not real sure about some of the transportation comments. I do not know how they will monitor the 646 trips per day. I mean, is that going to be staff? VDOT's not going to go out there and count cars. I don't know how they're going to keep traffic off Springdale Road. I think traffic safety there is a significant issue, I just do not think this is consistent with the comprehensive plan. Now, maybe I could be convinced if for B3, if they came in with the whole 100 acres or the whole area that will come in in the future at some point to be developed and proffered out a whole bunch of other stuff, but this isn't where it would need to be for me to consider it adequate and satisfactory. I do not think this is what we had. I think it's something that we had in mind in the comprehensive plan when we developed it. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Anyone else? Mr. Molden? I just want to basically second Commissioner Thomas's comments. I think, and earlier what Mr. Molden said, I feel like there is a disconnect here with the comprehensive plan. You know, it may seem subtle in some ways that, oh, it's going from B2 to B3 or, you know, some version of commercial, but I think it's important. It's significant. I do feel, and I mentioned it, I think, at the last meeting that the first step in this process, if it was going to go in this direction, was really to look at the area in its totality and look at it as a comprehensive plan amendment first so that we could kind of get our arms around it and understand how it would fit. I also feel that when it's a property on the edge of a development area or a developable area and you have this developmentally sensitive area immediately adjoining it, that I feel like the level of expectation for it is going to be a little bit different. I think that the expectation for design commitments goes up. You know, so while I appreciate some of the efforts that the applicant has made to try to address some of our concerns, I don't feel like it really gets to that point. I would feel the same way, frankly, if it was a B2 request, that we would be looking for that. And similarly, if it were B2, I wouldn't think it would be all the B2 uses that would necessarily be appropriate. This is a unique spot, so I think we need to be careful about that while we consider it. But as of now, I still have a lot of concerns. I couldn't support it. Thank you, Mr. Monahan. Anyone else? Mr. Jewell. Well, I think there's a – one of the issues here is you're telling a businessman you can't develop on your property. In order to develop on his property, it's got to be B3. So that's an issue in itself. I mean, I know – I understand the comprehensive plan is B1, B2, but by the same token, Mr. Gregory has made it clear that he wants to – Mr. Jewell. I mean, he has made it clear that he wants to move his business there. In order to move his business there, it needs to be B3. Now, Roger, I'm not in disagreement about the – you know, they could strike. And really, to be a good neighbor, that would be the right thing to do is to come back and strike out things that will make the citizens happy and make us happy. But at the end of the day, I'm – this is about a small business that's trying to do something. So I really think that that has to be taken into consideration here. Thank you, sir. Kevin. Mr. Chisholm. My concerns are exactly the same as Roger's. I just think I'd rather see the whole thing done at this particular time so it doesn't come back later on to haunt us. And just a little caveat. 35,000 square feet. We can't visualize 35,000. We can't visualize 35,000. Can any of us? But picture a 70-foot wide by 500 feet, and it shows you what you have. That is a heck of a building. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Don't want to forget my three members on the floor. Do you all have any comments? I'll just make a quick one. I echo exactly what the three commissioners to my left have said. I think that the devils in the details, a lot of these, and not every site is right to relocate a business. A lot of business people have a lot of options, and this probably is not his only option either. And it doesn't fit with our comprehensive plan, whether we have a comprehensive plan that's 100% accurate. If anyone in this room is 100% accurate, step forward. They can sit up here with us. But I don't think our comp plan is 100%. This one here just doesn't fit. I don't think anyone realized in the late 70s, or even probably in the late 60s when it first was initiated at Stonewall Industrial Park, that those trucks would eventually be going down Welltown Pike, and then we have the trouble in Welltown Pike that we have now over there. That thing has grown and it has spilled out. That said, Springdale Crossing is its current form. You cannot access it because of the railroad crossing. And my experience in my years of being in the development and industrial world, I've been in industrial areas. That soon will change. They'll go into the next, I have a feeling they're going to go to that next acreage. They're going to access on the other part of it, and we'll be fighting the same issue again. So I still have problems. I think some of the proffers that they did make a valid effort to there, I do echo a lot, especially what Mr. Mone says. When we are in these sensitive areas like this, we have to make sure that we go above and beyond. And we see that a lot in the rezonings. Whether we like the... And you know, I'm not saying that we're going to be able to do that. But I think there's some standards that you want to see there. And this, when you see that area out there, it just doesn't lend itself to this use and to this high intensity. Now, is it an industrial park? That's up for debate whether they used the right terminology. But that's the terminology we got in front of us. And so just to go back in history a little bit, how things evolve, and I think we are at a precarious place with this one. I think that other 75 acres concerns me also. And I think that's my two cents. And with that, if no one has any other comments, this is a Back Creek district. And I'll entertain a motion if everyone's finished commenting. I'm going to make a motion that we approve the rezoning of application number 02-20. Do I have a second? Second. I have a motion to approve and I have a second. And I'll do the voting. Start with Mr. Molden, if you don't mind. Molden, no. Morrison, no. No, no. Triplett, no. Thomas, no. Ryan, yes. Daniel, yes. Jewell, yes. Any chair votes no. The motion has failed. This will go to the Board of Supervisors. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. I'll go. It would be appropriate to have an affirmative motion, even if that is a motion to deny. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. You're exactly right. This time I'll entertain a motion. I'll take Mr. Jewell off the hook. I make a motion that we recommend denial of this rezoning application. I second that. I have a second. And I'll put Mr. Jewell right back on the hook. I'll have him go first. Mr. Jewell. Jewell votes no. Daniel, no. Ryan, no. Thomas, yes. Triplett, yes. Mone, yes. Coffin, yes. Johnson, yes. Morrison, yes. Molden, yes. Any chair votes yes. So now it can move towards the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Stay out. And that goes for public hearing on October 28, 2020. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll let everyone just kind of clear out, and we'll go from there. Do you have the next one? Okay. Huh? Well, they don't put your name on it anymore. They don't put the names on them anymore. Yeah. All right, moving on to our next item. I'm surprised you're whoever stands up. I try to stay ahead of it. Our next item on there is an information discussion item. It's CPPA 01-20 for Waverly Farm Sewer Water Extension. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. The Waverly Farm Comprehensive Plan Amendment request is a request to expand the boundaries of the sewer water service area around four parcels of land. The request includes 145 acres, and the site is located west and adjacent to Interstate 81, south of Hope Railroad in the Stonewall Magisterial District. And I'll just talk to the location map real quick. The subject properties that are being requested with the Comprehensive Plan Amendment are shaded in this kind of green hatched area. If you look on the map to the other side, we have Interstate 81 in this area. And then, as you can see, HAWA. How the sewer water service area currently kind of bubbles around the interchange. So the properties are currently zoned RA rural areas utilized for agricultural purposes. As I stated on this one, the sewer water service area in this area does encompass about 51 acres of that area. And so what they are seeking is to include the bulk of their land that they own into the entire limits of the sewer water service area. So I would note that during the review and discussion of this, what is being shown in the maps and presented by staff as well as Frederick Water is a slightly larger area of the boundary, really just to create more of a consistent line for the area. So it would go from the applicant's request of the 145 acres to about 171 acres. So what if you can see the applicant's request, as I said, is that the area is going to be a little bit larger. So they're going to say it was that green area. So there was this little kind of triangle area that was left out. So it was just really bumped along the main road to just go around that entire area. And so what you see on this map is Frederick Water was a big part of this study with Waverly as well as Northeast Land, Eastland, and Swaziland, which is the next item. So as you can see, this is Frederick Water's map for their recommended Swaziland boundary. So it is consistent with what's in front of you tonight showing that 171 acres. With the plan amendment, staff is also proposing text for Appendix 1 in the Northeast Land Use Plan. I would note that the plan does not currently contain text for this area. So what we're trying to do with that text piece is to really outline the importance of the sewer water service area, its relationship to economic development planning, and the recognition for the need for funding. of infrastructure for improvements in that area should properties want to develop in the future that may come into the sewer water service area. It's really guiding text so that they understand that there is limited capacity in this area and participation is really going to be a key to moving forward with development. So a little history of where this has been. Originally, the Comprehensive Plan Committee discussed the proposal that was submitted by the June 1st Committee. It was submitted by the June 1st deadline at the July 2020 meeting. They did recommend further study of the Waverly Farm Amendment. It went to the Joint Planning Commission Board of Supervisors work session in August where they did direct staff to move the item forward for future further discussion. Frederick Water was also studying the request following that work session. And then their board adopted what is called the Recommended Swaziland Revisions in the Route 11 North Corridor. They approved that at their September 5th meeting. And that was really an analysis of the entire Northeast Land Use Plan swaza. It also included Waverly. So following that, it went to the September Comprehensive Plan Committee meeting. And the committee did recommend approval of the Waverly expansion, totaling the 171 acres, as well as the text that is proposed. So with that, this item is presented for discussion. We are seeking comments and recommendations. Thank you. We also have a recommendation for the Waverly expansion for the 171 acres as well as the draft text. And those comments and recommendations will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors when they discuss this at their October 14th meeting. Any discussion? Any questions? Mr. Thomas. Ms. Perkins, do the property owners of that additional 16 acres, do they care if they're included in the swaza or not? They do know that they are included in the swaza. We did send out, let's see, we do send out ajoiner notifications to the applicants. And they will also be notified of the public hearing. But they are aware. Does that change their property assessed values? No, because it's still zoned agriculturally. So it does not change that portion of it, only when they come in for a rezoning. Anyone else? What say ye? We like it. Move it forward. Yeah, I like it. Move it forward. Do we need a motion? We don't need a motion. It's an information discussion. So it's just a. I think it will make a lot of people in that area happy. I think it's going to be needed. So thank you. Is that good enough? You got what you need? No concerns about the text or the proposal. Good. All right. We'll move on to our next item then. Our next item also is an information discussion item. It's the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Amendment for the City of Waube. And it's a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors. And it's a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors. And it's a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors. It's a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors. The plan I've read in the regulations, you said I could be to you this afternoon if you'd like. I'll go on. Yeah, he'll be pit us. on the overall boundary. It also examined areas that could be adjusted either by being encompassed with an expansion to be included in the sewer water service area or eliminated from the existing limits. It also provided the opportunity to examine the boundaries and look at areas that the current line may not follow property boundaries because there are some areas especially around the interchange where past land use plans have more bubbled around it instead of followed property boundaries. And also with this the Northeast land use plan text that was part of the previous item would also be part of this item because it would also apply. So the study was coordinated with Frederick Water and again for that they did adopt the recommended swaths of boundary adjustments for that area. Kind of the big items that were in the list of the area that we're going to look at today are the areas that were most affected by the water and sewer service. So the first two areas that were adopted approved recommendations were removal of areas currently in the sewer water service area that would not require water and sewer service. Addition of areas planned with a plan to future land use that would require eventual hooking up to water and sewer. A notation and an understanding that private investment in the sewer water service area would be a significant improvement in the sewer water service area. And then the second area that was adopted was the removal of the sewer water service area. So in the case of Lake Ridges what they did recommend was removal about 681 acres. The addition of 1017 acres which shows a net increase in the sewer water service area of about 335 acres. And I would note that they they did focus a lot of their expansions on past comprehensive plan amendment requests that we have seen over the years that have been denied. As the water just �und don't keep any additional claims withobi ss are Google made sessions we suggest that these sections be expanded to någrauc large and 40 percent  Seems something extremely troublesome to do this type of a generalized action. We ask that the owners of emergency 911 use those new programs in the Haddon river area. If you feel that what we now do if you are married or have children if you are in an Again, on the eastern side of 81, it was added to the northeast land use plan a number of years ago, but remains outside of the sewer water service area. So that's this area. And then the area for removal is this area here with a future planned extractive manufacturing land use because that use does not require public water and sewer. So I would note that there are two areas that are proposed or shown as remaining outside of the sewer water service area that do have a planned land use. It was discussed by the CPPC, and they did not recommend those being included with this study and that they should seek a future comprehensive plan amendment request. They agreed with Frederick Waters, kind of draft recommended adjustments because those properties have not previously. come in for inclusion. So if you can bear with me, this is that top area, Rush Church Road. There's this little middle section here that is not included. And then kind of a little southwest of Waverly is the other area. So a little application history. It does follow a similar time frame that Waverly followed. It originally started out kind of as the Waverly Farm CPPA, where the comp plan committee did recommendations. They recommended further study of Waverly, but then they also recommended a further study of the Northeast Land Use Plan. Then when it went to the work session for the Planning Commission and the Board, they moved Waverly forward. But then as a separate item, they wanted to see a limited scope of just a swath boundary review of the Northeast Land Use Plan. And then with that, Frederick Waters then issued their recommendations and then Comprehensive Plan Committee September meeting endorsed those recommendations. And the 10th. And the text and then not including those two parcels. So with that, we are seeking any comments that you may have to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Again, what we're looking at is that addition of the 681 removal of the 1017, the Northeast Land Use Plan text again, as well as the Comprehensive Plans Committee discussion of not including those two parcels. So, if you have any questions. And again, this will also go to the board's October 14th. Meeting already. Any questions for Miss Perkins? Got one for Mr. Thomas. I'll be disappointed if it didn't. No questions but a comment. Yes, sir. I know this looks like it's an addition of 350 acres plus or minus, but really it's an addition of 1000 acres because the 600 plus acres was never going to need sewer and water service. So we have significantly increased the area where we might have to provide sewer. And water service. So the practicality of us being able to provide that in the future could be pretty expensive to current Frederick County residents that depend that depend on that service for sewer and water. Yes, the developer is going to have to pay to develop, put the lines in and that put the treatment plants and the water sources. We don't usually get a lot from developers on those. So let's let's not put our head in the sand and think that. You know, this is only 300 plus acres. It's really an addition of 1000 practical acres or 1000 additional acres that may need sewer and water. And by that little bubble that's not in there, we have another big area that again, because of precedence. Why wouldn't that be included in the future? You have the area north of it. You have the area south of it. So if that comes in, I don't know what that was. Another 200 or so acres. The precedent is there that if we include this. There's really little justification not to include that. So we need to do this with our eyes open and not think that it's just 300 acres. And when Frederick Water has done their land planning, they really take the entirety of the acreage that's currently in the sewer water service area. And that's what they've typically based their capacities on. So they have actually looked at that EM or extractive manufacturing as far as I wouldn't say reserved, but a understood piece of land. That's kind of part of. That's part of their whole. And they also with their recommendations in their report, they do have a number of bullet points of kind of understandings of these things are going to have to come online, such as, you know, new plants, expansions and things of that nature. So. Anyone else? Mr. Mullen. I just would. Yeah, I take your point. I think it's a good clarification. And I think the important thing to keep in mind, though, too, is every piece of ground that's been brought in or being brought in as part of this adjustment into the swaths has been planned. I mean, you know, it's identified for a future land use. It's not expanding our development area, if you will. This is all area that we have anticipated through our prior planning efforts with the Northeast Land Use Plan. So in a way, what's happened is we're able to right size the swaths with the input from Frederick Water that we've never had before. We've always had, well, you know, maybe we can serve it. We'll see what happens with the developer. And now, which is a great place to be. We actually had. A real study and a real coordinated plan and a sense of how we can get there, because I think that was always our concern about should we go ahead and bump out the swaths with this land use or hold back? You know, because we never knew quite enough. So you're right. Absolutely. That there are other downstream costs that I think are going to have to be considered. But at the same time, you know, it really does align our infrastructure planning with our land use planning. So I think that's a positive in the big picture. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Anyone else? Seeing no other has any more discussion. I think we're good with this. I think everyone's nodding their heads and shaking in agreement. So I think we move it forward to the board also on the October 14th meeting. And thank you, Miss Perkins, for both those force. We have reached that part of our meeting was the other. We will have a meeting on October 21st. I think there are a couple items already on that right now. I will. I will also just remind everyone, like we said earlier, to keep the Ambroji family in their thoughts and prayers. He was a good, loyal servant to us. And with that, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. Do I have a second? I'll second it. All those in favor of adjournment? Aye. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
