Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-08-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=291
========================================================================

you you you you you you you j should be hold this your on you gonna are here you gonna Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let us pray. Father, we praise you and we do thank you for your great love for us. We thank you, Lord, that your plans for us are not to harm us, but to prosper us, to give us a hope-filled future. I pray, Father, that throughout this meeting that we would have your godly wisdom. You said that if we lack wisdom, we can ask of you and that you would give it to us freely. I pray, Father, that we would give preferential treatment to one another. As we've been loved by you, that we might love you. We give you all the thanks and all the praise. I thank you for these that you've placed in authority and positions of decisions. And I pray that you would give them direction and that we would all be heard. And that, Lord, that you would validate each person and that your will would be achieved. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Vice Chair. Vice Chair. Let us please stand and join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. We move to the adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion. I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the agenda? Seeing no one, all in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Citizen comments. These are for agenda items that are not the subject of a public hearing. I've seen a lot of signs outside about an issue or two. Mr. Ballhofer, the data center discussion later is not. That's correct. So if people are here for the data center subject, this is your time to speak at the beginning of the meeting, as well as for anyone else here for any item in the agenda that's not a public hearing. If it's marked by public hearing, I recommend you wait then because that's when we'll be taking up the public hearing topics one by one. Jay. Yes, Mr. Chairman. We have 16 speakers signed up. Very good. The first one is Willie. Dooch from Opec and District. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Dooch. I reside in the Opec and District. Thank you all for your ongoing consideration of this data center issue. There is the agenda item at the end discussing having an impartial and objective study of the topic. And I think those two words are critical. So part of having it. And I think the idea of having an impartial and objective study is the research that goes into it on the back end. And so I would urge that you all make sure that we're pulling in studies from the U.S. Department of Energy that talk about our power situation. Jay Lark with Virginia has a study on the power issues. But also look to our other localities. Loudon, Prince William, Fairfax. They all have studies of what they have done as a locality. Prince William right now is going through a whole sound study. They've had a citizen committee that's been combined with staff that have been dealing into the whole issue of sound. They're getting ready in September to issue recommendations on how to mitigate sound issues for data centers. They've got at least three studies that Prince William County has done just on that topic alone. So there's a rich trove of studies from different governmental agencies. However, I know for a fact this county has been talking with the data center coalition for months. So there's been already studies. There's been a lot of studies that are coming in that are one-sided on this topic. So if we're going to include in this report studies that are from the data center coalition who are the advocates for building more data centers in Northern Virginia, then we need to also then look and talk to the other advocates on the other side of the issue. Right? So Piedmont Environmental Council has put out a whole lot of studies. As they've pushed back on digital gateway, they've pushed back on different data centers in Loudon. Same thing for the Coalition to Protect Prince William County has been the leading group opposing the digital gateway. They've got a whole bunch of studies that they've been doing for years going through the power situation. The other group that you all need to talk to is our power co-ops. So REC just had a shareholder call where they were talking about the potential of brownouts and not being able to service enough power. So they're looking into it. So you all should talk to them when you do that as well. The other issue that is not addressed here is county staffing. So our planning department and our commission of revenues departments are very small, especially compared to Loudon and to Prince William County and to Fairfax where they're bringing in data centers already. And there should be some level of a study of what does it require from planning staff to have appropriate staffing to be able to oversee these buildings. So that's one of the things that we're looking at. Thank you. So we're looking at the planning and planning projects. Same thing with the commission of revenues office. Prince William County has two people that just assess data centers. Loudon County, I've talked to someone who works in their department. They've got four. And these are people dedicated just to assessing data centers. So we're talking about the revenue that people are projecting from data centers. It's a matter also up front of making sure that the county, we've got the staffing to assess that revenue. all those guidelines are actually upheld and can be enforced. So if we're going to have an impartial and objective study, please make sure it covers all of those topics to make sure it's thorough. Next is Demarchi Spears. Hello. I'm here to speak on item number 13 as well as for the data centers. Thank you for providing this opportunity to share my perspective. My name is Demarchi Spears. I'm in the Back Creek District. I wish to express my very strong opposition to the continued study for the proposal data center. Many individuals in our community have firsthand experience with the impacts of data centers in their areas. It is crucial that we genuinely listen to these voices, understand how their lives have been affected. A significant number of residents have specifically relocated to this area to escape the negative consequences. associated with data centers. The proposed Meadow Branch data center in particular would have an immediate and devastating impact on my agribusiness, forcing its closure. This would not only end my current income but also jeopardize my future, effectively dismantling what I have dedicated most of my life to building. To those who would advocate for these data centers, I would like to highlight that there are numerous avenues for income within our community, extended beyond traditional crops and orchards. It is concerning to witness a pursuit of wealth at the expense of others, especially when it involves abandoning deeply-rooted livelihoods. While the appearances and potential budget benefits the data center might be emphasized, the irreversible damage they inflict through excessive water and power consumption will lead to issues from which our county may not recover. We have already seen that solar panel initiatives have not fully lived up to their expectations, and we must avoid making another similar mistake in our county. Therefore, I earnestly urge you not to consider this. Thank you. Gary Krause. Good evening, members of the Board of Supervisors and public. My name is Gary Krause from the Shawnee District. I'm a Christian husband, a father of three beautiful girls, and a special operations intelligence veteran of over a decade of service with multiple tours overseas. My family moved to Frederick County in 2021 from South Ashburn to escape the soulless data centers that stripped away community character. Today, I speak in direct opposition to any massive hyperscale data centers projects in Frederick County. But I offer a forward-thinking solution to meet our county's revenue needs without compromising our values. First, on the topic of data centers. The Water Consulting. The Water Consulting. The Water Consulting. The Water Consulting. I think it will be well covered, but the existing infrastructure in the county, specifically in certain areas up north, will not meet the needs of hyperscale data centers. Approving such projects with straight-air utilities and resources risking the quality of life that makes Frederick County special. Second, hyperscale data centers are unnecessary. As a lead software engineer working on small modular data centers, none planned for this state or even county, I know that affordable hardware and software now enable small businesses and even individuals to run private AI or cloud systems for the price of a new car. These solutions meet computing needs without the massive infrastructure, environmental impact, or community disruption of hyperscale facilities. Now for my solution. A Bitcoin-enhanced bond to fund infrastructure or rural preservation for the county. I recommend Frederick County issue a five to ten year bond with five to ten percent of the proceeds used to purchase Bitcoin. At maturity, both the county and bondholders share in Bitcoin's appreciation, allowing the bond to be issued at a below market rate, approximately around one percent. This reduces the debt burden on taxpayers in the county, while raising tens of millions in outside capital for infrastructure projects or rural preservation, without selling land or inviting sprawling development that will turn us into Loudoun 2.0. This approach positions Frederick County as a national leader in technological and financial innovation. As president of the Shenandoah Bitcoin Club, I offer my network of professional experts and companies ready to assist at little to no cost. Bitcoin is no longer a niche. It's a global monetary revolution rooted in the digital age. It's a global revolution rooted in the irrefutable truth of mathematics. It's fixed 21 million coin cap ensures a conservative, inflation-free monetary policy accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Individuals, businesses, or even county governments. The White House has issued an executive order for a US strategic Bitcoin reserve. The Bitcoin ETF is the most successful ETF in history. The states of Texas, New Hampshire, and Arizona are developing their own Bitcoin reserves. At a recent town hall I attended at Shenandoah University, I was asked to share my experience with the Bitcoin ETF. Senator Mark Warner declared, quote, Bitcoin is here to stay, end quote. By adopting a Bitcoin-enhanced bond, Frederick County can fund infrastructure or rural preservation, preserve our community's soul, and lead as a pioneer in this monetary revolution. Thank you for your time and consideration. I'm happy to answer any questions or connect you with experts to explore this opportunity further. Alicia Scully. Hello. My name is Alicia Scully. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm a member of the White House. I'm Alicia Scully, and I'm from the Shawnee District. Twenty-two years, twenty-two years I have known Demarchi Spears, owner of Trumpet Vine Farm. Twenty-two years I have been riding at Trumpet Vine Farm. Over these years, Demarchi has invested his entire life into this farm. The dedication and money he has invested The dedication and money he has invested to make his venue one of the most memorable places for people to get married, to celebrate, and to gather. Sorry. Not only will this destroy his business, it will have a huge impact on his business. It will have a huge impact on the horses and farm animals that live here. I keep three horses at this farm. Saint, an almost 40-year-old quarter horse, has lived his entire life on this farm. Chief, a 22-year-old thoroughbred has lived over half of his life on this farm. Skye, a seven-year-old quarter horse, has lived his entire life on this farm. There are goats and chickens, shepherds and cats that also live on this farm. Please consider the harm that the construction noise pollution and potential e-waste contamination that cause these animals. I am their voice and it is unfair to put them in this predicament as they have no say. I'm speaking to help protect Trumpet Vine Farm and to say no to data centers. Thank you for your time. Brian Nury. Good evening members of the board, chairman's husband. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a representative of the... Chairman, you've spent years cursing, getting thrown out of meetings, and insulting many members on this board. Can I have my time reset Mr. Tibbs? I am not the chairman. Excuse me? So address me as such. You're putting that on the record while during my speaking time. Please continue. Can I get the timer reset Mr. Tibbs? It's set at 2 49. Well, it's your loss. All right. This issue of data centers is one that's caused a lot of, you know, concern in the state, a considerable amount of grief. Back in March, this board started discussing the issue. Now, initially, most of the members of this board were against data centers. However, the chairman suddenly became concerned about increasing regulation and a loss of buy-ride allowances. But then a couple months later was then concerned about wastewater and how to regulate that. So in and of itself, a switch like this is an odd, odd, odd thing. And so, you know, I think it's a good thing that we're seeing a lot of change in the state of the Commonwealth. The next big change is the state of the Commonwealth. The state of the Commonwealth has been changing since the beginning of the 20th century, and it's been changing since the beginning of the 20th century. And that's a big change that we're seeing. And it's a big change that we're seeing. Do you know who owns that? Governor Youngkin. And part of his personal lobby platform is to expand data centers in Virginia. So if so many of you like to use the term, follow the money, well, there it is. In addition, I wish Bill Wiley and Dolores Oates were here to explain their voting records as well as Timmy French. They both voted, or all three of them voted, against HB 1601 and SB 1449, bills that would be used to control the state of the Commonwealth. And they're not just the state of the Commonwealth, they're the local eher. And I think this has to do with all into the Station мон method where additional regulation-opposed statewide regulations are being proposed for proposed data centers, requiring the petitioners to pay for the impact studies rather than the localities. However, the governor vetoed this because, of course, additional regulation, which we're getting in the county now. So when it comes down to the final vote, whether we do this study or not... We've had three data centers already voted down by this board, but the matter is never going to be dead. So my question is this, when the time comes to manage the data centers, which Josh Ludwig are we going to get? Are we going to get the Josh Ludwig that follows Governor Youngkin's money? Are we going to get the anti-growth Josh Ludwig? And for the voters in Frederick County, I would remind you, remember this on November when you go to vote. Thank you. Vicki Michaels. I want to say thank you to the board for giving us this opportunity to speak. And I want to say a special thank you for the invocation and the Pledge of Allegiance. I am proud to be living in a county that still does that. I hadn't planned to speak this evening. And so I'm going to be reading just because I jotted some things down. I'm going to be reading the book. I'm going to be reading the book. I'm going to be reading the book. I'm going to be reading the book. I'm going to be reading the I apologize that I'm not making eye contact, but I'm a little nervous. Some apple trees and farmland. That's what I saw when I first moved to this area. Now, my family's been in this area since James Monroe Esquire gave the land in Wardensville, Virginia, before it became West Virginia. But I'm new. I've only been here 44 years. A community where families could afford to live and our children thrive. At first, it was slow, a change we barely noticed. Then we heard that this part of a park had been sold, or this parcel of land had been re-zoned. Years ago, and this subdivision was changed, as something was approved long ago. None of us remember it, but we live with what our previous supervisors approved. I appreciate your concern and your desire to have staff compile information regarding the impact of data centers. Less of a loaded theme, but would it be appropriate to ensure staff obviously have a bailout account? Or do we need to do that? Let's start with what does the community want? These data centers? Do we want farmland rezoned and turned into data centers? Is there data showing the economic impact on electric bills where data centers have been built? Have there been sufficient studies of any possible health effects? Across the country, we built major power lines near schools before we determined that there were possible links to increased cancers. Many, many years ago, I came before this board to discuss housing developments, and I inquired about impact fees rather than local residents having to pay it for it to be passed on to the builders. I was met with deer in the headlight stairs. Please don't let this be another one of those moments. I was going to be sarcastic and say I don't want a data center because I want more houses, but I'm not going to be sarcastic. I'm going to be sarcastic and say I don't want a data center because I want more houses, but I'm not going to be sarcastic and say I don't want a data center because I want more houses, Rezoning 10-24, 319 single-family homes has already been stopped based on your five-acre rule. Keep your promises. A friend once told me that you can't fight City Hall, but I also recall an entire school board being voted off when it appeared they forgot who the community was that they served. I'm asking you to please listen to your community, and when you do, please listen to your community. I know that when you do have staff that are pulled for this, and I know that it is, as the gentleman spoke, you don't have the staff to do it, but when you have them pull, please look at all angles, not just the person with the pockets. Thank you. Tony Cole. Good evening, Chairman, Supervisors. I'm Tony Cole from the Back Creek District, so I appreciate your time today. I just wanted to point out a couple things, and greatly appreciate this woman with some great comments. It's a good lead-in for me, unplanned. You have in front of you a petition, hopefully sitting on your desk there. Really, we had that one compelling event in our area with Meadowbrook, and we put this petition out, and we were shocked how many people jumped on board and were vehemently opposed to the data centers, as am myself and many others out there as well. So I think you'll... you'll really be interested to look at the comments, so from your constituents that talked about, you know, data centers and how they are just diametrically opposed to that coming into their county. I think there's a lot of challenges around this, and I think that you really need to look very hard. There were some great comments earlier about the staff. Do we have the people to support looking at it? I've spent 42 years in technology, 20 years in the Army, and then recently as a Chief Technology Officer, and I worked for NASA, and then I worked for NASA's Trade Council. I've been in the industry a long time. I've worked for NASA's Trade Council, and I've been on their advisory council, and quite frankly, some of the things that I focused on in my past, I'm a little ashamed of that what we're seeing today come out with data centers in these hyperscale centers, you know, that, quite frankly, are not needed. I mean, they're not needed. They're going to literally destroy this country. When you look at the water usage alone, and you look at the problems we've had for the last few years, and some are already going up. Are we going to have any water at our end? Is there going to be any water coming down the river by the time it gets to us in four or five years? These are things we have to think about and start to build our zoning and our ordinances around that so that we aren't overcome by some of these things. So I think it's pretty concerning what potentially could be down the line. The rolling blackouts in some of the studies are a big concern as well. I think we just really need to start thinking about what potentially could we do for other revenue sources besides data centers, revenue sources that people are going to still want to come out here and be tourists and go through our wonderful, beautiful valley that we have and visit our farmers markets and go out to Loray Caverns and see this wonderful place that we have. But I think today we have to be stewards of that. I have five grandchildren, five grandkids, and they all love, coming out to my house. Three of them live out here in Frederick County and they love it out here. And we are the stewards for this county. And I think it's just, it would be criminal for us to allow any more concrete to actually be paved over and eliminate these farms and orchards. And I just think it would be criminal. So I would say, you know, I've done a tremendous amount of research in this and I got eight seconds. So if you want those links, I'm happy to share them with you. But there's a ton of research already done and we really, don't even need this study because it's not something we want to do. So thank you for your time. Appreciate it. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, Chair Ludwig, members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Bat Creek District and I'm here today to discuss water availability in the context of the flood. And I'm here to discuss the flood and the effects of any fair and objective study about data centers. I'm particularly concerned that data centers are proving to be colossal water hogs, wasting really valuable resources. In reviewing the ReZone application for Meadowbrook Technology Center, they posited a demand for 700,000 gallons of water per day. And they testified to you, or spoke to you, it wasn't a hearing, that they would be losing 400,000 gallons of water per day. 57% of the water that they would use they would plan on losing to evaporative cooling and to their industrial process. So I needed to understand what of water was actually available. I did a Freedom of Information Act request of Frederick Water. Kudos to them. They supplied the documents within the five days allotted under state law. And what I learned, which I'm sure you already know, is that there were water exchange agreements that date back to 1970 between Winchester Water and Meadowbrook Technology Center. And those are capped at 400,000 gallons per day. Frederick can buy more, and they have in the first quarter of this year purchased up to 2 million gallons per day. So there is a water exchange agreement. It is not a guarantee. It's seasonally dependent. And the water exchange agreement, as amended for the fourth time, allows either party to call that agreement in 2035. So my assertion is that no developer is going to spend a billion dollars, for unreliable water source. And that to have their own bases covered, that they will likely turn to groundwater resources to satisfy their apparently insatiable demand. I must say, Microsoft is doing closed loop systems that are much more efficient. But in this case, TRAC did not propose a closed loop system. So we are concerned about the resilience of our system. I have distributed copies to each of you about a, it's an engineering report, dated December of last year, 2024. And it talks a little bit about the 20 year demand for water in the Frederick water system. And I don't know that this is actually ever published. I found it in my FOIA request. But it basically says that there is a demand for about 18 million gallons projected in 20 years. And that by 2042, there will be a new source required to serve South Frederick County. So that new source is to be provided to the federal government. That new source is to be determined. Not yet clear where it comes from. So any study needs to look at the assumptions. They assumed a growth of 2 to 4%. That was before they onslaught of the hyperscale data center. So a 4% growth may actually not be enough. So I urge you to look at those assumptions, those underlying assumptions, to make sure that we have a resilient supply of water, and that our farmland is not affected negatively. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Pete Zeokowsky. Good evening, Chairman and Board. My name is Pete Zeokowsky. I'm a resident of the Bat Creek District. I have a bachelor's and master's degree in engineering. I worked in electronics for 37 years. And I've watched the development of electronic technology through that 37 years as they slowly grow in terms of use of power. of power and all the other things that go along with what we're dealing with. I'm also a teacher of engineering economy at Laurel Ridge and I teach that and I've had 37 years of project management. All right, I'd like to comment on the plans, the board's plan to initiate an unbiased study. All right, data centers and their impact upon the county need to be recognized by the planning commission and the boards, not just for potential tax revenue but also for the long and short term consequences. An unbiased study must take into consideration what data center developers promise but it also has to take into account worst case. In all project management you have to look at worst case, unbiased or not. All right, the level of study has to be thorough and willing to identify issues and their long term impact. These include the potential utility increases. The potential utility increases on established local businesses because as cost go up their business is affected and the citizens themselves. All right, we have to look at the impact of these companies essentially dominating and controlling our water. What happens if the water runs out or we're in a drought and we don't have the water to supply them, right? Who gets shorted? Is it the citizens or the persons, the company that can sue and say you're keeping this, you're keeping us from making our millions of dollars of profit, right? And mostly we need to consider the environmental impacts from the people that live around those areas. You know, we've seen cases, case studies and we have to look at the case studies of putting data centers next to schools or housing developments where people live and we have to understand that our environmental impact. And the last thing I would like to say, we also need to understand what the, where the data center is coming from. You know, in engineering economy and finance we look at the cash flows, right? Where does the true cash flow, right? Is it the PowerPoint presentation that data center come developers throw in front of us as bait or where does the money, how does that money really flow through and we need to understand that, all right? And so really these data centers, you know, unlike other projects where you can remove them. They are going to be here for a long time and we have to make very clear, very sure that's what we want to do. Thank you for your time and I appreciate it. Jan van Hout. Hello, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Thank you for this opportunity to speak. My name is Jan van Houten and I'm the visionary chef and co-owner of the property in the back creek district. I had a dream eight years ago and it was to find a beautiful property that was big enough to farm, that was big enough to open a farm to table restaurant, that was big enough to bring people and community together. I was looking where I as a chef could support local farmers and artisan. After visiting many properties, I found our historical property. I came here to be a part of this amazing community and to work alongside farmers and the local people. To create jobs to the local community, to mentor local young people and to bring education in this beautiful hospitality world that I'm in since 1995. I want to be part of bringing prosperity to this county. I want us all to think about creative ways to bring green tax revenue to this county. And if this means for us all to come together. For the next two years and sit around the table to discuss this, then this is what we need to do. We all want our children to grow up here and have them grow their families. There is a great future for this county with eco, agro and culinary tourism as a big part of it. I'm so excited for the future for this county where we all can stand with and help farmers. Where we all can stand and where we all can stand with and help farmers. Where we can buy local. Support local and bring green investments, not dirty investments. So I ask you Board of Supervisors to vote no to this study. Thank you. Roger Lay. My name is Roger Layman from the Back Creek District. And I want to thank you for listening. I've lived within one mile of this proposed site for the Meadowbrook Technology Center my entire life. Our farm is directly affected by this and a bad decision to even study its effect on this area. What should be studied is the irreversible and health issues that these data centers may create. Just the water issues alone are ridiculous and the obtaining and disposal of water is one of many issues as well as the effects of low frequency noise on all of our animals and people that were experiencing it 24-7. I personally do not want this in my backyard and I'm sure most of Frederick County residents do not want it in theirs either. This should be voted by the people and not by the Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much. Josh Root. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Good evening Board Members. My name is Josh Root. I'm with the Bat Creek District. I happen to work in data centers. I've been born and raised in Frederick County my entire life. In the last five years is when I started working in Ashburn. I happily drive an hour plus over that mountain and will continue to do so if it means preventing my hometown from turning into that mess that they've turned Ashburn and Loudoun into. I'm immediately impacted by this data center proposal in the Bat Creek District so I just wanted to put that out there as well. But to give you some background, the tech that was present when I first started five years ago in data centers has been constantly changing every year with the advancements of AI. We've seen equipment that's become outdated within six months of being deployed in some of our data centers just because of the speed that we're turning things around. In the last three years alone, power density and consumption for my company alone has increased eight times and is only increasing more and more as new tech is developed. It's projected to be 10 to 12 times as much in the next two years alone. So I'm excited to see what happens. I've something the past four years and age have done to this. I can't help but say that we are incredibly, very optimistic about the number of tools embedded in the current data center. The concept of�like all the additional tools that the LIBCC allows me to develop is that we work with resonance. A series of new tools that are all developed are running now for Watchmaking. This includes the ESATA science for digital imagine,лад apples and avice for a new system that you can fly through accessing边ooth channels into a diversity and systematicbia unsettlingly. You might literally slide across and explain how theデs خъ Including an AI needs a minimum potential of 90 megawatts of 6, Multi beiden-ieniates H-theta and Matica which is Mes Oke and Izun and I HEC7M device in the right percentage. watts or less, current AI data centers of the same size footprint are roughly 500 megawatts now and getting bigger. And that's just one data center building. One million square foot facility can go on about roughly 60 to 80 acres. So in closing, please do not base the decision on allowing data center development in Frederick County on a JLARC study done in 2023 on information that was from 2022 and it's beyond outdated for what is actually occurring in this constantly evolving industry. Thank you. And I apologize, I can't make out the last name, but it's Rebecca B. from Stonewall District. My name is Rebecca Bronson and I'm a resident in the Stonewall District. Thank you all for taking the time to listen to our comments. The folks here who have had firsthand experience with the JLARC study, they've been very, very supportive of the data centers. And I think we would all do well to listen to their firsthand live experience. The most stunning thing to me about having a data center, having any of these data centers, is the water usage. The power usage, as the last gentleman just said, has only increased because the power of AI continually increases. And it goes to reason that the water demands probably would too. And that affects every one of us. They pull that water out of the ground, it's not going to be in your well. And we were here first, quite frankly. And I would like for our government, our local government, to keep that in mind. Yes, we do need economic development. We need a solid tax base. But we have, you know, such a beautifully diversified economy right now. And, you know, we hark back to our agricultural heritage. It would be a shame to lose that. You know, once you pave it, it's gone. And we all know that. So, but the water truly, you know, some data centers use up to five million gallons a day. Where is that going to come from? That was from an Oklahoma University study. So, where is that going to come from? And I think that's a really important question. And I think that's a really important question. And I think that's a really important question. And I think that's a really important question. And I think that's a really important question. I wonder if five million gallons goes down the Shenandoah in a month or six months. So, thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and Supervisors. My name is Gary Porter. I'm also the chairman of the Lake Frederick Frederick Water Working Group. I want to thank all the other speakers for bringing up the topic of water tonight because that's why I'm here. Today I did some research on the normal tenure of members of Board of Directors for utilities and I'm going to share some of my findings with you tonight. As a matter of fact, this topic and the appointment of board members is so important. You know, we've all talked about the water uses of data centers. Well, we also need to make sure that the people that are directly responsible for the water that's going to be provided understand how the impact of that and understand the water resources available. But that's not why I'm here at the moment. It's really, really about the board appointments. A fresh perspective in innovation would be a title. New board members bring diverse ideas, skills, and experiences which should help Frederick Water adopt to changing technology like data centers, regulatory, or environmental landscapes. For example, new members may introduce innovative approaches to challenges like integration technologies and cybersecurity.karla.s windward.edu More information is available at LevittIo.orglesia Thank you. And in a second And then from the staff. Gary Randall And from the staff. Gregg Armstrong Gr생 tracked this morning. Actually, cuff I asked all of you a little bit to I will report the time there will be some things I will be relatively我們 I will report the time that may be necessary later going forward until we enable if you'll excuse me if you couldmorley which Green meteor for all members of the board Which I've always enjoyed and liked as a leader This is very much key. risk of small groups dominating decision-making, which can lead to entrenched power dynamics or favoritism. Long-serving members may prioritize personal agendas or become resistant to change, human nature, potentially undermining the utility's mission to serve the public interest. Regular turnover fosters a more democratic and inclusive board culture, making it easier for new members to contribute without intimidation from veteran members under the heading of improved engagement and energy. Term limits prevent burnout, apathy, or complacency among board members, which can occur with extended tenures. New members are often more energetic or energized, committed, bringing renewed focus to strategic goals like rate stability or service reliability. Upon closing, tonight presents a great opportunity for all of you, board of supervisors, to appoint new members to the Frederick Water Board of Directors. Appointing new board members will bring diverse skills, experiences, and energy, and position, most importantly, Frederick Water to take on the many opportunities and challenges that will be required of Frederick Water in the next few years, like data centers and many other topics like capacity, delivery, distribution. Thank you. Thank you. Samantha Armell. Hi there. My name is Samantha Armell. I'm the founder of Frederick County Homesteaders. It's good to see all of you tonight. Thank you. I wanted to bring up a topic regarding the data centers that I think goes unnoticed, and it is that, well, first off, I feel as though it's probably pretty obvious that you know where the residents of this county stand and how they feel. And I love what the gentleman before me just said. We have a brilliant board. I think the talents often go unnoticed. I have had the privilege of getting to know some of you very well. Some of you I'm still getting to know. I'm not on anybody's side. I just want to point that out. I'm on Frederick County's side. I love our community. I love the generational farmers and the new farmers. But we really have to step back and ask ourselves a question. How is this impacting them? One of the lesser recognized concerns about data centers is how they pit our farms against each other, with many feeling betrayed when neighbors sell out and thereafter feeling forced to sell as a result of their farmland value plummeting itself. I have heard the argument made that it is a landowner's right to sell their land. Absolutely. It is. I agree. And if we are all neighbors and stewards of this land, then I ask, is handing off the land to be irreparably destroyed in this manner truly embracing the Virginia Constitution, which states that no person shall be deprived of their right, liberty, or property? By approving this study, you are signaling to our farmers that Frederick County is for sale to the highest bidder and that they can no longer trust their fellow farmer. I say that because if one farmer sells, then the farm now has to be sold. And if one farmer sells, then the farm now has to be sold. And if one farmer sells, then the farm now has to be sold. And if one farmer sells, then the farm now has to be sold. And so the infrastructure of a farmer's land続kękom них groundwater makes it easy to commanded intervention be any young foreigner that could not get into a farm . I know that most people in Frederick County are valued farmers, that we have to understand the importance of Sh wealthy farmland alongside other farmer's land, like But I find it so tragic when you are debunking then you have our consent that we can use a terribleabloop Right. That would be terrible in the eyes of this community, right? Yeah. Well, I understand there, but when we have this money, and then we have this debt, there is a lot of benefit that we are paying 삼 à la etありquihat По so that is good. So therefore, in line component part, I pick the action then, and step a few steps back, and no matter how they want to use their land. But we need to think about how we are impacting them, and if we are impacting their community negatively. How does this impact the generations and the families that are involved? Furthermore, similar to 2022, we're facing new challenges that we haven't faced as a community before with these data centers. But I am confident that all of you working together can provide new alternatives for revenue. You are brilliant. Blaine, you're great with numbers. I've seen that. John, you are so loyal to our community and to the different people that you work with. Josh, I know we don't always agree, but you are brilliant. And what I also value is that even when people don't always agree with you, you stand up for what you believe in. Several of you do. Heather, you're so compassionate. And Mr. Leroux, I don't know you yet, and I don't know you yet, Ms. Slater, but I know that you are doing a great job of bringing us together. You guys can form different options and different opportunities for us. And that's what I'm asking, is that as a community, we come together and we bridge these divides. Because if we're not united on this, then nobody's going to win. Thank you so much, and I apologize for going over. The last speaker on the list is Alan Dykstra. Thank you. While Alan comes forward, if there's anyone who wants to speak tonight, please queue up. Behind Alan, thank you. Thank you for hearing me, Board. My name's Alan Dykstra, and my wife and I moved to Frederick County one year and a day ago from Loudoun County. We were in Middleburg. And I guess, you know, you guys got your water problems and electrical issues and everything that you have to deal with, but I want to talk to you about the personal damage to your friends, the family, the community, your churches that this is going to do. So we moved to Lovettsville in 1998. My wife was a lifetime Loudoun County born in Round Hill. We moved to Lovettsville in 98 before there was any expansion at all, and Loudoun County was a great farming community and full of community spirit and great little churches in the outlying areas, and everybody felt like family. And over the 20 years that we watched Lovettsville, you know, triple and quadruple in size, and we said, well, we're going to move down to Middleburg. And we bought a 27-acre farm behind the Middleburg barn. And we were there until last year. The tax ramifications, the big reason we left was because we got our tax bill last July, and our tax bill was $30,000 for a 27-acre farm. We were on land use. That's what it had come to. Our school systems, I think you guys know what happened with all the school systems in Loudoun County. It brings in a different breed of people. You know, it's not the type of people that are sitting here, okay? I don't want to see that happen out here. You know, you've got a great thing. You've got a great thing going here. We watched all of our friends move. We watched all of our family move. We watched the schools go up in flames. We watched the whole county get torn down, and we left. You know, and that's what, that's really what I want to tell you guys to be careful about. You know, the water, whatever, the electric, whatever, but it's the damage in the relationships and the people that you're dealing with here is what you're going to have to suffer from. You know? You've got to decide whether you're going to be a great big, you know, booming Loudoun County, or you're going to be a farming community and hold the values that you guys have held for so many years. Thank you. Hi. I'm Elizabeth Paldunas from the Opecan District. I'd like to speak briefly about item 9A and 9B this evening, the appointment to Frederick Water Board. And the Frederick Winchester Service Authority. I've attended every Frederick Water Board meeting since August of 2024. This is probably the least attended meeting in the county of people who are in charge of our most limited resource. Virtually everyone who has spoken to you tonight has used the water word in their comments. The board, two members were up for appointment in April, 2020. The third came due this April in 2025. There are very good applications in front of you tonight of people who have outstanding qualifications of water utilities. I do not know because I have not been able to define what the qualifications are of the current board members. But I've watched them studiously for a year. It is time to consider that there might be some other alternatives. I think that the board is better qualified. The other thing to take into consideration tonight, the time of that meeting has changed from 5 p.m. to 4 p.m., making it difficult for Mr. Ludwig to get there. He's the BOS liaison. It's a tough meeting to get to. You need people who are going to show up, be interested. This is not an unimportant place to learn how to be a board member. It's water. It's a limited supply. So please give thoughtful consideration to all the applications in front of you and choose the best candidates even if some feelings are hurt. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, I'm Kim Watt, resident of Gainesboro, landowner in Bat Creek. Since January, I have been working with the board for the last two years. We have been working with the board for the last two years to support the development of the land. We are working with the board to support the development of the land. In January, we have been working to sever development rights on 2,500 acres of land. We are trying to preserve farmland under the current Frederick County TDR ordinance. We have followed the ordinance with council the entire time. The same ordinance that numerous others have used since 2009. If there is a moratorium, stall, change, or halt in this ordinance before we sever, we will have to go into that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This argument is clearvitally assured. From theowanie department, we will be seeking legal action. Are the three standing all planning to speak? Okay. I believe these will be the last three speakers. Vaughn Whitaker, Gainesboro Thank you, Mr. Ludworth andjetwearverfor allowing me to speak. The Department of energy says the of the Biden era energy plan were increased blackouts by 100%, as Mr. Cole stated. Westinghouse plans starting to build 10 reactors in five years. It takes five years to build them. That means they will not be online until 2035. This puts us way, any kind of building like this data center will definitely increase demand because there's no supply being met, not within 10 years. On page, I believe it's 103 of the Frederick County Community Approach File Report, the county reports. Frederick was requested by DEQ to obtain a permit for the stormwater problem we're having. The permit has not been obtained. It has been applied for. They'll probably receive it in about six months from now to start work on the problems we already have. All of us are servants of this county. We must be reminded of that. We're not dictators. This Democrat process of a Republican form of government, we rule from the bottom up. We have almost 1,400 people in this county who have signed a petition. We're not the only one. We're not the only one. We have a lot of people in this county who are not wanting this data center. They rule. It's just as simple as that. Thank you. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I live in Gainesboro. Good evening, Chairman and members of the Board. I speak to agenda item number 13 and ask you to send a clear pause to the meeting. We will be back in a few minutes. We'll be back in a few minutes. Thank you. Thank you for wearing your masks. Thanks, Jess. Thank you very much. I hope you enjoyed with that. here to stir fear. I'm here because I see missed opportunities. We live in one of the cleanest counties in America. We are not on a Superfund site map nor on any cancer-causing factory maps. Quite the opposite. We are in a fertile valley with a healthy fungal rich soil and a rare mix of both acidic and alkaline geology in the oldest mountain range in America. This is rare. This is a rare asset and we should protect it. I have already shared with you alternative visions for our future. We can market ourselves to high quality knowledge economy companies that employ thousands. We can match and often exceed the revenue of a data center year after year while creating thousands more local jobs where paychecks are spent here. Our agritourism, small business and innovative startups are far more compatible with smart headquarters and can attract them which would be fortunate to secure one of the few remaining industrial or commercial parcels we have left. And in the future, maybe 2035, let us collaborate with businesses, citizens, planners and conservationists to help site and design one of the world's most sustainable, green data centers right here in Frederick County at the top in every sense of the word. If we do it, let us only do that and not on farmland but on industrial where it belongs. It would be a world-leading example Virginia can be proud of. Thank you. Mr Chairman, members of the Board, my name is Shawn Hershberger. I live here in Frederick County and thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak tonight. I will try to be very brief. I'm sorry. Yes. Which district do you live in? Oh, geez. We need that for our records. I cannot tell you that. I apologize. I can get that information to you but off the top of my head, I live off Route 50. East or west? East, sorry. Okay. Thank you. Okay, good. I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm sorry. You're welcome. Thank you. I apologize. So the decision on the rights of a private landowner to use their land as they see fit is truly one of the most important decisions that a local governing board can make. And doing that, making that decision without gathering factual information is truly the height of irresponsibility in governance. It's really easy for all of you to simply go along with the loud nimby voices that come out every time anybody wants to do anything on their land. But you all didn't run to make the easy decisions, did you? You ran to see what is the best way you can move Frederick County forward. So I obviously think that I understand water, power, those are concerns with data centers. Those are things that need studied. And to make a decision without thoroughly studying a decision is really hard. And I think that's a really important decision. And I think that's a really important decision. And I think that's a really important topic. Again, it is the height of irresponsibility. So I urge you to move forward with the study process. And if, you know, I've heard lots of, you know, you let a data center come and it's going to turn us into Loudoun County. Well, I do know one thing that we need is revenue. And I know one thing Loudoun County has is revenue. They have well-funded schools. They have well-maintained schools. They have well-maintained public facilities. We're building a high school. This would help pay for that. Data center revenue would help pay for that high school. And another thing Loudoun County does consistently is lower their taxes. I know that I, as well as anybody else, would enjoy lower taxes. With that, thank you all very much and have a good evening. Thank you all for speaking tonight. It was a great, and with our usual one exception, it was very respectful. Thank you. And you are certainly heard by this board. We move on now to the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the consent agenda? Hearing none, there are funds involved, so we need a roll call vote for this. The motion is to approve. The consent agenda. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes aye, and the consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn? So, I have a series of comments. First, I'll talk more about data centers later, but some of you made some interesting comments. So, for Mr. Cross, and I don't know if that's your request, but the gentleman who made Bitcoin, send me an email. I'd love to sit and chat with you. Vicki Michaels, who made the comment about impact fees, we're on the same page on that. Good comment. Mr. Cole, appreciate your comments. Mr. Krager, thank you for the email that you sent to me. I read that. I'd love to chat with you further. Thank you. And there's some others that made some comments. So, we've seen what you've given us, and I think that we can have a good discussion. So, that's the first comment. Second comment, I had a letter from a person who is anonymous, didn't want to state who she was or he was, but it dealt with Doonbeg Court and Cottage Glen. So, I passed that information on to staff. They will be addressing that issue. If you want to go. Thank you. Thank you. And talk to staff, Mark, Sharon, you can do that. But I did get your letter and have addressed it. Third comment on the issues of, I'll leave that for later. Third comment is going to be this. I go to a church, and that church has some relationships with some churches in Nigeria. It's a Christian church in Nigeria. And if you've seen in the last few months, if you're a Christian in Nigeria, your chance of being killed is extremely high, for the simple purpose of going to worship. The same thing is true in the Congo. And just last week, we had a situation where Christians were killed in Mozambique, burnt alive, beheaded during church services. I've talked to Congressman Klein. I've talked to Senator Warner. Both of them know my concerns. I've asked them to speak to the Secretary of State. I've asked them to speak to the Secretary of State. I used to work on the Hill. And so I'm going to ask you all to consider this. The person that represents us is Congressman Ben Klein, Mark Warner, and Senator Kaine. If each of you sent an email or a letter to them, it would count. When a member of Congress gets 20 or 30 letters on the same issue, it counts. I know because I've been a staff person to receive those. And I think that all three gentlemen do. I think that all three gentlemen can and should talk to the Secretary, Secretary Rubio. But I would ask all of you to do the same thing. We're Democrats, Republicans, Independents, some of us are Christians, Jews, Muslims. But to go to church and be murdered is wrong. And so I would just ask you to consider contacting the three federal members. Ask them to go and talk to Secretary Rubio. Ask the United States to apply any and all diplomatic and economic pressure. And I think that's the best I can do. And I will be there at any time. I think it's important. I think it's important that we have a негоvernmental government. And that's what we need. I think we need to do that. And I think the federal government should take a lot of responsibility and economic pressure to resolve that issue. Thank you. Any comments to my right? Any Board of Supervisors comments to my left? Okay. I'll just make, address one subject. Many of you were here to speak about data centers. I haven't seen many of you leave. So good luck in hanging through. I think that's a last item on the agenda. and leave or you scoot out right after the discussion before our final comments. I'd just like to address you now with my own personal comments before we address the actual subject later. This is the most beautiful county I've ever lived in. I moved here from Fairfax County. I don't want it to become Fairfax County or Loudoun County like many of the people who spoke. We just survived a multi-year drought period which affected our farmers. And half the people in this county who depend on well water to drink. The governor has ordered a four-year study into our regional water supply. And I think we need to see the results of that study. The goal is to understand how much water is really there. This is not the kind of thing that our county by itself can study and get a certain answer to. If we overuse our underground water supply, we could damage the underground aquifers irrevocably. And then what are we going to do for water? The power needs of a single hyperscale data center is estimated to be as big or greater than the entire county's current power use. So we're talking about doubling the entire power use of the county for a large data center, not for a small one. There is a new major power line you all may or may not be aware of already scheduled to go across the Gainesboro and Stonewall districts to feed. That'll increase the voltage that we have to deal with in those two districts going over your heads and over our farmland. Well, where is that power going? Who is it going to feed? It's not for us. It's to feed the data centers further to the east. There's a lot of danger in moving too quickly on something as massive as what we're talking about here. There's no way. We're going to be able to do that. We're going to be able to do that. We're going to be able to do that. We should consider anything so potentially damaging to our community without knowing confidently that we have the supplies we need and that we could actually sustain these things. So I moved here because it's a beautiful county and I am not in favor of moving forward with data centers. Thank you. So that is Board of Supervisor comments. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Board members. I was asked to provide you with an update on the broadband. I want to let you know that I actually had my meeting today with Allpoints at 1 o'clock and received a lot of this information late. So this first presentation I'm going to provide to you is a presentation that comes directly from Allpoints Broadband. We gave you an update several months ago where we gave you an update on their schedule and they are still on track with that with their November 24 re-scope plan and their intention is to begin work in Frederick County. You should see the work beginning in the month of September. They have already submitted permits to VDOT. Once those permits are approved, they will proceed with the work and it is still their target date to finish all their work in September of 2026. As if you're familiar with it, the ARPA funds must be spent by December of 2026. So their final completion date is still anticipated to be September of 2026. You realize one of the biggest problems they had originally was they had intended on putting all these lines on all the power poles. When they realized the condition of a lot of these poles and the complications with doing these poles, they had to find another route. What they've done is they've shifted a majority of this work now to go in underground which will enable them to get the work done. Currently one of their big issues now is getting enough crews to do the work to get the permits approved and also is a bonding issue. Every time they pull a work where they have to do any work in the right of way. They have to submit bonds to cover any damage and that may be done. They've increased their amount of funding allowable for bonding to 40 million which they believe should help them expedite the process. I provide you all this information in a folder. This is probably I think listed as item number one. This shows you a graph of how they're doing the work. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I think I figured the graph out. And this shows you from July of 2025 all the way to September of 2026. And as you look at this graph you'll see they'll be doing the majority of their work in the summer months. The work does slow down in the winter months because of snow and the cold weather etc. And the lines on here, the actual bar graphs are measuring the amount of miles they're working on and the lines will tell you the number of crews working on those models. And the left Y axis is the number of miles and the far right Y axis is the number of crews working. So as you see in the summer months those crew amounts will go up and the number of miles being worked on will increase significantly. They do have opportunities to try and do more work in the winter based on whether or not the weather is good or bad and the amount of snow etc. Mr. Buck, would you like to ask any questions now or? Any time is great, yes. So the mileage and the crews by month, is this specific to Frederick County? This is for the entire project, not just Frederick County. And I have a part coming up for Frederick County next. What you're going to start seeing coming out soon is they're going to start doing some marketing but also part of that marketing is they're going to start providing reports that will receive at the county and forward to the board. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is not an actual report. This is a sample of what the reports will look like. This will be their actual dashboard so you'll be able to track the work being done on a real time basis. What they will also provide to us, more than once but these reports will be coming out several times weekly, is they will send us reports. We will forward these to all the supervisors and this shows you the anticipated rows these projects will be on. That way if you get calls. About people complain or if they have questions, you will have this list and you'll be able to tell them, yes, that's all points. No, that's not all points. So you will receive in this every soon as we receive these, we will forward these to the board of supervisors. This is just another variation of that same report. They customize it to how the counties want these reports. These are samples of the flyers that they're going to soon be sending out to the residents. They will be going to the residents. They will be going to the residents where the work will be beginning. So these should start going out in the mail within the next few weeks as they start the work in September. On the BEAD funding, there's a lot of changes in the BEAD funding and I have a little bit in another presentation. I'll cover that. But the BEAD funding, if you remember, we did the letter, had to add the BEAD funding to increase this project because a lot of the houses weren't being covered. The BEAD was a different subject. It was a different source of funding and this enabled them to do more houses in Frederick County. And the BEAD process is still moving forward. This is the schedule we sent you earlier. This is just a bar graph of the actual schedule which really just tells you they're going to be starting in September or starting in the end of this summer and completing September 26. This is difficult to read up on the board. This shows you the first areas where they're starting work. It's up in the north part of the county. This is area of Frederick County 1.2 and they're expected to start in September and be completed in December. This is another area in the north part of the county and we will be getting these types of graphs on an ongoing basis. So these are the latest graphs of the areas that are targeted to begin for the work. So it's going to start in that area in September and complete in that area in December? According to that map, yes. Mr. Bolhofer, and as they're completed, these people will be able to go online and have the availability of the broadband once it is complete? Yes. They will be getting these up on real time because it behooves them to get their customers going as soon as possible. Okay. Thank you. And I wanted to add a couple notes that I took down writing when we're going through this meeting. I know there's some. Yeah. I know there's some. So, currently, as I stated earlier, they have several permits already submitted with VDOT. That's going to be one of their sticking points because they don't have a lot of control over that. What they've told me is depending on the residential area VDOT offices is how successful they can be. Our office has a good reputation so they're feeling very comfortable those permits will move through smoothly. As I stated earlier, it will start in September with the completion of September of 26. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And this is the one big change that you're going to see. With the previous administration in Washington, broadband and wired and cables was given preference when it came to awarding this money. Subsequently, that criteria has now been changed where it's required that satellite service must be treated equally when it comes to providing internet service, which means it's changed the whole formula. This has had a significant effect in certain counties. I will tell you it's had a minimal effect in Frederick County because I looked at the map and I can send you links. In Frederick County, we couldn't count because it's done by DOTS, but it's only approximately 12 to 24 houses that will be affected by that change, which is not a significant number. If you look at the maps in other counties, it's sometimes hundreds and thousands. But there's not really anything you can do about that because that's a change in the federal requirements. And that's the most significant change in the BDOT. Okay. So that's the most significant change in the BD funding. And any more questions? I think that covers most of the update. It was pretty straightforward and simple. Mr. Wilhoffer, in looking at these maps, it looks like that some of the Clearbrook area is covered in this map. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. And you will have those addresses that you will pass on to the Board of Supervisors? Yes. Our goal is we're going to filter them through. And as soon as you receive those, we will get them to you immediately because you may be getting questions. People are seeing crews. So timeliness is going to be, I think, critical for this. Okay. Very well. Thank you. Any other questions? Yeah. One other question. This has nothing to do with the police communication system, correct? This is just residents. This is not dealing with the Johnson & Johnson issue, right? Correct. Okay. This is strictly to do, yes. Thank you. Absolutely, with the broadband. Thank you. For the administrator. All right. Thank you, sir. We've been waiting many years for that project to actually get underway. Yes. I'm waiting for the next item, so. Okay. Oh, you're doing B as well. Okay. Yes. Item 8B, current status of the county's new fire station, number 22. It was just easier to put them all in the same presentation. Sure. Fire station 22. Okay. So, the county approved the purchase of the property for this fire station in the summer of 2024. It was a longer process of purchases than usual, because if you remember, a part of this property was donated to the county and a part of it was purchased. This was done, which enabled the seller of the property to get a tax write-off, which provided a benefit to Frederick County, because they didn't have to pay the full appraised value. So, it took a little time going through the process and doing the IRS forms, et cetera. But it was closed. The property was closed on in 12 of 24. In order to expedite this process, because if you remember at those meetings, the goal was to get this done in three years, as soon as possible. What we've done is what the county has done in the past, is we've run out to hire and put on call contractors. So, in October of 2024, we put out an RFP for architectural and engineering contractors to submit. And this is generally not based on price. This is where they submit their qualifications. They are reviewed, and you pick these contractors based on those qualifications, which makes it much faster when you move through the process to get projects done. And we were very successful. We had 23 different vendors submit their proposals of their qualifications. And this covers all the different types of services they do. You don't do this for the actual construction work. Those have to be bidded on price. But you can do this for the architecture. You can do this for the architecture. This was signal, with the job. And they're paid for it at 30 to 50 . Scripture applies its only task as we ten with the business prepared. pearl organized. on those selections of those companies? Yeah. For the selection of those companies, we had staff members. We had a staff member for each of these departments from the Building Maintenance Department. I apologize, I don't know Tommy's last name. Tommy represented Building Maintenance, Parks and Recreation. We had John Turkell from Planning. We had Wyatt, Public Works. Joe was on that committee on Fire and Rescue. Keith Jenkins was the representative, and I think Jay Tibbs was the representative for Administration, and they were the committee that made that selection for those. And so the list that I get will have numbers on there also of what the costs are for architectural services. I can get you actually, yes, a copy of the contracts, and oftentimes the costs you find out later when you go for a specific project. I understand. But I will provide you actually those packets. It would be helpful for a supervisor, especially in my district, to have that. I'm getting a lot of questions. So... I'd like to be able to answer those questions. Yes, I will get those to you. Thank you. These were the five firms selected. Some of them were selected especially because they have very specialized skills. I will tell you BVK Group was the firm that was selected. They've done a lot of fire stations. So they were selected, and they were chosen to do the fire station. Our primary group for that selection was the fire department. I was a part of that, but the selection was primary. The chief Whitaker, our fire chief Steve Myshak, and our other chief were the three that made that decision. I've included in here for you, and it's called item two, and it's very difficult to read. What you have in item two is a full schedule for the engineering firm for the design of the fire station. What I have done here is taken some of those documents. I've included some dates out there to give you an idea of the dates. And I would not worry too much about this chart because I have a very simplified one coming next. The key dates on here is the pre-design started in July. And then you'll see the very end of the construction phase is 11-28-28. But however, that is actually after a year warranty period. So these dates are very confusing. So I simplified this for what I call the key dates for the project. The construction notice to proceed is... Per this schedule would be September of 26. And the completion date would be January of 2028. And then you still have a one-year warranty period. That's why you saw that later date. So these are the key dates. Once these designs are completed, this is put out to bid by companies. And obviously the lowest qualified bidder is the firm that would be selected to build the fire station. Thank you. I'm going to keep moving. I have a quick question. On building this building, what's the cost per square foot? Do you know? And I'll just tie it together. When we passed this funding for this, I think it was approximately $7 million for the building, $3 million for equipment. I've been told perhaps that the cost per square foot is higher than it needs to be. So can you address that? I will have to get you that information on the cost per square foot. The $7 million included, you know, the site work, the price for land and the building. Thank you. And design, excuse me. So do we have a representative from the board that's meeting with this group of administrative people? No, we did not. I think that would be an excellent idea. I mean, the board, I would think, would be interested in having some knowledge about what's going on with the fire station. Absolutely. We can, absolutely. And get with the chairman, maybe have him select somebody to do that for you. Absolutely. I think that covered primary most of it with the fire station. Any other questions for Mr. Ballhofer? No. If you'll give me that information, it would be greatly appreciated. Names and numbers help out. Thank you. Absolutely, yes. Thanks. All right. Thank you very much. I'm going to wait up one more item. All right. You're doing all three of them? Yes. Very good. 8C, current status of the A&E representation and oversight for upcoming county projects. Yes. During the budget process, we had workshops and we also had the actual budget here. There was a discussion about the county utilizing a value engineer or an outside firm to review the design by the school. The school was able to do that. So, we had a discussion about that. As you may or may not remember, when we went through the vote, they actually brought the supervisor up and he agreed saying the school was fine with that. So, we went through that process. The only problem is... Go back over to what you just said. The superintendent, I think. Excuse me. Superintendent. Superintendent. Yes. Dr. Hummer came up there. He agreed with that. Okay. So, he agreed to accept that? Correct. Okay. Did the board agree to do that? Yes. Yes. What happened was I was going to go into that. Okay. The board had asked for that and they had discussed it. But at that time, the board neither voted on it nor did the board appropriate the funds. Right. At that meeting. Okay. We were going through the on-call process. And one of the architects, engineers we signed on is Wiley Wilson, who has specialty in doing schools. Now, we have signed a contract with him to be an on-call engineer. There is no contract or an agreement with them to work on the schools. When we say we. The county. You. No. The county has done that. Who signed it for the county? I signed all those documents, yes. Okay. But that was not discussed with the board. No. And we never voted on that. No. And there's no money involved in it at this point. I understand. Right. But we have a legal document with no money involved. Well, it's a sort of legal document. It doesn't require you to use them for any work. Okay. And this has been a standard practice for the county for many years with these on-calls. Okay. So, I'm just going to get it to here. So, we have a contract that says a particular firm will do certain work. There's no money involved. If you say, yes, we want to do work, then they come and do it and we pay them. Is that accurate? And I think if I go to the next slide, it will make that clear. Okay. Yes. So, this is an on-call. This is an on-call engineer that we can use as needed. However, if they want to work on the project, they have to submit the scope and submit a price for that project. And what they have done, and believe it or not, I've been trying to pressure them to get this information to provide it to the board of supervisors. I received that proposal and that scope actually today finally from the on-call engineer and architect. And their amount on there was $94,000 to provide this work, which I will go into, what this work is. That's $94,000. That was submitted this afternoon. So, that's for the fourth high school. This is for the fourth high school, yes. Only what you have in your packet is actually, there's some middle. I've given you a copy and I believe that's considered item number three. Go ahead, I guess. So, the high school is currently in the design development phase. The anticipated submission of the design is going to be August 22nd. This is where the school is. And then immediately following that, it goes to review period. The proposal that was submitted today is that they have proposed that they could work for the county if the county so chooses to hire them. They have a proposal. They have a proposal. They have a proposal. They would actually do this engineering services study through August and September and make their report to the school. And just in general, I'm just going to read you, this is a standard language for what a value engineering is. The purpose of a value engineering report is to find alternative design solutions that reduce the overall cost of construction and stay true to the design intents and vision of the architects and client. This is standard language you see in this. This is standard language for the value engineering process. When they do this, it's pretty typical. They have an, gather information. They do an analysis. They get together as their team and they do brainstorming to come up with ideas to reduce cost, make changes. They then rank those ideas. Then they make a presentation to the agency, which in this instance would be the school. And then the school would make a decision whether or not they would want to implement that. I put this in just more simple language for this project. A value engineering is, they put together a firm with a team of engineers and architects. They review the plans. They make suggestions that will save money. They meet with all the parties to discuss. And the final decision would be made by FCPS. Who, say, FCPS? Frederick County Public Schools. And they make the final decision. So, I guess my question is,pekty nice isаждvthis Board transferred the money and said, rebuild the school? They have an architectural firm, I understand. Correct. Correct. And now we have an engineering, architectural. Firm. Well, we're talking about having one 9,400 dollars. Trying to figure it out, We,'re going to save 94,000 dollars? I don't understand how two architects, one architect telling the other architect, don't like what you're doing. Here's what you're going to do. Yeah. And the other architects are still in my business. And I would explain to you, generally, it would value engineering. I understand value engineering. So I will skip to a report. And this shows you an example of how they save money, if indeed they do. And Virginia, if you're a state organization, it's required by law. It's a federal contract. It's required by law. Most smaller jurisdictions, local governments do not do value engineering. Some of the larger ones also do. You have this. I'm not sure if you can read this. This is a sample of a page from a packet I gave you, which shows you a report that this firm did for another high school. And generally what you'll see are two columns. They go through and look at a project. And they'll say, as planned, this is what it's designed to cost. We make these recommendations to make these changes. My experience working with value engineering, because I've worked with them in the past, is a lot of the changes, when they go through the process, after discussions, they go, you're right, that changed. It cannot be made. So the answer to your question is, can it save money or will it save money? It really depends on what they go through and what the other architect and engineer does. So you don't know until they do the process. But we're spending $94,000. Yes, and it's $94,000. If they save you money, you come out ahead. And if they don't save you any, then it's $94,000 you don't gain. Well, it's $94,000 out of a $100-plus million project to provide value to that, correct? It's still $94,000. I just... Yeah. It's beyond me. Why? Why? I don't want to go that route. If I can jump in with a question as well. So, Mr. Ballhoffer, we did discuss this before as a board, the idea of doing this. We had a number of discussions. This county is not a large county. We don't have resources to do everything we might need. For example, even when we had a county attorney full-time on staff, we do often hire specialists when we have to go, for example, to court on a matter that's not the expertise of our prior county attorney. Correct? Correct. So, we do hire outside expertise when we need it to get the best outcome for the county. Likewise, some of these major construction projects, we don't do these every year. We don't have people who build such large things all the time. The idea, as an engineer myself, behind value engineering, same way you look over, you know, you're not the builder of your home if you were to have something built, but you try and overlook the plans. And if you don't understand it, you get someone who does know, who has expertise in the area to give you a second opinion. So, to me, this makes a lot of sense. It gives us a second opinion. I've talked to other counties adjacent to us who regretted not doing something like this. I talked to an ex-supervisor from Warren County. They had a public project they built, and after they got done, they toured it. And the opinion I got from that supervisor was that they wasted a lot of money. It was way overbuilt. Right. Right. Right. It was way overbuilt from what they actually needed. And I don't want to bust their names out, but in those discussions, and I've heard it several times, they said, you guys have a good idea there. You should absolutely double check what's being built just to make sure that the taxpayers' dollars, you're not building more than you need. I mean, I can imagine buildings built with unneeded space. I think we have made some mistakes on past projects in the county. And so I'm very much in favor of something that's less than a tenth of a percent of the cost of a project to oversee it. My suspicion is, although I'd never be able to prove it, that that value engineering contribution might save money just by being there, just by encouraging the people designing and building. They know people who are engineers are going to come look at the design and make sure that they double check what they're proposing the taxpayers need. I'm in favor. I know you have concerns. I do have concerns. My concern is that you have an individual company who is going to make suggestions. I can come to you when you're building your house, and I can say, you know, I don't think that's a good idea. You could save a whole lot of money if you didn't put that window in that house. If you didn't put the stained glass window in there, it costs $75,000. You could save a lot of money doing that. You know what you say? That's my money. I'm going to spend it. I have the budget to do it. That's what I'm going to do. I don't understand how this person is going to save us money. We can't tell them what to do. We can't say change your plans. As you said, they can accept that. They can listen to it, but they don't have to do an all-gone thing with it. Am I correct? You're absolutely correct. I've gone back to this. Okay. And this way this works is when the value engineer makes recommendations, they sit down. I understand. They discuss it. But the final decision by the law is called the agent, which in this case would be Frederick County Public Schools. And if I may, from a staff perspective, we were in a peculiar position because we went to the budget workshops, and we had the budget hearing, and it was discussed and brought up, and the supervisor— It was discussed. Right. It was discussed. Right. It wasn't approved, and it wasn't voted on. So the supervisor of the schools came up, and he said he would do it. So from a staff perspective, there's no money appropriate. I understand. We can't move forward hiring someone. So what we did was we got someone on call, someone who's able to do this, and that's why we're bringing it back to this board because it's the board's decision. Do you want to do this or not? But we were able, by using this methodology, to give the board the opportunity to do so. The reason we didn't have a lot of extra time is because once you miss this process with the design, there is no time to go back and do it. So we're at a position now where this board needs to make a decision. Do you want to do this or not? And then staff can move forward based on what the board decides. I agree. Mr. Chairman, can I make a comment? Supervisor Lockridge. Supervisor Wells, I can see where $94,000 is something we don't want to spend, and I absolutely don't want to spend it either. But I think the reason I was in favor and the reason I know I was in favor is Jameswood Expansion just finished. They are opening their doors tomorrow, $72.9 million, and they still have to do it. So I think that's a good thing. They still have trailers outside. And when I go pick up my daughter, I look at it and I'm like, I just rub my head like, wow. Like, we just finished $72.9 million, and I think they forgot the foreign language wing. Some oversight. I'm not quite sure. I don't think that it grew that much in the three years. But that's just the other project that rings my bell really quickly is Jordan Springs. We just approved Supervisor Slaughter. Was it? $226 million for an expansion. That school opened in the fall of 2020. That was five short years ago. And we're now spending $26 million because they are sitting at 110% capacity. So $94,000, and I was very adamant on multiple things of trying to cut, but this, to me, seems like almost $100,000 could potentially save me. Millions. Well, I was on the board when Jordan Springs was constructed. And I can tell you, I was in favor of building Jordan Springs so it would meet the future needs. And the board was not. I was not on that board. We cut it back. And we cut it back. And that's what you end up with. So, yeah, you end up paying twice as much. Did that happen on James Wood as well? I'm sure it did. I don't know. It got cut back. Yeah. It did. I'm not saying that. All the reasons. But I'm just saying we've got, you're asking someone to oversee a project that has no power to oversee the project, and we're paying them $94,000 to do that. He's making suggestions. That's a pretty expensive suggestion. So my comment on that would be the public doesn't watch these construction, and you all don't have time. We don't even have the time to attend all these construction meetings. So there's got to be people in the public. I know there are. Because they've contacted me who say, oh, something's built now, and you're at ribbon cutting. Why did you do it that way? Well, it's too late then when it's built. The value to me of value engineering is that they're going to highlight questions early. Maybe you'd get more value if you spent a little more money and built it bigger now. Maybe you could save a lot of money by not putting stained glass windows in a fire station. And that would get out to this board and to the public. I believe the school would be responsible. I believe the school would be responsible. I believe the school would be responsible. I believe the school would be responsible to criticism or questions just as we are. And that's what I think the value of such an approach is. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. A different thought. When other schools have been built, we had a supervisor, Gene Fisher, who was literally the liaison to that to say, fine, we like this idea. We don't like this idea. Cut down the angles, et cetera. We could go and have one of us as a liaison to their group to listen, to say, fine, what's going? What's not going? Bob, Mr. Wells does construction. You can find somebody else. Get Mr. Fisher to come back. But that would give you the opportunity to have insight, hear what's being said. My concern, though, is that legally they can do what they want. Now, if the school board has a firm that is truly a good firm, I'm not saying they aren't a good firm, but a good firm can say, fine, here's our design for Team A. Then put Team B together and say, fine, Team B, what do you say? Team B, what do you say? And that occurs sometimes in business where you thoroughly analyze your other items. And doing that, you then have, if you hire a good firm, Team A says, this is what we want to do. Team B says, fine, here's the pros and cons. You forgot this. We ought to consider that. You have a cost analysis, functional analysis, and make decisions. But they're the decision makers. That's my concern is one of the additional comments. I think Mr. Wallhoffer said it's up to the board to make a decision which way they want to go. And I'm happy with it. Whatever they want to do. Mr. Chair, I'd like to make a couple comments as well. Supervisor Leo? I agree basically with Supervisor Wells. In Mr. Wallhoffer's memo, item B1, it points out design for the school and facilities will be provided by others, which is the entity that the school board has hired. Mr. Dunn stole my thunder a little bit there. We have a lot of liaison people. We have a lot of liaison people in various forms here in Frederick County government. I've served on the planning commission as liaison, non-voting liaison. I've served previously on tourism board, non-voting liaison, and so on. There are liaisons from the planning commission to water board and others like that. For us to have an entity like the school board that gets about half of our money, if we have a concern about oversight, we should have a liaison officer on that board from this board to provide oversight. But basically, the Frederick County Public Schools is an elected board. They have a building and grounds committee that is open to the public, that people can go in there and make suggestions on the building and grounds committee. They have school board meetings that are open to the public. And I just believe that this $94,000 is not something that we need. It's not something that we need to spend. It's kind of a double dip in my opinion. Thank you. Supervisor Liero, I think it would be a good investment if that $94,000 saves us hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars. I certainly don't object to having one or more board members be liaisons to that group, but none of us are architecture engineers with the time and expertise of these companies are. That's why you've selected them. They're companies with experience having done exactly what's been done. So if you want to be a liaison, we can certainly have a liaison to that board, but I don't think that we're going to be able to identify lots of areas where waste could occur. Vice Chair? I just want to say that this report that we received in the packet today, really none of us have had an opportunity to look at it. It was at our DIAWS this evening. But just based on this item number four, where you have someone outside, just looking at creative idea listing, reduce height of entry lobby. You've saved $20,000 in these various scenarios with a total reduction in price of or savings of $1.2 million. So you have someone with expertise that maybe could creatively offer suggestions, we clearly can't make that decision, but it would seem to me that it does provide a second set of eyes on something that we're expending a huge amount of money on. So maybe we want to take time to look at this before we render a decision on it. So about that, there's a question related to your comment though, and that is, so that if we do want to engage a value in general, how much time do we need to engineer? How much time do they need so they don't fall behind the actual engineering process that's about to start? Preferably now is the best time to do it. However, if you waited 30 days, obviously we're in the summer months, it could still be done. It does slow the school down to some extent. But I would say there's no way you could go past the next meeting without putting a burden on the school and their scheduling. So if you wanted to wait 30 days, I believe it still could be done. On the budget, on the value engineering, the timing of when they do it is when it works best. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Administrator, even with 30 days, if there's architectural designs that are occurring tomorrow, that still has to undergo a review process. And so the school board, I'm assuming would also review it. So I don't see how it would be really critical if we just waited 30 days just to go through the stuff that you've given us. I will tell you the review, just so you understand, the school board doesn't go into that type of review. When I sent you a sample of that from the VE, those pages in the last item four, the actual document they review is actually 200 pages long. It's heavy duty. I mean, it's significant engineering, AC, et cetera. That's why it's better done sooner rather than later. It's hard to incorporate any changes as you go through. So you think there's some advantage to making the decision now? It's an advantage to making now, but I think if you wait 30 days, you could still make and it could still be done. I think subsequent to that, it could have a significant impact on their scheduling of their construction project. So are you looking for a motion today to appropriate $94,000? I'm looking just for whatever direction. Did the board want to wait 30, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 65, 65, 63, 64, 77, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 73, 74, 74, 75, 76, 75, 76, 77, 77, 78, 79, 80, 60, 70, 81, 71, 72, 72, 93, to go ahead and approve the value engineering of the 94,000 that we've seen. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I will second it for discussion. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? Probably has all we need. I guess the discussion part is that I've watched the last two projects that were completed, being Jordan Springs and the most recent one being Jameswood High School, which is absolutely beautiful, but I feel that there are some things that have been missed, and this gives us an opportunity for the county to protect the county's dollar. I feel like I'm looking out majorly for the taxpayer. Only five short years ago, Jordan Springs was opened with a half of a gymnasium, and now we're coming back with $20-some million renovation, and it's only five years old. That's the reason that I think this is pretty important. Ms. Chairman, one point with that. The Board of Supervisors made that cut. That was done by the Board. The money. When the vote occurred five years ago, it was also a conscious decision on cost at that time. I don't remember the exact numbers, but it might have been $32 million or $33 million. It was cut to $29 million, but the Board, in a cost-saving mood at the time, decided that we would go and reduce the cost and reduce the size. When the groundbreaking occurred, John LaMotta, who was the superintendent at the time, said, I'm still glad we got what we got. I remember I was sitting next to him. We had cut $3 million out of that, but he was still pleased with what he had. Now you've had the growth, but that was a cost-benefit analysis where you could agree with or disagree with. That was the Board that did that decision at that time, for reasons stated at that time. I might just add, it wasn't all the cost savings because the recent analysis from the school division has decided that there's more growth in that area, that they did not. They did not anticipate the number of students that are in that school. So in all fairness, it wasn't a complete reduction that has caused this situation. You're correct. So I guess I'll throw into the discussion. I get comments from citizens all the time. They call Frederick County Middle School a Taj Mahal. There are people who criticize some of the aspects of that school. And transparency, I think this provides another level of transparency where people can see it and you get your chance as a public to comment on it. I think it's a good idea to have a public comment on the design with an interpretation from a value engineer to explain to you what they're doing that you might miss otherwise. And to take issue with the comment by Supervisor Wells, he might not have meant it the way he said it, and I'm not trying to pick a fight. No, I understand. But he said early on that it's really a decision of public schools. They have the budget to spend it, right? Like when you're building your home in the stained glass window example. It's their money, so let them build what they want. I don't look at it that way. It's not their money even though we've appropriated money to a limit on how much they can spend. It's your money. It's taxpayer money. And I think whether we have formal control over the design or not, and we don't because this board decided to appropriate all that money at once to them. I was a no vote, by the way. I wanted to do it in phases. But it's still your money and you should get a chance to see it. And I think a value engineer is going to give you exactly that. Right? Exactly that opportunity. Supervisor Dunn. By the same token, the school board is an elected body. So it's your money raised the issue with the school board. But the difference is they don't raise taxes. They don't raise the money. That falls on us. That's why it's, in my opinion, our job to be responsible. We're going to get yelled at if they build a beautiful, maybe over much school. Or let's pick on the fire chief as well. If they build too much, are they really going to get yelled at? They just built to the check they were given. We will be responsible for the money that's spent. But I do think that the school board, I expect the school board to be very cost conscious because of the Taj Mahal. I expect them to be sensitive to that issue. I expect them to come back. The conversation I had with the administrator, I think Friday, and some of you may have had similar conversations. He said, fine, the roof was revised and fixed so it saved $600,000 or $700,000, et cetera. So I think they're going through that process. I hope so. And I appreciate what they do. In my long career as an engineer, I've never delivered a product to a customer without having a second set of eyes on it and to review it. So that's, in my mind, that's what this is. So any more discussion? I mean, we can go right to a vote. And if it fails, we'll probably have more discussion and another motion perhaps. Any more discussion at this time? So we'll move to a vote. The motion is, I'm going to vote on the motion. I'm going to vote on the motion. Thank you. All right. Okay. And that requires a vote. So, that wassection. Okay. Misterhan has a motion. Any? Seconded on? Trustee שמ� The motion 개relse. Second? Mr. inh. Mr. pellin. Mr. Didn't all anges agree that we should have that in the planning removes? have looked over the materials that we haven't gotten the chance to study. Mr. Chairman, we can make a motion now. We just made a motion. I'd like to make a motion to kill this, that we do not fund the $94,000 for the project. Let the school board do their job. I'd like to second that. We have a motion to second. Discussion? Well, this is new materials for us. As has been pointed out by several, we haven't had a chance to study it. There are examples in there already, if any of them held true, that would save the return to the taxpayer more money than the $94,000 we're talking about spending. Frankly, I think it's a dereliction of our duty not to at least give this time to study this. Mr. Chairman? The value of having engineers look over a $100-plus million project, the largest project this county's ever undertaken. Mr. Chairman, point of order. We took a vote to try to approve Mr. Chairman? the $94,000. So now we can take a vote to deny it. I agree. That's the motion on the table, but we're in discussion on that motion. So my point is, I think it's a terrible idea to say that we are not going to have a second set of eyes on this project. Mr. Chairman, when we took this vote for the fourth high school, I believe I was a no because I wanted it done in phases. And of course, I lost that. But I think this is an opportunity, although we are getting our fourth high school and I'm not opposed to that. I am opposed to a blank check for my taxpayers. When we have to raise the rates by a significant amount to pay for this project, I think it would only make sense that we have tried everything to make sure that we don't repeat any bad projects. So that's the reason I just am very in favor of this. Yeah, I would add that I can think of waste on projects before. It would have been nice had this board known that there was going to be a urinal in women's restroom for the opening of the school. How much money did it cost to put that in and then rip it back out? And how much abuse did we have to take? I wasn't on the board then when that was decided. But that's an example of waste. We know that schools, as was already commented on, are going to change some of their designs based on criticism in the past. We have schools that are surrounded by glass, which is not only expensive. Water can leak. It's not going to be clean. It's not going to be clean. It's not going to leak in. But it's also insecure. And now we're spending a lot of money on metal detector systems, but there's glass windows that are not bulletproof all around the schools. I just... It even goes beyond money. It goes to safety and other aspects of the children. And I think we've got to have a second set of eyes to build the best possible project for them. Any other discussion? I think... We keep talking about the glass building on Frederick County Middle School, I'm sure, Taj Mahal. That school was built under budget and on time. And it's saving money now because we actually took the steps and did the geothermal energy package. So it is an example of what the school board can do. If we're going to... Are we doing value engineering? You're talking about the fourth high school. What about the other two? Are we doing value engineering on the two additions in the fire station? Are we doing value engineering on them also? Well, Mr. Bauhoffer said that... Is that under the $94,000, all those schools? And the firehouse? Who's value engineering that? We have not made any decision on whether or not to do a value engineering on the firehouse. Well, why wouldn't we do that? It's something we can consider at the time. I mean, we're spending a lot of time talking about the school board and the school, but the firehouse is ours. Well, I think the reason we're talking about the school is it's our largest project by far. The example I gave in an adjacent county was a firehouse, in fact, so that they regretted later some of what was put in there. So I'd be in favor of that as well. But today we're just taking up the fourth high school project. All right, so we have a motion. Did we have a second? Yes, sir, we had a second. Second. Second. So we have... So we'll go to a roll call vote. The motion is to not consider value engineering for the fourth high school. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Aye. I'm confused. I'm sorry. What was... An aye vote is to cancel the value engineering. Aye is corrected for me, then. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes no. Aye. But this board has killed value engineering for the fourth high school. Item nine, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Dunn, this is... The only ones we have are for... Frederick Water, and I'm the liaison to that board, so I'd like to make the motion. My question is, can you... We would consider switching 9A and 9B. So 9B was the service authority, but that's only one appointment. 9A is three appointments, so that's why I was just asking if you want to consider that. So I'm going to make a motion on 9A first. Okay. In the order of the agenda. We have three seats open on Frederick Water. I appreciate those who spoke on that subject today. I'm in agreement with putting some new blood with new expertise that the board doesn't contain on the Frederick Water... Frederick Water Board of Directors. Many of those on the board have done a great job. In fact, over a number of decades, we now have a water utility, a water service that the county 20, 30 years ago did not have. So they built something out of nothing, ultimately, if you want to look back for the beginning of the project. However, this county is outgrowing, I think, the organization that we have. I can state a number of problems that we have. We had the Crooked Run sanitation plant, whose design was accepted, and then the operation done by this same board. And that plant was never operating without violations from the EPA. So now it's going to be closed prematurely, and a multi-million dollars of Frederick Water money is going to be spent on a force main to pump the sewage across county to a different treatment plant. But while that's the water's company, if you will, money, it's your money. They have no way to raise money except for rates, charges they charge to you. The Slowinski Water Plant is now operating, but not off the quarry that it was designed to operate on, which has over a billion gallons of water available. So now millions, maybe tens of millions of dollars will be spent to upgrade that plant. It sounds like I'm being highly negative. I suppose you can take it that way. But my point is it's time for some fresh water. Fresh water. Fresh blood on the board. If the public will look at the resumes that were listed and that are posted on the agenda, we're a very lucky county. We have some people that live here who have tremendous expertise. And I'm going to make a nomination for three of them, and then I'll go over their expertise. And I'll nominate all three for the three openings together. I nominate Thomas Botorf, William Byers, and Jen. And I'll nominate Janet Clark to fill those three positions on the Frederick Water Board of Directors. Do I have a second? I will second that. Thank you. Discussion on the motion? And I'll just go first since I made the nomination as the liaison to the Water Board. Thomas Botorf. He was a village councilman for 15 years, having been elected four times since then. In addition, he served multiple terms as a village representative on two different county planning organizations. Tom ran water and wastewater treatment operations for a titanium and steel plant in Ohio, and was the subject matter expert on water and wastewater treatment EPA compliance regulations. That's the kind of expertise that we need. If we need to be forward thinking and avoid some of the problems that we had run into recently, we need to be forward thinking and avoid some of the problems that we had run into in the past. William Byers was a banker and a board member of Loudoun County Water, a much bigger water operation that we have in this county. We could learn from much of what Loudoun County has gone through from his experience. Janet Clark was a Loudoun County supervisor as well as town council member. She's dealt with water and sewer infrastructure in one of the fastest growing counties in the United States. She's dealt with water resource studies, like we're needing to do, and water resource studies, like we're needing to do, and water resources. She's dealt with water resources studies, like we're needing to do, and water resources. Town reservoirs and town wells, county reservoirs, joint jurisdictional agreements, and Chesapeake Bay Watershed Act plant upgrade requirements. However this vote goes, I want to thank them for applying and offering to bring their expertise to serve our county as we continue to grow. I think we need this additional experience added to the board that we have now. That's my comment. Other discussion? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. So for Mr. Bartoff, he's also a candidate for the service authority. That was one of the reasons why I wanted to do 9B before 9A. Secondly, I think all the candidates are top quality candidates, so this is a good selection of good quality people and don't take anything personal here. Instead of your slate, what if the board simply took each person and see if they have four votes? So I might like to hear your thoughts on that. Like some of the people you've recommended might want to have a suggestion of somebody else. So if you went through and had who received four votes, whatever, that would be . Number two, just as a question, for the service authority person that you wanted to recommend, would that be a different person than one of these three? It would be if these three are appointed. So I'm certainly willing to handle this as the board would like. We can go through each of my nominations individually, and if they are not, we can go through them individually. Any of them fail, there will be openings to you all to make a nomination. And then one other comment. Is that agreeable? Okay. And then one other comment, and that would be for some of us, we have a first choice, a second choice, and a third choice. And so for some of us, it might be a second choice or third choice, but based upon who gets into what, that's where we are. So they're all good candidates. So go ahead. They're amazing candidates that we have, definitely. So then I'll amend my motion at the suggestion of Supervisor Dunn, and at this time, we'll go one by one. I'll nominate, I'll remove the second two for the moment and nominate Thomas Botorf to be on, to serve on the Frederick Water Board of Directors. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion of that one candidate? If you need time to look at his expertise. If not, we'll proceed to a vote. On Mr. Botorf, let's see, which direction am I going? Supervisor Jewell, I think. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Yes. And I just want a previous statement. In respect to the request of the Eric Lawrence, who is the director of Frederick Water, who sent us a letter and asked us if we would, on his behalf, appoint the three folks. Yes. The folks that he has now, reappoint them to their duties. I will vote no. Vice Chair. I will follow Mr. Wells' comment and vote no. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The chair votes aye. Mr. Botorf is appointed. The next name up is William Byers. I'll make a motion to nominate William Byers. Mr. Chairman, there are three people that are currently on this board. Are we going to go through all this list first and then go back to them? So the approach I put on the table was to go through the nominations. I thought they brought us the best expertise. But if any don't make it, then I'll pass it to you all. I consider the three sitting as part of that nomination. So I think that we should show a little bit of respect. Mr. Bell. Mr. Bell. We should vote one of them out. We have to come up with some process to vote among the many candidates who want to serve on this board. I mean, you can vote no if you think one of the sitting candidates should remain over these people. And I won't suggest more than my three. If the other two don't pass, I'll pass it to the board to make nominations. I think this is the fastest way to get through things. And they don't have to take an offense. It may not be that you don't like them. It may be that you have somebody else you want to vote for. But you don't have to take an offense. And you don't have to take an offense. And you don't have to take an offense. So I'm making a nomination. Let's see if I get a second. And that is for William Byer. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion of the candidate before we go to a vote? Hearing none. Correct me if I don't go in the right direction. I believe it is the turn of Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Wells. Same previous comment. No. Supervisor Dunn. I'm going to make a comment before I vote. My comment is that I would have voted for two new board members and kept the third one. This first vote has screwed things up for me. So I'll vote yes on this, on the merits. But I'm not satisfied with the overall responsibility here. So you voted yes? Yeah, I'll vote yes. Supervisor Jewell. No. The Chair. The Chair votes aye. And let me count it up. We have four votes. So William Byers is appointed. The third that I nominated was, and the last of my nominations, is Janet Clark. So I nominate Janet Clark to serve on the, let me get the phrase right, Frederick Water Board of Directors. Second. We have a motion and a second. Discussion? About the candidate? Same comment I made before. I wanted to keep one. I was going to replace two. Janet Clark was one of my choices for replacement. But I still would have liked to have kept one of the original people there. So it makes it a little difficult on you the way we went about it. But you can vote no. And then. I understand that. I think that Mrs. Clark is a highly qualified candidate and she was one of my choices. Thank you. Again, there were so many qualified candidates. Any other comments? All right. We'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. So we have our three appointments. Congratulations to Thomas Boruturf, William Byers, and Janet Clark. Great experience. We expect great things. We need help in this county. No criticism of us or that board. But we're growing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you And we've got a water problem, you've heard it with the Data Centers, and we've got a good challenge for you. So I hope you enjoy your service to the county. Then we move to the Winchester Frederick Service Authority. I don't serve on that committee as a liaison. So I'll throw out a carrot to the board members, who might not be satisfied. And I will let somebody else make a nomination. Mr. Chairman, may I make a comment before we proceed? One of the candidates that we have a resume for is Jesse Moffitt. Jesse is a cousin of one of my relatives, my brother's wife's cousin. I called Mr. Briglia yesterday, the acting county attorney, ran that by him. I also talked to Mr. Bolhoffer, gave him the details and asked him, did I have a conflict of interest to vote on this issue? He stated, no, I did not have a conflict of issue on this one. So I wanted to just point that out before we proceed. Thank you. Okay. So I have a favorite. I'm about to make a nomination unless somebody else wants to make some. I'll make a nomination. First off, I'll start with, I'd like to nominate Mr. Lawrence, who's eligible to serve and willing for reappointment. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'd second that. Discussion. So I'd just like to say to the public, Mr. Lawrence is the director of Frederick Water. So you can argue both ways. It makes a lot of sense to have some membership of Frederick Water. He's going to be involved with the sanitation authority. On the other hand, I suppose you could argue that he's going to be involved one way or another. Mr. Bolhoffer, I've lost track of that authority since I don't go to those meetings. Do we already have a member of Frederick Water or its board of directors sitting on the sanitation authority? Because there's a couple of positions we have. Mr. Lawrence is on it currently. Right. Do we have any others besides Mr. Lawrence? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I would check with Jay. He's more familiar. Mr. Chairman, I believe that Mr. Lawrence is there. I believe the other position is a vacant position. That's why we're having two votes here tonight on that. So you're saying we have two vacancies. That's correct. I believe so, yes. It's a— It's an— Mr. Lawrence holds the seat, and so his position is open. and there's a vacant state as well that's open. Okay. So if you look at 9B1, you have all those names. That's one group of people. And then number two is to reappoint Eric Lawrence or extend his term. So I'll make a motion to accept the application of Cheryl White for the one term that's expiring for the Frederick Winchester Service Authority. She's serving currently. Cheryl Whittle, I believe? Cheryl Whittle. I said White. Cheryl Whittle. I'm sorry. Yes. Okay. Okay. So with respect to who was it, Supervisor Donner-Jule, I guess you would jump to the second one. So we're going to handle the first one first. Is that all right? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Did we have a motion in a second we need to withdraw to do that? We made a motion. And was it seconded? I think so. Yes, sir. It was seconded. Do you want to withdraw it for now or should we change the order? I'll withdraw it for now. Yes, sir. I'll bring it back up. So we're on 9B1, the vacancy, and Cheryl Whittle has been nominated. And I forget already, did we have a second for that? I'll second it. We have a motion to second discussion. Mr. Bonhoeffer, I am. Is this the board where we were hoping to get another seat? That is correct. They've looked at increasing our number, I think, from two to three as part of the process. Do you know where that's gone? Because I have not consulted with Mr. Lawrence on where that sits. It has not changed as of the last I heard. I'm looking at Jay, who has not heard of the change also. So just so the public understands, while Frederick Water is our entity for our county, the sanitation authority that handles the wastewater is a joint operation. And so we share on that board. We don't have half the votes, though. Back when it was created, this county was a smaller player. And now we're equal or a larger player. And so it's certainly in our interest to at least have a balanced board. That's been a discussion. I have not gotten involved with that debate. So we have a motion. The only thing I want to say about that is in most of these appointments, they can continue to serve. If we don't have a motion, we can't have a debate. If we delay making it, is it worth going to Mr. Lawrence and asking him about the status of that board? Or should we just make two appointments now and wait to see if they're going to rebalance it? In my opinion, if you make the two now, if it does come up, that gives you the option to appoint someone at a later date. Okay. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Lockerbie. Only one thing I wanted to point out is Cheryl Whittle does work. In Frederick Water along with Mr. Lawrence. So I don't know necessarily if that's good or bad. She's the director of finance for Frederick Water. So that means that there are two from that office. I'm just pointing that out that we could use maybe somebody from a fresh perspective. So that's a good point. If we appoint Ms. Whittle and then Supervisor Jewell nominates Mr. Lawrence. There's a motion with a second on the floor. That's true. Our only two. Representatives would be people from Frederick Water. There wouldn't be anyone from outside. The community. Mr. Chairman. Yes. With regard to Ms. Whittle, it's my understanding from Mr. Lawrence when her nomination was originally submitted is the city of Winchester, their finance director has a seat on the Frederick Water board. So they felt like Mrs. Whittle's finance expertise would sort of help balance the county's representation from a financial perspective. So that's the reason she was recommended. Okay. So we'd have our if both of these go through as suggested, we'd have our Frederick Water director and finance director as the county's two representatives. I'd like to see an additional representative that's not in Frederick Water to represent the county's interests on the sanitation side. If we had three seats, we could, I think, even nominate a member of the board to be. Who's the third person now? Mr. Chairman, there's a motion. Okay. Based upon the committee website that we have, we have three members, Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Oates, who's chair of Frederick Water, and then the vacant seat that they've recommended Ms. Whittle to fill. Right now it's listed as Patrick Sowers as that representative. Okay. So, sorry, Supervisor Wells, I'm just in the discussion phase, and I think it'd be good if one of our members was a fresh view, maybe a citizen's view. A citizen. A citizen appointee, rather than people who are part of the operation of Frederick Water. I think that would be a great view from outside. So that's my hesitation about appointing all our representatives to the sanitation authority from the water utility. I'd like to see one be somebody different. Mr. Chairman, I understand your hesitation. There's a motion on the floor. Let's take the vote. If it doesn't pass, then you can come back to it. If it does pass, we'll move ahead. Those are my comments. Move ahead. That's fine. For the board. That's fine. Just to put that thought in front of the board. Do we have any other discussion? Yes, Mr. Chair. If I could beg your pardon on this, then go back to 9A for a second. Of those three positions that we just appointed on 9A, two of those positions terms ended on April 15th of 2024, and one expired on April 15th of 2025. I had a request from... I had a request from a constituent that asked, are those three-year appointments for the 2024 appointments, or are they a four-year appointment, or are we going to adjust that? And I ended up having a senior moment and forgot to point that out during 9A. So the question is now. Mr. Ballhoffer, do you know how long those appointments would be for for the two? Because then we would have to decide which two are filling the 24 vacancies. I would have to go back and verify unless Jay knows the answer. He's actually looking it up right now. My understanding is I believe it would go back to the original date so they wouldn't have the full four years. So we should decide which is which. So typically, Mr. Chairman, it would be a filling of the remainder of the term. So how do we want to handle it? I don't know if we want to wait until another meeting to decide. We could say that the order in which we approved. They fill the order of the vacancies that are listed here. So we're not picking on one person to have a longer term than the other two. As I said, I believe, Jay, are you looking that up this time? I think it is important, though, because of the different times to determine who gets which. I hate to say that, but. So, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor Dunn. I'll be glad to make a motion that Mrs. Clark be given one of the full terms. Well, there's only one full term. That's April 15, 2025. The other two are a year prior. So you are making a motion that Janet Clark fill the term that had expired in 25. Yeah, correct. And then we'd be done with the three. I'm sorry. We currently have a motion and second on the floor to deal with the sanitation. Then we can come back. Service authority appointments. It may be better to clear up or deal with service authority and then maybe go back and correct. So we're not. I was wrong. I was wrong. Very good. So we have a motion on the table. What is our motion on the table? If I may, just for clarification, so everyone understands. And, Jay, I think you'll understand this, too. The service authority. That's the city of Winchester. And Fred and Frederick Water. Frederick County is not in county is not there. It's Frederick Water and the city of Winchester. Am I correct? No. So the way that is structured is it is city of Winchester seats and Frederick County seats. The Frederick County seats do we board did appoint Frederick Water representatives to fill those seats. But the way that board is structured, the way the body. So county appoints the Frederick Water or whoever. The county. Appoints their county seats. Okay. I was thinking it was the other way. That's the reason I asked. Okay. All right. So motion still on the floor. My motion was to approve the application of Cheryl Will. And did we have a second? And there was a second. Yes, you did. I seconded it. And we were in discussion. Any other discussion? I would just say that if I vote no, it's no offense to Cheryl. So Ms. Whittle, she's the finance director of Frederick Water. I'm sure there's nothing to stop her from investigating the finance of the sanitation authority and advising on that even if she's not on that board. Again, I'm hoping to get some outside names on some of these boards. But that's my comment. Any other comments? Very good. So we're going to roll call vote on the nomination of Cheryl Whittle for the vacant three-year term expiring. That had to be reappointed from her term that it will expire on August 31st. On Cheryl Whittle, Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair will vote nay. No offense. With the thought of putting new people on the board, the appointment's made. So now we move to the last open seat on the sanitation authority. Mr. Chairman, I'll come back. I will go back to Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, I make the motion to reappoint Mr. Lawrence, who is eligible and willing to be reappointed. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion? Wow. I really don't want to vote no on Mr. Lawrence. He runs the meetings I go to every month. But I still want an outside name. This is going to be a tough one. All right. If there's no other discussion, we'll move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Well, I can't vote no now. I'll make him mad at me for no purpose whatsoever. So Mr. Lawrence is appointed to the sanitation authority. We can now move forward. Oh, move backward to solve something that we missed. On the Frederick Water Board of Directors, would you like to make your motion, sir? So I'll make a motion that Janet Clark be appointed to the full four-year term. Second. And the other two, by default, then, just to be clear, would receive the earlier terms. Correct. We have a motion. Do we have a second? And I second. Any discussion? Then let's have that vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. Now we've fixed all that, and they're still hanging with us, most of the people who are here for the data centers. We'll move as quickly as we can. Now, well, we have public hearings. Mr. Chairman, there was a conservation easement authority. You're correct. I missed it. Reappointment. Mr. Lodge is willing and eligible to serve another term. And we had no other candidates. That is correct. And I would like to make the motion to appoint Mr. Lodge. To the conservation easement authority. Second. Motion to second. Any discussion? Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. Now we are cooking. All right. Let's move to public hearings. We begin with 12A, rezoning 0325. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is. A two-fold application request. I know you don't typically see them with both. But for your consideration this evening, we're going to do both applications at the same time. They are intricately aligned and require attention at both at the same presentation. This is rezoning 0325 and conditional use permit 0425 for the Royal King truck trailer parking. This is a request to rezone 13.64 acres of existing B2 general business and existing B3 industrial transition. So attorney Ms. She-Hnds. That ACCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC. northeast frederick county in the vicinity of clearbrook this is a more detailed map showing the subject parcels outlined in purple at the terminus of hopeful lane they are bound to the west by interstate 81 and are just south of the exit 321 ramp for clearbrook and to the east of the subject properties is the railroad when considering land use decisions your comprehensive plans form uh serves as a guide to those actions specifically these parcels are included within the northeast land use plan apologies i'll go back real quick um what you'll see on the screen is the zoning as well there are three parcels two of the parcels are presently zoned b2 in the middle parcel in orange is zoned rather zone b2 and the other parcels are zone b3 this creates a challenge in developing the lots because it's kind of essentially split zoned and tractor trailer truck parking is a conditional use in b3 three which is why they need that middle parcel to also be zoned b3 just want to provide the clarity for the reasons for the request moving on to the comprehensive plan conformance our northeast land use plan identifies these subject parcels with a business land use designation and within the limits of our sewer and water service area and the plan provides policy specific to these parcels noting that given the clearbrook bruce town rural community center extends to interstate 81 in close proximity to exit 321 it should be recognized that viable commercial uses in that area will likely meet the needs of interstate travelers as well as surrounding residents it also goes further to state that as these areas are highly visible building and site design should be of a high quality to ensure that these areas put forth an attractive view for both residents and visitors enhanced buffers and screening is also pouring along interstate 81 in the adjoining roadways staff would note that the proposed rezoning and conditional use permit does not fully address plan policy specific to that future project and that is why we're releasing the plan for them, and we're also making an effort to make a detailed plan for the future project to include the project and to support them in that process, but we're also recognizing that we need to include the additional funding and additional funding for the project as well as providing additional funding for the land use policies the b3 district is intended to be a transitional district between commercial and industrial and the conditional use permit use requested tractor trailer truck parking is inherently an industrial type use this is your adopted long-range land-use plan again showing the subject parcels outlined in purple and that orange colorization is the business land use designation you can see extending along Hopewell Road to hope sorry along hopeful into Hopewell Road in east and west of the subject property in regard to transportation and site access access to the site is proposed from the terminus of Hopewell Road or sorry Hopewell Lane the applicant has applied for and been approved for a commercial entrance permit from the Virginia Department of Transportation they received that as part of their preliminary comments back in December of 2024 and they have furthered proffered the use of the property to only be the use in which they applied for a commercial entrance permit which was tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking Vita did note in their comment that the anticipated trips generated by this use would be men have a minimal impact on the surrounding roadways however you are quite aware that in this area of the county it is a heavily used corridor with a significant amount of truck and passenger vehicle trips the applicant has provided a proffer statement that was revised on May 29th and the red highlighted the changes that have been made subsequent to the Planning Commission action proffer one pertains to land use and they have agreed to restrict the use of the property to only that requested conditional use permit use this means that in the future should they decide to develop the property in another manner they would need to come back and amend their rezoning to enable additional uses so again they are limiting themselves only to that conditional use which is tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking they've also agreed to be in conformance with their generalized development plan which I'll detail in a later slide they've agreed to provide a gravel parking base and they specified that they will be providing a guardhouse and office and storage building on the property proffer two pertains to screening and buffering they've agreed to provide a category C full type C full screen buffer along the property boundary with the Interstate and the railroad this will serve as a screen from a joining properties addressing again a state of concern from the Planning Commission proffer three deals with security lighting and operations they've agreed to provide a gravel parking base and they've agreed to provide a gravel a chain link fence 10 feet in height with slats around the perimeter of the property that serves not only as a security measure but also as a screen in addition to that landscape screen that they've agreed to provide. They've specified that all lighting will conform to our zoning ordinance requirements. They've agreed to provide a keypad controlled security gate and video surveillance 24-hour video surveillance to ensure safe operations of the facility and they have proffered to provide an on-site attendant between the hours of 6 a.m to 6 p.m on weekdays that would manage the coming and going of the tractors and tractor trailers. They further specified that there'd be no idling of trucks particularly during the overnight hours as well. Proffer 4 pertains to transportation. They've agreed to be in conformance with all of the VDOT requirements. Again they did receive a commercial entrance permit approval from VDOT already allowing them for commercial access to their property. As it pertains to your zoning ordinance this pertains mostly to the conditional use permit request. As noted earlier tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking is allowed as a conditional use in the B3 zoning district and the zoning ordinance also includes additional regulations for the use. Those additional regulations speak to the nature of the operation of the use requiring that the areas have a gravel or paved surface that they be properly maintained to ensure that dirt, mud, gravel or the like are not distributed onto the roadways. It prohibits inoperable trailers or damaged or salvaged trailers from being stored on the site so these would have to be trailers that are approved for use on the road and that way ensuring that they're not stored there for a prolonged period of time. It prohibits fuel sales and the maintenance of truck and trailers so you don't end up with like a fleet maintenance type facility. This is again just a storage type facility. It specifies requirements for landscaping which are enhanced by their proffered requirements for buffering and screening and it specifies that they would provide a site plan in accordance with article 8 of the zoning ordinance. This is their generalized development plan again for your orientation. This is Hopewell Lane which cul-de-sacs at the northernmost point of their property. This is their commercial entrance location which they have received approval from VDOT. On the left-hand side of the property or the western side of the property rather they have specified the location of their guard shack and their electronic security gate. They've denoted the location of their storage shed that they intend to use for maintenance equipment primarily to maintain the property. They've also specified the location of their storage shed that they intend to use for maintenance equipment primarily to maintain the gravel surface of the parking area. They've identified the location of their stormwater management facilities ensuring that the water quality is maintained on the site and that any pollutants are trapped in the stormwater basin and then they've identified the location of their security screen and 10-foot chain link fence around the perimeter of the property to buffer it from the railroad and the adjoining uses to the east of the property and the west from interstate 81. So should the board of supervisors find the conditional use of the property, they should be able to identify the location of the property and then they can identify the location of the property and then they can identify the location of the property and then they can identify the location of the property. The second condition would be to use the permit to the site, the use request to be appropriate staff would suggest the following conditions for the conditional use permit that a site plan be submitted to and approved by the county prior to the establishment of the use and it would identify how it is meeting all the requirements identified in the zoning ordinance including site lighting, stormwater management, landscaping and perimeter screening while also complying with all of the review agency comments particularly that VDOT comment about the commercial entrance. Condition number two would be that parking is limited to tractor trucks and tractor trailers only and that parking is limited to tractor trucks and tractor trailers only. And that the overnight parking of tractor trucks would be prohibited ensuring that it does not become some kind of truck stop kind of related use where there's people spending the night there littering and the like. This would just be for the storage of trailers overnight and not the cabs. And that any expansion or modification of this use would require a new conditional use permit which is a customary condition that we include with all of our CUP requests ensuring that the board has the opportunity to consider any revisions that they choose to make as far as expansion. So in summary, this is a request to rezone approximately 13 acres from the B2 and B3 zoning districts to the B3 zoning district with proffers and for a conditional use permit to develop tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking. As is customary with our staff report form we have identified positives and concerns with the application. The positives is that the proximity of the subject properties to the interstate and adjoining industrial uses on Hopewell Lane may make the proposal for tractor truck and trailer parking an appropriate consideration and the proposal is that the and the proffer statements limits the property to only tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking while also providing for a number of use restrictions on how that property operates and how it is screened from view. As far as concerns, as noted earlier in the presentation, the proposed rezoning in CEP does not fully implement uses typically associated with our business land use designation as outlined in your adopted comprehensive plan. In summary, the Planning Commission did hold a public hearing on this item back in April and they recommended denial of the rezoning and conditional use permit. This item is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item. As noted at the start of the presentation, there are two separate actions required by the board this evening requiring two separate public hearings. The first would be a public hearing and a decision on the proposed rezoning and the second would be a public hearing and a decision on the proposed conditional use permit. And staff is available to answer any questions you may have. Robert Sproul is here this evening. He is representing the applicant. And I'm sure he'd be happy to answer any questions you may have as well. So he's not planning to present? Just here for questions? He may have some remarks. I'd certainly extend an opportunity to him. Okay. And so this is the county's presentation for both the CEP and the rezoning, right? Yes, sir. That would be correct. So this is our chance now to ask a question before the applicant comes up about the presentation. Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. So on A and B. If A fails, if the rezoning fails, are we still voting on B? I thought we had a conversation on that. No, you would not be able to vote on the conditional use permit. Again, the prerequisite for them being able to request the parking use across the entire property is that one of the parcels is zoned B2 and the B2 district does not allow for truck parking. So if the rezoning fails the way it's restricted to conditional use permit, you would not need to consider the conditional use permit. Thank you. Any other questions? Seeing no one, then I forgot your name already. Sir, would you like to... Mr. Sproul. Mr. Sproul, would you like to present? Good evening, Chair Ludwig and supervisors. Thank you, Mr. Klein, for that presentation. My name is Robert Sproul. I'm an attorney. I'm here with Harrison and Johnston. I'm here to present on behalf of the applicant tonight. Also here is Mr. Amandeep Chandu with the applicant. That's Royal King Truck Stop LLC. And also Mr. Berlin Neff from Racy Engineering. Tyler did note, and I think it's important to note, that the rezoning is for this middle parcel where these other two parcels are already B3. And the rezoning being part and parcel with our request for the CEP, there would be conditions placed across all three of them. But the rezoning portion is restricted just to that middle parcel. It's stuck in the middle of these two other parcels that are B3. And in looking at the cons in the staff report, they've got that the proposed rezoning to B3 is not a typical use outlined for this area in the comprehensive plan. But there's already two parcels sandwiched on either side of this one. So I think at least in this case, it makes sense. As Mr. Klein stated, that there would be a contiguous parcel with contiguous zoning, the same zoning so that they could have those same uses available to them throughout the three parcels. Also in the staff report, the staff has stated that even though it may not be a typical use, that given the proximity to the interstate and the adjoining industrial uses, the use may be appropriate if impacts are properly mitigated. You've seen the summary of the profit. The profits there are also being mitigated, not just on the actual propers that have been offered by the applicant. We're gonna touch on that on some of them very briefly. But we do believe and we've asked the board to consider that these impacts are being properly mitigated by these proffers and by the things that the applicant is willing to do here. Proximity to interstate is something that's that's very important for this type of thing. This is Hopewell Lane. That intersection of Hopewell Lane and Hopewell Road. to the exit northbound on I-81, and it's 1,200 feet to the exit southbound. So if the county is looking to have this type of use somewhere, and it has been identified by the applicant as a use that is needed within the county, there's really not going to be a better place for it. There's not going to be anywhere that's closer to the interstate than this particular site. I think that's important to note because one of the concerns is tractor-trailer traffic that I will go into shortly here. These parcels have been considered by the applicant for legislative action before, and prior to them filing that application or taking any steps, the county recommended that they work with VDOT to make certain improvements to Hopewell Road and Hopewell Lane, the intersection there, and also on Hopewell Lane. And so they did that. They spent about $1,000. They spent about $1,700, putting in a turn lane there at Hopewell Lane, sorry, at Hopewell Lane and Hopewell Road intersection, building a significant portion of Hopewell Lane. And so they're already invested in this site, and they're willing to continue to make investments through these voluntary proffers. These improvements they've already made, they're already being used to the benefit of all these other businesses that are in this particular area. We want them to be able to use them as well. So at the Planning Commission hearing, there were a number of concerns that were brought up, and the applicant has made significant changes to their application based on those concerns. The proffer statement, or the amended proffer statement, I should say, is at pages 11 through 14 of the staff report, and the development plan is at page 15, which Mr. Klein had highlighted. I do think at the Planning Commission there was a little bit of confusion about what exactly the CUP is for, and so I did want to clarify it. It is for tractor-truck and tractor-trailer parking. It's not a truck stop. It's not intended for people to sleep there overnight. It's essentially a storage facility for the trucks and the trailers, but it's not necessarily something that's for daily storage either. And what I mean is that it's highly unlikely each of the users of this facility would be doing so on a daily basis. Just the nature of trucking as a business, someone is coming and picking up a truck, picking up their truck or their trailer, and then they're driving out on the road for days or weeks. They're coming back, they're parking it. Maybe their company is pushing them to work more hours or drive more hours, so they're only taking a couple of days off. But it's not something where the same daily user would be coming in and out, in and out, every day. It would be for the companies and the drivers to store their trucks and their trailers. They could store either one of them there. We think it's important that, that, more than anything else, on the conditions mentioned by Mr. Klein, be addressed that individuals not be able to store the truck portion of their tractor trailer there overnight. That means they've got to find somewhere else for it to go overnight when they're not in it driving along the road. So we would ask that the board consider making an amendment to that condition to allow the trucks to be there overnight. Again, overnight sleeping in the trucks, sleeping in the cabs is prohibited and something that the applicant would be willing to enforce. The, with relation to the truck traffic, with the help of RACI, who looked at similar facilities in the county, there's two of them. One of them has capacity for between 1,800 and 2,000 vehicles. This one is, we're asking for 150. But based on the numbers that RACI observed there, there would only be an additional two to three outbound trips per hour, depending on whether it was AM or payday. So, we're asking for a minimum of two to three outbound trips per hour. And then, we're asking for a minimum of two to three outbound trips per hour. And then, we're asking for a minimum of two to three outbound trips per hour. Maybe even THREE outbound trips per hour. Again, it doesn't say how many times that the pregnancy was in the parking lot. So that's one way to clothes. Then, it's looking at that number but only to the need for that at that делаютc applying after closing. it would be a very quick trip from this particular facility right on to 81. And when that tractor-trailer traffic is a concern, as I mentioned, the proximity to the interstate, if there's another facility that's a mile off the interstate, you're going to have that tractor-trailer traffic going a mile off the interstate. So, again, the proximity is key here. But when that traffic is a concern, it's going to be there if the facility is there, but it's going to be mitigated because it is so close to the interstate. The applicant, as was mentioned, also proffered a 10-foot tall chain-link fence. They would put in the Type C buffer that is required by the zoning ordinance. And so the fence and the screening, it's not only going to screen the facility visually, it's also going to provide heightened security where a six-foot fence is what's normally, the applicant is going above and beyond here and saying, we will put in this 10-foot fence to make sure these security measures are in place. There's also a few other measures they proffered that the other two facilities in the county do not have, and that is the additional lighting and an attendant on site. They're also going to put in video surveillance. This would be a facility that has an attendant on site, but there's a gate with a key code, and only authorized users would get the code. They'd be... They'd be able to get unique codes so they could tell who was coming in or out at any specific time. This wouldn't be something where it was just a free-for-all and anyone could come in at any time. And so, again, really the applicant is going above and beyond to address what the planning commission's concerns were. And lastly, the planning commission had concerns about the stormwater management and environmental impacts. As you saw in the general development plan, the applicant is offered to put in a stormwater plan, a stormwater retention plan. And then, as a matter of fact, the plan is a little bit more complex. So, what we're going to do is we're going to use the stormwater management plan, and the plan is going to be reviewed by the county staff during... If this was approved during the site plan process to make sure it met all of the environmental concerns. County staff, I thought, stated appropriately at the planning commission that they haven't had any environmental issues with the two other sites that they have that house this type of use, and that there are sites all over the county with more pollutants, and that it seems to be managed properly. And so, the applicant is committed to mitigating any environmental impacts that are going, again, above and beyond to add this additional stormwater management to make sure there's no pollutant runoff from their gravel going into any nearby creeks or any nearby properties. And so, there were a number of valid concerns brought up by the planning commission. The applicant made extensive amendments to their proffers to try and address those. And we would submit to the board that the concerns, of the planning commission and of county staff, have been properly mitigated. And so, in the staff's words, given the proximity to the interstate and the adjoining industrial uses, this is an appropriate use for the property. If the board still had concerns about things that were done post-planning commission, as far as amendments go, I'd ask the board to send this application back to the planning commission so that the planning commission could have another... Sorry, planning commission could have another look at the extensive changes. Again, extensive changes. In terms of voluntary changes that the applicant has made here. And that's all that I have for the board. Myself and Mr. Neff and Mr. Sandhu would be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Questions for the board. I'd like to go first. I'm sorry, it's your district. Because I'd like to hang on one second and go back to Mr. Klein, maybe Wyatt. So, we have a plan to realign Hopewell Road. How does this rezoning and CUP affect that? That realignment. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Hopewell Lane is not going to impede. VDOT is not going to give us trouble with the realignment. I can't imagine. They are well aware of the plans for that realignment need, and their comment was that they foresaw this use having only a minimal impact on Hopewell Road. Thank you. In your judgment, if we went to approve today, we'd need your coaching to make sure all the amendments, the changes they've made since planning commission would be captured. All those changes are included in the property statement. I think Mr. Sproul did offer one change to the condition seeking to remove the restriction on overnight parking. Our comment was that it would only be limited to the tractor trucks and trailers only, and with no overnight parking. If they feel like they can amend that, that's for your consideration. Okay, and in your judgment, does this meet many, at least, of the planning commission's concerns, or might it be advisable to send it back? I hate to I think they've addressed it. Planning commission concerns to the extent possible. How close was the vote on the planning commission? I believe there were two in support and 11 against. I think the planning commission's discussion, while focused a little bit on the operations, was primarily about is this the right location for the use, and they did not feel that this was the right location, but certainly it is your purview if you'd like to send it back to them for a different action. My apologies to the board for jumping in first. I just need to get those things clear in my head. Any questions for while Mr. Klein's back, and I forgot your name again. Mr. Sproul. For either of them. Any questions? Supervisor Dunn. So Mr. Sproul, and you may or may not be able to answer my question, but the owner of this land has had this land, I understand, for a period of time, and I believe this land has been basically vacant for a period of time. I also understand that other attempts to try to draw business to this have been unsuccessful. Can you elaborate on that, or the owners here, would you like to? Mr. Sandhu may be able to elaborate on that a little bit more than I could. I know there was an attempt to bring a truck stop there in the initial meetings with county staff. It was determined it was going to be a long road to hoe. It was going to be difficult to get that approved, and so that was back in 2019-2020 when I mentioned they made those first improvements, and so they went back to the drawing board, and they've come up with this new plan. So I think that's the other acceptable use. That's the extent that I know, or sorry, the other use they would like to have. That's the extent that I know, but again, Mr. Sandhu may be able to speak for all of you. Well, he's coming up, and he can listen. Come on up. For example, if you have B3, you can have a restaurant, but I'm not quite sure a restaurant there is going to be conducive for that. So there are other potential items on paper that in reality may not work, and that's why I'm asking the question. Yeah. Good evening, everyone. So your question, the answer to that is no. We are restricting it to just tractor trailer parking only. No other uses will permit it on the premises. So how long have you owned the property? I'm sorry? How long have you owned the property? I'm representing the owner. Okay. He has owned the property since 2019. Okay. 2019 or 2018, I believe, somewhere around that time. And the previous owner just had that vacant land that's there today? It was all vacant. They had subdivided the other zones next to it, which was initially a B3. That 164C parcel was a big parcel. It was subdivided into multiple parcels where you have a tractor, where you have freightliner right now. The veterinary shop is there. The other farm shop is there. I'm familiar with that. And the hospital is there. So they were all subdivided. And so since 2019, you've not had an attractive business that you've been able to entice to go there. Is that correct? Yes. You have not been able to attract another business to go and use this site? No. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Seeing none, thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. This is a public hearing. I was looking for Ms. Phillips. No one has signed up. So can we combine them or do we have to treat them? Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so we are in a public hearing. We have to treat them as separate for the sake of Robert's Rules of Order. Mr. Chairman, if the intent is to act on both at the same time, it would be appropriate to combine the public hearings as well. It's your district. You might treat them both together? Yes. It's your choice. I think we could treat one hinges on the other, so I think it is appropriate to handle them both at the same time. Okay. So nobody signed up. But if anyone wants to comment on either the business use, the CUP or on the rezoning, please queue up. How many will the opinions be? And if not, no, there's time for questions. There's time for questions. Okay. Okay, so nobody signed up, but if anyone wants to comment on either the business use, the CUP, or on the rezoning, please queue up. How many will we have? Two. Any others? All right, we have two speakers. Deanne Kinney from the Gainesboro District. And I seem to always be coming up here talking against trailer truck parking. I was against the one at the end of Welltown Pike and Route 11, and I'm against this one also. Living there, my mother lives off of Payne Road, off of Welltown Pike. And with the mess that's down at the end of Route 11 and Welltown, Hopewell seems to be the only calm way to get out on Route 11. Ms. Lockridge and Ms. Slaughter know that there isn't an easy way. If you go to Whitehall, you have Flying J. So the one place that we have to get out, I leave my mother's house off of Welltown Pike, go to Hopewell, and go to Target. Because it takes me less time to go that way than it does. It takes me less time than it does to go down to the end of Welltown Pike and make a left and fight that traffic. So now you want to put tractor, they want to put tractor and trailers there. And, you know, you think, well, it's just tractor-trailer parking. Again, I heard the word intended. It's not intended for anybody to spend the night there. But as I said before a long time ago, truck drivers do what truck drivers have to do. And they have to sleep. And where Hopewell wrote... Where Hopewell wrote, where the road is, there's nothing there. There is... What is that down there? Whatever the store is, it's at the end of the road. That's the only thing that's there. So those truck drivers, if they're going to be dropped off there and they're going to leave their truck, there's no way... There's not a bus and there's not a cab service that's going to come out and pick them up and take them where they're going to go. So they have to stay there overnight. But the other thing is, is we all know that on 81, there is an 80-mile-per-hour bus. There's a bus. There's a bus. There's a bus. There's an accident that backs up traffic every single day on 81. And you know where that traffic ends up? Welltown Pike to Hopewell Road to either get on 81 one way or the other or get on Route 11. Now you're going to have tractor and trailers make a left-hand turn to go to 81 from Hopewell Lane. They have to make a left-hand turn going uphill. At Whitehall, they have a great big wide intersection there. They have a great big wide intersection there. At Hopewell Road, you got two lanes. They may have made their entrance wider, but they didn't make Hopewell Road any wider. So those tractor and trailers are going to have to swing out. And when they're making a left-hand turn, that traffic that for me is the savior to get out on Route 11, now I have to wait for tractor and trailers or the tractor and trailers have to wait for me. And it's just... To me, it's probably an accident waiting to happen sooner or later. It's probably an accident waiting to happen sooner or later. I know that growth in Frederick County is coming especially on that end, but you know what we have enough trucks there and then you're going to feed... They're coming out on Route 11. We know that's what's going to happen. They're either that way or they're going to go Hopewell and go 81. Then take Hyatt Road over to Apple Pie Ridge. Go down Apple Pie Ridge and get on 37 to find their way to 81. They will fill that gap. I mean it's unfortunate. And it's going to be a great time. find a way. And we don't need any more tractor and trailers than we already have. And when I look at how many tractor and trailer parking spaces there were on that site, holy cow, don't tell me they won't fill up because they will. And don't say, I think it's great they're going to have somebody there from six to six. That's wonderful. But at night, the tractor and trailer, they're going to drive. And when it's cold in the middle of the winter, you don't think they're not going to idle? They are. Because nobody's going to be there to watch them. During the summer, not so much of a problem. But when you go in the wintertime and it's cold, they got to keep those trucks running. And they will. So I'm hoping, I hate to say it, but I do hope that we deny this. It's going to come, but I hope I'm gone when it happens. Because it's just too much for one area to handle right now. Hopewell's not wide enough. If they're going to widen Hopewell Road and make it a little bit more open, that's going to be a problem. So I'm hoping that we don't have make it big and wide for those tractor and trailers to be able to make it there, great. But they're not going to do that. That's not going to happen until we get Brewstown Road and Hyatt Road to connect in a straight line. And we all know how many years from now that's going to be. And it ain't going to be in the next couple of years. So we're going to have to fight that traffic until they finally get around to that. So I hope your answer today is no. No offense to the speaker. Thank you very much. Do we have a three-minute limit on technically now? Okay, if you could limit to three minutes, please. Thank you. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I am a resident of Gainesboro. I am here tonight to promote agritourism that does help farmland in Frederick County by speaking against this rezoning and for the health of our environment. The Stonewall is our destination. It's a dynamic district where we welcome 50,000 people into Virginia every day. We should welcome them into a living Shenandoah Valley, not just an industrial strip with many more heavy and big trucks. If this rezoning does go through, I urge you to require at minimum double the amount of deciduous and evergreen screening for this trucking lot and somehow more in the interior of the lot so that the view from I-81 is softened and green. These trucks are going to be used as a base for the trucking lot. The trees will also clean the air and better protect the children's health at the nearby school, especially if trucks idle for long periods. I ask that we fully protect Clearbrook Run that the planning commissioner brought up that is across the property and make sure trees line the run as much as possible because it fills the Clearbrook Pond. Without strong safeguards, I'm worried antifreeze, oils, and other chemicals could seep into our pond that serves our community and provides a home for birds. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. These two items together are in Stonewall. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to deny rezoning 03-25 and conditional use permit number 04-25. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I do have a few things to add. Supervisor Lockridge. I can concur that the traffic is a nightmare there. And I don't know necessarily why we have to. I know that's the business they want to do. But I do think that the zoning is very funky there and should all be combined and be B3. If nothing else, I feel like the mixed zoning. And with that being said, the buy right uses in B3 are potentially more. Could potentially be more traffic. Just to name off some of them would be. Let's see. I have the B3 pulled up. Food and beverage retailers, food services, restaurants, and other eating places. General automotive motorcycle truck repair services and parking. So. I potentially. I think that. And I'm confused as to why. Why it may be you about to answer, Mr. Pearson. I'm sorry. Why the zoning is so mixed. I feel like it's funny. It's a B3. The part we're actually rezoning. Sorry, Mr. Klein. Thank you. And then in the center is B2, which is what the rezoning we're doing right now. And then the other piece of their property is back into B3. It was one parcel when all of that Hopewell Lane. Was rezoned. Then they subdivided. And there was a subsequent rezoning where they rezoned only that triangle piece in the middle to B2 to do some type of development. I don't remember what exactly it was. But there's a there was a rezoning in 1998 that had a list of uses. And since then, they've never been able to develop it. So I don't disagree with you that it is created a problem because it's got common ownership. But that's not the request that they have made. They've made the request to do the rezoning and the conditional use permit. Okay. And there's already. And industrial. It's a freight liner. I think. Right there. Yes. Freight liner is 227 Hopewell Lane. Then you have Animal Kingdom, which is the animal hospital. And then there's some other kind of mixed retail right there up against Hopewell Road in the intersection. So I agree with our speaker in saying that tractor trailers coming out there and potentially blocking a big piece is accurate. But we already do have freight liner. And I just have a hard time throwing it on the last person in and making that. I think that's a piece of property just completely invaluable. I think it's. They're fair to say that no matter what it should be all zoned the same as far as a comprehensive planning aspect. Certainly they are. There are uses that align in B2 and B3 because they're very similar districts. So it's not saying they couldn't develop anything. There are a number of uses they could develop. Okay. Across the three without having to seek a rezoning at all. As the applicant representative stated, they've had difficulty marketing and selling the site for a number of reasons. Over the years. Okay. Over the years, one of which is the zoning. Gotcha. So, yeah, just my thoughts. And I guess there would be no way to connect their B3 that's already there. There is no way to connect and use pieces of their B3. I mean, like I said, they could theoretically develop pieces of that property separately. It is challenging. But that's not their intent. It's not their intent. Right, right, right. Okay. So I just am putting out there that that's really interesting. And I hate for it to be completely no rights on their land. And the other piece is that by rights, there are, it isn't like if we don't develop or if we don't allow this that they can't do anything. That's not accurate. So the traffic there, is that accurate to say that the traffic, I mean, we could potentially get even more traffic. VDOT commented on this that only two to three trips per hour maybe. Or maybe that was. There are a lot of higher generation uses. There's a lot of higher generation uses in the B2 district. It's not typically truck trip oriented. It's more passenger vehicle oriented. The challenge with, I think, what you're alluding to, which would be to bring the entire ownership under a singular B3 district is as proffered, the use they're proffering to is tractor, trailer, parking. So if you don't approve the conditional use permit, but you do approve the rezoning, then they effectively don't have any uses allowed on the property. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. Thank you. Chair, briefly, I just wanted to speak on the rezoning versus the CUP. If you could be very brief. This isn't normal, but I do want to hear if the rezoning is valuable to you, even if you didn't get the CUP approved. It is, and I'll say there are other uses that would generate traffic. I didn't want to come up here and say, give us this or else we're going to do this. That's just not how I like to operate. But they would still like to do the rezoning without the proffered conditions, as Mr. Pearson said. It just wouldn't make sense for it to be rezoned and only have this use that they couldn't do unless they got a CUP. So the applicant would be interested in just the rezoning without the conditions if the board wasn't going to grant the CUP. Thank you. Thank you. Well, Mr. Pearson, would you speak to that, please? Yeah. If the applicant withdraws the proffers, he'll limit the use. To only tractor, truck, and trailer parking, the board could consider just rezoning all three properties to be three. There isn't an inherent issue with that like we would normally raise because it would probably actually limit some of the higher trip generation uses that exist in the B-2. But we would want to point out that bringing it all under singular ownership does drive it further towards the likelihood of being developed and then having trip generation come out of it. Right? Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. offered to only a truck and tractor trailer parking and removing that limitation and then rezoning the B2 to B3 would kind of invalidate the proceedings so far. I appreciate you remarking on that because that's exactly what I want to make sure we all understand. So if that that is not what was asked of this board to to look at if that is what is being asked then it should go back through the proper channels and it should go to the Planning Commission and it should come back to this board because that is not what we have been asked to deal with here this evening. The point could be made also that a number of revisions this is not the first time we've had a lot of revisions since the Planning Commission voted on it and sometimes we don't want to make this bureaucratic and push it back to the Planning Commission again. I mean they voted pretty strongly 2 to 11 against. And maybe not for these reasons that have been improved but nonetheless if the if the applicants made a ton of changes there is an argument to send it back to the Planning Commission. I'm just putting that out there for the board. We do have a motion on the table to deny with the second. Any further discussion? Mr. Sherman. Supervisor Dunn. So I talked to staff. I'm empathetic to the comments that were made by the woman on the trucks. I'm going to I'm going to vote. I'm in favor of this proposal and here's why. I'm going to vote for the proposal. I'm going to vote for the proposal. I'm a second in favor and second in effects of what passed. I have no objection to recurring STOP the warm up. Next motion. Mr. Vikings and Mr.densôny . Ms. Do you suspend the motion? Ms. Yes. Mr.third? I improvise 못 which would limit this to tractor trailer parking. If that fails, then Mrs. Lockridge's comment on potentially rezoning the whole thing would be three out of support. Any other comments? If you are going to consider it being rezoned, we need to know what the proffers will be that are associated with this property, and we should also understand the VDOT comments as far as what the implications will be going from one use to another. This intersection, you've got an incline going to the interstate, and a vehicle of this size trying to gear up and get to the interstate, I mean, we need to understand what the implications will be before we just completely rezoned. We need to know what the implications will be before we just completely rezoned this parcel. These were separate items, though. Proffers are tied to each one, so we know what proffers are tied to 12A and 12B separately? Yeah, and I'm sorry, Tyler, I can handle this, but the rezoning itself has its own proffer statement, and then the conditional use permit has the conditions specific to the tractor, truck, and trailer parking use. They're inherently linked, though, because the rezoning proffers to only do the truck and trailer and the interstate parking use. So they're kind of inseparable in that respect. So if we deny, we don't need to take that up further, but if we leave it on the table, then we'll have to come back to this logic, right? And I think the motion was a motion to deny both, if I remember correctly. That is correct. And the process for them bringing this back, if we want to understand that. Yeah. Under a concept where it was a simple B3 rezoning, unrestricted use, as Mr. Sproul alluded to, frankly, my recommendation would be to start the agency comment process from the beginning so that VDOT in particular can look at it without that limitation, because that's why they weren't concerned about the traffic, is these trailer drop situations really don't produce a lot of trips, as the applicant alluded to. So frankly, my recommendation would be to start over, and then we'll see what happens in the future on the process. Thank you. Any further discussion? We have a motion on the table to deny. We'll go to a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes nay, but the... Denial has four votes. So we move, I believe, now to 12C. And just a point of order, Mr. Ballhofer, if we go to 11 o'clock, is that the magic hour where we have to vote on whether to continue the meeting or not? And I know we have a lot of people who have hung with us, so hopefully we're not going to get too tired to continue. If we do go to 11 and we haven't heard the data center discussion yet, I'm going to ask for a five-minute break. Okay, please go ahead. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is another rezoning request for your consideration this evening. This is rezoning application number 1024 for Winchester East at Opec and Creek. This is a request to rezone approximately 91.7 acres from the RA Rural Areas Zoning District to our RP, Residential Performance District, with proffers to develop up to 316 residential housing units. The properties are located. We are located on Senseny Road in the Redbud Magisterial District. Staff would note that we did receive revised proffers dated July 25th, 2025. It's important to contextualize where we are with this application at this point. It has been in our possession since the end of 2024, and it did go to the Planning Commission and received a denial in January of 2025. Subsequent to that, it was scheduled for the Board of Supervisors on three separate occasions in February and March of this year, and that it was going to be in the hands of the Board of Supervisors. So, we're going to be able to get that done. So, we're going to be able to get that done. It was ultimately postponed by the applicant as they were working through different variations of the application from what had gone to the Planning Commission. During that interim period following the postponement in March, the applicant did proceed with submitting a Master Development Plan, or MDP, in June of this year for the use of transfer of development rights to develop up to 289 residential units on the property. This was submitted as portions of the subject properties are identified in our comprehensive plan as eligible for development rights. As they were working through that Master Development Plan, they did resubmit their rezoning request to us in July of 2025, which included those revised proffers, which are included with your packet, the revised proffer statement and GDP again are slightly different from the proffer statement presented to the Planning Commission and the other versions that were advertised for public hearings in February and March. The proposal before you this evening includes more residential units and a lesser commitment to the construction of the major collector roadway, which we will detail later in the slide presentation. So, I wanted to provide that update of where we are, where we have been and where we are with this project at this point since you all have seen this on your agenda a number of times before but never actually got to a public hearing. So, this is the countywide locator map showing the subject properties located on the easternmost side of the county in the Redbud Magisterial District. And this is your zoning and locator map showing the subject properties outlined in purple. The present zoning again is rural areas or RA zoning. To the north of the subject property is the retreat at Winding Creek, formerly known as Opecan Crossing. That is a family sub or a subdivision that is currently under development, under development. To the west of the subject properties are two existing, two existing subdivisions. We have the Twin Lakes Overlook community and the Sensity Glen community. These are older, well-established subdivisions on the, along Sensity Road. And then the southern boundary is Sensity Road. The red line that you see on the map bisecting the site is future Route 37 bypass as currently included in our adopted comprehensive plan. Again, when considering land use actions, the comprehensive plan provides guidance and guidance to businesses, views, and expectations to the development of properties in Frederick County. And the subject properties are included within the Sensity Frederick Eastern Frederick urban area plan. And it identifies portions of the property west of Route 37 for residential uses. It also provides guidance and policy about uses of the other portions of the property, noting that the residential land uses outside of and east of Route 37 are envisioned to remain rural area residential in character. And this provides a transition area into the well-established rural character. And this provides a transition area to the Jequitico Creek into the well established rural character. And this provides a transition area to the Opecan Creek into the well-established rural character. character of Clark County. Further, within the Cincinnati Eastern Frederick urban area planned efforts should focus on the creation of greenways, stream valley parks, and stream buffers around waterways while taking into account environmentally sensitive areas. The proposed rezoning generally implements planned policies specific to those residential land uses on the western portions of the site and for the use of the riparian area of the Opec and Creek for recreational amenities. This is your adopted long-range land use plan, again showing that kind of planned policy in a graphic form. You can see again that the western portions of the property are in that yellow cross hatching, which is denoting residential land uses, and then areas east of future Route 37 are identified to remain rural kind of in character, and that's why they have no symbology on them. Further, your comprehensive plan also includes improved transportation infrastructure in and around the subject property. Again, as I noted earlier, the plan is a very important part of the plan. It's a very important part of the plan. It's a very important part of the plan. The plan also includes improvements to the existing road and the future Route 37 bypasses on the property. Sensonee Road is also slated for widening in this area of the county, so there is a need for frontage improvements along Sensonee Road, and the plan also identifies multi-use trails along Sensonee Road and future Route 37. And again, the proposal generally implements planned policies specific to that right-of-way dedication and improved Sensonee Road, which staff will detail when discussing the proffers later in the presentation. In addition to your adopted comprehensive plan, this board was presented in the draft and endorsed study back in 2024 known as the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study. This includes a more near-term solution on the subject property, which is envisioned and shown on the map as item number four on the right-hand side of the screen, which is a parkway concept between Sensonee Road and Route 7 via Hallowed Crossing Way. Hallowed Crossing Way is an existing road that is part of the Retreat, Owaini Creek subdivision to the north of the proposed parcels, and this would be a kind of a way to grow areas around Sensonee to the north of the proposed parcels, connection, essentially bridging the gap between Cincinnati Road and what exists in the retreated winding creek to create a bypass between Cincinnati Road and Route 7. The rezoning proposes implementing a portion of this near-term bypass. They propose a 660-foot linear two-lane section from Cincinnati Road into their development. While this is an important first step in creating and implementing what is identified in your effect study, it does create a project gap between what has been proffered in the existing sections that would need to be completed by others. That may be the county, that may be through state or federal funding, and staff wants to recognize that that has a fairly significant planning horizon on it to create and fund that gap. In preparing their rezoning, the applicant also provided a traffic impact analysis. They updated it, in fact, in March of 2020. The study notes that all study intersections operate at an acceptable level of service and queues with and without the addition of the proposed development. It notes that based on the capacity and queuing analysis results, the proposed development will not have a substantial impact on the surrounding transportation and roadway network. Therefore, no improvements are recommended to mitigate traffic generated by the proposed development. The study did look at three intersections, Cincinnati Road and Twin Brooks Circle and Cincinnati Glen Drive, which is an existing intersection, Woodrow Road and Canyon Road and Chattanooga Road. The study did look at three intersections, Cincinnati Road and Twin Brooks Circle and Chattanooga Road and Chattanooga Road and Chattanooga Road, and the proposed site entrance, which is shown on the generalized development plan. When evaluating land use decisions, particularly new residential development, the Board does have an additional tool at your disposal. That is our capital impact model. You all will recall that this model is adopted, is reviewed and adopted by the Board annually. It was last updated in October of 2024. And our capital impact model, which is actually a new, model projects fiscal impact of land use actions. The proffer categories as allowed by state code are limited to public safety, schools, and parks and recreation, but the model does show the full capital impact versus the capacity triggered amount for each new unit type. Staff would report that the applicant is intending to provide the capital impact, a capital impact voluntary proffer that matches what is shown in our development impact model. And again, they aligned with that capacity triggered amount that we're allowed to collect under state code. In addition to the fiscal number that is provided by our capital impact model, it does provide level of service details for particular services. The one we want to highlight is public schools level of service, and staff would highlight that this is a point in time count. It does not take into account presently the fourth high school that is funded, but not yet constructed, and accepting students. It also doesn't take into account those kind of pipeline residential projects that are under development in the Cincinnati Road area. There's a significant number of unbuilt units outside of this proposal that are yet to come online and potentially put students in the school system, but this is a point in time looking at the current enrollment and program capacity for the schools that would otherwise serve the Winchester East development. You can see with the proposed development, they continue to push up that capacity being utilized to 93%, 93%, and 100%. So, again, the high schools, as is the case with a lot of our high schools around the county, are already over capacity, and this development further puts more students into that over capacity number. But again, subject to change when that fourth high school comes online, and we'll likely have a substantial shift in the capacity numbers for our high schools. And I would note that those pipeline projects push all of the levels of service over 100%. So, when all of the projects in that Cincinnati Road service area come online, all of the capacity is eaten up at all of the servicing schools. The applicant did include a voluntary proffer statement with their application. That was last revised in July of this year. The changes that have occurred since the Planning Commission Act interstitial in red, again, they did increase the maximum number of dwelling units to 319 dwelling units. That includes a mix of single-family attached or townhome units and single-family detached units. They've also further prohibited no multi-family residential units. So, that's a big thing. They've also prohibited no multi-family residential units. They've specified that they were conformed with the included generalized development plan or GDP, and they've agreed to limit the hours of operation during the construction period of the project to certain hours on weekdays and on the weekends to mitigate the impact on existing neighborhoods. Proffer 2 pertains to parks and recreation. They have specified that they will provide opening green space in and around the Opec and Creek riparian area for use by not only the residents but by the general public, and they proffered to provide a six-bedroom area for residents. So, that's a big thing. So, that's a big thing. Proffer 3 pertains to the overall natural surface trail and public access dedication to that amenities. That would be a nice amenity that would connect in with all the other neighborhoods in that part of the county. Proffer 3 pertains to the proper payments. Again, that is that monetary contribution that matches our capital impact model projection for the fiscal capacity triggered impact of these units on the facilities in the county. Proffer four pertains to the creation of the homeowners association outlining the HOA establishment in the duties and responsibilities proffer 5 pertains to water and sewer noting that they would connect to public utilities provided by Frederick water proffer 6 pertains to historical resources where they intend to follow phase 1 cultural resource study recommendations and not to disturb identified historic areas this proffer implements comments made by your historic resources advisory board pertaining to the existing existing potential historic resources on the site proffer 7 pertains to transportation impacts this is probably the one you were most interested in they are proffering to provide a single entrance from Cincinnati Road and they are providing the right-of-way dedication for the future widening of that facility should a project arise in the future they are proposing a public street connection to Canyon Road and that has some triggers in it they intend to complete the construction of that connection that interpersonal connection with Canyon Road in Cincinnati Glen at 50% occupancy of the project and then they intend to open that facility to traffic at 80% of occupancy so you they would build it as they approach 50% of their unic details and then that they would open complex 107 miles route 37 long what is shown on their general development plan that is a hundred four-foot wide right away as shown on our adopted comprehensive plan and they've and they've agreed to provide a shared use path along cincinnati road and also that collector road that they intend to construct a portion of and then again they intend shown in red they intend to construct a 660 linear foot two lane section of that collector road that was detailed earlier as shown on the effect study that would again start that parkway completion between cincinnati road and route 7 again leaving a little bit of a gap to be completed by others the proffers 8 9 and 10 deal with exclusion of public property from proffers several ability and binding effect and proffer 11 deals with the escalator clause noting that after 12 months they would continue to adjust that per unit contribution to match inflation this is their generalized development plan again for your orientation because it is sideways this is cincinnati road on the left hand side of the screen and then this is the retreat winding creek on the north and the opec and creek on the bottom of the screen this shows again their general land base they intend to develop land base on the west side of what is future route 37 containing both attached and detached homes and then they intend to develop detached homes on the opposite side of the future right away for single family detached and then this piece here is showing that 660 linear foot segment that they intend to complete a two-lane segment of that future collector roadway from cincinnati road as well as the정을 residential newly laid over this street the future времpod 코버 eventually develop fully evangelical neighborhoods and looking top alignments are tone down what we'resein Irignio un tricky dp scenery for"... are b t 13 subject to socialization and development duties without any financial resources' consideration as far as positives again the application implements plan policy for residential uses on western portions of the property the Opec and Creek riparian areas are preserved for open space and recreation and public access as Is detailed in the comprehensive plan? They fully implement the capital impact model projections and outputs for the impact of those single-family attached and detached units They've provided an hours of operation limitation to reduce the impact of construction on to joining neighbors And they provide that interpersonal connection with the sensitivity Glenn subdivision again with limitations on when that is constructed and when it ultimately Would be open to the public Concerns as noted in the staff report the collector roadway construction does not extend to the northern limits of the development and there would be an otherwise There would be a gap that would otherwise need to be completed by others Between what they are constructing and what would ultimately tie into the existing segments of hollow crossing way in the retreat at winding Creek subdivision So In summary the Planning Commission held a work session on December 18th They they then held a public hearing on January 15th, and they did recommend denial This item is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item and staff would be seeking a decision by the board on this Proposed rezoning ty lawson is here this evening. He is representing the applicants. I know mr. Lawson has some remarks for you all as well I'm happy to answer any questions you had though before mr. Lawson comes up. Thank you questions for mr. Klein Yes, sir. Mr. Chair Mr. Klein, how how does the 660 foot Road compared to what was previously proffered? I Did create a graphic generally showing what was there so this is your proposal before your consideration and I'd again This is what they intend to complete 660 feet This is the graphic that went to the Planning Commission So they intended to develop the road they intended at that time they had proffered to complete the road from Cincinnati Road up until the split between the two residential land base So there's a much more substantial two-lane segment of the roadway And that's that's what the Planning Commission acted on Do we know what the length of that was? I don't but based on my I don't know the exact linear feet But it's more than triple what they're providing now Thank you Mr. Klein so you put the your slide back up again, please That one that I was just on. Yes, please so my first question is on the Area where you have the additional items in this South You know if you go up the road the white spot on the right No, no just just circle no no it's right below that That whole white spot is where we're gonna build some additional houses Yes, sir. to you is, are those houses then going to have a road that's going across to the others? And if you have a Route 37, does that become an entrance onto 37, or is there going to be a bridge over it or a tunnel under it? It would be across of 37. Now, depending on what version of 37 ultimately gets built, whether that's the kind of grade separated one that's always been on our plans or whether it implements some kind of segment that is more akin to what was shown in the effects study, that is an important consideration. Right now, again, they are proposing kind of an intersection there on the proposal that's before you this evening, which I think is most pertinent to the discussion. They would build the two-lane segment up into that first crossing that would serve that land bay on the western portion of the property, and then they would have internal streets that would come back and cross here that would service both land bays. Second question for the record. On the limitation on noise, I believe it's for weekend, sorry, it's limited to weeks to two. Do you have that there? Yes, I do. It's weekdays between, apologies, I have it highlighted here. It is weekdays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to sunset on Saturday and no construction outside of those hours. Okay. All right. Third question, just to confirm, you had a slide up there that said that on capacity, the applicant was going to go and do full project. What is the capacity that the applicant offers? But you also had a slide there that said that basically Redbud Elementary, I believe, is like 95% capacity. Greenwood Mill, I think, is 85% capacity. Millbrook High School is over capacity. And right now, at that point in time, we have not only this project, we have another project by Lanier. We have Abrams Point. And so when all those are completed out, recognize that each one of those is used in the same capacity here. But when they all come together, you go way over. That's one of the reasons why I think that the figuring of that should be redone. And then the actual impact fees, not the proper fees, which are set by law, but the actual cost to the county, I believe, are significantly higher, neighborhood of $37,000 per single family house. Is that correct? That's correct. They're almost double what we're allowed to collect as far as the capacity to trigger an amount, the full impact amount. It's substantially higher for both housing types. So just recognize that the state legislation, the governor worked out a bill five or six years ago on proffers, and that's what's occurring. So by law, the $17,000 figure is the figure that we can request, if you will, whether the applicant can offer to proffer. But the actual cost is going to be significantly higher. Last year, that amount was about $27,000. This year, it's $37,000. You can quibble on $1,000 or $2,000. But just recognize that the proffers do not cover the total cost for capital improvements on this. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Tyler. Mr. Klein. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? Hearing none, I believe Mr. Lawson wanted to present. Mr. Lawson, I'm going to step away for two minutes. Please continue. You have a strong voice. I'll hear you. And the vice chair will keep the meeting. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Tyler Lawson here on behalf of the applicant, along with the applicant, Zach Campbell, and Chris Mound from Greenway, and Kevin Sitzman, traffic engineer. As Tyler went through, and it's important when you're doing a rezoning, do you comply with the comprehensive plan? And the answer is yes. The area that we're developing is a lot of traffic. The area that we're proposing to develop is within the urban development area, which is that area that this board has designated for higher density residential. In fact, it's designated at four units to the acre, and I'll show you on a subsequent slide where we're actually less than that. It also designates an environmentally sensitive area and corresponding with the Opecan Creek flood plain. Thank you. And we've contemplated that in the plan that we filed. Consistent with the comprehensive plan, I mentioned the plan calls for four units to the acre. This pencils out to actually 3.2. We do units to the acre. We have preserved green space along the Opecan Creek, also have the trail that Tyler pointed out, and of course, the right-of-way dedication for the flood plain. We have a structure that is now in the future route, 37. It's approximately 7.8 acres. And actually, this is very consistent with what has happened historically and indeed the property to our north, which I think is called The Retreat. I think out of it is Hagerty. They dedicated the right-of-way. We're actually going one step further, and we are starting to construct within the right-of-way, the two-lane section. So, that's a big part of the plan. And this gives you the aerial that shows we're dedicating to the property line. You all in prior rezoning back when it was called Hagerty, received the right or the rights to dedicate the right-of-way for the future Route 37. And we've intended to do that. We're going to be doing that in the future. We've intentionally done this so that it aligns. And can't help but point out, this is a very big step forward, because although 37 East is on the books, and we've shown it as long as I can remember, predating even when I got here in 91, but this is actually the first leg. If this rezoning is accepted, the county will own the first leg of 37, the land between Cincinnati Road and Route 7. And, of course, as we just discussed, we will have started the actual road section for 37. That's never happened on the east side before. So it's a big step forward. Tyler went through the proffer commitments. You all do have a proffer model. It gets updated each and every year. And we've intentionally... I followed it to the letter so that we comply with your numbers. And those are proffers to address capacity-related impacts, as Mr. Dunn pointed out, per the code. And it is for such things as school, public safety, parks and rec. And we did, and that was in the prior proffers, agree to have an escalator within one year, as opposed to... So we could have an escalator at year one. So that's something that we'll have to do later in the future. And I bring that up because it had been pointed out early on that we're four years... If this goes at all speed, we're a minimum of four years away from having any residential units. But nevertheless, we're agreeing to have an escalator at year one. So that those numbers will certainly go up. And then, of course, the right-of-way dedication for Route 37 and then the construction of the initial section. The conclusion is it's rezoning by the numbers, by the rules, starting with are we comp plan compliant? Are we paying our full impact? And the answer is yes. Um... Um... And we did also do the analyses, and Tyler went through it, about traffic impacts. And those have been properly analyzed and, where required, mitigated with regard to traffic. After not only the county reviewed it, but also VDOT, it was agreed that there were no other improvements that needed to be made traffic-wise. Nonetheless, we are agreeing to go ahead and have the impact. Um... And we're also agreeing to have the entrance coming in in the path of the Parkway Route 37 as opposed to, I'm sure you all remember, earlier drawings where we were coming in a little further up on Cincinnati. Be happy to respond to any questions that you all have and if there are public comments to respond to those. And again, members of the team are here. Any questions for Mr. Lawson? Seeing none. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. Thank you all. This is a public hearing. How many people do we have signed up? Mr. Chairman, we have three people signed up. Okay. Our first speaker will be Sally Ferringer. And if you could start with name and magisterial district, please. I didn't realize I signed up. Yeah. I live in Cincinnati Glen, and I'm sure you all know that basically the entire neighborhood is very much against this. I was kind of astounded looking at the map. There it's just going to be your typical hideous, jammed in, as many houses as you can get development. There's nothing attractive. It's just houses, houses, townhouses. They're going to put a road that's going to feed right into our residential neighborhood. Jamie Lampson- I know. I keep seeing in the comprehensive plan. comprehensive plan, they want things to be pedestrian friendly. Well, this is certainly taking away any pedestrian friendly roads that we have in Cincinnati, Glenn. I know I've heard the traffic analysis, not supposed to impact it. That's malarkey. It's going to impact it. I mean, I look down my road and there's kids on bikes, people walking dogs, people taking walks. We have no sidewalks. You're going to have all these cars going in there. You've got the retreat at Winding Creek. They haven't even scratched the surface of the houses in that place. We walk back there. It is massive. And now they want to take this little sliver of property and put in 319 houses. And I think it's, Mr. Dunn, you said at one of the town hall meetings that you would not approve this unless they had a road. That you could drive on. That was your comment. A hard road that you could drive on. So based on that, you should not approve this because there is no road. That's not a beginning of Route 37. That's a road into their development. It's funny. Once they were able to put the threat that they were going to get TDRs, suddenly they're offering you less, not more. This is just another hideous, somebody's making a whole ton of money at residents. I can't think of the word I'm going to say, but we're getting the screws put to us, basically. So I'm not a very professional speaker, but that's how I feel. And I hope that you all do not approve of this horrible, horrible residential development that serves nobody but the people who are in it. I think it's a great example of how we can help people that are putting the houses and making the big bucks. Barbara Alfieri. Hi. Hi. The builders keep talking about... I'm sorry. Could you just state your name? Oh, I'm sorry. Barbara Alfieri. You live in the same area in Redbud? Redbud. 310 Canyon. Redbud. 310 Canyon. So they're the ones that keep saying that they want to purchase 90 plus acres and put the homes on that. But when you look at the map, unless I'm interpreting it wrong, they can't build where the Route 37 is going to be, or anything east of it over to the Opequon. So they're really building on maybe about 50 acres. I could be wrong. I mean, if somebody could correct me on that, I'd like it. But it's not 319 homes on 90 acres. It's 319 houses. It's 319 homes on about 50, which is really a lot of homes and a lot of people in a small space. And what brings me to think about it in another aspect is the fact that 319 homes, even eventually when they open up onto Canyon, 319 homes with two cars per family is 638 cars. 638 cars coming through our neighborhood or the other area. So it's a lot of people. It's a lot of people. And it's a lot of people that are going to have to leave and exit that they're going to have. But our neighborhood is the one that's going to lead people to the Winchester and to the stores. So and our neighborhood doesn't have any sidewalks. So as Sally said, everybody that's walking a dog or a stroller or a kid on a bike is in the street. We have 161 homes in our neighborhood. And every single one of us is very cautious of the fact that we don't have sidewalks. Because there's always a kid coming out from a car or walking a dog or being on a scooter. I don't know how these people that are going to move into this neighborhood and they're going to have sidewalks and they're going to be barreling down Canyon, off onto Canyon, onto Cincinnati Glen. It's a lot. Now, I realize with the new stuff that came up with the TDR that a lot of you are really stuck. Okay? If you don't go with, if you go with the TDR or, you know, or you decide not to go forward with this, I mean, you may not get the money that you need to get for proffers. And I understand that. I don't like it. But I don't understand it. I feel like you're between a rock and a hard place. But if we're going to have these people as neighbors, maybe we'll have them. Okay? Maybe they can be good neighbors. Maybe instead of having 319 homes, they can reduce it. I have the initial paper here from the first HOA meeting. Ma'am, if you could just address the bill, please. I'm sorry. I have the first paper here from the first HOA meeting that we had with this group in October of 24. And at that time, they wanted to put in 283 homes. Now we're up to 319. Thank you. Thank you. The last speaker that's signed up, Mr. Chairman, is Helene Gillespie. As Helene comes forward, if anyone else wants to speak, please queue up so I'll know how many more we have. Hi. Just come to the middle aisle then. Thank you. I'm Helene Gillespie, Redbud District. Thank you. I also live in Cincinnati Glen. I am also the treasurer for Cincinnati Glen HOA. And I do back up to the farm right now. So I'm impacted on all sides. Because of the comments related to the TDRs, again, realize we're between a rock and a hard spot when it comes to that, I would hope that we could maybe work out some other accommodations where I know something's been mentioned about buffers between their project and those of us that live back up to the farm. And we could make sure that those happen with something, I think it was like a 25-foot buffer with a fence. They'd work with us for the landscaping and that sort of thing. And then my other ask would be, I like the, I was going to mention the higher unit count also. That, you know, it did go from 284 up to 319. Be nice to me. I'm not sure if it was the lower count. And even things like making sure that at least one road of single family homes, not duplexes or townhouses, may be backed up to our property. Because we're all single family homes in that area. So I, you know, I don't want to see us get stuck with nothing. So I understand if it has to get approved. But I think it's a good idea. I think we can do it. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think we can get it approved. But I would hope that from a standpoint of being a good neighbor, maybe we can make sure we can get a few of these smaller concessions. And then from the standpoint of the road, I don't know who has to make this decision. But I think it needs to be a four-way stop at Cincinnati Glen and Canyon. Because, again, that's going to be the road that's bringing all the new people in. And they are the one, you know, we don't have sidewalks. Unless you all can build us some sidewalks. But I think we're there. We're there. We're there. We're there. We're there. We're there. We're there. Cincinnati Glen and Canyon because again that's going to be the road that's bringing all the new people in and they are the one you know that we don't have sidewalks unless y'all can build us some sidewalks then that would make it a little bit easier so thank you. I see four there's four people want to speak is that right standing okay I'll call it after those four. James Mulder Back Creek District I would like to remind numbers if my memory serves me correct the county already has 10 to 12,000 homes that can be built in this county on the books today they don't need 300 more especially 10 to 12,000 that can't even pay the full impact on what they have on the schools and everything else in in the county the planning commission said no on this and I think the board should be able to do that. I think the board should be able to do that. I think the board should be able to do that. I think the board should be able to do that. I think the board should say no also thank you. Thank you. Name and Magisterial District please. I'm Nicole Russell I'm in Redbud thank you for all the work you did on this earlier this year and the work you're doing on it tonight. I understand that we're in an urban development area and that there's going to be development and change but I don't think just like when we were talking about the data center issue we don't need to put in as much as we possibly can to the detriment of our county's character. The number of homes going in there behind the single family homes. It's going to put too much strain as we've seen on the schools on the roads and and where we see it come in it's right at the very edge of our county. Remind you last time Clark County was not thrilled with this as you go out of this neighborhood and go to the left very quickly it's a two lane road through winding woods. I would urge you I know our county is huge but I would urge you to go drive that. It has gotten extremely dangerous. It was washed out in the heavy rains we had earlier this year. That road is going to be a lot of work. I would urge you to go drive that. It has gotten extremely dangerous. It was washed out in the heavy rains we had earlier this year. That road is going to be a lot of work. I would urge you to go drive that. It has gotten extremely dangerous. It was washed out in the heavy rains we had earlier this year. That road is going to be a lot more than finished. It's going to get broken is that the line irочки reasons to make very many of these problems. This is one of our thumbs on the ground helping us stay yeah it's a lot of work but we're doing this fight with all of Like following into what Clark County's plan. Come in, what is it like at these development is it the land is it the people is it the move to Але Weldon Bayvik we doing development is it the land is it the people is it the move to Ale Sweetland? 3 in. What is it the developer? So is it the land? it out just in the interest of getting as much tax revenue in and as many people shoved into the county as we can because we all deserve to breathe and we all deserve to have a good quality of life where we are where we've already been voting and paying taxes and investing in our community thank you again for your time and for all the work you've done especially supervisor don thank you mr. chairman fellow supervisors uh first of all thank you for your time and most importantly thank you for your service to our community all these name things we're talking about this evening I'm sorry my name is Jamie Corrales I'm in Red Bund managerial district if my voice cuts out sorry I had surgery last week so my voice is a little weak this evening but I guess just I love this community and one of the things I'm been struggling with this last month when all this has happened is that I came to the planning committee meeting saw this get denied for a number of different reasons and whatever happens this evening I think we need to look when these are being transferred how can we not be put in this position and be able to really look at what the zoning and planning had recommended to us and not be caught in a situation where we are stuck between a rock and a hard place with proffers and different things. One thing, Mr. Dunn, you mentioned on that map with that white area. And one of the things, yes, they might be giving us this land for 37, but it's almost to nowhere because at the end of that road, there's a huge giant ravine. In order to build 37 from that point to the next point, to make that really serviceable for 37, we have to build a bridge. I forget the amount of money. I believe it was $100 million for the county. It's significant. So this 37 is never going to be built for many, many years, but yet you have all this traffic. And then also, they had homes that were going to be built on that other side that were going to be trapped. And then there was the water issue, also where this road is going to dump out into the community. We're starting. We're starting to build a bridge. And then the other thing that we're going to be building is a bus stop. And that bus stop is going to be the bus stop for the elementary, middle school, high school. There'll be kids standing there tomorrow right where this road is going to go through. I can't tell you how many times last year we had to call already about speeding traffic and kids almost getting hurt. And now you're going to be adding to that. So if this does go through, again, the buffers, if we could add to the buffers between us and them, it would be greatly appreciated. So, again, thank you for your time. I know this is a very difficult decision, but, you know, we appreciate it if you, you know, deny it, but we understand if you don't. So thank you very much. Thank you. Last speaker. Please start with name and magisterial district. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I'm here tonight to see farmland in our rural county. I hope you've read my email about one of the last. Farms, even urban farms in our red bug districts. We could have 18 small five acre farms there today, and they would, they would still, the developer would still likely make over $10 million, maybe even more. But I think instead of 300 new homes, imagine welcoming residents and tourists home on a softer, less congested country road, maybe with a Christmas tree farm at first, and perhaps a little bit of a home. I think that's a great question. We have one of our many technologies that has kept us more productive this past year. Also that we knew were both listed for use as of the moment, but we were on patrol and making the most Mommy Seah bullied, and then Boy up the mean again long as they lived and eventually we took that into account. All right. So I think it's really important to start off with a little implementation today. We've got several seeds that we're going to open in about six, disagreement week. But our emergency shelter, Sau Tennessee is part of the countryside out there, and there gonna be nowhere else to hide right now. Adding 300 homes plus homes means more students in already overcrowded schools and more pressure on our stretch budgets year after year. This is not a free road. It seems like more of a driveway to decades of congestion. A future fully built rural road framed by farmland is the better path forward. It will bring city revenue, protect our rural character, and offer smiles on the way home for generations to come. Thank you. Good night. I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chair. Supervisor Dunn, it is your district. I'm going to make some comments before I make any other... I'm going to make some comments for explanation, and then I'll make a motion. This is one of the most... most difficult situations I've had in 10 years in Redbud. So I want to go and review a couple things. Mrs. Spencer, your comments here on preserving 18 five-acre lots for farms is a good one, but we don't own the land. Previously, we've had talk with other board members a number of years ago, and the comment was, does the board want to go and, you know, buy land for parks? This is privately held land by two, landowners, and they've chosen to sell it. There's nothing in our budget to say that would, you know, have a park, et cetera. So that option seems to be out. The landowners have had a tentative contract with the developers to say, we will sell that land for X dollars. And I do not know what X is, but I'm assuming that X is a lot larger than the assessed value of the land. I want to go back through some of the things that have occurred over the course of the last... last two years. A couple years ago, I made some discussions on Route 37. We've had Route 37 on the books for years. And a couple years ago, we had Congressman Klein, we had staff from Senator Warner, we had our local delegation here, all talking about the fact that we could take a Route 37, which was on paper, and make it into a real road. And that's what we've been working on. I then had conversations with Senator Ramos. I had conversations with people from the transportation board, sorry, from the Virginia's transportation boards, talking about how we can go and develop this. And so the comments two years ago were, we can go and build a Route 37, begin it between Cincinnati Road and Route 7. That was the item. We also recognize that there's a gully there. And I've said to this board and others, that's pretty much the only way we can build a Route 37. And so we have a bridge. And we're building a bridge. And this is probably a $10 million bridge. The cost of that road between Route 7 and Cincinnati is about a $51 million road approximately. $10 million from the county represents about 20% of that. And on our smart scale projects, we basically put down 20% and then get 80% from the state government. In February of this year, the applicant had gone and made a, a project. The project included the following. The initial number of houses, about 303, I'm going by memory here, for 300, up to 389 houses. Those additional 80 houses were going to pay for the road from Cincinnati to the end of the property, the Riggleman property. And it was going to pay for a box culvert over the, over the ravine that one gentleman had built. And it was going to pay for a box culvert over the, over the ravine that one gentleman here talked about. Those were rough numbers, but that was the effort to do that. The applicant was taking a risk on doing that. His numbers may or may not have been totally correct, but he was trying to work with us to achieve that objective. The applicant then went and said, fine, what are the votes before he goes forward? He wanted to have an idea of where he was going to be. And he had three votes, but did not have a fourth vote. I would have supported that operation. I would have supported it. In February, I was going to support a road that ran from Cincinnati to Route 7. It would have included a box culvert. It would have been paved for most of the way, not a quarter mile, 300 yards, whatever, of unpaved road. I could drive a Jeep over it. I couldn't drive my car, but I could drive a Jeep over it. I figured that if that occurred, we could find the money to go and finish paving the road. Because the applicant could not get a fourth vote, he then withdrew his application. Approximately two months ago, Mr. Lawson came to me and said that on behalf of the applicant, the applicant now can use TDRs. If you remember, sometime earlier this summer, there was a discussion on TDR use, and the Board of Zoning Appeals overturned our planning director's comments on the use of TDRs. That seemed to have opened up the issue, and so Mr. Lawson came to me on behalf of the applicant and said, Blaine, we can go and do TDRs, 289 homes, and that will be built. Or do you want to add an additional 30 homes, and then if you do that, you, the county, can get the money that could have gone to the seller of the TDRs. It's about $5 million, a little bit more. And the initial entrance from Cincinnati going north toward Route 7 would be built, the 660 feet that we talked about here. That's the choice. We're going to have a discussion at the end of this meeting on TDRs. But for the vote that's going to occur here, this is what the vote's going to come down to. If I go and say, fine, I want to go and approve this rezoning, the vote will be for 319 homes, the 660 feet. The county will get approximately $5 million, and that will be the status of where we are. If I say, no, I do not want to do this rezoning, the county is going to get $2 million, and that's 289 homes and no money. That's the choice we're dealing with right now. I'm going to go and make a motion here that between those two choices, the county getting the $5 million is a better situation for the county. The county getting the initial portions, the 660 feet, is better than nothing. But this is not a good choice. This is a difference between you want to be A or B. Neither of these are good choices. The comments of trying to work together, we've tried to do that. I believe that the applicant is going to go and try to improve things, and the improvement may be for additional houses that are built. Because if you remember in February when the numbers went from 303 to 383, those 80 houses were to help them pay for the cost of this road. Developers are not required, nor should they, have to go and build interstate roadways. They are required to go and build the roads that go into a development. But Route 37 is a project that is really designed for state funding. If we can get state funding for that, it's a big plus. So I appreciate the applicant going and trying to go and work with us to do that. He was going to put his money into that. I could not get the board to kind of agree to a $10 million bridge. That's what we're talking about. The applicant was going to put in $8 million, and then under further revisions to that, he's not comfortable with that number. To your comment, I made a town hall meeting. Yes, I made that comment. But this is my choice. My choice is either you want 289 homes, the county gets nothing, and we have no control, none, zero, on the development of that property. Or do you have 319 homes, we get $5 million, and under that scenario, the applicant can go and we can continue to have proffers to try to build more of that road. Those are my two choices. For that reason, I'm going to make a motion to approve the rezoning. I've spent 10 years, 10 years, saying that I did not want to be in a position where I would approve rezoning unless I had the full capital cost covered. And a year ago, I was sitting at that desk, and voted no on that for that very same reason. And I'm caught now where I don't have that option. So between these two choices, I'm going to vote in favor of a rezoning for the reasons stated. That will be my motion. So we have a motion... A motion to approve as presented by staff. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Point of order, Mr. Bonhoeffer. Do we have to stop as it's 11 o'clock? We have to make a decision on... You have to make a decision, yes, at this point in time. Okay. So we'll interrupt that motion to, I guess, entertain a motion on whether the Board wants to finish its agenda today and whether it needs a break, a five-minute break. We can do it after this vote, the break, if we need it. Yeah, the break is optional, but at 11 o'clock, you have to make a decision whether or not to continue the meeting to complete the agenda. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to make a motion to continue the meeting. People have stood here for four hours, and I would say that we have a 10-minute break, but for the people that are here, I think they deserve to hear this discussion in a vote, and so I'll make a motion to continue. I would second that. Motion is second. But just a five-minute break. Okay, that's fine. All right. Do we need a roll call vote for that or just voice? I think a voice vote is... All in favor of continuing, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? So we will continue. Do we want to finish this vote before a five-minute break, or are we going to have a long discussion at this point? If there's a discussion, we'll take the break. Anyone have discussion items? So let's finish the vote. Well, I'm going to ask a question. We've had a public hearing. We've had a discussion. I believe the applicant can go and come back to respond to any questions or issues raised if he so chooses. That's not normal in the rules of order. Is he asking to do so? Because... I'm not. I'm just... There's no question to him. Do you or do you not want to? Okay. Thank you. Okay. Is there any discussion before a vote? Mr. Chairman, yes, this is a very unique situation, and it feels like... Because of TDRs that we are... Our hands are tied to have to make a decision based on that. However, if we do... Supervisor Dunn, if we do approve this rezoning, we still have those transfer development rights that can be developed elsewhere that we won't be getting that $5 million. So if not today, at some point that growth does happen, and that is the prerogative of this board, and that is the prerogative of the board. And that is the prerogative of this board to maintain rural areas. So that's where it... You know, I feel like it's a really hard decision to approve a rezoning on an area that's, you know, doesn't need more traffic just like anywhere else. You had pointed to the actual impact, although it's closer to 39,000 or 38,000. It's in the grand total. So this doesn't cover the actual cost. And again, if not today, those TDRs can go to a receiving area such as this, and the county won't receive those funds. So for that, I'm a no, because those TDRs will get used at some point, at some development, and the county will not receive that. And that's the county has made that as a way of preserving rural areas. So whether that's a policy, whether that's a policy that's being made, that we need to address. But at this point, we're going to be getting this development, but we're also going to be getting wherever those TDRs land. So... So, Mrs. Lockridge, first of all, I respect your opinion. But if you vote no, the applicant will then come tomorrow, you know, and say, fine, I'm going to execute my TDRs and begin voting. So it's not a you vote no, and the applicant does not have that option. Correct. So the applicant has the TDRs, and so he's going to either say, I'm going to use the rezoning, or I'm going to use the TDRs. But either way, houses are going to come. I understand that. But does that mean that every rezoning that comes, we have to approve just because we don't want TDRs being used? So two other comments. In Redbud, we are not only dealing with this one. I have another similar situation, which TDRs are being used along a farm on Greenwood, on Greenwood Road. I believe there's a third one that's there. And so I think that we as a board need to have a conversation with developers, farmers, people that receive these houses, such as Redbud and Shawnee, people that are sending areas such as Gainesboro and Back Creek. And we need to have a long workshop to work out this issue. Right now, if TDRs are used as the alternative, then we are in a situation where this board has lost control of its zoning because any developer can go and simply say, I'm going to use TDRs, et cetera. So we're trying to work together. We need to have a discussion on that. In this particular case, if you vote no, the applicant will then use the TDRs. If you vote yes, yes, those TDRs that are going to be available someplace, so that's true. And that's true. That's the situation. But either way, for Redbud, for this area, you're going to have houses, and that's the problem. And there was a person here that spoke earlier on impact fees. I've been an advocate for impact fees for 10 years. I agree with you. And this is just cutting me out in the legs on that very issue, which I don't appreciate. And when we get done with it, I'll come back to impact fees. Very good. I'm on board with that as well. Thank you. Any other comments? So we have a motion and a second to approve. Is that right? That's correct. We'll go to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Liero? No. Chair votes no. No. No. No. So it is disapproved. We now move to, oh, so I need a motion for a five-minute break, but I do want to assure those who have hung with us, I think the next two items are quick, so we'll get to the data centers fairly quickly on our return. I can't promise you, but I think that's going to be the case. A motion? A motion. A motion that we take a five-minute break, Mr. Chairman. Second. Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Cong café. Aye. dipping. Down you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Blaine may have stepped out, but I think Blaine may have stepped out, but I think we can begin. we can begin. I'll hold if we need him I'll hold if we need him for something crucial. for something crucial. So we're back in session. So we're back in session. There he is. And we're going to move to 12D, And we're going to move to 12D, the 2025 to 2030 Agricultural the 2025 to 2030 Agricultural and Forestal District Update. and Forestal District Update. and Forestal District Update. Bear with me Mr. Chairman. Bear with me Mr. Chairman. There we go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, There we go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of board. and members of board. And tonight is the up your And tonight is the up your update of your 2025 2030 update of your 2025 2030 Agricultural Forestal District, and forest districts. I'll give you a quick overview while we're here. The Code of Virginia requires that localities evaluate, add, renew, or remove properties from their ag and forest districts every five years. The districts in Frederick County are set to expire August of 2025, and the renewal period of the districts will run through 2030. By establishing the ag and forest districts and agreeing to continue using their properties for agriculture uses the locality and the commonwealth agree to protect and enhance the land and not to take any actions that would have any negative effects on agriculture and forestry operations during the term of the districts. The program, however, is voluntary, Mr. Chairman, as you're well aware, because we've added folks in and out of turn through the five year period and in between, and we'll continue to do so up to 2030. But a landowner may, a land may be removed or added to a district at the landowner's request and with the discretion of the Board of Supervisors within that five year period. Currently, Frederick County has a total of 13 ag and forest districts. The Agricultural District Advisory Committee, or ADAC, met on April 15, 2045 to review the 13 districts and voted to renew the districts to 2030. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on the 13 districts at their July 2, 2020. The Board of Supervisors agreed to review the 13 districts at their July 2, 2025 meeting and again recommended approval for all 13 districts and forward tonight to you for approval, Mr. Chairman. And this is just the current layout of what we're looking at our ag districts. Actually, we lost about 1,000 acres from the last update to the updates presented to you tonight. Now, Mr. Chairman, for the time, the public hearing, I'm going to review all 13 districts as at your dice. We left the resolutions to all cover them. Obviously, the public hearing is going to be held at your dice. We open the public hearing, of course, if any supervisor at the end wants to ask any questions or the public, we can show it on the screen, if that's all right with you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first district for you tonight to look for renew is the Auburn Agricultural Forest District. It is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District, and it currently has 1,014.45 acres. And given your map on the left is the layout of the district, which kind of follows 522 and Poorhouse Road. The second district that we're looking at tonight is the Apple Pie Ridge Agricultural Forest District. It's also in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. It has a total of 936.3 acres. And it bounds out Welltown Road, Payne Road, and Pond. It's also part of Apple Pie Ridge Road. Third district tonight that we're looking at is the Back Mountain Magisterial District. It only concerns 489.91 acres. It is in the Back Creek Magisterial District. And it is basically on Back Mountain Road, and it also fronts the Wild Acres subdivision. The next ag forest district we have is the Double Church Agricultural Forest District. It is located in the Opec Magisterial District. It currently has 693.5. It has 8.87 acres. And it bounds Double Church Road and Peace and Plenty Lane, and part of Wise Mill Lane. The next district we have is the Greenspring Agricultural Forest District. This district is located in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. It has 870.32 acres. And that district, your map, is along Greenspring Road, Bell Hollow Road, and the West End. And it's located in the West End. It's located along Bell Hollow Road, and parts of Hunting Ridge Road. The next agricultural forest district is our Hayfield Agricultural Forest District. It is located in the Back Creek Magisterial District. It has 939.90 acres. And it is actually located along, part of it is located along Back Mountain Road. The majority of the district is up, is bound by Hendrick Lane, which is a private lane, which is a private lane. Which was a subdivision that was created about eight years ago, but there's land behind it that has to be an agricultural forest district. The next district is our Long Creek Farm Agricultural Forest District. It's also located in the Back Creek Magisterial District. It has a total of 1,076 acres. This district actually covers most of Springdale Road and Passage Road. It's off of Shady Elm Lane for any more information. And it's a reference. The next district is our North Frederick Agricultural Forest District. It is also, it's located in the Gainsborough District. And it has 1,929 acres included in it. And this district actually goes all the way up to the West Virginia Line. There's like three properties up there actually touch the West Virginia Line. And it also comes down off of North Sleepy Creek and parts of South Sleepy Creek Road, respectively. The next agricultural district is the Redbud Agricultural Forest District. This district is actually located within two magisterial districts, the Stonewall District and the Redbud Magisterial District. It has a total of 1,204 acres, excuse me, 1,204.43 acres. And this district actually runs mostly along Redbud Road with three properties, however, located on Valley Mill Road, which is in the Redbud Magisterial District. The next property is the Redbud Agricultural Forest District. It's located in the West Virginia Line. The next property is Reliance Agricultural Forest District. It's located within the Opec Magisterial District. It has a total of 221.5 acres. And that's almost, that's the minimum, Mr. Chairman, that you could start an agricultural forest district is 200 acres, just in case there's any question on that. And this agricultural forest district is along Headlee Road, basically. It's a pretty big district, deep. Headlee Road is a private road that runs through there. And that's where we're looking at these parcels. The next one is the South Frederick Agricultural Forest District, and it is located in the Back Creek Magisterial District. This district is our oldest district. It was our first one that we established in Frederick County in 1980. It currently has 5,905.84 acres. The district is actually between Middle Road and Cedar Creek grade. There's a lot of properties involved in there, property owners. And again, this is one of the first ones when we started the program in 1980. The South Timber Ridge Agricultural Forest District is located in the Greensboro Magisterial District and has a total of 1,361.09 acres. And this is located along Hollow Road, Amuse Road, and parts of Carpers Pike. And the next agricultural district is our Whitehall Agricultural Forest District. And it's in the Greensboro Magisterial District. It has a total of 974.30 acres. And it is located pretty much along Apple Pie Ridge Road, and parts of it is pretty deep. It's on Wrights Road also. And finally, Mr. Chairman, to conclude, this is the table, again, staff provided. You only had a loss of about 1,000 acres, give or take. For the last five years we had. And staff was looking for a recommendation on these 13 agricultural forest districts after your public hearing. And I'll answer any questions you or the board may have on the agricultural forest districts of Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any questions? Yeah. I have a quick one. Why did the number of acres decrease? Because why did the number of acres, because when they're set up, they're meant to be set up for a five-year time frame, so they're not being rezoned or anything. So why did they decrease? Well, as I pointed out earlier, Mr. Dunn, that two causes. One is we send out letters every year when the five-year district comes out. We usually give the property owners who are in the districts time to go ahead and send. We have a cutoff date because we have to advertise. Some folks did not want to renew. Other folks did come out and asked to come out. And some property owners actually came out in the middle of the cycle. We actually had one come out. I think it was last year. And we added some in. So it's, again, a volunteer program. That's why the little difference had changed. So some people changed their, whether they wanted to be included or not. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you, sir. So you're looking for, after the public hearing, looking for a vote on all 13? To accept these. Yes, sir. Very good. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Has anyone signed up? No. Okay. So we have a public hearing. Has anyone signed up? Is there anyone here who would like to speak about us adopting this updated forestal and agricultural district? Hearing no one, I close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for acceptance of the 2025-2030 agricultural and forestal district update as presented in our board packet. Do you, would you like me to read all the districts or are we good just to accept as presented on the agenda? Yeah, I think on the one agenda would be fine. All right. Very well. So that is my motion to accept as presented on our agenda. I'll second that. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Do we need a roll call vote or voice is fine for this? I'll do roll call. Very good. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. We move to 12E. The capital improvement plan. Mr. Bishop? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Out of respect for your time, I'm going to jump ahead and give you the cliff notes of this and happily answer any expanded questions you may need. We are proposing to add, we are mid-cycle with your CIP. As you know, you adopted it back, I believe, in February. We are adding three projects to your CIP. They are all pending applications with VDOT. For revenue sharing or transportation alternatives project. The specific reason they're being added is to make those applications more competitive. In regards to the TAP program or transportation alternatives program, a project is required to be in your CIP to be eligible for funding at all. And in the case of the revenue sharing program, if it's in your CIP, it is a tier two project as opposed to a tier three or tier four project. So once again, it is more competitive. Thank you. It's an all-in-one application that is more competitive. You'll see over here that we have two different programs of the same type, but they are two different programs, and it is not the only one. It is more competitive. Those are not your only three applications that are pending in those programs. However, those were the only three that were not yet in your CIP. With that, I can take any questions you may have. Thank you. Any questions? Just so the public knows, we've done a lot of work with the CIP... Yes, sorry. ...so that's why we're not asking questions. We've been in a lot of work sessions and details on this. With no questions, you are looking for an adoption? Yes. You do have a public hearing on this item. Right. on this item. This was recommended for approval by both Transportation Committee and Planning Commission. Perfect, thank you. This is a public hearing. Has anyone signed up to speak? Is there anyone who would like to speak about our adoption of the update to the comprehensive capital improvement plan? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for inclusion of these projects as described by Mr. Bishop, the ones that have not been included and approved by Transportation and Planning. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to a roll call vote. This is a vote to accept or adopt, I guess. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wow? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Leero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. We've adopted 412E. Item 13, a request from the Planning Commission to direct staff to compile and provide additional information regarding the impact of data centers locating in Frederick County. Is there a presentation on this? Mr. Chairman, I don't have a presentation. I'm happy to summarize the memorandum that was in your packet if that's appropriate. That's fine. Okay, great. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Planning Commission on the July 2nd meeting did request that our department prepare a data center fact sheet that would address a couple of issues including what are the typical impacts of data centers, the site selection criteria forum, size considerations, water use, recycling, many of the concerns that you heard at the beginning of your meeting tonight. Much of the discussion that led to that conversation was on the heels of your work session to consider the Meadowbrook rezoning and comprehensive plan amendment. Some of the Planning Commission members voiced that they thought that there was a lack of understanding about the use as a whole and in turn fear for considering them in the county at that time and asked that staff provide additional information on it. So, I'm summarizing Mr. Thomas's comments that he offered at the the Planning Commission meeting. We've discussed it internally as staff as to how might, what might be the best approach to handle that concern and agreed that kind of a two-pronged approach would be appropriate. Mr. Barker with the Economic Development Authorities here and ready to answer questions as well as myself on this topic. But generally, I think it makes sense for the planning staff and myself to present a impartial and objective explanation of the use as a whole, what data centers are, what are some of the characteristics, concerns, and opportunities associated with them. We plan to do that via a report and a presentation to both the Planning Commission and the Board at one of your regular meetings. On the heels of that, I would like to invite Mr. Barker to speak to the discussion. The Economic Development Authority would then go and organize and conduct kind of these community information meetings on the same topic to provide an informal outlet for those individuals who may not be interested in attending a board meeting or may not be able to attend a board meeting at 7 o'clock on a Wednesday in order to have an opportunity to speak informally with residents and explain the use and answer any questions on those as well. If the Board desires, we could also request the attendance of the Board at the same time. So, I think that's a good idea. I just want to stress the attendance of experts in the fields of electrical power, public water, noise, and other related matters that typically surround data center conversations and include them in either form of the presentation report or the Economic Development Authority's outreach into the community. Mr. Chairman, briefly summarizes the memo, I know it's a complex topic. We're here to answer any questions you all might have about our suggestions for how to handle the matter. Happy to help. Thank you. So, this is not a public hearing. You're looking for direction from the Board. Very good. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I really think this has to be done. I think that the public needs to be educated. There's been a lot of stuff that's been thrown out there. I come from this background. Yes, you can have a data center that can have hundreds of thousands of gallons of water, but you also can have a data center that can have hundreds of thousands of gallons of water. I think it would be appropriate for both Frederick Water and for our partners with Schindler Valley Electric and Rappahannock Electric to be involved in this as well, their EDAs, and put the facts out there. And then the folks can make a conscious decision on what do we want for the county. Thank you. I just think it's the right thing to do. I think it's better off if you educate people, and then we can make a conscious decision on what's the right path to go. Was that a comment or in the form of a motion? I can make that motion. I make the motion that we move forward. My motion is that the staff moves forward, but we also include the experts, Frederick Water and our partners, Rappahannock and Schindler Valley Electric in this with the EDA. So your motion is to direct staff to move forward as you described. Yes, sir. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Wells. I understand where John's coming from. However, I think this board and this county have to make a decision of where they want to be. Kind of putting the cart before the horse. We're talking about data centers. We can talk about them. But if the county says no, I mean, Clark County has said no. A lot of other counties have said, we just don't want you here. That's the end of the discussion. It's over. Why investigate anything else? So in our opening statements about what we see in the future of Frederick County, what we have right now, if we start developing and become more urban, that doesn't fit anymore. So I think before we go there, the board and the citizens. The citizens of Frederick County need to find a way to come together. And I know there's 1,700 people signed or so signed that petition, but there's 83,000 people in the county. So you got to be inclusive and bring everybody in. But I'm just thinking that the decision is, where do we want to go from here? Not do we want to take a data center? So that's my opinion on that. Mr. Wells, I'm not picking a data center. This has done. This has everything to do about picking a data center. This has everything to do about, let's educate the public, and then we can make a decision if we want to move forward. But I want to make it clear, though, I'm not picking a... But if they don't want to be educated, if they say just, nope, we just don't want them. And some counties have done that. I agree. I agree. So, you know, why spend the time trying to educate somebody who don't want to be educated? There's a group, as many people... I've spent the last, since this work session, I've had as many people call me or stop me, whether it's in the grocery store, and say, what is wrong with you? It's a good thing. It's a great... I mean, I'm getting as many people saying pro as I am saying against. I really am. The thing that's different here, and it happens every time, the ones that want to come forward and say no and come out here, they're the voice. You don't hear the voice of the... I understand. ...that are for it. So I just think this is going to help, especially with the... doing the town hall meetings and the public forum. I understand. Any other comments? Yes, Mr. Chair. Just a couple comments. Supervisor Lero. Mr. Pearson, correct me if I misspeak on any of these points. I did hear all the opposition, both a couple of months ago and also tonight. So I cannot... I can't empathize with your points, and I really kind of find myself agreeing with a lot of the concerns, particularly dealing with the water issue. But I wanted to make up four points here, and this is where Mr. Pearson is checking me on. This is a request for information from a planning commissioner specifically. It's not part of an application process for rezoning or a CUP for any data center or any specific project. Going forward... Going forth with a study does not approve any data centers, and not going forth with a study does not ensure the data centers can't be considered in the future. So it's not... We're not voting tonight to kill data centers because they... Even if we don't go forward with the study, we could still approve those data centers later without the background information. So that's just a couple comments on my part. All those reasons I'm going to support going forward with the study because it's not approving any data centers. Any other comments? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Lockridge. What kind of time on your staff... Is your staff able to do this without... I mean, we heard people talk about how you guys are a little too much on your plate as it is. Are you able, and what kind of time would this take your staff? Yeah. I think it's a huge benefit for this topic, and I think one of the speakers at the very beginning, I mean, possibly the first speaker mentioned this, is there is a wealth of information on this topic from our colleagues east of us. So we'll be able to plagiarize, essentially, a large portion of the facts and information because the topic has been studied extensively, and all facets of it are readily available from a variety of reputable sources. I'm not too concerned about that piece. That's not to say that I don't have other things I would put my time. I'm not too concerned about that piece. Right. So, you know, if there is a legitimate concern from the board members that at the end of this, the concern is still going to be we aren't interested in doing it, you know, we do have other things we could do, to be clear. Right. And in this, would it be valuable to point out the chocolate, was it casein? I don't know the name. Clawson. Clawson. Clawson. How much water usage and HB hood? In other words, but we just most recently approved the chocolate. It would be nice to have apples to apples. We're getting, our people are getting information from every source, and it's becoming where, how can we actually make an educated decision on something that the facts are all over the place? Yeah. Now, we can certainly, there are multiple users that exist and one proposed that use more or equal. And so, we can provide that information as part of it. Very good. Thank you. Any other comments? Supervisor Dunn? So, I passed out to, I sent to all board members some comments earlier today, I think I did yesterday. And Mr. Tibbs, if you want to make those public and put them on the board, I would love to hear from you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You got a copy as well. That's fine with me as well. You got a copy as well. So, on the request for data, there was a gentleman here that spoke four hours ago. He said he was an engineer. One of the first things you do in engineering is you go and you gather the data, no pun intended, and then you make a decision. So, I fully support gathering data to make a decision. And I'm just going to walk through with you some of the thoughts and comments. First thought is, you know, do you want this? want them or not, why or why not. And for those of you that say no, give those that want them the opportunity to say, well, here's the counterpoint. And for those that say yes, those that say no, you can say, here's the counterpoint. So that's one item. Do you want to have no data centers? What does that mean? What does it mean on economics? And if Ohio or Kentucky or West Virginia or Pennsylvania or New Jersey want to have a data center, recognize that the electrical costs there are coming to Virginia. So the comments about Virginia not having enough power, PJM determines that flow. We don't. Do you want to have one or two data centers? Or do you want to have 100 data centers or none? We want to have a discussion, pros and cons on that. Do you want to have data centers? Do you want to have 100 data centers? Do you want to have 100 data centers? Do you want to have 100 data centers? Do you want to have 100 data centers in certain areas that are next to high sources of power or not? Again, that would be a discussion point. You can go down the list of items that deal with data centers. And in conversations I've had in the last three or four weeks, there's a lot of misinformation. So if you're going to have an intellectually honest discussion, at least you ought to have the same intellectually honest basis for information. And that's the purpose for this item. I think that we need to go and gather the data. To make a good decision. What are the pros? What are the cons? For example, the comments have been on water. But you have today's situations where you could also have a data center running on power. Yes, the power costs are significant. Or you can have a data center that runs on alternatives. So if you run an XYZ curve, a graph, in which you have power as one item and a coolant as one, I mean, that comes into the mix. And we need to go and an alternative to that coolant, meaning water, you want to go through that process. Before you make any decisions, yay or nay. I'm not saying I'm for or against, but if you're going to make a decision, make it based upon good data, see the pros and see the cons. For those that have said preserve Frederick County, I agree with you. But I'm going to ask rhetorically, what do you mean by preserve Frederick County? I was with a gentleman yesterday, and in 1980, this county had 34,000 people. In 1980, there was a store where Martin's is downtown. This is the year 2025, and we have close to 100,000 people. The area behind my farm on Bedford Drive used to be a farm. I could walk from Bedford Drive to Route 7 and have nothing but two farms and woods and fields. That's all houses now. So when you say preserve the valley, does that mean we preserve it as it was in 2000? If so, I'm going to leave. I'm going to leave. Or 2010, et cetera. So that's the thought process that has to go through this. So I would encourage you all, pros or cons, to support getting good data to make a good decision, not just making it on the motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Are there any other comments? I'll make a few. I'll be voting no on this. I don't believe we need to approve change to this county that the citizens don't want in order to survive. We just need to... We just need to control our spending. It's said that we have to accept some of these industries in order to pay our bills. I don't believe that's the case, and I'll give a few examples. A few years ago, Frederick County Public Schools brought a budget to us that included well over $5 million for HVAC repairs to the old Aylor School. In the end, they withdrew that plan. Supervisors Graber, McCarthy, and I voted to fully fund the schools except for that $5-whatever million. So they would have... They would have to pay for everything they asked for. We just wanted to remove the money for a project that the schools were no lo... On their own decision were no longer going to do. This board could not bring itself to do that. They only reduced it by less than half of that amount. So, in my opinion, we approved over $3 million without knowing where it was going. To the schools, yes, but with no proposal from the schools on where that money would be spent. That's over $3 million. More recently, we approved $3 million for the HVAC. More recently, this year, this board gave a charity four times what they came in here and asked for. Those are your dollars. Supervisor Lockridge and I wanted to fund the fourth high school design, present it to the public, and then make a construction decision once we've seen what they wanted to build. That was voted down. And instead, the full amount, way over $100 million, was voted to go to the school system. You taxpayers have no one. On this taxing authority, who's overseeing the spending, on the largest project that you as a county have ever funded. Today, we had a vote on whether we wanted a value engineering firm to advise us on that construction and at least tell us what that $100-plus million project was going to look like and recommend savings. This board did not even want to spend... $90-some thousand dollars to see where those cost savings could be gained. We don't need to accept industries that citizens are speaking against. We just need to control our spending. Those are my comments. Mr. Chairman. We have a motion. Let me just make one quick comment on that. The flip side of the chairman's comments are, you have money coming in. So, for example, if, big if, if you gave up two square miles to this county, this county is approximately 240 square miles. If you gave up two square miles for that, and if you got $90 million in exchange for that with a data center, is that a fair trade-off? I don't have a yes-no on that, but that's something to think about. Last year, this county received from residential and non-residential housing, $89.6 million, almost $90 million. $89.6 million, almost $90 million. Two data centers provide that. So the question becomes, is that worth it or not? We are running $15 million deficits. We've done that for the last three years. It's coming out of our capital fund. How do you compensate for that? There was a woman who spoke earlier about bringing in a major corporation that could be at headquarters, et cetera, and I appreciate her comments, but I don't know of any company that's saying, yes, we want to come here. So that's a hypothetical. And so we just have to recognize that, you know, there's pros and cons, and the chairman and I may agree to disagree, but you get all the data in front laid out first before you make a decision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very good. We are moving to a roll call vote on the motion, which is to direct staff to proceed. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Nay. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes no. But the direction passes. We move to 14, board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Liero. Planning Commission met last Wednesday, August 6th, rezoning 0425 of Laurel Ridge Community College Foundation Incorporated, submitted to rezone 19.81 acres from RA to the HE Higher Education Zoning District with proffers in the Back Creek Magisterial District. That was approved unanimously and that will come to the Board of Supervisors on September 10th. The other issue was conditional use permit 0525 for Arcola Towers, submitted to construct a 150-foot-tall wireless communication tower at 330 Lakewood. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Lakeside Drive, Stevens City, Shawnee District. That was denied on a vote of 8-5. That also will come to the board on September the 10th. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The liaison for the fire and rescue, we've got a lieutenant in the fire and marshal's office position being advertised, a lieutenant in the training division being advertised, and they're working on a succession planning with volunteers and with the paid firefighters. And we heard about the fire department, the new Station 22. And then on the extension leadership, this year, those that attended the Frederick County Fair, we had over 12,000 go through the gate. The kids, and I'm looking at Ms. Lackridge because I was watching her kids doing their showing. They raised $488,000 in sales. That was amazing. And here's a little fun fact, folks. You're worried about farms, and we want to support our farmers. We've got to figure out what to do. We know there's an issue with the apple industry and everything like that. Frederick County leads the state in ag teachers in the public school system. So that's a really great thing to be proud of. The FFA program is strong. The 4-H program is strong. But we've got to do something. We've got to do something. We've got to do something. We've got to help our farmers. So thank you. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? I just want to make one comment. Mr. Ballhoffer, we voted today to appoint three new people to the Frederick Water Board of Directors. If we could reach out to them right away and welcome them because the next meeting, I believe, is next Tuesday, six days from now. We'll take care of that. They're getting what they asked for. It'll be time for them to come up to speed. And again, I congratulate them. Citizen comments. Do we have any questions? Do we have any questions? Do we have any questions? Do we have anyone signed up? Yes, Mr. Chairman. We have one person signed up, Deanne Kinney. And she has gone. Okay. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. Board of... Yeah, I did. Okay. We have one. Anyone else? We'll close after you. Thank you. Thank you, James Mulder from Bat Creek District. I want to thank the chairman and the supervisor, Lockridge, for trying to push me. Thank you. Thank you. This letter ends with it says, 아직ço Lastly, I wasn't here last month. Some of the rude comments that was addressed to our chairman pretty upset me. While I was watching it online. I want to personally thank Kim. Most everybody in my Bat Creek District that I talk to are true conservatives And they appreciate what you do. trying to hold to the true conservative value. And that's all I got to say. Thank you. Thank you. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? We're closing off now. It is already closed. Board of Supervisors comments. Yes, Mr. Chair. Today was actually the first day of school, believe it or not. It was a transition day for students new to each building. Kindergarteners in elementary schools were in school today. Sixth graders in middle schools were in school today. Ninth graders in high school were new. But for everybody else, first day of school is tomorrow. I wish everybody a safe and successful school year to all our students, parents, teachers, and staff. And for the rest of us, let's watch out for those buses. They'll be out on the road tomorrow morning. Thank you. Any other Supervisor comments? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So I just want to make three brief comments. One, I made some comments earlier. In the beginning of this meeting about Christians being killed in Nigeria, Mozambique, and the Congo. If you will, send an email or a letter to Senator Kaine, Senator Warner, and Congressman Klein. It does make a difference. So I just ask you to do that, to try and ask them to work with Secretary of State Rubio to use any economic and diplomatic pressure they can to stop that. Number two. Staff gave us an email on Johnson, the radio system that we have for emergency use. Three of us were on the board when that came through. From what I read on that email, Johnson wants to go and have some of us bear that cost. If you remember, when they went through that, it was a $20 million, whatever the number was. And they picked the sites in their presentation. If you remember, Motorola picked their own sites. And L3 Harris picked their own sites. And I made some comments at the time that, you know, I thought L3 Harris was a better situation. The board thought otherwise. But Johnson made the sites on what they said they wanted to do. So I find it disappointing that they want to come back now and say, fine, we want you, the county, to go and do it. They did a fixed bid. This is the sites, et cetera. So if we go forward with this, I'd like to have a discussion on that. Number three. We had a discussion on Manchester East. I'd like all of us to sit down with farmers, developers, and other people and talk through TDRs. TDRs were developed in the year 2009, 2010 approximately. There may be good reasons for that. I think there's also some abuses of that. So I'd like us collectively to go and have a discussion. I'd like to have everybody that's involved, the sellers of it, the users of it, people in Redbud that are on the receiving end of this. I'd like to have a workshop so we can walk through and say, are these good? Do they need to be revised? Should they be left alone, et cetera? I'd like to see if we can do that sooner rather than later. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other supervisor comments? Seeing none on the right. Any on the left? None. I have just one, and we can adjourn. I love this county. I'm worried about it. There's huge pressure. People want to move here because it's a great county. We could easily be overwhelmed. It's going to take a very strong board and a strong public. To pick a path forward. Today, we decided we didn't want to spend $94,000 to oversee a project that was $140,000, $150,000,000. But a few weeks ago, we gave $30,000 to a charity that didn't ask for it based on an emotional appeal. That kind of decision making is not going to serve us well in the future. Vice Chair? Mr. Chairman, I move for adjournment. Thank you. We have a motion to move to second. All in favor say aye. Aye. We are adjourned.
