Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-08-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=359
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Perfect. Next item up is citizens' comments. Now, this is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Madam Clerk? Madam Clerk, how many do we have signed up? Mr. Chairman, we have right now 17 folks signed up. So I will call the first name and the second one to cue so that we can keep it moving. Okay. A couple things, please. When you come up, give your name, your magisterial district, and you have three minutes, and we're going to ask you please keep the applause because when she's calling the second name, people can't even hear it. We had a complaint the last time about their name being called and they didn't even know. They didn't even know that it was being called. So just let it flow. Okay? Please. Donald Matlock followed by Vicki Michaels. Evening. Donald Matlock from the Gainesboro District. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. I live on Babs Mountain Road in the path of the Valley Links proposed study routes for its Valley North project. I'm here with a coalition of neighbors from Babs Mountain Road. Who have spent the past month working alongside your county staff on a challenge we all share. We have connected with more than 200 of our neighbors, families in the path of these lines, to bring them evidence-based factual information about what's coming and how we can respond to it. We see ourselves as partners with the board in this and we have tried to do our part. Informing the community and doing research so that you, our decision makers, have solid evidence-based policies to work from. That research is now in your hands. We have delivered two reports and two formal proposals for your consideration. Like in July, we don't want to come with just objections. We wanted to come with workable solutions modeled on what has actually succeeded in other counties across Virginia. That's why I'm here tonight alongside my neighbors from Babs Mountain Road. We know that you do not have control over the final decisions, that these decisions are made by the SEC. We are not asking you to promise anything. You can't deliver. Instead, we are asking you to act on the research and to use what we've learned from other counties and to leverage your authorities to influence the siting of electric transmission lines. Specifically, we're asking for you to do two things. First, direct the county to draft an electric transmission infrastructure and corridor policy amendment to the comprehensive plan to be approved before Valley Link files with the SEC. The timing on this is everything. The comprehensive plan is the primary tool this county has to influence the SEC's decision. And without it, Frederick County has no ground on which to stand. The second is to take action on our two proposals. One funds a citizen-led advisory group to this board, a team of experts, to build the technical and legal record the county's case will need. At $250,000, the same amount our sister counties have each committed. The other creates a new policy framework for the county. The other is to be able to implement a budget-based action plan to improve the licensing and control of the city. The third is to have a permanent, by ordinance, a standing energy corridor program guided by a citizen-led steering committee and reactivates our county's conservation easement authority, which is currently not taking applications, but when leveraged, would help deter and prevent transmission siting through our protected lands for years to come. Other counties acted early and used the tools they already had. The research on this is clear. Our timing is key before Valley Link goes to the SEC. Working together, we can do the same for Frederick County. Thank you. Thanks, John. Thank you. Vicki Michaels, followed by Wendy Dorsey. Mr. Chairman, supervisors, my name is Vicki Michaels, and I live in the Stonewall District. While I have to say that Facebook has been busy with telling us that you all have already decided how you're going to vote on the two pending applications for data centers, and that it will be a 4-2 decision and who the bad guys will be, I am choosing not to believe it. Because money can influence a lifestyle, but quality of life equals happiness, and you all are intelligent enough to realize that. And most importantly, you are. You are our leaders and men of integrity. My father always told me that integrity is who you are when no one is watching. When you look in the mirror, who you see back is more important than what others see. Webster's Dictionary defines integrity as the quality of being honest, complete, and firm in your morals. All that I have was given to me by God, and we are charged to be accountable, good stewards. Stewards of honor. Good stewards of what we have. Good stewards of our land and water. Thank you for being transparent, honorable men of integrity, or who are good stewards. I trust that when you vote on the amendment to remove data centers as an allowed use in all of the county zoning districts, it will be implemented quickly and has been written to ensure no loopholes, specifically in the TM and FlexTech areas, and that it defines what a data center is, and then prohibits them from every zoning district rather than removing them from any mention. Some weeks ago, I asked that you do your due diligence, and I'm asking that before either of the two applications previously submitted can be considered any further or voted on, that you have a water study and environmental impact analysis completed. Regarding transmission lines, for the record, a meeting held by invitation, and I'd like to make a point that this meeting is a public hearing. To quote my favorite fictional character Spock, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. Your constituents have made it clear that the many do not want 220 acres of rural land rezoned to make a few people rich building a data center at the detriment of Frederick County land, water, and peace of mind. And for that, I continue to strike with pleasure anditious and moral denial. To support this really important piece of education, I remind you all and everyone involved in the engagement and support of this forum that you can vote at any time and all in advance, and visited down here at our federal đấy. eer, if there has been an issue of this machine, and I've been very careful and protectiveNo it may not matter to any data center, especially one that is going to be directly across the street from residents at the gateway. the applause down she could not hear it and i had several complaints at the last meeting for the same reason i appreciate your enthusiasm i appreciate that you agree with them but hold the applause please give the folks that are speaking with some respect to thank you ma'am what's your name and master wendy dorsey gainsborough members of the board thank you for the opportunity to speak with you tonight i'll be clear with you up front so you can be certain where i stand and what i ask of you i am opposed to any and all data centers and megawatt transmission lines in frederick county i'm on the frederick county conservation easement authority the mission is to preserve undeveloped land this has been set up to promote and assist landowners with their placing their land into conservation easement we are not a fully functioning authority as we cannot hold any easements without funding because of this anyone in frederick county who wishes to place property into easement will be placed into a conservation easement if they are not in the area of conservation easement we have to be able to provide them with the resources and resources they need to be able to provide them with the resources and resources needed to ensure that they can be used in conservation and conservation easement must use private entities such as potomac conservancy conserved properties using private entities do not have access to government resources and personnel like the state attorney general to utilize when our conserved properties are in jeopardy as they are by valley link our properties have been specifically targeted by valley link because they are undeveloped spaces help defend the property you have told us you value fill the gap that is left because there is no way at present to put our land in conservation easement with frederick county i ask that you show you will defend that which you promote additionally for both power lines and data centers many things were set into motion before information became public many of us are concerned that residents and natural resources are not a priority not being protected and respected there is no out of the way place where a data center can be used to protect and respect the natural resources in conservative settings no one are concerned once we are talking about what those mountains in the 65th and 67th century basically a state will create like catcétique in the form of these separate buildings data centers a concept for a data center that is developed based on spatial identity information LED images is a common piece that came along with data center so as we talk about который manager and Śl elektronica many of us use data centers as far and como we have had a lot of our time within the fashioned as in the older stations for data centers that can be safely put a data center is not a standalone building they create a campus of substations per connection. Equus, the would-be developer of the proposed Winchester Technology Park, estimates that even with a closed-loop system, they will use 10,000 to 20,000 gallons per day, but have asked Frederick Water to supply them with 120,000 gallons per day as a buffer. Frederick Water has agreed to supply this amount and more if necessary. We hear, as in a June 17th work session, hour one, 40 minutes, water is not an issue. But a statement one month later said, Frederick Water is fortunate to have a variety of raw water sources and quarry reservoirs, but those reservoirs could be depleted quickly under excessive demand. We ask the community to act now to avoid the impacts of severe drought in the future. This is without data centers in the mix. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Gary Shepard, followed by Elizabeth Ehler. Good evening, Board of Supervisors and Chairman Jewell. My name is Gary Shepard. I have the privilege of being the president of the Kernstown Battlefield Association. Our battlefield, if you haven't visited, is 355 pristine acres of very early settlement land in Frederick County. It is also the site of three Civil War battles, and the KBA, 17 members on the board, all volunteers, maintain that entire property. Our interest is not only maintaining the property, but also the mission of teaching history and preserving the history of the battlefield, but also to be a part of the historic community in Frederick County and Winchester. Three-fifths of the battlefield is in the county. Two-fifths is in the city. So you all have an interest. And one of the interests we have is our view shed, the water, and the environment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have to know that the data centers are going to demonstrate the role and ability of these women to create the impact of ethics on society and the public and community among each country. And we have to be grateful of everyone who needs to help serve keeps getting missed is the noise. And I'm talking about the low frequency noise, the below, the 35 decibel and below. And the data centers keep avoiding this, and they don't want to do a study. If you've all followed what happened in Havana, Cuba, at our consulate to our embassy people, our State Department people, they all came down with these mysterious ailments of headaches, nervousness, sleep problems, all other kind of aches and pains. And this is going to be from low frequency noise being shot at the consulate. That kind of disturbance across from neighborhoods like where the two are now planned will be a problem. They also will cause breeding. Breeding problems with animals, that's a problem. We've got 80 head of cattle being run on the property as part of funding for the battlefield. That's going to also affect other farms as well. But it's also going to affect the residents that live right across the street. Doesn't matter to me whether they put up 14-foot berms or not. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Elizabeth Ehler, followed by Theresa Ostertag. Hey, y'all. I'm Elizabeth Ehler, Back Creek. I stand up here again before you to remind you of the precious resources that we have in and amongst us in our community. We're such guardians and stewards of this great Shenandoah Valley and the Appalachian Mountains and what privileges we have to be Americans and Virginians here. I work in a global marketplace. Every single thing that is coming down the road is a privilege. I work in a global marketplace. Every single thing that is coming down the road is a privilege. I work in a global marketplace. I work in a global marketplace. Every single thing that is coming down the road is a privilege. I work here on the bike to us, starting with data centers, is an illusion. It's not real. It's rich men selling stuff to other rich men, and keeping a divide. Because it isn't us against us, it's us against them, and they're coming. They're coming for our rural lands. They're coming for our water. They're coming for our way of life. Now, I take a pledge of allegiance under God in order to be able to be a guardian and a steward, and I will fight to the death for that. I am a patriot." As are you. I'm also a historian, and I've read so many stories of heroes and American patriots and good men that stand against the tides during hardship and prosperity to protect us. And I believe and I trust in all of you that you will listen to the voices here as community members, as citizens, as neighbors. Our community is not a business. It's our home. What do we do in a world where they come for lightning bugs that are going to go extinct? Can any money ever replace that? What do we do in a land that they don't value water itself, sustenance, life? We have the opportunity to work together in order to create abundance for future generations that could be extraordinary. Things to be proud of, legacy, honor. These are the things that we need to invest with. Soulful. Soulful work together. Community. Neighbors helping neighbors. That's how we've always been. That's how our roots run deep. We're all connected. We're all kin in that way. When one is busted up on the side of the highway, you stop. If some family member is passing, you hold them in their grief. If a mother needs you to hold their child, you do it. Because that's the honorable thing to do. We're sitting here talking about money, and money don't have nothing to do with any of this. Nothing. We're better than this. And I'm telling you, there is storms coming for us. Things you don't even realize. These tech oligarchs and these billionaires are psychopaths. And they don't care about us. They're coming for us. And I'm warning you. I've been warning you. Have mercy on us and protect us. Be the men that we deserve. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Teresa Ostrateg, followed by Alexander Ritter. Thank you. Name and master of this. Hello. My name is Teresa Ostrateg. Sorry. I am from Bat Creek. It's adding words. Oh, my God. Just one second. I want to start by saying this. We have so much to be thankful for. We live in this beautiful county. Where we are blessed to have our precious people land in water. Because all are very fragile. Kind of like you don't want a fox in a hen house. We don't want data centers either. Or gas turbines creating power. They come with a huge cost as well. They cannot be discounted or undone. We have an incredible amount of talent, value, and worth in the people in this room. Including you guys. We have to find a way to trust again. But until these things get locked down in policy. But also that you do not. We have to work for this content in our community. Please start making money off cassettes. We're working through a law all new on this plan. Right now. The initiatives that include high-energy use facilities, on the comprehensive plan. Which include solar, substations, data centers, utility corridors, and tech corridors. Putting them in the comprehensive plan is like creating a nest for a bird. A bird will show up if you build it. If you create all the things in this plan, our future will always be on the hook. This is where it added words. So recently in Loudoun County, the board member said, this is about a data center application. The daycare approves of this application. These businesses approve of this application. It is in an industrial zone. This location is not in a residential zone. And the developer compromised. These are the words of someone elected that made promises they aren't keeping. Please don't be them. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Alexander Ritter followed by Paige. My name is Alexander Ritter. I reside in the Apecan District. I wanted to say that I support the broader goal of this amendment, the ordinance amendment to remove data centers. However, if the goal is to prohibit them, then we need to ensure that the amendment actually does that, which as currently written, I do not believe it does. Let's talk about the draft that I read that was sent out on August 7th. The draft deletes the data center definition and removes the row from the use matrix, but nowhere is there any mention that data centers are prohibited. Normally, simply removing a use and leaving it unlisted in the ordinance would ban it. But Frederick County is different. Let's take a closer look at why that is. And the use is not provided section, which was added to the ordinance on May 13th of this year. It establishes a process for handling unlisted uses. That is, uses that are not listed in the zoning ordinance. It directs the zoning administrator, who is underneath the planning director, when a use is not listed, to determine the most similar listed use type and to treat the proposed use the same as that one. And a use is prohibited if the administrator finds it similar to nothing in the ordinance. So if the administrator determines that an applicant comes in and they submit a project and they look at the use, and they say, oh, it's similar to, let's say, a warehouse, which is an existing use type, then we have a problem. A warehouse is by right in several districts, making that project by right by default. Administrative approval without a hearing. Now, of course, you can provide us with assurances that, you know, a project would not be interpreted in such a way. But because it is not written in Chapter 165, there is nothing binding anyone to those assurances. Additionally, the sections on use is not provided, never gives any clear criteria for what a similar use is, and the lack of clarity regarding what constitutes a similar use is equally problematic. The ordinance doesn't tell us what makes one similar to another. And even if the zoning administrator does not determine a data center project to be similar to any other listed use, an applicant could choose to challenge that determination. The developer could argue that the facility is actually a warehouse or some other existing classification. The question is, what provision of the ordinance prevents that argument from being made? It's important to ask these questions, because if you think a developer won't exploit that, well, they most certainly will. And even if they didn't, the ordinance shouldn't give them the opportunity in the first place. Good zoning law shouldn't depend on everyone agreeing forever about what the drafters intended. It should just say what is and isn't allowed. So if you intend to ban data centers, let's ensure that the amendment accomplishes that. Keep the definition. Expand it. Keep the data center row with every cell empty. That's how it's written in the ordinance. Amend to bar administrative reclassification and add plain language stating that data centers are prohibited use. Thank you. That's it. Thank you. Paige, followed by Cleo Strabakis. Hi, my name is Paige. I'm from Gainesboro. I am so tired of having to come here and fight for our county. Thank you. I have five kids. And I would love to be spending time with them. But on the other side of that, I have five kids and my kids see that their mama shows up all the time to fight for the place that they live in. I'm so tired of hearing, we need to run Frederick County like a business and, you know, respect the people in BOS because you guys are businessmen. But when you're using data centers like a payday loan, it doesn't feel like we're running it like a business. I live six minutes from this Equius thing at the Triple J. And I'm not even in the little barrier thing invited to the thing, but I will be detrimentally impacted. My five children will be detrimentally impacted. My asthma, their breathing problems, detrimentally impacted. I understand there's only so much you can do, but like we need y'all to stand up in a bold way to show that you too respect Frederick County. This is our home. This is our heart. This is our community, our village. We want development because it's coming, right? We want growth, but we want it great. We want it so that our children, my 20-year-old, my 19-year-old, my 11, 9, and 6-year-old can come back and work actual livable jobs, can be proud of the county that they live in, can afford the McMansions we see everywhere because they work here in Frederick County. I want that for them. I want our schools to be the best because that's what, that's what Virginia is supposed to be known for. I want all of our stuff. Leslie Spencer famously has said that here on the East Coast, Frederick County is one of the last places with actual real dark skies. You can turn off your lights in your house and we have true dark skies. I can see the Milky Way from my back deck in the cold. We need to protect that like it, like our lives depend on it because they do. Like Frederick County is not a fire sale. We don't need to hack everything up when we don't have money and take it to the pawn store. I'm tired of hearing, we have plenty of water and then a week and a half, I get a warning, hey, conserve your water. I, in my neighborhood, there's a pond that is spring fed and for the last four years, I've watched it dry completely out. I live up by North Mountain and I watch people on Frog Hollow, their wells bottom out. We don't, we have a problem already and it's just going to be exacerbated. Please take care of us. We need you. Thank you. Cleo Strabakis, followed by Jack Tensley. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. My name is Cleo Strabakis. I'm actually a resident of Winchester City. The data centers, that language needs to be removed, or sorry, the language around data centers being removed entirely instead of it being deliberately prohibited. Your reasoning for that might be beyond the language around data centers. At least the public understanding as to the why. But as you've heard everyone behind me very passionately express, it needs to be explicitly clear that data centers are not welcome here. Simply removing the words does not mean that data centers are not going to be allowed, right? It just opens a Pandora's box for what could be a data center. If the county isn't going to specify what data centers are, then the state is going to have to specify what data centers are. The corporations and special interests will always look for loopholes and ways to extract our resources and exploit our land. The people of Frederick County here tonight do not want to continue to declare time and time again for months now that they do not want data centers. Your role as supervisors is to represent the interests of your constituents, not out-of-state developers or even local developers if their interests involve just getting money, right? They can make as much money today and tomorrow. They really are not considering our children's future, our water, our land, and the impact that this kind of development will make and exacerbate the current climate crisis as described. So while I may not currently be a resident of Frederick County, I know I am not the only Winchester City resident here tonight standing in solidarity and opposition against reckless development, not to mention Valley Link even, just thinking about data centers, but it is all the same struggle for our water, our land, and our lives. Not just our way of life, but truly our lives. Data centers in even Loudoun County impact us. So a potential data center that is a mega-sized, 200-meter-high data center, a 120-acre data center, would no doubt have negative impacts for all the people who are surrounded by Frederick County, namely Winchester City residents. So please protect your constituents, protect our environment, and prohibit data centers once and for all. I would like to end my time with a quick quote from Aldo Leopold. Conservation is getting nowhere because it is incompatible with our Abrahamic concept. We abuse land because we regard it as a commodity belonging to us. When we see land as a community to which we belong, we begin to love it and respect it. Thank you, ma'am. Jack Tinsley, followed by Terry Flynn. Hello, everybody. My name is Jack Tinsley, Gainesboro. Let me tell you all about West Virginia. West Virginia lost their fights a long time ago. Two bills were passed that stripped authority, from all the cities, the counties, the local governing bodies, the people themselves, to have any input on the construction and use of data centers, and they have confidentiality provisions so their people can't even know what's being built. Because of that, the people have had to pay over $250 million in increased taxes, and our neighbors here in Berkeley County are going to see three rate increases for electricity in the next 18 months, two of which are going to be within the next six months. Do we want to see that happen to us? No! That's right. And that's why you all have people united across political spectrums and backgrounds, because we're fighting the same fight, and we have a common enemy, and that's the data centers and the transmission line. So I appreciate what the county is signaling. Chair Jewell said that he wants a ban. I appreciate that. The Planning Commission voted 10-0, denying EQUIS, which was beautiful. Gateway withdrew. But that doesn't mean that they can't reapply again. I'm going to give you a little bit of a summary. EQUIS is having an invite-only bring-your-ID meeting at the Clearbrook Fire Department on the 25th to intimidate and cajole our neighbors into supporting their plans. We need and demand more than the first step to ban future data centers. We need and demand a rejection of all of them in our county right now today. We've got two live applications that the board can shoot down at any moment. Attorney Fox said that he was scared that we'd get sued. So what? This is America. You can get sued. You can get sued. You can get sued for anything. That doesn't mean they're going to win. They need to prove that they have vested rights. That's Saga. Significant, affirmative governmental acts, plus good faith reliance from the developer, plus extensive obligations made and substantial expenses paid in diligent pursuit. With a 10-0 vote on EQUIS, the withdrawal of Gateway, there isn't Saga. There's not even a weak Saga. Nothing. So what are you afraid of? Ban it. Like now. Do your job, or we'll put people in power that will. And believe me, there are plenty of people behind me that are already running for your seats. So we'll see you in November. We'll see you again in a year after that because we're not going away. I have a QR code for folks to see where they're registered to vote, if they're registered to vote, how to register to vote. So see me outside, and I'll tell you what else we're planning to stop these data centers. Thank you, Terry. You're a dog. Thanks, Terry. Terry, for the last time, I want to thank you for your time. Thank you. Terry Flynn, followed by Todd Fulmsby. Good evening. My name is Terry Flynn. I'm from the Bat Creek District, and I agree with all the comments. I just want to bring forth two comments for the transmission lines that I have not heard spoken. As far as the transmission lines go, we live in a valley. Our air quality is stagnant at best, and you want to bring in data, transmission lines that are only coming in from the back of the district. So we're going to have to do a lot of work to get that done. And I think that's what we're going to do. So I'm going to ask you to bring in the transmission lines that are only coming in from the back of the district. As far as the lines go, they're stagnant at best, and you want to bring in data, transmission lines that are only going to increase the stagnation, the radiation, and anything else that would come from the lines. And as far as the lines go, also they want to take up your farms, your orchards. These are our last hope for clean food. Our last hope. I pray that you will not take it away. And as far as the data centers go, why do we need data centers? What's the purpose of them? We have smart watches. We have computers. We have smart phones. We have smart appliances. We have smart TVs. Now we have cars that will dictate or can tell you when you're capable of driving. And from what I have read today, I do believe that coming down the pike, we're going to have grocery carts that are going to take your pulses, your respirations. Why? Why do they need all this information? Did we not learn anything from the COVID plandemic, the Hegelian dialect? They made the problem and came in with a solution. I pray, this is down the road, it may not happen tomorrow, it may not happen in two years, it may not happen in three years, but the writing is on the wall. And I pray that you would vote accordingly. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Todd Fulmsby, followed by Rebecca Reger. Chairman, Board of Supervisors, my name is Todd Fulmsby. I'm a resident of Frederick County, Opequan District. I'm here tonight because I have deep reservations about allowing data centers development in our county because I believe this board has a responsibility to be the protectors of the people who live here. I'm asking you tonight to table the vote and take the time to finalize the language to protect our county. I understand the argument for simply deleting references to data centers sounds like a good thing. But deleting something is not the same as prohibiting it. The distinction matters, especially given how the provisions are written specifically to address the use is not listed concern. If the ordinance does not specifically prohibit data centers, an unlisted use can still be evaluated through a closest comparison process. And that's going to, if we remove the language that identifies a data center while leaving the door open, one could come back as something else, a warehouse, storage, light industrial use. So I'm asking the board to make a decision on whether or not to allow data centers to be used. So I'm asking the board to make five specific changes. First, widen the referral to the Planning Commission so the Commission can fully examine the implications. Second, retain and expand the definition of a data center. Don't delete it. This definition has to stay there. The definition matters because the county can't effectively prohibit something that it's failed to define. Third, write an actual prohibition in plain language. Data centers are not permitted in any zoning district, period. Do not simply delete the term. Fourth, please keep the data center row in Table 6-1 and just leave that row empty. An empty prohibited use row communicates something very different from making the use disappear and potentially allowing it to be treated as an unlisted use. Lastly, please close the administrative reclassification loophole. I ask you to add explicit language to prevent a data center from being reclassified as a warehouse, storage, or any type of end use. You know, I would not stand here and tell you every data center is going to cause property values to collapse. That would also be a problem if you don't overstate the evidence, but research in Northern Virginia has shown measurable negative effects for properties next to data centers. Property values in this county will drop, and I don't want mine to drop. Energy costs are more concerning. Virginia's own analysis shows that increasing data center demand is going to raise system costs for everyone. We're all going to pay more for power. We're all going to pay more. Costs will get pushed to taxpayers. This is not about an industrial building or someone else's property. It's about our electric bills. It's about our infrastructure and our neighborhoods. It's about our property values, about whether people who live here have meaningful protections before these enormous facilities arrive. We're not asking you to rush. We're asking you to pause, define, and protect. Please table tonight's vote. Send the broad language to the Planning Commission. Keep the data center definition in there. And write an unmistakable prohibition of the ordinance. Please make the ordinance say what you mean. And most importantly, please remember who you represent. They're residents of this county. We're trusting you protect the place we call home. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Rebecca Rager, followed by David Dixon. My name is Becky Rager. I'm Gainsborough resident. I'm also part of the Babs Mountain Coalition of Neighbors that have shown up here to be a thorn in the side to anybody with Valley Link. I'm here tonight. Last week, I went to Loudoun County for the first time in a long time. I don't generally go over that side of the mountain. What I saw was surreal and dystopian. Data center after data center, nothing. That was the entire viewshed that we had. And I thought to myself, what does that have to do with Frederick County? What do we want that here for? We do have industry here, sure. But not like that. Empty warehouses. That's not going to bring employment here to the community. It's not going to bring what we need in the long run. We need long-term sustainable growth. So, we're watching other counties right now fight the same thing. And we're looking at our board and the moves look right. We're going to take data centers off the table. I think it comes in the right direction. But also, what about the existing projects? Right now, we have Clear Brook going through an invite-only meeting. As Paige said, by the crow flies, it affects our neighborhood. But we're not allowed to go. Is anybody from the board allowed to go? Who is going to be there with the citizens standing up for them? Making sure that their rights and their land is protected. And I think that's what we're going to do. Sometimes, to me, it feels like we're hedging our bets here. So that we make the corporate businesses happy. And we make our citizens happy. Last time we were here, we talked about the SCC. We were told to send letters. Those letters were essentially trashed. There is no case. So, we cannot write them at this point. Why are we being sent on goose chases? If we don't know, at the end of the day in business, it's okay to say that. I don't know. I'll get the answer for you. Or we'll figure this out together. Okay. That's what I learned in almost 20 years in corporate life. So, yeah. So, with the data centers, like I said, it's a step in the right direction. But at the end of the day, we need to do what's best for our community. With Clear Brook, it will pay $237 million over 20 years. That's 4% of our revenue each year. At the end of the day, if this bubble bursts, is it worth it? We'll be left, the citizens. You as well as citizens will be left with the detriment. We don't want to look like Loudoun County. We don't want to look like a dystopian future. We want to look like Frederick County. We want to grow in sustainable ways that can make sure that our children and we have a place to retire and love the future to come. Thank you. Thank you. David Dixon followed by Jennifer Smith. My name is David Dixon with the Stonewall District. My first agenda is how Frederick County says they are banning data centers from the county's own ordinance. Well, removing the words data center is not the same as prohibiting them. It needs written into ordinance to ban them. Second, last time I spoke, I commented about the extreme level of how the Valley Link Power Line project is affecting the Dixon Family Farm and many others in the county. How they are trying to run the power lines over top where members of my family are buried in the Dixon Family Cemetery. My family that has passed deserves to be able to rest their souls in peace. Also, I have a three-year-old daughter and her health to think about is where this cannot happen. All I'm asking is to follow what the Clark County Board of Supervisors are doing for their constituents. And follow their protocol. I heard Frederick County has put aside $250,000 towards attorney fees. I'm not sure exactly if that's true. And Clark County is at $750,000. Lastly, with the studies being conducted with the mining for the quarry, the property of the quarry that is supposed to be a buffer zone, tax map ID 34A10C, beside my property, 451 Grace Church Road, Clearbrook, stay a buffer zone for its entirety. I would hope the survey of Route 11 with the mountains and mounds of dirt will be a lesson learned as to why buffer zones are so important. Also, I disagree there needs to be no noise ordinance for our farm animals like what was mentioned of another meeting. I don't know if that was a joke or what, but we don't want a Loudoun County, Frederick County. Thank you. Jennifer Smith followed by Mr. Crosby. Thank you. Thank you. That is correct? Mr. Crosby. Risk Control Everything, everyone? Thank you. I was going to stop for wonderful cause. I couldn't chirping. I haveна doubt that this reflects your take on that issue. Any thoughts? Here come quandollo vote. Second? It's a nice search here. So, comment also that we have stories that we can take from? меньше than a number of times? and they're still building. I can't, all the way up to Dulles Town Center from Loudoun County, Ashburn, is data centers, and they're massive. They're huge, and they are probably as tall as some hotels. Massive, fenced, and in the news, we continually see those neighbors or people in the community complaining about the smog and the generators and the smoke that it is bringing, the noise, and everything else that comes with those. My concern is, and everybody's bringing up that you guys are going to vote to remove data centers, the saying good fences make good neighbors is very big in this situation. Clear boundaries of what we will and will not allow is important. That's how companies don't sneak in. Corporations have a huge history of coming into rural communities and abusing them. They come in, they see land, they see people who can't maybe afford to fight them, and they use that in their favor because they know that they can take advantage of it. They strip their resources, and they leave these rural communities behind without jobs, with all the environmental dumping, and all the health problems that come with this, and they walk away. They're not held accountable. Nobody thinks about it, and they're not held accountable. Nobody thinks about it, and they're not held accountable. while most of the people suffer for it. You guys are elected officials. You are elected to represent us. Those businesses are not electing you. They're out of state. They're out up in Washington. They are spending millions of dollars to lobby, to take our rights and our votes away from us to get what they want. You need to set strict boundaries, strong fences that benefit your community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Kurt Krieger, followed by Blaine Dunn. That is great. Thank you. Members of the board, Chair Jewell, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek Magisterial District. This evening I speak for myself without compensation from anyone. I'd like to speak in favor of Agenda Item 13C, Referral to the Planning Commission, which you will then hear back in another public hearing, removing data centers as an allowable use. Smart Growth America, a well-known national organization, in April 2026 published a story called Data Centers Are Here and More Are Coming, Our Zoning Is Not Ready. In the article they conclude, unlike traditional industrial uses, data centers generate very few jobs relative to their size, requiring enormous amounts of electricity and significant quantities of water. They may look like warehouses, but they function more like major pieces of, energy infrastructure. So let's talk about that for a minute. Energy infrastructure includes things like nuclear power plants. So we should be looking at them in the same light. My only question is why are you slow walking this code amendment? It's been three months since the county attorney originally proffered your choices. And that was May 13th, I believe. So here it is now, well into August. Action is necessary. Public health, safety, and well-being are the key to our success. Public health, safety, and well-being are the key to our success. Public health, safety, and well-being are the key to our success. All of this welfare requires all hands on deck. No delays are warranted and a concerted effort is required. I urge you to act responsibly to remove data centers from the county code. Speaking of acting responsibly, members of the board and planning commission, county staff have a duty to represent the public interest, not narrow personal or private business interests. During your joint work session July 23rd, during the breakout sessions, I was shocked when the vice chair of the planning commission, Roger Thomas, the most senior member of the planning commission, offered his opinion that the McDonald farm in the Back Creek district, Carson Lane and Heights Road is a great place for a data center because, quote, it's surrounded by solar fields, a junkyard, and a substation. Notwithstanding that the farm is miles away from the sewer and water service area, miles outside of the urban development area, and three miles west of I-81, according to the adoptive family, the county's public health commissioner, it's inconsistent and incompatible for development as a data center. Moreover, the solar fields, junkyards, and substations all exist with the approval of the county or the acquiescence of the county. So you created the instance, the circumstance, the environment, and then it's being used as a cudgel against the people. The enrichment of one landowner at the expense of many is not securing the public interest responsibly. I urge you to put an end to this, and to continue to act responsibly to ensure that the public interest is protected. I urge you to put an end to this, and to continue to act responsibly to ensure that the public interest is protected. I urge you to put an end to this, and to continue to act responsibly to ensure that the public interest is protected. Let's get the whole the street isallah. Let's make it easier again. Let's put an end to the 15-month saga of leading the McDonald's on and take data centers out of the code. I would further suggest that other pieces of energy infrastructure also be removed. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Blaine Dunn followed by Pete Zieloski. My name is Blaine Dunn. Redbud. Those opposed to data centers have raised these following issues. Water, power, save the view, budget issues, national security. The board has the ability to allow four data centers in Frederick County and address the concerns of those opposed to data centers. Water. You have two firms that have more than $300,000 gallons per day. Everybody else in this county, businesses, use $100,000 or less. The proposal here is in the $100,000 range. If water becomes an issue, are you then willing to say to any other business, you can't come here because of water? There are alternatives to water, including glycol, dielectric, and others. You can build a data center with alternatives to water. Power. The electric grid right now has to be improved. And whether you have data centers or not, electric rates are likely to rise to deal with that improvement. You can also build a data center next to a substation and require the data center to go and pay for its true cost. That does not pass the cost on to the consumers. So that's an option to address that issue. Save the view. Redbud used to be farms. It is now houses. Stephen City used to be houses, or used to be farms, not houses. Height Road and Marble Road were apple orchards. They're now houses. I don't remember a whole lot of people saying save the view when those houses were now houses. The proposed data center a year ago would have raised about $50 million per year over a 20-year time frame. A similar data center in the northern part of the county near a substation would also raise a similar amount. So you're talking about $100 million. Two years ago, your residential real estate tax revenue was about 89.6. This year, it's a little bit more than $90 million. It's a way to drive to go and address budget issues. The county is expected to have $350 million of new budget requests. How do you pay for that? Impact fees? Real estate increases, that's a fair policy question that you ought to consider. The land use for two data centers would be less than one half of 1%. If you had two square miles, this county has about 416 square miles of land, two data centers constitute less than one half of 1%. There's also a national security issue. Data centers are good for business. You've seen the comments that China would like to encourage to go into a financial or economic policy. The data center is a national security issue. Data centers are good for business. You've seen the comments that China would like to encourage the government to fund a national security issue. But there's a lot of money that's not there. If we're not doing that, we're going to be having to go into the national security issue. If we're going to have a national people not to have data centers, so consider that in the options that you're dealing with. The board can go and profit solutions to the issues that everyone here has raised, including the noise issue, and come to a conclusion that benefits Frederick County with the revenue and benefits the concerns of the people behind me. I'd encourage you to allow data centers, make profits to make those supply, and then benefit everyone. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Pete Zieloski, followed by Elaine Goldbetter. Are you next? Folks, folks, everyone has a right to speak. You may not agree with it, you may not like it, but everyone has a right to speak. So I said this earlier, I'm going to say it again. Show respect to the speakers, please. Hi. Thank you, Board. My name is Pete Zieloski. I reside in Back Creek, and today I'd like to speak about data centers. Now, 15 months ago or so, residents in my neighborhood, which is across from the McDonald Farm, received a postcard, and our lives changed. We were told that a hyper data center was being proposed right across the street. And going to the subsequent board meeting, we were told that we shouldn't use emotion, we should use data. And as a person that's kind of a data geek, I kind of dived into things like water and looking at power. But as time evolved, it became very clear that isn't just so much water and power. It's the environmental condition. It's about community. Our neighborhood has lost residents just because they didn't want to deal with the stress of living across the potential of a data center. And that's not right. I mean... You know, there is so much that we're building in Frederick County in terms of community. Our neighborhood was becoming a special neighborhood. And with people leaving because they just don't want to deal with that stress, that's not correct. So we need the protection of that. And when the board announced last month or so that they were going to put this resolution in place, everyone breathed a sigh of relief. They said, Okay, maybe we're not going to, you know, lose our major investment because houses are our major investment. Maybe we're not, our life isn't going to change. But even as much as this month, we have seen videos of county officials saying that the McDonald Farm is the ideal place for a data center. And it causes us to wonder, what is going on? My request for this board is to come out clearly. And say, What you mean in terms of data centers? Are you going to ban them? Or are you going to, are we going to put in something that we're going to be living year and year and year afterwards until finally somebody puts one in? Or everybody moves out because we can't deal with the stress anymore? We need to have this resolved. The quality of life of everyone that's living by a data center and everyone in the county needs to be protected. And we appreciate that answer from this board. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Elaine Goldbetter. Good evening, everyone. My name is Elaine Goldbetter, and I live in Back Creek District. I'm here to speak about the impact of the large data centers in our community. While they support modern technology, they also bring serious concerns, including high electricity use. They constrain our power grid and raise energy costs. Many also use huge amounts of water that is especially concerning during drought conditions. Construction and ongoing janitorial use can also increase traffic noise and air pollution. Before approving more data centers, we need to be prepared for the future. To improve our data centers, we must put our community first. We need strong limits on water and energy use and protect us to prevent higher utility costs for residents. We should also be responsible for any added strain on roads and infrastructure. Technology is important, but it must not come to the expense of our quality of life and health. Therefore, I urge the board to prohibit data centers in Frederick County, only to approve development that protects our community today and for future generations. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Okay. If there's anyone that would like to come up and speak, hang on. Wait, wait, wait. Just if there's anyone that would like to come up and speak, what I would like for folks to do is to line, come up. The first one to come up and speak and the others line up by the poll so we can go through this. Name Magisterial District three minutes, please. Yes, ma'am. Come on up. My name is Penny Smith. I'm from the Opecan District. I had not planned to speak, but sitting there, a couple things came to me, so I don't have a lot of words. I have a couple statements and a couple questions. I'm wondering what you gentlemen, and said respectfully, gentlemen, said. I'm wondering what you gentlemen, and said respectfully, gentlemen, said. I'm wondering what you gentlemen, and said respectfully, gentlemen, said. I'm wondering what you planned to do about the brown water. I'm wondering what you planned to do about the brown water. See, we're not in five years ago, or even three. We're here today. AOC, the Congresswoman, went to Georgia, and the community was very sick. And she brought back two jugs of brown water, and she held them up. And she brought back two jugs of brown water, and she held them up. And she held them up. I ache for those people. Everyone in this room, supervisors too, we come with our own bias. We come with our own background. We come with our own perspective. And there's nothing wrong with that. I remember at work taking a class. You know, all the time. You know, recognize your biases. You don't get rid of them. You recognize them. I see I've taken more time. So let me move faster. What do you do with, when I go to Loudoun County, I can't breathe, and the sky is always gray. What do we do about the Havana syndrome? I brought that up to you before, I remember. That was at L.A. That was at Lake Frederick. And we're hearing that more and more. What do we do with the knowledge we have today that we didn't have three or four years ago? You can never say after you vote that you didn't know because you do know. Whether it benefits you financially or professionally, you know what will happen. You know how the community feels. And I do respect your authority, your elected position that you represent us. I cannot vote. That's your prerogative. That's your privilege. So I bless you. And maybe this is really, really arrogant. But okay, we worried about the drought. Now we've had all this rain. God said to me a month ago, where are you? Where are your prayers for rain? And I've been asking him for an inch a week. I pray over this community. I pray over you. Thank you, ma'am. Good evening. Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Leslie Spencer, Gainesboro. And I'm having a resource meeting to help fight Valley Link North at Bowman Library on August 17th and September 1st from Fort Worth. And I'm going to be speaking to you today. And I'm going to be speaking to you today. And I'm going to be speaking to you today. And I'm going to be speaking to you today. Wow. Well, hello, and thank you for yelling at me. I couldn't say more but the story is all I know today is weiter yoga here in Fort Stewart. That's spiritual. So cool, yeah. So interesting as this place sounds to me. And again, thank you for being my speaker and talking about it. In addition, that was really ‑‑ how can guardians pass on their words of, hey, whoa. I'm sorry to start a conversation to say how can you be here alone, while you are needs and blocked, in your mountains, on your lands, wherever. So that's awesome that you wanna know about of this community sometimes. So with that, first I want to thank you. I'm dirigetot — We're presenting FabricTalk, a封 what we want instead, maybe in supervisor comments. Our survey was remarkable. Agriculture and agribusiness, small and local businesses, and tourism were overwhelmingly supported. Data centers and technology infrastructure received just four percent. Manufacturing logistics was also really low. We do want economic development, but maybe it's way more sustainable and requires less water and electricity than we think. Maybe we don't need to expand the SWASA and the UDA. Maybe we can study agritourism and a small business economy as long as we studied and talked about data centers that could support us, the small business and agritourism. Maybe we have trade-offs or we have to pay a few more cents on our taxes if we don't want more industrial and high energy use facilities. Let's offer our people a choice, and I think that is why we need to look carefully at pillar four, our targeted industry strategies. Targeted industries are super important. When a future project asks for rezoning infrastructure or changes to our development boundaries, we hear this. This is an industry Frederick County said it wanted. This also sets up what our EDA director does and also how land is often, unfortunately, land banked and assembled, sitting on parcels that could offer many more high-wage jobs other than a data center. Pillar four will be our own words. We have to be incredibly careful with them. We need to make sure every policy we write points towards the future we actually want. I understand you split off tourism from the EDA, but we need to add it into our targeted industry. If we mean aerospace, headquarters, healthcare research, let's say that clearly. Let's study what it would take to build the economy as citizens described for us carefully as any other. If there are trade-offs, let's understand them honestly. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecum District. It's about 8 o'clock right now, and my daughter is back home being put to bed. I'd rather be there with her reading a book, giving her a snack, and helping her go to bed. But why are we here again? Despite every meeting, over 95% of people speak in opposition to having data centers, really unrestricted data centers here in the county. Because we don' know where you as a board stand. We don't. Supervisor Wells has come out with a strong statement, and former Supervisor Dunn has come out. Most of the rest of you won't tell us where you stand. Do you support them? Do you oppose them? Do you support them with certain conditions? We don't know. And in that face, this community is frustrated and over-whelmed, doesn't know what to think and what you're going to do. And that's why every single time we've got to come out here, and speak in a different way. single time we have to come out here and speak over and over and over. So when you go to vote on this motion, please tell us where you actually stand. I mean, I've seen some of you all on Facebook mocking people who oppose data centers. I've seen one of you has come up to me multiple times calling me out for opposing data centers, but then will refuse to meet with me afterwards. But what we have not seen is clear statements from these board members on where you stand. Three of you are up for election. This is a clear issue the community stands about. We should have a policy paper from you all or a paragraph or some kind of position statement on where do you stand if you're running for election this year on this issue. It's probably the issue in the community that at least turns out to most people on a regular basis. So we should know where you stand. So when you go to this vote on this issue, please don't just vote it through silently like I've seen numerous motions, but take this as an opportunity to tell us where do you actually stand on this issue. And I'm going to ask you to vote on this issue. So when you go to this vote on this issue, please tell us where do you stand on data centers. We're going to have, we still have two more proposals in the pipeline. We want to actually after, I mean this discussion has been going on since last April. So we're pushing a year and a half now of this discussion. It's not too much to ask to know where each one of you stands by this point in terms of what your framework, what your parameter is for where you would address these issues. Please tell us tonight. Thank you. Thank you. . Hello. My name's Eliza Lathrop. I reside in the Redbud District. I moved here last year from Hagerstown, Maryland which has turned into an Amazon warehouse hellhole. I moved here for nature. I moved here for a better job. I moved here for better pay. And I wound up into another hellhole. Data centers are a national security threat. They are threats to water pollution and drought. They are problems to people and people's lives. Data centers are actually people that serve to air pollution, noise pollution, health impacts, environmental impacts, sinkholes, impact on animals, insects, pollinators, things that keep us alive. These are not made-up issues. These are some of the main impacts that are happening across the United States and will indeed affect us if you allow data centers into this area. There will be no city left to govern. Data centers are routinely built in clusters. Look at Loudoun County. As all the people in this building have said, Loudoun County is the prime example. Where there is one, there will be many. And if we open the door to a single center, we will be completely unable to stop them from making more. Multiple sources state that 70 percent of the entire world's internet, not just the United States, the entire world's internet runs through Loudoun County. Think about the impacts of that. Think about the danger that poses to all of us living here, to banks, to hospitals, to residents, and the national security threat. Think about if someone decided to attack Loudoun County. What would that do to the entire world? And that could be us. Cities are giving away billions of dollars through tax cuts for these data centers and these billionaire companies. They are proposed profits. The proposed profits from these centers is not a solution to our problems. They will do very little for us. And what will there be left? We are in a drought. We are told to ration our water. Climate change is already creating massive issues. And I have been to most of the data centers in this area, and I have not once heard a single mention of who will be in these places, who will be in these centers running them. Will it be Amazon? Will it be anything else? We don't know. And it could change. You all, as city council members, are required to reside in the area that you govern. So let me ask you this. Will you be required to stay here when the water is yellow mud and you can't shower or bathe? When the air is gray and smog? When all the plants and pollinators are dead and you can't eat the food that we grow and we can't even grow food? When the ground falls apart and you can't eat the water that we grow and we can't even grow food? When you can't ever enjoy a peaceful sunrise or sunset in the Shenandoah Valley? Because you live here. Thank you, ma'am. You'll be held personally responsible. Hello. Hi, I'm Sharon Plummer in Bat Creek District. And just really quick, I don't know if you guys ever saw Aaron Brockovich's big movie about people who are in the back of a car. And I'm going to tell you a story about a lot of people fighting back for their rights. I have gone to several of these meetings, as have my neighbors. And I've been taking notes and documenting people's stories. And I've started a documentary about this scenario. And I do have friends in Hollywood and at Amazon. And so I just wanted to let you guys know that I am creating a film about this. And if your kids and grandkids are going to watch it, you might want to think about whether you're a villain or a good guy. Are you going to save the day or help the people? Anyway, I love seeing the due process. And I appreciate everybody listening to everybody's opinions. Because this is America. And we're allowed to have different opinions. Even the guy who disagrees, everybody should be able to express their opinion. But I am documenting this. My name is Sharon Plummer. So you'll see me around with my camera and my video. And I'll let you guys know how it goes. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name is John Boyles. And I have no idea what district I'm in. I live on Vinecrest Road. Warm Springs Road. Sorry. I used to live on Vinecrest Road. I'm an electrical engineer. Okay. That's what I've done my life. And I just want to say thank you. And I just want to make a few comments. First of all, data centers are very inefficient things. And so their technology is going to be obsolete really soon. Think about it. How many of you have a 10-year-old laptop or a 10-year-old cell phone? So the kind of technologies that are used in these data centers are just churning up electricity and generating heat. And what are we getting from these things? Well, there's a big one in Houston that does Bitcoin mining. There's no implicit intrinsic value in a Bitcoin. Others, well, online storage of stuff. Microsoft, we all know, has gone on to the cloud and everybody's gone on to the cloud and there's the Internet of Things. But we used to put our files on an external hard drive. Still could do that. Artificial intelligence to replace artificial intelligence. artists that write music, to replace movie makers, to replace actors, to replace marketing jobs, advertising, professionals, lots of other jobs. Why are we doing this as a nation, really? We do have a world wide web, but we don't have a world wide power grid. And so the problem is, if you have a big sucking sound of power somewhere, let's say Ashburn, then it produces a scarcity. And so what you have to do is get a far away power plant in West Virginia, 260 miles of transmission line, to an intersection hub up in Maryland, so that energy that's being sucked out by those data centers in Ashburn doesn't cause everyone's prices to go up along the power grid. And that is exactly what seems to be happening. And so the problem is, we can't just get rid of data centers here. And I applaud the efforts to do that. We have a statewide problem. We have, really, an East Coast problem. Now, solving it could start here. You folks are in politics. You're part of the political system. And it takes leadership and a stand to say, we're going to start providing an example of others to follow. Thank you. Thanks, sir. OK. We've got the lines down, so I'm going to close the citizens comments. Board of Supervisors, next thing up is consent agenda. How would you like to handle that? Yes. Just remember, we've got the rules. So the rules are as follows. We've got to admit and close them. Now, prior to this event, who code each of these passports to that code? Someone else, which of you says you're going to take that code away? Or does the Zoom queues here? I haven't taken the window yet. Never mind. The board'll have to pay you back to another page either way. You know? And I think the scope of this is really what wrong Blowy just by saying it. But I think this is getting closer and closer to making proposals and that this again is really important. Board of Supervisors comments do we have any looking both ways Oh supervisor Oates I've got three and I'll do my best keep it brief one is TDR program we had a subcommittee meet I'd like to get action from the board to go ahead and direct what came out of that committee to get on over to DRC and get things rolling so we can start preserving farmland again so if anyone would like to I don't know should I do a vote or just consensus consensus is good everybody on board with that gets DRC and get moving we've got a motion we got a second and everybody agree boys vote all those in favor say aye anybody opposed move it forward second thing is about six months ago we talked about battery storage by the substations the protectors against brownouts blackouts I don't think I can do it roger we cannot we took it we're gonna carry it on with the áreas from the factory site just says is that healthy and so do also OH we don't have a plan it's very people kind of brought back at the end off with this touching point to this yesterday and what we can do we've got a lot of work going on so and unfortunately that's a little bit of a short on our leaders say many patrons have already come in and say don't want to variety get fighting about all these más a are people going to start seeing brownouts and blackouts and if it's something where people don't want battery storage that's fine just don't call me when you just are getting blackouts because I'm trying to figure out a way to stop it last thing the gentleman brought up the electric corridor study and comp plan I don't know if there's time to do that I guess towards the end of the meeting if we could bring mr. Bishop up and explore that I have interest to that all right that's all thanks to bothお願い steer wants any I do I usually wait to the end do this up I've got the audience here so I'm gonna read this to you I've gotten a lot of emails as you can well imagine I have not answered all those emails I don't have enough time today to do that I have a business and I run that myself i just want you to know I haven't done anything yet I have gotten them. I have read them. Most of them are boilerplate emails, but there are some genuine emails that folks have taken the time to write. Much appreciated. They're about data centers, traffic congestion, and so forth and so on. I've also gotten some really interesting emails from folks that just question my integrity and question things that I don't understand where they're coming from. So I'm going to read you something. If someone tells you that a turtle won the race with the rabbit, you might want to slow down and not take it at face value and do some more investigation. If someone tells you that your neighbor who's a minister is cooking meth and selling it at the church, maybe you should slow down and take a little time and investigate more. Not just take the word of that person. If someone tells you that you have a very reliable inside source that's telling you that your sibling is a communist, maybe you ought to slow down and figure it out and do a little bit more study. Maybe if someone tells you that VDOT's going to pave your gravel road that hadn't been paved in 60... ...6 years, and they're going to do it next week, you might want to question that and do a little bit more study. And I could go on, and that's what's happening. There's a lot of things out there on Facebook. There's a lot of things on the internet. I think the best way to do that, if you have a question, is to ask the person themselves and let them answer that for you. And I'm more than happy to do that. So. There's someone other than Supervisor Wells. Tells you... Supervisor Wells. Wells has changed the vote on any topic from a yes to a no or from a no to a yes, and you should probably, again, take time and speak with Supervisor Wells. I never have and never will accept money or any other form of material value to win the support for any project that comes before this board. I have and never – I have not and never will ask my fellow board members to cut deals or try to sway a vote. I don't ask them, I don't go to them and ask for their support. I don't go to them and try to sway their vote one way or the other. I have never and will never tell anyone how I'm going to vote on any issue and I will never tell anyone how I'm going to vote on any issue. Thank you. until I cast my vote at a public board meeting. I have an opinion. I'll be happy to share it with you. But if you ask me, are you going to vote no, I'm going to tell you that you'll have to come to the meeting and watch me vote no or watch me vote yes. I have and I will continue to share my personal opinions on any topics that anyone's interested in doing. So if you'd like to discuss any of those, do it by telephone call. I have a home phone that you can call. If I don't answer, leave me a message and I'll call you back. I really don't do well with emails because it takes a lot of time. And I find out that speaking to people personally is a lot better than writing back and forth. So I have put out a proposition, a position statement that I've given out to several people on the internet. I've given out a lot of opinions on the internet and everything else. Anyway, I just want everyone to know that we work really hard to service the people. And when you stand up there and say, it hurts. It hurts to hear you say that you don't think that we're doing anything. This group works really, really hard. I've been here a long time, and I can tell you they work really hard. It's not our full-time job. full-time job but we wouldn't be here if we didn't want to help Frederick County thank you sir thank you think thanks sir mr. chairman during the comprehensive plan breakout sessions our subcommittee learned of a solar panel fund of some sort and I would like for the administration to kind of educate the board on those funds and how those funds could be used in the future so if we can plan for that in the future meeting I appreciate it I'm looking mr. ball hopper but it put it on your list thanks sir anybody else want to talk all right one thing I'm gonna say is I said it earlier actually I said it a couple times everyone has a right to speak and everyone has a right to their opinion and all I ask is please show respect we show respect every time we talk to a constituent whether we reply to an email or a letter or a letter from a constituent or a representative or a what-have-you you know we're not all going to agree but all I ask for is to give respect and if you're out on the social media show respect everyone up here loves this county and we're working very hard for this county we know you hear it a lot from you folks you know the statement tonight about if you don't like it we'll replace it well we're trying to do a thing we can and there are certain rules things we have to abide by so please all I ask for is respect thank you county officials next up update the regional broadband project mr. ball hopper good evening board members I would like to bring up Wendy may she is our new community leader for the county of the state of Minnesota and she is a community leader for the county of the state of Minnesota and she is a communications director and part of this was to give you an update on communications director and part of this was to give you an update on broadband but it's also let you know Wendy and our communications department broadband but it's also let you know Wendy and our communications department has set up a hub on the on our webpage and I thought it'd be good to show the board where this is and the residents so they can see this information and evaluation has set up a hub on the on our webpage and I thought it'd be good to information and information on broadband will would be there and it's board where this is and the residents so they can see this information and not where you were looking and if you would want to give a brief description is that that's perhaps as big of an uptake I think there's a cut fake would be there and it's not where you're looking isn't it and I don't want to close is that that's perhaps as big of a cut fake Chairman Jewell, members of the board, thank you. As Mr. Ballhelfer alluded, we have recently launched an information hub on the main county website with the purpose of providing a single place for clear, verified county information and easy access to project updates and key initiatives in the community. Currently, important topics include the comprehensive plan update, process, data centers, transmission lines, I-81 improvements that will affect us for some time, all points broadband, and soon we'll have information about the up to 1% sales tax referendum that we'll be contemplating later this fall. This is an interim solution while we work to stand up the communications department. There will be a full review of county communications coming forward, including the website, from a more holistic perspective. You can access the information hub. Thank you. From the main county website, at the top bar, the top navigation, it says information hub, which you can see referenced by the red box, and you can also use a direct URL, fcva.us forward slash information hub. Thank you. Sure, thank you. Let me say to Wendy, thank you. For those folks that are here and watching, you know, this was a critical thing for this board. Everyone agreed one of the issues we had with the county was the fact that we were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. We were not able to get the information out to the public. The conversation they had for us when we were asked to do the poll, we were not able to do the poll, which was a search cu stunned. It had to be Brushado. The response was nothing. The response to my question was really never before been asked to MrÉ happened an opportunity to come on to gearay Bay isso in Argonau. Crazy. She's been wearing two hats and has done an amazing job. She has. And she made my night tonight because I was able to help her with a computer for the first time, and I will remind her of that frequently. I'm going to give you an update on the broadband. I've been having conversations with AllPoints and also with Brandon, who's with the Regional Commission about BroadPoint. Approximately five years ago, the board approved moving forward hiring AllPoints to do the installation of broadband for several jurisdictions within the Shenandoah Valley, and they were doing this throughout the state. That was five years ago. Their intention was, and when we gave a presentation, and I'm not sure, a year ago or so, the intent was to have this project completed in the fall of 26 was the date, and I will tell you they're not going to make the fall of 26. They are shifting their schedule, trying to complete this by the end of 26, by the end of the year. They're going to do this by December 31 of 2026, and they have taken some steps to try and accomplish that. Once they've reached, they have reached an agreement with VDOT, so now they can do aerial permitting, which should speed up the process with VDOT to get those done, and they've got a good relationship with them. They've also changed their focus. Instead of doing just single areas and single drops, to try and hit the big main areas first and come back and get the local drops. The reason they went with the first route, because their contract initially was based, on the fact that they were paid once they had the actual houses connected up. Sometimes by doing that it slows down the whole process, so by taking a larger view and doing the larger areas first, it should aid them to help them speed up. And the one real issue they're running into now, and which is slowing them down, is getting the permits from the Shenandoah Valley Co-op, and that's where they're having problems. They really need about, I think, 200 permits a week to get this done, and that's not happening at that speed. They have offered the Shenandoah Valley Co-op that they will actually pay for a third party to come in and assist them with this, and they're waiting to see if Shenandoah is willing to do that, but that'll be imperative if they are to complete this project on time. I will tell you the one weak spot, and I know all of you up here, not all, but at least most of you up here have had issues with this, is when we tell our residents, if you want to find out when you're going to get connected up, if you're going to be connected up, you go to these websites, and we tell them, and when you go there, you find out they don't work well, if at all. I mean, I've helped people out. I've learned to find out ways to get it, but it's not very user-friendly, and generally it doesn't have any of the information you need. They've told me they are now working on a plan to have up and running, within 30 to 60 days, some new maps that'll show where the work has been done and the work is going to be done, but that is within 30 to 60 days. You can go to our hub. You can look at our connections to their sites, but at this point, they really don't do you a lot of good, and they're working to correct that. And they have, I've told them, and they've agreed to come back to this board at the September 9th, if they can make that schedule, or September 23rd, and make the full presentation to this board. And what we'd like to hear is what's been done, and when is everything else going to be done, and get a better idea of the scheduling. And that's the update I have tonight, and we'll then try and answer any questions. Or... I'm looking at my right. Any questions? Supervisor Warndorf. I'm a little disappointed that they're not here tonight, but putting that aside, fundamentals. What particular in Back Creek, which is a large area, underserved, people want to know when, and of course, when you fill in on the website, and not there yet is not sufficient. So they definitely need to be here. And they also need to know the other fundamentals. Now, is it going to actually be hooked up to my house? Who's going to do that? What's the internet service? Are they providing the internet service as well? And I also want to know what it's going to cost. So those are key things that I'm hearing. And we just need information. And it just hasn't been. And I wasn't here for the front end of this. I wasn't here five years ago. I've lived here all my life. But I'm not intimately familiar with what happened five years ago. But we really need the information now to get it out. And I do appreciate getting it up on the Info Hub and the steps forward there. But we really, they need to be here. And we just need to know where we're at. And when's the end? And what's it going to be? What's the details? Mike, you might want to address what they are. Will you have meetings that they're going to show up to? You were giving me a date that. September 9th or September 23rd. How about September 9th? I'm pushing them very hard for that. They told me when I spoke to them. They told me the day that they had a commitment in Rappahannock that night. But it might be earlier. So hopefully in the next day or two he's going to let me know. I will call him and say our board would really like you here sooner rather than later. We want them there September 9th. We want them here September 9th. And I'm sure there's not just one person with their company. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I want people to know that we're working on getting them here to stand up and tell us what's going on. Absolutely. And I appreciate your hard work on that, too. And any questions you may have. Or questions you have from constituents that I can direct them ahead of time so they can be prepared to answer them. Or know they're going to be expected to answer. I can't say they'll be prepared. I would be glad to forward that along to them. Yes, sir. Anybody else over here? I'll just say I'm glad I got Starlink in 2021. Thank you. Thank you for that update, sir. Thanks, Mark. All right. The next one. 8B. Yes. So, we have a resolution tonight. You've directed us to move forward on the opposing the Valley North electrical transmission line. And just to make sure I get this correct, I'm just going to read. We have a resolution tonight to take some steps moving forward to do that. I'll just read you some of the key lines from the resolution. The board has resolved that the county administrator and the county attorney are hereby authorized to retain the services of Whiteford, Taylor, and Preston LLP to provide outside legal counsel in opposing the Valley North project. We are hereby authorized and directed to identify and set aside funds for said representation in the amount not to exceed $250,000 to move forward with this. We have the money in the Board of Supervisors Contingency Fund. We would just set aside the $250,000 in an account for this and keep a separate tracking for this board. Also in the resolution, it states that the county attorney and or myself will make regular, will make regular payments. Yes, sir. We will be meeting with the board regularly to keep you updated on the progress of this. I will tell you our first thing, we really didn't want to do anything moving forward, any strategy, until we had the attorney on board. If the board agrees this night, we'll immediately call the attorney. We had one long conversation with him and had a pretty good meeting. But if the board agrees to do this, we'll set up a meeting and start moving forward with strategy and obviously include the board in how we're going to do that. Is that good? Is that it? All right. I'll entertain a motion on this one. I'll make a motion to approve this, Mr. President. All right. Got a motion? Second. Got a second? This requires a roll call vote. Supervisor Goudermont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Chair votes aye. There you go, Mr. Bolahoffer. You're good to go. Okay. Next up, let's see if we have appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. 9A, we've got the Conservation Easement Authority. 9A. We've got three willing members. I will entertain a motion for reappointment of Philip Payne, Diane Kearns, and our own Supervisor Al Orndorff on this. So moved. Mr. Chairman? Second. All right. I can do this with a voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? We're good to go. Okay. Next one up is for economic development. It's a four-year term for Doug Rinker. He's the director of the National Economic Development Agency. He's the director of the National Economic Development Agency. The number which expires 9-10-26. He was recently reappointed to fill an uninspired term. I'll entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to approve as presented. Doug's a breath of fresh air. I'm glad to have him back on the board. All right. And a second? Second. All right. We've got a motion. We've got a second. All those in favor? Aye. And you're absolutely right. We're very lucky to have him back. We are. All right. Committee business? None. Public hearings? None. Planning commissions? None. All right. Now we're back up to planning commission business. So where's my friend? Okay. Hello there, sir. How are you today? Just give me one second, Mr. Chairman, to get the- Take your time. We're good. We're good. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is the first of three ordinance amendments for your consideration this evening for information discussion. For each of the amendments, we'll be seeking your authorization to move these items forward to the committee structure and then also to advertise for public hearings when appropriate. The first for your consideration this evening is what we're calling our phase one companion amendments, and these are proposals to amend Chapter 144, the subdivision ordinance, and Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance to incorporate phase one ordinance update recommendations from the Berkeley Group. You all will recall when you adopted your phase one updates in May of this year that there were a number of kind of cleanup items that the Berkeley Group had identified that fell outside of the bounds of that project and were kind of classified as a policy type item and that they would be handled kind of immediately following the adoption of your ordinance, and that is the series of amendments before you this evening as far as this phase one update goes. These proposed amendments seek to improve efficiency and consistency across the ordinance and incorporate best practices where those were recommended by the Berkeley Group and of course to maintain the user friendly nature of our ordinance which we strove to do when we did that phase one update. So first we'll tackle the Chapter 144, your subdivision ordinance changes. The majority of these changes tackle the processing of waivers, subdivision design planning, and that process is an administrative process handled by staff and the zoning administrator and we wanted to make those waivers a part of that administrative process because they're otherwise an administrative action. The first pertains to general access which would change the Board of Supervisors waiver to a subdivision administrator waiver to allow for private streets and proffered age restricted communities. We would also make a similar change under streets and sidewalks regarding the waiver of inter parcel connectors, intersections, and cul-de-sacs that would again give the subdivision administrator authority to review when we would remove a board of supervisors waiver for street lights and we would remove a subdivision administrator waiver for sidewalks on public streets. In regard to Chapter 144 we would also address easements and we would remove a board of supervisors waivers for underground utilities otherwise we'd normally require that utilities be placed underground throughout the county and then under environmental features and protections we would remove a waiver for a stormwater management plan for lots of less than 15,000 square feet. That was an outdated requirement. We spoke with the public works staff to understand the Virginia stormwater management regulations and they asked that we remove that item as it was no longer an appropriate allowance. In regard to Chapter 165 the zoning ordinance a number of again clean up items for administrative requirements. We would propose removing the requirement that the county administrator sign final master development plans master development plans used to require presentations to the planning commission and board of supervisors and they required the planning director and county administrator to sign off on them. That has become a largely administrative function and that is the last vestige of that previous process would be the county administrators approval and I'm sure Mr. Bullhofer would appreciate not having to sign those those plans anymore. We would address industrial design standards. There is currently a waiver for the screening of machinery. And mechanical equipment for the extractive manufacturing district. We feel like we can accomplish that waiver through a standard up alternative standard that was included with the packet. For the residential recreational communities district standard. We're going to change the planning director waiver to a zoning administrator waiver for street tree substitutions. Again that's a best practice. The zoning administrator is the final signatory on site plans and other design plans not the planning director. Although the planning director can't say anything about that. So we would be happy to have that plan signed in the absence of a zoning administrator. In regard to the Frederick County Sanitation Sanitary Landfill. We would remove a board of supervisors for waiver and we propose an alternative standard that just incorporates and adds some assurance to someone doing work at the landfill that they would need a board waiver to for a screening element. In regard to the use welding repair we'd remove a waiver requirement for screening. Welding repair is a conditional use in your rural areas zoning districts. So screening requirements are typically handled through the conditions. So we would require your action as a board waiver if you approve the conditional use permit you would otherwise be including those screening elements most likely as a condition. And then for tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking we would change a board of supervisors waiver to a zoning administrator waiver for alternative landscaping based on topography and or adjacent land uses. That's a common waiver that the zoning administrator has on other uses. So we wanted to bring that use in line with current practice for other uses. So this item is presented to you all. For information and discussion this evening we're seeking your authorization to proceed with the ordinance amendment process. For those who are unfamiliar with that it includes a review by our development review and regulations committee that is a subcommittee of the planning commission made up of planning commissioners and citizen representatives. And then we would subsequently advertise for public hearings. Those dates would be determined after the review by the committee. And I'm happy to answer any questions you have on these companion amendments. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Klein. I just want to make sure that we talked about the Berkeley group. I'm not sure some of the members of the board were here when we did that. Could you just kind of reference the Berkeley group? They did an intensive study on it. Correct. If you could just give a little background on that. That's how we got to these parts. Sure. Certainly good clarification. Prior to actually initiating the ordinance amendment, the phase one update, we did a zoning diagnostic and a number of our waiver processes were deemed not to be best practices. It creates a kind of legislative burden for you all to handle these relatively minute waiver requests that otherwise the zoning administrator handles in most other cases. So their recommendation early on in that process was to transition that. Again, we felt like that was outside of the scope of the phase one rewrite that we did. But we wanted to bring these back to you all immediately following that adoption so that you all could provide guidance on if you'd like to move forward with those best practice cleanups that were recommended. And again, the intent of these changes is to maintain kind of the user-friendly nature of the ordinance and to put administrative functions back into the administrative realm of the zoning and subdivision administrator. Thank you. Any other questions? All right. I'll entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman. Move that we move forward. All right. You got a motion? All right. I need to do a roll call vote on this. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Wanderer? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lierre? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernement? Aye. And the chair votes aye. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Appreciate all the work you put in on that one. Absolutely. This is your second ordinance amendment for consideration this evening. This also follows on the heels of your adoption of your phase one ordinance update. And we're calling this your 2026 legislative update. And this is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to incorporate applicable changes to the Code of Virginia that would include the zoning ordinance. The zoning ordinance is a code of Virginia that were done through the General Assembly. As you all are well aware, each year the General Assembly considers a series of amendments to the Code of Virginia. And ultimately, if they're successful, they're signed into law by the governor of the Commonwealth. And we should annually review them and, where applicable, incorporate them into the county ordinances. One of the areas that we fell short in our zoning diagnostic was our state code compliance. That's a product of the age of our ordinance, but also just not keeping up with a regular kind of update of all of the zoning ordinance. Of all of the state code changes that occur each General Assembly cycle, we made changes throughout the years. Kind of hot topics came up and required a kind of immediate attention. And we were incorporating a lot of the state code elements in practice. They just weren't codified. This is an effort to keep our ordinance fresh, up to date, and compliant with the Code of Virginia. That helps the board and the county prevent legal challenges and things like that. We reviewed all of the bills that were applicable. We're fortunate that our American Planning Association Virginia chapter does a very good job of keeping planners informed on all of the kind of changes. And then we met with the county attorney a number of times throughout the General Assembly cycle. And then after the code changes were made to review the applicable bills and determine what bills needed attention by the board, there were far more bills that apply that were adopted as far as land use and planning. And then we had a couple of bills that are in our cover here this evening. Not all of them apply to us because we're not an incorporated city or we don't meet a population threshold. So some of those bills get weeded out just by the nature of our status as a county under 100,000 people. But there are other bills that require our attention. So the first one for your consideration this evening is House Bill 1212. And it states that any locality with a population of 20,000 persons or more shall adopt and maintain a zoning district classification that permits one family and two family dwellings and townhomes as a by-right use on lots with a minimum of $1,000. So that's a minimum lot area not exceeding 3,000 square feet. Our recommended action is to proceed with an ordinance amendment to incorporate this standard. And that would involve changes to the dimensional requirements contained in the RP residential performance district. We do have what we call a single family small lot housing type. And it requires a minimum lot area of 3,750 square feet. So we're just slightly above that threshold. We do clear that threshold with our townhome lot sizes. We allow them as small as like 1,800 square feet. And that would require an effort to reduce that minimum lot size. We feel like that is the quickest kind of solution to address the state code change. Our next series of bills, these are actually companion bills. It's House Bill 1279 and Senate Bill 288. This is known as the Faith and Housing Act. It's received quite a bit of fanfare and public attention. And it allows for the administrative approval of development and construction of affordable housing on land owned by property tax-exempt religious organizations or certain other types of organizations. There is a significant amount of criteria to what clears affordable housing on these properties. It requires a certain percentage of area median income. And the properties must be connected to public water and sewer. So rural religious property in the county would not be subject to this because it doesn't meet the certain criteria as far as water and sewer connectivity. At this time, we're recommending actually no action on this item. Within the legislation, it doesn't take effect until January 1st of 2026. So we're not going to be able to do that. We're going to have to wait until January 1st. And we're going to have to wait until January 27. And there is a sunset clause of January 1st, 2031. After consulting with the county attorney and also the chapter legislator for the American Planning Association of Virginia chapter, they recommended localities hold on adopting this because it may not be reenacted in 2031. So we have to add it and then remove it at a later date. They recommended and the county attorney also agreed that we would practice it and we would allow for those organizations to develop affordable housing pending that it met all the criteria contained in the bill. It just wouldn't be codified in our ordinance. And again, that's kind of outside of what we told you we would be doing with the Berkeley group. But given the sunset clause on this, it creates a problem where we would have something in our ordinance and then we would have to kind of plan ahead to remove it and not know if it's going to come out or not because it may get renewed by the General Assembly at some point in that interim. And then the date gets extended so it creates a kind of a maintenance challenge for us. The next bill is House Bill 1470. It's from 1963 and it pertains to allowing manufactured homes and designated mobile home parks. Mobile homes and manufactured homes are actually two different types of unit. They're similar in the way that they're constructed but they have a different HUD classification and this bill would add clarity that it would be allowed. Fortunately, no action is required because our ordinance is actually compliant with the state code reference. What the Berkeley group did in incorporating state code reference, it didn't provide the actual text of the bill, it just provided the code reference. So when the code reference updates, our ordinance remains compliant. So just wanted to let you know that that bill would otherwise apply but we are already compliant. And the final bill for your consideration is Senate Bill 531 and it requires a locality to include in its zoning ordinance for single-family residential zoning districts, accessory dwelling units or ADUs as defined in the bill to be permitted as an accessory use. Again, no action is required. We are also compliant on this. We allow accessory dwelling units in our rural area zoning district and all of our suburban zoning districts, whether they be attached or detached to the units depending on the district. And again, our area of ordinance contains the proper references so we are code compliant with this change by the General Assembly. So again, this item is presented to you all as an information discussion item this evening. We'd be seeking your authorization to proceed with the ordinance amendment for House Bill 1212. That's the one, again, with changing the minimum lot size. To a minimum of 3,000 square feet. That would include a review by the committee and then advertising for public hearing at a date to be determined. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Any questions? All right, I'll entertain a motion. I'll make a motion to approve as presented. And I need a second. Second. And this can be a roll call vote as well. Supervisor Gouvernement. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Chair DeVito. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Warrantor. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. Thank you, Mr. Klein. And Mr. Fox for all the work on it. Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. As I think everyone is aware tonight, you are considering the proposal to amend Chapter 165, zoning ordinance to remove data centers as a permitted use and or conditional use in certain zoning districts and to remove other references to data centers, as was specifically requested by the Board of Supervisors back on July 8th. Your current standard is that data centers are permitted as a by-right only in the TM, Technology, Manufacturing, Park Zoning District, and as a conditional use in B3, M1, and B2. The definition is located at 165. 11.05.05 and also has additional regulations for specific uses to data centers, which are also included in your zoning ordinance. And current requirements for data centers, as are adopted by the Board of Supervisors, date back to April 1000, April of 2025. And as part of your Phase 1 update that was adopted on May 13th, 2026, which removed data centers as a by-right only in the TM, Technology, Manufacturing, Park Zoning District, and as a conditional use in B3, M1, and M2. The definition is located at 17.05.05. Also noted by the Board of Supervisors as a by-right only for mistake cassing schools with dereg najbardziej active student enrollment at 10.05. The definition was also included in험 46,000. However, this green line was not barred for any subpoenaed education gathering of special emotions students in public health in the information that was distributed in response arbitrary after the resolution was made. As in Congress in long before, despite making contact to the City and Sub- dash the convention, the division was absent. The Yankees view the omar s stop-by plan to offset the encode a chance Wednesday. I think I just want to keep up with that narrative. I never thought the Ann humiliated Essa Blar that. Long sua. process and through the state code required public hearings so we're seeking your direction your action I could take any questions you may have any questions from his supervisor oats few first I agree with some of the speakers here and I don't think we should remove the definition from the ordinance as this goes forward for study by the ERC I think we need to keep the definition in there also the definition I think probably needs to get a little stricter is exactly what is the data center and what is not because I mean there's different categories of data centers right down to the edge words say a small one say Trek society they want to consolidate all their servers into one building yeah and five thousand square feet we're gonna eliminate that ability for a local business so I don't know if we need to have like a certain building size or something to say if it's this size it's fine to just support a business not you know the Megawatt ones that's the ones everyone's upset about the second is we do have an existing data center in the county by removing all the standards are we freeing up that data center now that it no longer has the stricter step setbacks if they decide to do an addition or do some additional work on it. kind of modification or they now completely locked out since they they're nonHe审Ṉ م t graphic it stop them and they're fixed on their size from here on out? They've got no room to expand. So theoretically, they could increase their capacity within their existing footprint, but they couldn't enlarge their footprint. What if they went up? Then they're going to be subject to the height restrictions of the M1 zoning district. Which is 60 feet. For starters, yes. So they could go up. As a nonconformity, they could not add a story to the structure to expand the use. That's considered within the footprint vertically as well. The other thing is we're looking at this, the TM district. Speaking from experience, I mean, the only way you get a developer to go TM is put a gun to their head. And the only reason they considered it here recently is because data centers were by right use. I'd like to see us just strike the TM. The TM district entirely out of the ordinance. No one's ever wanted to go to that kind of district. Like I said, the only time anyone's ever showed any interest is when data centers popped up. So I would like that considered as well, just removing that entire zoning category. We have M1, M2. That's good enough. B3. I guess those are just my ideas, what we need to look at when DRC takes a look at that and consider it. Going back to the TM, looking at Mr. Pearson, because we went from office manufacturing to TM with the idea of technology. But at this point, it's caused more problems than it's worth. So I agree with looking at that. Look, here's the bottom line. You know what? You've got to leave the word data center in there. Take it out. I don't care. But what I want is no way, no how can a data center be built. Put the wording in. It's what we need. It's that simple. Just make sure we lock it down so no one can sneak in any other way or come up with some stupid idea. And we can just say, all right, we're done with this for now. That is the way it's got to go. So everybody? I think it's about as clear as we can get. So. So. So we'll continue working with the attorney and our outside counsel and frankly bring you forth the most highest recommended and best defensible ordinance you have. Because frankly, our goal is not to set you up to be in fights. It's to set you up to win them. So that's that's what we'll do. Look, you are moving. You're moving at fast pace. We asked you to do it. Mr. Fox has been wonderful making sure that we're following the laws because there are laws here, folks, that we have got to guardrails. We have got to be in. So we just want. We need to suck or locked down the best we can. So yes, sir. Super. It's one other thing I'd be curious about. I know when applicants submit applications to be considered, there is a time limit. Where are we at on Gateway and Equus? When did their submission come in? So Winchester Gateway, I know I heard a reference earlier that it had been withdrawn, has not been withdrawn. They did pull out of their next visit to the Planning Commission. They're going to be held September. It's heard September 2nd because they're running out of their timeline for Planning Commission. So that's going to be heard now. They've got a year from filing to go to the Board of Supervisors. So if they ask to be held up again, once they've made it through Planning Commission, they could theoretically do that. Virginia Technology Park, I reached out to them again last week. They're not yet ready to schedule. But once again, they're well within their envelope of one year to be heard by the Board of Supervisors. They already have their recommendation of denial from the Planning Commission. I know they're in that one year. I was just curious when that one year runs up. That one year runs up and they're within a month of each other. But I believe it's May 7th. I'm going off the cuff there. So forgive me if I'm off by a few days. But I believe it's May 7th is when they will hit their one year. All right. Until they get here, we can't act on it. Right. Correct. You all just keep showing up every meeting. But until it gets in front of us, we can't do anything. Yep. Anyone else? Okay. The only clarification I would have really for staff is that really I feel like we've got two different things here now that TM's put in play. Because really I think we've got two resolutions that we're trying to pass down. Is that correct? Because I'm 100% with you guys. The TM just doesn't make sense, period. And I just want to make sure that we're not gobbling everything together. Or if that's the way we're supposed to do it, I don't really know. I just want to make sure that we're fine. I'm looking at Mr. Pierce and he's going, yeah. Yeah. I mean, you all can pass the resolution with the intent to include the changes that you discussed and advertise them for public hearing as well. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. All right. So I need a motion on this. So moved. I need a second. Second. All right. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Leo? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernment? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. Thank you, Mr. Bishop and all of you for all the work you've done on that. All right. Next item up is Board Lead. Okay. So, the liaison reports. Do we have any? I'm looking at you up here. Yes, Mr. Chair. I figured I'd go your way first. At the Parks and Rec Commission meeting last night, Ron Madigan, long-time Commission member, was recognized for exceptional contributions as a member of the Parks and Rec Commission. He spent 22 years on that commission from 2004, 2020 to 26. During his 22 years there, many facilities were added and maintained in Parks and Rec. Many new programs were started. And he's been recognized with a plaque on the monument at the entrance of the Sheridan Park at Warrior Drive. So, again, congratulations to Mr. Ron Madigan. Thank you. Awesome. That's great. Anybody else? On my right, Supervisor Orndorff. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Yes. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to the members of the Board. Shawnee Land Sanitation District Advisory Committee met on Monday, August the 3rd. They spent some time talking about the yard sale. They had a very successful yard sale in the spring. They were talking about running one in the fall. But I've since learned that the person who coordinated that for them just felt that she couldn't handle it. So, we'll see what they decide at their next meeting. The managers report there's 42 miles of road that's tarred and chipped in Shawnee Land. And this year so far, they've done 7.49 miles of trail at a cost of $257,481. Parking lot striping. They have met with the schools about the bus pickup area. And so, they did have had that work done. It was done July 6th and 7th at a cost of $3,141. They've been replacing culverts. And they're pretty much caught up. They currently have seven more scheduled to be replaced this year. And then, they've been replacing the parking lot. And then, asphalt patching and motor grader work. The staff has placed 1,470 tons of asphalt on the numerous trails. That's 184 dump truck loads. $119,302. So, quite a bit of work done there. And then, their vegetation control. They've been doing that. They're doing that by cutting and not spurring. So, that's the liaison report for Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Also, on the 5th, the Extension Leadership Council met. And the Extension Service reported that the financial literacy management team was able to get the money. So, they've been able to get the money. And they've been able to get the money. So, they've been able to get the money. And they've been able to get the money. And they've been able to get the money. So, the Extension's financial literacy management program in the schools has been a success. And members were encouraged to participate this coming year. Extension also reported that two 4-H club teams participated in the national competitions and were successful in placing in the horse bowl in the shooting sports. The shooting sports also had some national and individual winners. It was also reported. The Florida County Fair attendance was up this year. And the carnival was enjoyed by the younger crowd in particular. Ball stock shows went well. Frederick County Parks and Rec brought children to the fair. And a combination education and recreational activity. 4-H and FFA members and other volunteers gave tours of the fair's facilities, history, animals for the children. It was expressed that. It was expressed that. 4-H and FFA members and other volunteers gave tours of the fair's facilities, history, animals for the children. And a combination education and recreational activity. Ball stock shows went well. Great. It was also reported that The binge encouraged women to get some meat and chips. Essex County Fair being the most active event of theиг And Alabama City Fair had several participants, including deaf students and those including M lacex MPs. E P<|pl|> proactive endeavors for attending the place. to the fair. And then Frederick County's new 4-H extension is Michael Van Ness, who will begin work on August 10th. Mr. Chairman, unless there's a question, that concludes my liaison report. All I've got to say is we're very fortunate with our FFA program and our 4-H program here in this county. So it's larger than people, I think people think. And I know I was over at the fair and they said, I think they had like over 100 animals being shown. It was huge. So thank you, sir. Anybody else? All right. Next up, citizens' comments. Madam Clerk. Yes, sir. Amber Fry. Okay. Brian Nury. I know I'm here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, board, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I'm here to remind the residents of the county that not only are we voting in November to replace a couple of superintendents, but we're also voting in November to replace a couple of superintendents. Thank you. Well, I go to Заid, least last week, and one of the best other I, our district, made a great, the first executive to win television. We just got a great 거 I think and got involved it, to be able to and I thank the city for arriving at the stage that was. This truly was a great opportunity and also also an opportunity for all of our other profession to show that they are blood happy, that we are happy, that both of us have been more able to do that, ability to solve the division on. So any final thoughts? Sure. Sure. I'm going to take any long saw. If me please. As this is a Supreme Court Administrator share to the the neighborhood sort of한다 Yeal, now I'd like you to let me get just a rough sketch. Actually, I just would love to hear you on this ін shares on Republican. relating to prenatal care, childbirth, postpartum care, contraception, abortion care, miscarriage management, and fertility care. The government has no right to intervene between a woman and her doctors as to what care best protects her and her family. So vote yes. Second, concerns the vote to marry whomever we want. The 2015 Obergefell decision made section 15A the state's bill of rights unenforceable, yet title 20 chapter 2 subsection 20-13.2 ensures that marriages are lawful regardless of sex, gender, or race of parties. So which is it? Remember the function of government in endorsing marriages is to issue licenses to unrelated unmarried parties. That's it. It's time to enshrine more freedom for Virginians. So vote yes. Finally, a third amendment would re-enfranchise felons who have fulfilled their obligations as punishment for their crimes. At least seven percent of eligible voters in Virginia are ineligible to vote due to a 1901 constitutional convention that intended to do an end run on the 14th and 15th amendments, saying that voting was not a natural right. The bulk of the damage done to Virginia from that convention was corrected in 1971, but the amendment will give more Virginians more say in their governance. So vote yes. As proponents of small government, I would expect the majority of this county, much less the commonwealth itself, to vote for these amendments to remove three more limitations on their rights being handed down from Richmond. We don't live in a direct democracy, but we are able to vote on these items that can directly affect our lives and the lives of all Virginians. Additionally, residents of the county can vote on enacting a one percent sales tax that would be earmarked for capital expenses for schools. Considering the so-called difficult policy we've had for the past 15 years to expand, renovate, and construct new schools, this should be a blessing, especially considering that much of this will be paid by passers-through and tourists. What a fantastic way to get schools in this county built and updated. I'm not a proponent of straight down the ticket voting, but the amendments and the referendum, I would encourage voters to vote yes straight down the line. We want more freedoms, not fewer. Check the status of your voter registration and make sure you take the opportunity to make your voice heard. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Stephen Albanese. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Stephen Albanese, and I'm a resident of the Shawnee Magisterial District, which is a correction to what I wrote on the sign-up sheet. Um, tonight I'm advocating for vulnerable people in Frederick County, as well as across, Virginia. I'm asking this board to consider and adopt a resolution calling upon the Commonwealth of Virginia to outlaw abortion and to provide equal justice of the law to pre-born humans. This should not be a Republican versus Democrat issue, but one of morality, and it currently affects many right here in our community. Specifically, I'm asking Frederick County to urge the Virginia Department of Justice to consider and adopt a resolution calling upon the Virginia General Assembly and the Governor to enact legislation recognizing that pre-born humans, uh, from conception are entitled to the same fundamental protection against intentional killing, uh, that we've recognized for humans after birth. Virginia law already recognizes in other circumstances that the intentional killing of a fetus can be a serious felony. Virginia Code 18.2 to 32.2 provides criminal penalties when a fetus is shot or killed. This is a legal violation of the law, but Virginia law does not accept criminal penalties for the killing of fetuses. The Virginia Code 18.2 to 32.2 provides criminal penalties when fetuses are shot or killed. This means that a fetus is shot or killed. And the law provides a legal when a person unlawfully and intentionally kills the fetus of another. Yet Virginia's abortion statutes separately create circumstances in which an unborn child may be intentionally killed through abortion. I'm asking this board to call for that distinction to be removed. The principle I'm asking you to consider is simple. Given that a pre-born child is a human, then his or her protection from intentional killing should not depend on location or stage of development, size, or whether that human is wanted. In medical scenarios, all humans should be treated as patients, both mother and baby. The fact that people disagree about the status of pre-born humans as full humans doesn't change reality. Inaction or complacency is as bad as the dehumanization itself. Equal justice now for equal value, no matter size or location. This is the voice of the voiceless. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Frederick County Board of Supervisors to adopt a resolution stating that Frederick County recognizes the equal human value of born and pre-born humans and supports equal protection of the law for both. Frederick County calls upon the Virginia General Assembly to abolish abortion by removing statutory provisions that authorize the intent of abortion in Virginia. This is the voice of the voiceless. This is the voice of the voiceless. This is the voice of the voiceless. killing of pre-born human beings and the county to call upon the Commonwealth to structure its laws so that existing principles of law protecting innocent humans from killing apply equally to pre-born humans rather than maintaining a separate legal exception for abortion. Also, thanks sir. Thank you very much for your time. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. All right, anybody else would like to come up and speak? You're coming up, folks. Line up behind him, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan District. I didn't think we were talking about state issues today, but I guess this is turning into a little bit of a public forum. We do have a couple of critical constitutional amendments on the ballot, and the first one is an amendment that would allow for unrestricted, unlimited abortions in Virginia. It would strip back any control over the people who are performing the abortions, and one of the things that we're doing is we're doing a lot of work on the abortion law, and one of the original reasons for Roe was to make sure that back alley abortions did not occur. This new amendment would not allow for any restrictions on the practices of abortionists, so it would make abortions even more unsafe. It also would roll back any kind of parental notification or parental consent in Virginia, and would remove any kind of religious liberty and religious freedom at risk here. It is the most broad, overreaching amendment on this topic in the world. And so, it really goes beyond the pale. I have a close family member who was raped, and had a child at 27 weeks. I held that child in my hand when she was one pound, right after she was born. She fit in the palm of my hand. That child is now over three, is thriving, and leading an incredible life. Those are the kind of success stories that we should see in the future. And I think that's what we need to do. We need to do something about it. We need to celebrate as Americans and as Virginians. When we talk about freedom, the most important freedom is the right to exist. And what this amendment on the ballot does is limits people's right to exist. So, I would encourage everyone in Frederick County, let's make ourselves known for how we care for the most vulnerable by supporting mothers who need support, by supporting children who need support, not by making it easier to terminate lives just because they're an inconvenience. Thank you. Thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak again. I had not planned to do that until Mr. Oates brought up about the battery storage. My name is Vicki Michaels, and I am in the Stonewall District. So, months ago, Mr. Oates brought up and submitted before you all about the battery storage. And it was sent to the Planning Commission. And it was also sent to the DRRC. I attended both of those meetings. The DRRC was mostly answered by, well, we're not sure of that yet. We don't know about that. But it was regarding whether or not to have a CUP for it. Then it was again scheduled for another meeting on July 23rd, which was canceled. So, I frankly would like to see this come before us so we can get it settled. Because I do not appreciate hearing about how you almost had to cut the power to this entity, or Less entity because of lack of it. That's a threat technique. And I don't, I spoke earlier in a very positive manner because I genuinely feel that way. But when you start telling me that if I do not agree to something, this is what's going to happen. You're going to get my goat up. So instead of us encouraging and looking at battery storage, which means then the electrical companies are required to buy power from them, which is going to only benefit the people who have the battery storage. It does not benefit us. Let's get this before us so we can get it settled so that we can see what is truth, what is fact, and what is pure lies. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Hey, y'all. My name is Elizabeth Ehler at Bat Creek. I'm actually on the ballot for November for the Bat Creek seat. I wrote to all of you about democracy, about coal mines, about canaries, all the things, begging for mercy, begging for sense, begging for common sense. I've asked Al to mentor me, to pass the mantle down. I'm 42 years old. Don't you think it's time for other people to take seats of power to make decisions for our future? Thank you, Supervisor Oates, for having transparency. Thank you, Supervisor Oates. Thank you, Supervisor Oates. Thank you, Supervisor Oates. I deserve respect, too. You got me? My name is Alexander Ritter. I usually don't speak without having something written. I'm a PECA district. Sorry, my bad. I usually don't speak without having something written because I get anxiety when I'm up here. But I wanted to say that I'm also running for the chairman position. I was thinking earlier, I said, by the way, thank you, Oates, for reiterating that we need to keep the definition of data centers. I was thinking earlier, Mr. Willie Deutsch, I will say his name, he came up here and he asked, he said, I want to hear what your position on data centers are. And every single, never heard any confirmation other than a couple of vague remarks. Besides, Mr. Wells, you have, you know, released things and you're my supervisor and I appreciate your service to my district. What I want to say is that as a person running, I tell you what my position is. No data centers, prohibit them in our county. And I want to mention that. Several of you up here, when you're on the planning commission or as a board of supervisors, when you're on the Back Creek District or whatever district, have voted yes. And a couple times. So, you know, just wanted to point that out. Thank you very much for letting me speak. I know where I stand. Maybe you should, too. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? All right. Good. Come on up. Wendy Dorsey, Gainesboro. I just want to let you know that I'm genuinely, genuinely trying to understand all the issues. I'm genuinely reading, speaking, learning all the time about these issues in front of us, the data centers, the transmission lines, the water, the air, how all that is going to affect us. And I just do want you to know that I genuinely am trying to parse out the difference when I'm reading something online or when I hear something from you guys, too. And I wish that weren't the case. I wish it wasn't that, Supervisor Chairman Jewell, that when we said about the data center and the proposal and making it airtight, that at the very end you said, for now. And it shouldn't matter to me. We should know that when you say it's airtight, it's airtight. But I hear for now, and then I think, what does that mean? Does that mean there's a crack? Does that mean? I want to believe what you say. I do. But there's, you know, a little bit of a doubt there. And I also want you to know I understand land. I understand farming. My husband is a farmer. Our son came back from college and farms with my husband. I understand these issues. I understand water issues. And I also understand that agriculture in this county, even though one of you have said is a huge user of water for the irrigation, we are largely a row crop county. And with our geography, there really isn't any irrigation there. And when ag does irrigate, it goes back into the ground. Right? That's a big difference than what data centers do. So. Anyway, those are just a collection of thoughts that I wanted to make sure I got out. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? All right. Board of Supervisors comments. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to say school has started and buses are on the road. So pay attention. Our kids are our future. And so just go slow. Don't pass the school buses. Also. Everybody talks about speeding and running stop signs and lights and all that kind of thing. For this group in here, maybe I'm talking to the choir, but let's do the best we possibly can to obey all the traffic signs and all the red lights and so forth. I know it's you look at anything. I think I can make that. But maybe we just slow down a little bit. That would be a big help. So. But basically, school started. We have kids waiting at school bus stops and crossing the road. So be very careful. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. And Mr. Supervisor. It's. Yeah. Two things. One, I think probably when you said for now, it's because the state changes the rules. They change a lot. Just like when localities got rid of distilleries and that type of thing in their counties. The state came back and said, no, you have to do it now. There's one being built in my district that county has no say over. They get a VDOT permit. They get a VDOT or Virginia health permit. And a Virginia license. So. The state can take the power away from us real quick. So we're doing what we can. But again, keep in mind the state change. They call the shots. And if they come back and say every locality, just like you saw tonight about different types of housing and different lots, every locality has to have this in their ordinance. If they tell us we have to have it in the data, their data center in the ordinance, we're going to have to put it back in. Because that's state law. We have no choice. So that's the for now. The second thing is what was brought up about the energy corridor for the transmission lines. I guess, Mr. Bishop, since that was something we need to look at putting to the comp plan, it sounds like it's time sensitive. Is this something we can pull off? Or is this where we're at with this? I mean, frankly, ideally, you would do it as part of your normal update. It's something that was already decided. It's something that was already discussed at the work session within that scope. If you're trying to do something, the board wants to direct us to do something sooner, you'll have to follow your normal public hearing requirements and that sort of thing. And of course, give us the time to actually draft it. Loudoun is probably the primary example, nearby example anyway, of a locality that's done that. And while there's devils in the details, the general guidance in there is that they're trying to keep them within the existing corridor. There's definitely more detail to it than that. But I wouldn't expect a recommendation much different from that from us unless you want to start an entire another data center and power line discussion that could stretch on endlessly. So that's a long answer. But to answer your direct question of if we can modify your comprehensive plan in a quicker order than what we're currently doing with the update, yes, we can. We just need to go ahead and build it in the schedule. I would prefer we take a look at that, have our county attorney, our new attorneys we just signed on, and staff take a look and see if that's something we can get done before November if it strengthens our opposition to ballot link. That's all I have. Anybody else? Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman? I would move we adjourn. We are adjourned. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. Hey, buddy. Happy anniversary again. you you
