Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-05-06
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=345
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you says they were free. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to get that ball rolling so we can get leadership in place, additional leadership in place, because Wendy's been doing a fantastic job. I can't give her enough credit for what she's been doing for the last 30 to 45 days, however long it's been. Do you need a consensus? I think so. Okay. Okay. Good. Is everybody here? I'm good. Good play. All right. It is a good play. Yes. And we really appreciate all the work you've put in on this. We're in a good spot. We really are. And the board, both boards, the way that both boards have been working together, because it's clearly, you know, the board of supervisors cannot tell the board of EDA what to do. But I think there's been really good collaboration on how we're trying to take the county and making it open. And we're open for business. And we want to support each other. So thank you. The second item on there is the communications department. As part of this discussion, it was agreed by this board that we needed to improve how we do communications from the county. We felt we kind of had a weak spot there. So moving forward that we would like to look at some options. I know Supervisor Grubemont has been working with this. If I could hand it over to him so he could further discuss this. Absolutely. Thank you. So we held a work session, per se, with all the department heads and got all of their feedback about a unified communications department. I think the consensus was they all saw the need and how that could improve communications not just externally to the public but internally. We had a lot of exchange of ideas. And it just warrants moving forward. We have identified a potential candidate who would be great in the leadership role. I think what we want to do right now is we realize that it's going to require some resources. And I'd like to get a board consensus to allow Mr. Bohoffer to move forward on putting all the pieces together to make that happen. We're replacing one leader with another. So there's not an expense there, per se. But there's going to be other expenses that are going to have to take place while we transition. And in order to get through all that, we need to allow Mr. Bohoffer to do his work as the county administrator to figure out how to move what he needs to move to make it happen. The end result, I think, for us as a board and for the community, is that we're going to have to move forward. And I think that's going to be a big step for the community as a whole, is that we're going to create something that's forward-facing with communications that allows us to be able to get the data and information from all the departments and be able to get it out to the general public in a different way than we have in the past. And also to be able to share information and events amongst the entire county as well. It's really going to be unique. And we had some great input from different sections. And one, in fact, was public works. They probably gave us a lot of great insight on ways that the new communications department could enhance communications to the citizens. And that, I think, is a big benefit to us. So I'm just asking my fellow board members for a consensus to allow Mr. Bohoffer to go ahead and start moving pieces and making things happen. Yeah, I was going to say, any discussion? So your report. I have one person, a leader. You said you have a leader selected, and you're replacing the leader who's there now. She's retiring. Okay. I'm missing something there because I didn't know we had a leader for communications. Karen Vacchia is our communications director. Okay. But she was also doing the FOIA, all the FOIA work, right, when we moved that FOIA work out. So now that she started down that role and ended up in FOIA. Right. So what we're doing. Consumed in FOIA. Right. Got consumed in it, exactly. So we have to reimagine what the communications and marketing department would do. I agree with you 100%. Thank you, sir. With her retiring, what do we do about the FOIA? What we've done is with FOIA, before all this happens, you know, several months ago, we moved the FOIA responsibility over to the legal assistance office. So Karen has stopped doing FOIA. Now it's a function of our. Our legal assistance doing all the FOIA because one of our issues was FOIA was eating all our PIO officers' time. Wouldn't I have imagined that if I talked to Karen? Yes, it was probably more than 50% of her work. Absolutely. But also I think on this part of this is in my discussions, if I remember right, please correct me if I'm wrong, it was to actually create a communications department. So you would keep a position like the PIO, but what you would also add is a communications director. Because I think the intention is. That this department now would do all the marketing for the city and all the communications, both internal and external. And you would therefore not need the marketing position that you have in the EDA because it would all be in one separate function now. And we do have an employee who's quite capable and interested in taking that communications director job. You would still also have the PIO. And eventually, I think their plan is to have several more meetings with department heads and constitutional officers. And look at where they're spending their marketing money and advertising money. Use those funds that are used within those independent departments to pay for the communications department. So in effect, instead of having diversified marketing and communications throughout the county, you would now have one unified marketing and communications for the entire county would be the plan. And I think what they're looking for a direction for is with this person to hire, you would hire, you'd create this new position, which would be the communications director. Maintain the other position. I heard the communications director. Maintain the PIO position. So when Karen leaves, you would fill that position. So you would now have two people in the communications department. What it would look like eventually, I'm not sure because there's still a lot of meetings and a lot of research and analysis to be done. But I believe that's the intention. Mike? The only thing I would say is that the board is directly involved in this because that's who it comes to. We're at U.S. Department of Commerce. We're the ones who get the emails. We're the ones who get the pats on the back of the complaints. So at some point in time, either prior to or during or after, the board really needs to be involved in this process. So it's not just two people deciding this is where we're going to go and this is how we're going to spend money and this is what we're going to do. The board needs input into this. It's a very important topic, but I think the board really needs input into it. Go ahead. I 100% agree. And maybe the recommendation could be... Maybe is it once the individual that is interested, if they decide to join the team and expand the team into the department, maybe there's a subcommittee that's... I mean, Mike's been leading the charge now, but I'd be happy to work with Mike, to continue to work with Mike in that regard to carry that torch that you feel that needs to be carried. Yeah. I think it's very, very important. We're the ones who say we're hearing that. You don't communicate with us. You don't reach out. You don't reach out to us. You don't tell us what went on in this meeting, that meeting. And they're right, because we don't have a system at that point. I'd really like to see us have a good system. Thank you. That's the goal here. That's exactly... I mean, again, I'll say this. Now, we're in May, so it's five months this board's been at it, and I think we're going 100 miles an hour trying to do what's right. And that was a big issue from a lot of constituents. We've all heard this about the communication, so absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. to move sooner rather than later on the communications director's position because the idea being is that person would be key in all the analysis and creating this whole department. I may be correct and they can correct me if I'm wrong, but that was my understanding. Yes, sir. So what we're looking at is as Karen's retiring, we have to try to get somebody into her role so that there's a little bit of overlap so she can impart her some wisdom. And that person is, when we had our roundtable with all the department heads and got their input, we realized that part two of this is once that person is identified, they need to meet with those department heads to find out what do you do for marketing and communications individually and how can we best benefit with this consolidation. Because we see it not just as, I don't know. a time saver or an improved communications capability. But hopefully at some point, a money saving opportunity for the entire county because we're not duplicating effort. We're using resources to buy things in bulk versus everybody doing everything on their own. So this person, once they're in position, should be instrumental in figuring out how should we streamline things? How can we better communicate? What's important to the board? So that person would meet with the board, get our input. and then everything was starting to be developed from that. Certainly, I think it was a good idea to move forward, my feeling. I know you said you wanted Mike to have free reign to use money and whatnot. I'm not good on a blank check. It's not free reign. But, I mean, to a certain extent, I mean, if you're going over about $40,000 or $50,000, then you need to come back here and talk to the board. But if the person you're hiring to be the expert on this, to me, they're going to know more than you, so I'm not so much in favor of a subcommittee. Let that person tell you where they need help to support them, and then have them come back with, here's what I need to do to create this department, and have a work session with the board. So I think when you hire that person, kind of stay out of the way a little bit. I think that's a good idea, Gary. We'll have a new work session with the board then. We're all involved. Give them some time to figure out what they need to do to get the department to work. What department to put together. And if I may interject, with the free reign, you don't want to trust any county administrator with a free reign. I get that. But what I would really need up front, the most important thing, so we actually have a person in mind, would be to take initially that PIO position and change it to a communications director. That would probably be an additional salary amount of about $20,000 to $30,000 initially to create that position. And then that person there would be working with the different supervisors to come up with the long-term, long-term plan. I have no problem with that. I think that we just all need to be cognizant of the fact that there is going to be an increase of funds on the short-term that's going to be needed from possibly the contingency fund to get this off the ground. But long-term, when we're looking at all the various departments, there is going to be efficiencies that are going to be found. And it's going to be a long-term savings net of 12 months, I would say. But we would be kidding ourselves if he's got, Mike's got to have the use of some contingency funds to get it off the ground. Yeah, I have no problem with that. That's good. Well, I mean, the goal is we're going to become efficient here. You know, social media. And instead of each department sending out separate messages, it's a consistent message to our community, to our constituents, as what they're asking for. I'll be interested to see what they come up with. Yeah. I'm excited about it. So are you good? I'm good. You good? You good? It's a good plan. Okay, Mike. There you go. We got it good. And the last item is a request to use our PEG funds to do some work within these boardrooms. Our PEG funds are money we receive, I guess, through the Comcast contract. You're allowed to use it for electronic equipment, but you're also allowed to use these funds for facility maintenance. So you can do innovative tasks where there's become and can constante feelings for the employees in whatever way you want to call it. But I think that that's a pretty good reason we're is kind of, looking out for continuing to see what happens tomorrow, as everyone's talking about a billion dollars on paper loss or whether the best can get to work at or some of these segments. It might be a little greater than that, but I don't know. Not very big game. Deal with me. So הא how about your hanno or other forms of equipment that you buy days off, your gonna do on your, y'know, construction project, but what we believe is the board to give us the approval to use PEG funds to move forward with getting that work done. Are we adding some padding for the pews up there? I'm writing that down. Pew padding. I had a chair tall enough I could see over the day instead. Just being a girl about it. Well, the – I brought this up in a prior meeting. I mean, our chairs are in bad shape. I mean, Mike almost fell out of his the first week that we had him on the dais. I'm glad I saved him. You're welcome, Mike. But in all seriousness, if you look up, I mean, these ceiling tiles are in bad shape. They are. And it couldn't hurt us to replace the ceiling tiles. We're painting the walls, looking to redo the flooring. Might as well get – let's not – let's shine our shoes when we're done with this and actually have it done right and get the ceiling tiles changed out. This is where the county business is held, and it should be something that we should be proud of. It really should. It's been done a long time. It should. It needs to be comfortable. Yes. This is – And I want to compliment Mike on something. Last night – and I know several in the room here that were at the planning commission meeting last night, the work session. The way he had the chairs set up – Yes. They've gone back to where they had rows in place here. And, you know, it was easy for people to flow. It looked professional. It looked good. And I appreciate you doing that. And that's – you know, this is the kind of thing we need to be doing. So, yes. All right. So, you good? You're good? Good. You're good? Okay, Mike. You got a consensus. And one last item. As you know, the chairs up there were discussed quite some time ago. We've been going through the process of getting those chairs. I believe that some of the major office companies all use just-in-time inventory. So, it's not as easy getting them as you want. Our first test chair will be delivered here tomorrow. So, we're going to be able to check it out to make sure it's comfortable and it works. And once that's in case, then we'll be ordering all the chairs for the dais. Now, there will be chairs also for our planning board and such. There will be more than eight or nine. So, if the chair is comfortable tomorrow and works, we will order those. Probably tomorrow. Is Al going to test it? Yeah, I was going to say, don't order them until he gets it. Yeah. He gets it. He needs to see it. Oh, okay. That's fine. Maybe a booster seat. A booster seat. I will let you know when it's here so we can test it. Thank you. Yes, sir. I've got one thing under other if we're done. Yes, sir. Bring it up. Starting with the treasurer today, it looks like the revenue projections we were working with during the budget, our growth has actually outpaced that. And we're looking probably around six and a half. Seven million dollars more. It won't be projected. Of course, half of that comes into this year. And I had a lot of heartburn over some employees getting seven percent and some only getting three. So, with that windfall coming in, I'd like us to maybe reconsider getting everybody to the same at seven. That'd be about 1.6 million. If we can't get there, at least maybe up to five, which would be around 800,000. And then finally, back at the end of the year, we're going to be able to get to about 1.6 million. So, we're going to have to do that. And then finally, back in around 2020, 2021, we quit doing performance reviews and merit pay. I think maybe we need to reinstitute that to give the employees some incentive on their jobs. I mean, I live my life that way. I'm surprised, though. Yes. All right. I know we can't do that in a work session, but I want everybody to be concerned. Thanks for throwing it out there, because Mr. Balfour can do the legwork, and then we can do it the right way. All right. Do the legwork. All right. Isn't that? Kevin, can I ask a comment on that or a question on that? Of course. When will we find out maybe a little bit more definitive answer on that six or seven million? Go talk to the treasurer. Cause all the tax bills went out. So, now they have the tally of what's coming in. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you for bringing it up. Okay. Anybody else got anything for the good of this county? I got one. Sessions. We're done. We're closed. All right. folks have a good one. See you. 10.30 tomorrow. 10.30. I'll be there. Yeah. Are you going to tomorrow? Are you going to be remote? That's it. I'll be there.
