Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-01-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=174
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If we could, please. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I would move that the Board of Supervisors authorize remote participation by Josh Ludwig from his home for medical reasons. Second. Motion is second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. motion carries thank you are you with us mr. Ludwig mr. Ludwig are you with us I'm here mr. Ludwig Chuck to Haven you you missed our authorization but if you can hear us okay we're ready to get started perfect thank you thank you sir all right surprise well as a general public I'm going to go ahead and get started and I'm going to go ahead and get started in vocation please sir I would sir thank you bow our heads in prayer please dear Heavenly Father we pray for our community our state and our nation we ask that you hold us in the palm of your hands and protect us from all evil we pray for our servicemen and women and for our first responders and all who serve to protect and defend we pray for peace for all of the nations and all the people in the world Lord be with us tonight and with all of those who are suffering and sick and in harm's way throughout the world in Christ's name we pray these things to you amen amen Vice Chairman Dunn would you lead us in the pledge please I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic of which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all of us. Ioannina lea Lunch nosotros de amoo snazno 1900 amamos a se o are I lund También tom oweb y. Leonardo Thurberett Bring us to the consent agenda. Citizen comments, Mr. Chairman? Yes. Citizen comments. I'm sorry. Citizen comments. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. None. We'll move on. I'm sorry. Consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Acceptance of Parks and Recs was on consent. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In lieu of our conversation this evening in the work session regarding the tax rate that will be advertised, I'd simply like to make it clear to my constituents that I have advocated for strongly a 51 cent tax rate for real estate taxing. I do not support such a tax increase. I support revenue neutral. I do not support such a tax increase. There will be a number advertised that is potentially in excess of 18 to 20% of tax increase that will be advertised in the newspaper. However, for my constituents, I do desire that they know I do not support such a tax increase. I support revenue neutral, which is 51 cents per hundred. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll move on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Presentation of resolution of honoring the state, champion James Wood High School's volleyball team. We're so happy to have you. Thank you. Hey. Great. So resolution honoring the 20th, 2022 VHSL class for all state champion, James Wood High School girls volleyball team. Whereas James Wood High School opened its doors in 1950. And whereas during the ensuing years, its athletic teams brought recognition to the school through a variety of championships. And whereas the James Wood High School girls volleyball team achieved the pinnacle of greatness by completing a 20, six to one season, winning the 2022 Virginia High School League class for all state championship. And whereas not only did the James Wood High School girls volleyball team capture the first state title in program history, but also the first girls overall team state title in any sport for the school. And whereas coach Adrian Patrick received named as VHSL, class for volleyball coach of the year. And the James Wood High School girls volleyball team represented this community with distinction and honor during the state volleyball tournament. And whereas this team achieved this honor through a combination of hard work, the drive and determination to be the best they could be every time they took to the court and the true sportsmanship, which has brought. Favorable recognition upon themselves, their school and their community. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors offers us congratulations to the coaches and players of the 2022 James Wood High School girls volleyball team for a job well done. And be it further resolved that a true copy of this resolution be presented to the coaches in the team adopted this 14th day of December, 2022. Congratulations. Well, done. Thanks. Okay. Okay. Okay. inner and she'll show chance here, fine. I a place. Thank you. Thank you. You know, if I stand back here, I use my seat. Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes, sir. I just like to know there's a lot of parents out here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Without you all, taking people to practice and to games, it just doesn't happen. So thank you very much. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. State champions. Pretty good, doesn't it? Absolutely. Absolutely. Doesn't get any better. Congratulations. All right. We'll move on to appointments to boards, committees and commissions. Parks and Recreation Commission, a four year term for Randy Carter. He had served there prior. Chairman, I would move that we appoint Randy for your term. I'll second it. Second? I'll second it. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries and Mr. Carter is appointed. Old Dominion? Aye. Old Dominion ASAP Policy Board. Mr. Tibbs is up for reappointment. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reappoint Mr. Tibbs to the Old Dominion ASAP Policy Board. Second? Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Chair votes aye. And that will bring us to Old Dominion Community Criminal Justice Board for Mr. Tibbs. Mr. Chairman, I would also move that Mr. Tibbs be reappointed to the Old Dominion Community Criminal Justice Board. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. And a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. All right. Committee Business, Parks and Recs Commission unanimously recommends adoption of the final master plan for the Old Charlestown Road Park. Do we have anything other than the paperwork? And how would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the approval of the Parks and Recreation Commission's adoption of the final master plan for the Old Charlestown Road Park. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor? Aye. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. We'll bring us to Committee Public Hearings, amendments to the 22-23 physical year budget. Are we ready? Public hearing? Yes. Public hearing. This is a public hearing. Would anyone, did anyone? Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Okay. How would the Board like to handle this one? Is there anyone in the audience that wishes to speak? Seeing no one, how would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of an amendment to the fiscal year 2022-23 budget to reflect it in the new fiscal year. Okay. The hearing is adjourned. Thank you. I am going to ask the Board of Directors to second. Second. Second. Thank you. That's it. Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Chair. Thank you. We have a motion to approve the new fiscal year 2022-23 budget to reflect a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $5 million. This amount represents revenue from the Virginia Department of Commerce for construction-related costs for the airport terminal, no local funds. This amount represents revenue from the Virginia Department of Commerce for construction-related costs for the airport terminal, no local funds. Funds must be received by the county general fund and dispersed by the Economic Development Authority per the terms from the State of Virginia. The motion is there or second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? No. Second. Second. from the state of Virginia. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us to a public hearing. Conditional use permit 1322 for Seven Bins Nursery. Welcome, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Tyler Kline. I'm covering for Amy Feller this evening who could not be with us. This is a conditional use permit request for Seven Bins Nursery, and this is an application to allow a retail nursery on a 13-acre undeveloped parcel at the intersection of Town Road Lane and Peace and Plenty Lane in the Opec and Magisterial District, and the present zoning of the property is RA. This is the location map directing your attention to the screen for your orientation. Town Road Lane coming south from 277 kind of terminates at the parcel boundary here, and Peace and Plenty forms the north and east parcel boundary. Immediately to the west is Interstate 81, and this yellow highlighted area is the Southern Hills subdivision, which you all are quite familiar with. Retailing and wholesaling of nursery stock and related products is a permitted use in the area. Rural Area Zoning District with the approval of a conditional use permit, thus the request from this applicant. Specifically, this applicant intends to develop the site with a 2,600-square-foot retail office space, up to three 3,600-square-foot greenhouses for growing nursery stock. They will have a fence display area for retail products and plants. They will have a pond on the property of approximately 0.33 acre for irrigation purposes, and they'll have a designated customer. They'll have a parking area. Again, the site is presently undeveloped, so to develop it in this manner, if they received a conditional use permit, they would need to get through the site planning process and meet all of the approvals of the various county and state agencies that would review a site plan. So should the Board of Supervisors find this application to be appropriate, the Planning Commission has recommended the following conditions be assigned to the CUP, that all review agency comments would be complied with at all times, that an engineered minor site plan be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use, that one non-illuminated freestanding monument business sign is permitted no more than five feet in height and 50 square feet in the area, and that any expansion or change of this use would require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission did held a public hearing on this item on January the 4th, and they unanimously recommended approval of the application. So this evening, staff is seeking a decision by the Board on this request for a conditional use permit to permit a retail nursery in the Opecan District. I'm happy to answer any questions you have, and the applicants, Ms. Latcher and Mr. Morgan, are here this evening as well, and they'd be happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. I have two questions for you, Mr. Klein. Were there any hours of operation presented to you from the applicant, such as 7 in the morning until 5 at night or anything of that nature, seven days a week? And the second question is on the greenhouses, are they a permanent, like a glass-enclosed structure, or is it a plastic structure that would go up and down? What do those two items look like? And I do apologize. I'm only becoming— I've been familiar with this application in the last several days. There were no hours of operation discussed as a condition with the Planning Commission or by staff. We felt like the use is pretty innocuous and, you know, has regular kind of during daylight hours. I'll let the applicant speak to the specificity of their greenhouse configuration, and they'd be happy to answer those questions. Thank you, Mr. Graber. Anyone else? Yes, sir. When you approach the land off Town Run, when I was out there, you've got the sign, the Conditional Use Permit. Is that where the entrance will be coming in at that end? Do you know where the proposed—if you go off to the right and left, you've got two other businesses. Sure. So directing your attention back to the map, actually, the state maintenance and the VDOT maintain portion actually ends just north of this driveway here. Correct. So Town Run Lane actually becomes a private lane from there, and Pisa and Palenque is also a private lane. Yes. So they would not be landlocked, but their entrance will be determined by how they are able to utilize the access easements that are granted to their particular piece of property. I believe they intend to have an access point from Town Run Lane, but they would also be entitled to an access point from Pisa and Palenque Lane. Again, they're both private lanes at that point, so it is a neat private easement issue. I got you. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Klein? Thank you, sir. The applicant? Does the applicant have anything they'd like to add? Welcome. Hi. Thank you very much. If you could just pull that down and... Yes, of course. I used to be a singer. Well, I got this one. So did you want me to address the question about the greenhouses? No. I would appreciate it, ma'am. Okay. So just to begin to give you a little bit of background, when we applied for the CUP, it was recommended to us that we put in an application for what we intend for it to eventually be. So this is something we're going to have to build in stages, so it may take several years to get to. It's not going to be as easy as it looks. It's going to take a little bit of time. It's going to take a little bit of time to get to what has been presented to you today. But our intent is to begin with one greenhouse. It will unlikely... None of them are likely to be glass-enclosed, probably eventually some sort of polycarbonate. I'm not sure of the specific specifications for the greenhouse we're going to install initially. It may be some heavy-duty UV-resistant plastic or polycarbonate. It just depends on what is available in pricing at the time. Go ahead. In the hours of operation, I... I understand that this is mainly going to be a daytime operation. Customers come during the day, not in the middle of the night. That's correct. The only concern or question that I have is would you have any hesitation to put in hours of operation, say, 6 in the morning until 9 at night? I'll just give you an example of the reason I have this reservation. There are some CUPs in my district that have applied for things, and then things have extended past those times and caused issues with the neighbors. And looking at the map over there, most of your neighbors are... Looks like houses there along... Was it Havenhurst? Yeah, to the north. Yeah. And I don't see plants making much noise other than maybe the backup alarms of forklifts and things of that nature, whether that be unloading trucks. You know, if you were to venture down into landscape stone, landscape fabrics, other types of things that were heavy lifting that a forklift would take on and off of a truck and those larger trucks coming to deliver those items, I wondered if you would be open for hours, you know, for a restriction that would say 6 o'clock in the morning to 9 o'clock at night. Just to be... Keep peace with the neighbors, for lack of a better word. Okay. If I would be open to potentially extending hours, you're saying? From 6 to... Would you be willing to add as a condition to this conditional use permit? Oh, that we do not operate beyond those hours? That you operate between 6 in the morning and 9 p.m.? Yes. I think that is very reasonable. Thank you. Can I ask for clarification? Yes. Greenhouses, I have some experience. 24-7. I understand. But open to the public? Correct. During the hours that you all agree to? Thank you for clarifying. Does that work? That would be fine. Yes, sir. Yeah. I think it's very reasonable hours to accept deliveries, do our business that is open to the public. I'm fine with that. Yes, and you're correct. Greenhouses are going to be on 24-7, particularly during the winter when we need them the most. So, if I may, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would want it simply worded that hours of operation of the public from 6 in the morning to 9 p.m. and or deliveries during that time. So, as we don't have a tractor trailer coming in at midnight and we have the forklift at midnight, the beep, beep, beep. Yes. Is that fair? I don't want to be there at midnight either. 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Fantastic. That is acceptable to me. For deliveries and open to the public. Yes, that is acceptable to me. Thank you, ma'am. Any other questions? All right. This is a public hearing. Did anyone like to comment? Yes, ma'am. Mr. Chairman, we had several folks sign up, and I will remind the board that you also received electronic comments that I forwarded you. We did. We did. So, the first name on the list tonight is Sharon Plummer. Thank you. Hello. I'll just make this brief. I just would like to advocate for Seven Bens Nursery. When I moved to this county two years ago, I had to go do all my shopping for a good selection of high quality plants in Loudoun, and there was nothing out here. I do feel she's filling a need for me and my neighbors, and I do feel it would be a benefit economically and for the citizens to have a nice selection of native plants that are beneficial. So, I appreciate you listening to our feedback. Thank you. Thank you. Brady Boyer. Welcome, Mr. Boyer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Hello. Just raise it up there, please. Thank you, sir. So, I'd like to echo what Sharon said. We do have nurseries here like Weber's or Meadows, but they are not native plant nurseries. So, to get that kind of stock is actually somewhat difficult in this area. There aren't any native nurseries near Winchester. They're all out and rural. So, this would be your first one to be very close to town. And I think the people, especially in Stephen City, could really benefit from this and it could help the neighborhood become, it could increase curb appeal, but it could also help the environment. And I think you have a really good opportunity here. Thank you, sir. Thanks. David, is it Brotman? Yes. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Would you have your name and magisterial district, please? Yes. David Brotman. I'm a resident of Warren County. Thanks. And I just have a brief statement to share in support of the proposed CUP for a seven beds nursery. I have known the applicant, Yada Locker, and her husband, Eric Morgan, for three years. And I work closely together with Yada together in support of a longstanding local conservation organization. What I know of both Yada and Eric is that at the center of each of their careers is service to others. And in consistent service to greater common goods. Eric's in service to youth, preparing them for life through his work as an educator. Yada's as a scientist and conservationist whose work is aimed at helping all of us thrive better together as we develop our lives in the valley on the landscapes we love. I know their hearts to be in their work and their work to be centered on community and on helping their community prosper. As neighbors in the county and to the more local population, I know that the community is a place where we can all be together. And whether we go anywhere, as a state, as a county, any where else, whatever, I believe that the нужay for change. But in<|nl|> this need for change is solid. I guess about three years ago now, I returned to the Shenandoah Valley after way too many years away. And I'm so happy to be here in Frederick County. My husband and I purchased some acreage in Gainesboro District that was overgrown farmland. And we had to be able to live on it and grow some crops. And we found out right away that we had purchased a property that was full of invasive plants that needed to be removed before we could start restoring the land. And my research showed right away that the best thing to do after you remove the invasive plants is to plant native plants. Because native... Native plants know how to grow in the clay and shale in Virginia. Native plants are the very best source of food and shelter for all the wildlife in our area. And it really is the best way to restore the land. And so I thought, well, what is our... Where do you get them? And I found that right here in this area was Seven Bins Nursery. With a very knowledgeable person to help direct my husband and I of how we could go about restoring land. And they have a good system set up. You know, you order plants online by Thursday and you go pick them up at a designated location. And that works. But when I heard that they were planning a retail nursery, I... I... I... I... I was thrilled. Because, you know, if you're a plant person, you like to see the plant. And, you know, smell the plant and see what it looks like before you buy the plant. So... So I am so happy to put my support behind this... This permit. And I really hope it passes. Because we need Seven Bins in Frederick County. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Is there anyone else who wanted to comment? Anyone at all? And we'll close the public hearing portion. This is Opecan. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the conditional use permit number 1322 for Seven Bins Nursery, Jerry C. and Laura Latcher, for the retail of wholesaling of nursery stock. Thank you. And related products. Heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber had asked for an additional condition on that permit. So the motion probably should include that. Let me include that into my motion. And I believe that was a time limit. Yes, sir. It was 6 to 9, 6 in the morning till 9 p.m. for public retail as well as deliveries. I would like to include that into my motion. So, is that covered? Second concur. Thank you. Second concurs. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Thank you, sir. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you. All right. Mr. Klein. Ordinance Amendment 11-2. Mr. Klein? Yes. The Zoning Ordinance Amendment OM. Yes. Thank you, again, Mr. Chairman. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to amend our OM, Office and Manufacturing Park District, to address stated concerns regarding the implementation of that district, to better implement the county's identified targeted industries, and to remove that kind of stated written link between the Office and Manufacturing Park District and our mixed-use industrial office, or MUIO designation in the comprehensive plan. originated from discussions related to the update of the county's Northeast Land Use Plan. There was a work session held in the fall with the Planning Commission, and one of the stated concerns was, if we're gonna update the land use plan, we should look at updating the zoning ordinance as well. And that kind of took us up that, down that road. And again, the intention was that the Northeast Land Use Plan contains a lot of nodes of mixed-use industrial office, which are presently intended to be, only to be implemented through the OM Manufacturing Park District. So the current zoning ordinance standard, I won't bore you with the whole statement, but I think the most important is that first sentence, which is to implement the mixed-use industrial office land use classification of the comprehensive policy plan. And that's, you know, the ties that OM and that mixed-use industrial office together presently. As you all are well aware, the OM district has not been well utilized or implemented in practice. To my knowledge, there's only been one rezoning to include that zoning district as part of that rezoning, and that property did not develop as OM. So the proposed zoning ordinance text amendment is drafted by staff and well vetted by the Development Review and Regulations Committee who made several changes. These are the, this is the proposal, again, removing that stated link between the OM district and the mixed-use industrial office land use designation of the comprehensive plan. So again, removing that first statement from the intent section. We've also proposed amending the district name from Office of Manufacturing to Technology Manufacturing Park District. The committee has made a statement, we have a statement, we have a statement, we have a statement, and we have a statement. The committee thought that changing the name better aligned with the county's targeted industries and also recognize that the office industry has shrunk over the last several years and is not necessarily a prioritized use, but is a complimentary use to other uses, technology, specialized manufacturing, et cetera. Most importantly, we've added a number of allowed uses to this district. It had a very limited amount of uses, and we've broadened that list to include those targeted industries identified by the county's economic development authority, that includes food and beverage manufacturing, specialized manufacturing, that's gonna be your defense contracting, your airplane parts manufacturing, your specialty components that go into other types of products and your flex industrial type uses. We've also amended and removed a number of the design requirements for the district. The committee felt that those were restrictive in their nature and doesn't really reflect the county's position in other areas of the zoning ordinance. We don't have those type of design standards. Again, removing requirements. We're not gonna have those type of design standards for building materials, size and shape of buildings, and allowing outdoor storage, which is a component of flex industrial developments that we see today. So what does this look like? How would this be implemented, and how is it different than what we have today? And that was one of the biggest challenges in making changes was how do we get this district implemented if we're gonna make the changes? The first is that by amending the allowed use list and adding a number of secondary uses, we create a greater allowance for warehousing uses, accessory to the primary use. And that's what we're doing. We're adding a number of secondary uses. I think we can all recognize that Frederick County, given its location to a number of transportation quarters, has a heavy interest in warehouse development, and this would allow it to be secondary to those other uses. Food and beverage manufacturing, they store a lot of products, they keep a lot of products on hand, and they distribute them. So allowing warehousing as an accessory to the primary use was added. And again, properties that would rezone into this district would not be required to submit a master development plan. We have heard that that, sometimes, is a barrier to getting these economic development targeted industries cited into Frederick County. So that expedites the time to market for potential developments that are targeted by the county. And by not requiring the master development plan, those industries would also be allowed to seek a waiver from the board for the underground electrical requirement. Some of these big projects, data centers, power intensive projects, we've heard from them that underground utilities greatly increase the cost of the development and greatly increase the cost. So we're looking at that. And we're looking at that. So we're looking at that. So we're looking at that. So I would expect that there's a greater supply chain of these projects that we can get rid of. If we can get rid of these, we're going to greatly increase the time to market, because as we all know, there's supply chain issues with those electrical components. So by removing that master development plan requirement, we do two things. We expedite the time. And we allow for them to seek a waiver in cases where it may be appropriate. I would note that because we don't have any OM presently zoned except for one project, any project that would seek to go into the new OM or TM district Commission the opportunity to think about the allowed uses that are proposed and ensure that any impacts to the community are sufficiently mitigated. So we think that because of that requirement, the things we've done make it more attractive. So again, the Development Review and Regulations Committee worked on this item very thoroughly at their September meeting through October into their November recommendation, and all those revisions from the committee members have been incorporated. The Planning Commission discussed this item actually last week, and they were generally supportive of the proposed changes. Again, they noted a need to rethink how the district functions to make sure that it gets implemented and also to make the district attractive to those targeted industries that the county is seeking out. So for your discussion this evening, staff is seeking a decision from this body if the item is ready to go forward for a public hearing, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have on this item. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Questions for Mr. Klein? Anyone? I don't have any questions, Mr. Klein, but I do say you've done a great job on getting this presentation ready. Thank you. And I think it's a good idea. Thank you. Long overdue. Mr. Chairman, if I may, I would concur. It's long overdue, and you all have done an excellent job, I know, with the targeted areas that EDA has been working on, and we see the governor's initiatives. And, of course, the newspaper articles this week regarding various opportunities for the Commonwealth. I think this hopefully positions Frederick County in a good way to maybe address and be able to attract businesses that, for the long term, will be good for Frederick County. So thank you for your work on this. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Great. Are we ready to forward it to public hearing? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd make a motion that we forward this ordinance amendment to public hearing. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. I heard a no. No. No, you heard an aye. I think you heard an aye from Mr. Ludwig. An aye from Mr. Ludwig? Correct. Thank you, sir. I'm having difficulty with the people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. That's unanimous. Thank you very much. Board liaison reports. Are there any? Mr. Chairman, I have a couple things I'd like to bring to the board's attention, if I may. Yes. We were just talking about EDA targets, and I would like to let the board know and the community that the EDA was recently awarded a $7.23 million grant from the state's Virginia Business Ready Sites Program. The funding will go to the EDA program. go to upgrade the electric and sanitary sewer services to the Valley Innovation Park owned by the Peterson companies. These improvements will make the property more competitive for EDA industry targets like advanced manufacturing, bioscience operations, etc. and of course high-end manufacturing. The grant aids in addressing one of the priority actions for improving Frederick County's competitiveness for industry targets. In addition, the experience provided invaluable insight into potential future submissions since the governor has proposed an additional 350 million dollars on top of the previous allocation of 150. So all positive news for Frederick County and we are very, very grateful and thankful for that grant. Secondly, from the EDA front there was an advertisement this morning or a newspaper article regarding the Frederick County or Fredco Eats Restaurant Week. I would like to remind the public that that will return again. This will be the second year on January 30th to February 5th. This program expands the awareness of Frederick County's restaurant industry. 18 Frederick County Virginia eateries will be offering a mix of multi-course menus, meal deals, and promotional discounts. For participating restaurants, menus, and other aspects please visit www.fredcoeats.com. And my second report is in regard to transportation which I know is near and dear to all of our hearts. But I would like to report that we've been talking about smart scale. The board has worked very diligently to try to leverage state funding. But I would like to report that we have been notified that two of our smart scale applications have been included in the staff recommended funding scenario to the Commonwealth Transportation Board for this round of smart scale. So we're at the very preliminary but a couple of our projects scored very, very well. Those projects are the I-81 exit 317 diverging diamond which as you all may recall was a $37.5 million project. $31 million of that to come from the state and of course the board, the board, the board, the board, the board, the board, the board, the board, recommended approval of funding from the county to offset that so that that helped our scoring tremendously. And so that is a that is a real positive for Frederick County. The second project that scored well was the Route 522 and the Costello Drive, which is at Costco improvements and upgrades at that intersection and there will be lanes added, etc. So we're at the very preliminary stages. preliminary stages of the Smart Scale applications, but it is good to see that our applications, we hopefully will have success. And I will say that the final vote and determination of the Smart Scale applications will be done at the June 21st CTB meeting, at their action meeting on June 21st. Additionally, they're still evaluating other applications, so we may hopefully could have other good news to report, but this is much greater news than we've had in the past, and I would attribute it to this full board's support of adding funds, local funds, to offset the state's funds. And that, I think, is a very important part of the process. I think that made a tremendous difference in the success of our project, so thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Thank you. Good news. Anyone else? MR. Mr. Chairman? CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Yes, sir. MR. I have a statement from the Department of Social Services. They wanted it read because to get it broadcast to the public. So I'll take this opportunity to do that. To summarize first, it involves evidence of fraud that have affected many of our constituents who received social services benefits. So here's the statement. Local agencies began receiving reports from clients in August and September of this last year about how their SNAP benefits were unavailable because someone had accessed their card information and stolen the balances on their EBT cards. There has been an active campaign throughout the fall to remind clients to protect themselves and their families by never providing personal information to an unknown or unsolicited source. The Virginia Department of Social Services and our customer service vendors will never contact cardholders via cell phone, text, or email to ask for their card number or PIN. We are asking their clients also to change their PIN frequently. We are currently unable to replace any EBT benefits that have been stolen. However, due to new federal legislation, Virginia households whose benefits were stolen on or after October 1st due to card skimming, cloning, or other similar frauds have been able to receive the benefits they need. We are asking our clients to continue to look at the Virginia Social Services website for updates. In the meantime, please work with your local Department of Social Services to determine other resources that you may use to address your food needs. Thank you. That's the end of the statement, sir. MR. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Thank you, sir. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Anyone else? Hearing no one. Citizen comments? Did anyone sign up? MS. No, sir. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Is there anyone who would like to address the Board on any issue whatsoever? Seeing no one, we'll close the citizen comment period. Board comments? Anyone? MR. Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Yes, sir. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to echo Supervisor Slaughter's comments on the transportation funding bill. MS. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this is a great answer. What makes this an important point as the agency is not we want to conduct production for me days past and any later days, and also of the purposes of all the benefits that we can afford. These are great points of reference, and many of the examples, as we've seen this year, were made ways of opposing at the same time the plan. MS. So, in a way, we, what the members want to get done is to ensure that process that we started this this present year which is allocate a portion of funds to the transportation projects that we know are known needs one of those known needs is the stevens city i-81 interchange which is at times very unsafe due to traffic backups all the way back up on the 81 at times from through the stoplights and the interchanges that are there there are continued needs as far as transportation goes in our districts and by continuing to allocate funds we can maybe not get ahead of things but maintain some of the growth that we are seeing and some of the anticipated growth that we look are anticipating over the next five to ten years so i think that it is imperative that we as a board continue to fund transportation i'd like to see us funded at the same amount that we are in our present year which is the first time we funded it in 10 about 12 years i believe but continue to fund it so that we can get ahead of things and not continue to have bottlenecks as we are sometimes facing today thank you thank you sir anyone else mr chairman yes sir thank you i hope you can hear me well i have three comments i'd like to make briefly first i'd like to celebrate with supervisor slaughter and supervisor graver and all of us i think the state funding that we're able to obtain it's been a long time since we had road improvements and i join supervisor graver and calling on this board to continue to set aside funds for road projects so that we may leverage them and get things done here uh so, secondly i want shawnee constituents to know that i joined supervisor graver in voting to advertise a reduced real property tax rate but unfortunately we did not obtain a third vote a reduced rate is necessary if homeowners are to avoid an estimated 18 to 20 increase in property taxes due to higher assessments this higher rate if it does become final would be effective for two years even if property values subsequently go down and lastly i'd like to congratulate dr hummer whom the school board has appointed as the new superintendent for property tax rate and i'd like to congratulate the board for the opportunity present to board to appoint president ro plz we're also looking forward to the limite i looked down at the appointed last night to be the new superintendent of frederick county public schools i appreciated his acceptance intent later quite late what he spoke about the need to improve transparency in the system the paysno priorities were safety for students and staff Amber to recovery from the learning was the public am i couldn't agree more with his priorities i would also like to congratulate the Public Schools for Annexed To That Circle dot board or the access committee una…. logo by theйte�� onすご忘 Conference C levesse was jacob and 200 problems and theft семь i 반as Coney vacid v Perdue County Public Schools that peu School Board upon the completion of a successful superintendent search. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn? We had a budget discussion earlier tonight and this county is going to grow someplace in neighborhood 20 to 40 thousand people over the course of the next 20 years. We're right now at 92 thousand people. We're going to be about 117 thousand and 130. Collectively we have to figure out how to deal with that growth. I've gone and made comments on having the cost of that growth borne by those that are causing that growth. So we have the impact fees of people that are moving in. If they pay for their cost then current residents do not have to go and raise their rates. We have to come up with a solution that works for everybody on that. That's one I've made comments to VACO at this point in time. There's no legislation on the General Assembly but the seven of us, the six of us plus one, need to address the issue and how we're going to go and pay for growth. And the options are going to be you know continue to raise real estate taxes or continue to raise business taxes or to have the cost of the growth borne by those that are moving into the county. If you move in from Arlington or Loudoun County and buy a house here you still have a lower tax rate but the cost of that person moving in is someplace in the neighborhood of $27,000 per house. So we just need to address that as we go through the budget session. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Vice Chairman? Mr. Chairman a motion that we adjourn. Second. Motion to adjourn second. All those in favor aye. Aye. We thank everyone for their time and attention. Supervisor Ludwig we certainly hope that you're feeling top of the heap very soon. Thank you sir. Good night.
