Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-07-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=230
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.ARY WRIGHT. second any discussion all in favor say aye any opposed supervisor Liero can you hear us yeah I can hear you thank you very good good luck in staying connected from your remote location if just for the board's notice when people are remote we often call them them next to last to vote but I'll start on his side since he is on one end and if he's not connected then I'll try him again so we can keep moving as we as we do our votes tonight so tonight we are pleased to have pastor Mark Carey of fellowship Baptist Bible Church to offer our invocation thank you let's let's pray please Heavenly Father I thank you tonight for these public servants who truly give of their time and their energy to serve to serve us in this county and I simply am so grateful to have you here tonight and I'm so grateful to have you here together with us and a Application Day event just for you now thank you all so much that we've been able to spend a couple of days with you in the local community in those remote areas where rapp 2022 has been a difficult year because I generally want to give Northwestern Aquarius to folks who need support especially those who live in lack of access and kind and who weiu need some kind of support and thank you and good luck this weekend thank you you're welcome thank you Mr. K lemmon that's in the lower left hand corner Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Vice Chair? Let us all please stand and face the flag and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next is adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for the adoption of the agenda with the removal of item 12b to table as requested by the applicant until our August 14th meeting. Second? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I'll just make a comment to the public. 412. 412b, that is the rezoning in Snowden Bridge and Stevenson Village. Nobody has signed up so far to speak. However, if you did drive all the way down here tonight with the intent to speak, you have two choices. We'll allow you to speak on that subject, although it's come off the agenda during the initial comments we're about to have from citizens, or you can come when we do have the public hearing, which will be delayed, and speak at that time. So just be aware. I don't want you to come down and then miss your opportunity. We're planning to speak on that tonight. So did we vote on it, or did we just have the motions? All in favor of the adoption of the agenda with the removal of that item, sir. Very good. Is this roll call for the agenda change? No, sir. Okay. All in favor of the changed agenda? Aye. Any opposed? So we've accepted the agenda with item 12b removed. Next is citizen comments. Brian Nury. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. Kind of going a little out of order on this, I think. I might have been able to do it at the end, but actually, order is why I'm up here. It is the job of this board to maintain order in its room. If you can't maintain order, you can't get any business done. As a parliamentarian, I know that, and that's just even for high school stuff. So Mr. Ballhofer, I'm looking at you for the Robert's Rules of Order. But we're talking, I want to talk briefly about June 12th's meeting where Supervisor Dunn had made some comments about booing from the audience. Now, booing, First Amendment right. We have the heckler's veto. However, we don't need a new policy in the county. We don't need new enforcement or anything because Frederick County already has that. But the problem is that we need the person to be able to do it because this falls under Article 3, Section 3.2, the authority of the chairman. The chairman shall preserve order and decorum at all meetings. He shall recognize persons desiring to speak and ensure the speaker's comments are limited to the issue before the board. The chairman shall ensure that all persons entitled and desiring to speak are permitted to do so without interruption or comment during their presentation. The chairman may also order the expulsion of any person for violation of the rules, disruptive behavior, or any words or action that incite violence or disorder subject to appeal of the board. That last part is something that I'm going to talk about in a minute. That's something that I know a little bit about because about 20 years ago, I was ejected from a room up at Jameswood High School for a Board of Supervisors meeting because I'd spoken out of order. So the job really isn't to establish a new policy. The job is to use that gavel that we've given you because that's the job that you have. The problem is that the main culprit, the one that made it into the paper, also happens to be a member of your little party. She is the person who has written such things as I will not go quietly into this good night. I will be at every single meeting to speak about every board member that votes in favor of infringing on free speech. That sounds moderately threatening, but that was in an email from June 28th to Vice Chair McCann. And then also, Oh my God. And then also the other comment that was made by the same person. You fucking suck. I will be at the next meeting and I will boo so hard. What is your raggedy ass going to do about it? Tell the bitch wife that Scarborough said fuck you. Is this a member of your Frederick County Conservative Committee? Is this a member of your personal party? Your machine? Is she your bulldog? The only reason that he's not going to call me down is because in order to call me down, he would have to call her down as well. Because viewpoint discrimination, something that she found out, as an internet sleuth or whatever she is, is a real thing. Viewpoint discrimination is when I don't personally like what you're saying. However, he can't do a damn thing about what how anyone speaks because he hasn't called out someone who's spoken numerous times from the gallery, engaged people in the parking lot. This is the chairman's problem. And the chairman needs to do something about it. We don't need a new policy, Mr. Dunn. All we need is for someone to use, to have the balls to use his gavel. Thank you. Shut the fuck up. Is that the end of the list? That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? This period of time for citizens is for items on the agenda. So if there's anything on the agenda, including 12B, which we've stricken, on Snowden Bridge. No one seeing no one, then I'll close the public comments section. Consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. We'll proceed to a roll call vote. And I'll try Supervisor Liero first. In case he's connected. Supervisor Liero on the consent agenda. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye, and the consent agenda is adopted. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I got four comments to make on four different topics. The first is the landfill. I went out to the landfill last week, and there was a gentleman there that was taking plastic out of the plastic bin. So we all know we have recycling. And you can put certain things into or not into those recycle bins. And the item in specifics was plastics. So when you go and have a plastic container that does not have a neck to it, if you put a plastic sheet in there or something of that nature, the county is having to pull those things out, where we have an additional cost when we give that plastic to somebody else that reprocesses it. So I'm just going to make the comment that if an item does not have a neck, like a bottle of water or one of these, don't put it in. Even if it has a recycling indication on it, not all recyclables that are plastic can go into that. The county only has certain items that are plastic. The county only has certain items that they need and want. And that's just driving up a cost to that. So I'll just make you conscious of that. And if we can just make certain that only things with a neck like this have on it, that would be helpful. In addition, when you take loads to the landfill, last year we had 30 tons of material that the county has picked up on the way to the landfill. Thirty tons. That's a lot of stuff. So if you can cover your load before you go, that also keeps to a... makes our county prettier, cleaner, and more effective. So those are one comment. Second comment is dealing with the budget. Last week, or last month, I made some budget comments. And in the interim, I've had a number of people say, Blaine, we need to go and cut county spending. I've said to them, our costs are growing because our housing is growing. And so that's difficult to do. Last year, our budget was $239 million. The budget we just approved is $256 million. That's a $17 million increase. And every person on this board has not been able to find a way to cut that $17 million difference. So for those that say cut spending, I'm going to lay up in a minute with Mr. Varner some items that would have to occur to do that. Mr. Varner? So what we have here is last year's budget was $239 million. This year's budget is $256 million. We took $15 million out of our capital funds. If we did not have that money in our capital funds, we'd have either had to raise taxes, had to increase in revenue, which this year we don't have, or cut spending. So I just want to walk through with you the thought process on this. These are not my suggested thoughts. These are putting items on the table so you all can take a look at what we're dealing with. If you got rid of, and this is from the top to the bottom, EDA, that saved $700,000. You can eliminate Parks and Rec. That's $3.6 million. You can eliminate funding for the library, $1.4 million. You can eliminate all the convenience sites, $2 million. You can also eliminate property tax relief. That's almost $1 million. So, collectively, that's $8.8 million. Remember, we had a $15 million deficit. If you eliminated 10 sheriffs and 10 firefighters, in which the response times then would be increased, that only gave you another $2 million. If you eliminated 30 firefighters and 30 sheriffs, 30 sheriff deputies, then you have $15 million. You also have the Department of Social Services. That could be eliminated, although there's certain things that we have to do by law to do that. We've also had in the last 20 years drug courts, elder courts, etc. There have been additional things that the county has agreed to fund that weren't here 20 years ago. 20 years ago, you had no paid firefighters. There was just one, I think, in the year 2000. So just recognize the depth of what we're trying to deal with is significant. If people say cut spending, you have specific items, we can do that. But for those that do that, I'd encourage you to go talk to the chair and talk to Mrs. Slaughter, who's chair of the Finance Committee, and lay out your comments. But nobody on this board last year cut spending. We've tried to keep money tight. I would say in fairness to this board and to the chair, the county expenses are growing at a faster rate than our income because of the growth. And so we've had to address that. So we've had to address that issue. And last month, I made the comments about impact fees and other ways to address that. And hopefully, you know, Mr. Chairman, we'll be able to address that in the fall. But just recognize that our expenses are running faster than our income. And if you want to really say you're going to balance it on cutting spending, this is what you're going to have to deal with. And that would be significant. I'm not recommending these cuts, but I just need you to know that that's the difference on what we're dealing with. For businesses that come into this county, our business growth is 3 to 4 percent. You'd have to have some significant more businesses coming in here to close that gap. So the general comment about business growth is good, but we need specific companies that will bring specific revenue under a specific time frame to address this. So that's the comment I have on our budget. Then you come to the comments on schools. We all went to school. We've had good schools. Right now, in the high school, and the other schools, we have overcrowding. How do you deal with this issue? In 10 years, we're going to have approximately 1,000 more high school students than we have capacity. How do you deal with that issue of 1,000 people? That's a 25 percent increase. And when Millbrook was built, we only had 200 more when Millbrook was built. So that's a significant number, and we as a county need to think through how we address that issue. If you say, I do not want a fourth high school, my question is, what do you do with the additional students? Do you put them in trailers? And that's unsecure. If you say we need an addition to a school, we have an addition to James Wood, and they're probably maxed out. In Sharanda, we have 300 more students in trailers than we do. So we need to think through, when we have a board meeting next week with a school board, we need to talk about these issues in depth. But we need to build our budget such that we have the expected growth of schools in those budgets for both the high schools, middle schools, and elementary schools. And then finally, on the freedom to speak, I did make the comments last month on people coming up to this podium and speaking. And people that felt that they were being sued and threatened and intimidated, and I thought that was wrong. People should be able to come up here and make comments, make constructive comments, and see, you know, what you can do. And if a person disagrees with those comments, that person can come up as well, say, I disagree with the first speaker, and here's why. We can have civil discussions on that. To go and threaten or intimidate or boo people where people have said to me, I will not come to speak at this podium because I fear that's wrong. So, Mr. Chairman, I think you are doing a good job with that. We will appreciate, you know, going forward on that. And I think that concludes my comments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, just point of order on that. Thank you. I'll have a comment on that at the end, but first, any other Board member comments who are present, and then I'll go supervise you later. I was gonna try and address this from remote. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, just for the folks out in the audience and those watching tonight, just a reminder that there is a work session between the Board of Supervisors and the School Board at Frederick County School Board next Wednesday, starting at 6 p.m., and it will be televised. We're really looking forward to the, having this discussion, and we hope we get a good turnout and people watching. So, thank you. Thank you. Any other comments from the Board? So, I wanna address two things on the budget. Balancing the budget of the county is indeed our job. Last year, we had a long series of cost-saving amendments to the proposed budget. Not a single amendment passed. Supervisor Dunn voted against every one of the cost-savings measures. In order to balance the budget, without raising the cost, we have to have the courage to cut spending. As he's pointed out, it is challenging to do. All of these things are services that we wanna provide for the county, but we also have to protect tax, you know, spending and taxation that's put on the county. So, that is the difficult challenge of the Board. As far as conduct of citizen comments, I wanna apologize for this Board for the language used during citizen comments. However, I have to address the fact that I admit that I'm not able to gavel that down because we're not, that would be an abridgment of free speech. I went, we might not like it, but that is, airing grievances to the government has to be allowed, and profanity, in fact, by the Supreme Court is allowed in these circumstances. So, be aware when you tune in to these meetings or attend that that can happen. There, I met with the county attorney, before I became chair, on exactly how to control meetings. I had another meeting with him this last week to discuss how it's been going this year. Overall, we've had far fewer disruptions of our meetings than we did in past years, at least so far, and I thank the public for that. But, again, there's limits to what we can do. So, I could go over it now, but I, Supervisor Dunn did not belate it, and I don't think that we can belabor or itemize any points beyond one mention of booing, and I won't do so at this point either. I also have a video, which I cannot play today, of some examples that would be maybe hard to hear by some members of the public, so I give a warning first if I have to do that at our next meeting, of things that people have done at public meetings that were found to be illegal, that the government cannot silence. So, if we need to have that discussion, hopefully the Board can have that offline, but if we need to, I'll have those examples ready to go in case we have that discussion again. In the particular case of booing or its adverse applause, Chairman DeHaven did a good job of banging the gavel often, asking the audience to not applaud and to not boo as a matter of courtesy, but he doesn't have the, he didn't have the legal right to actually throw anyone out or present it. I had decided along with the county attorney, please correct me if I have anything wrong here, that I would let it proceed as long as it didn't violate one of the things we can control, for example, disrupting or delaying a meeting. But a mild boo after someone has gotten his or her three minutes of time that doesn't delay the next speaker absolutely does not qualify for something that we could do something about. Not that I'm encouraging you all to do it. Hopefully we can maintain a civil and respectful manner to everybody's speech, even though we also have the right to express our appreciation or displeasure with the comments. So that's just a summary. We do live under restraints, appropriately so, as a government body, and we have to let the public, I mean, we're elected by you. The public is in control ultimately, not us, and we cannot set arbitrary rules. I would suggest to Supervisor Dunn and to any other board member who has questions about the way we do things, please take it up with me offline or with the county attorney or Mr. Ballhofer. And every January, we set our meeting rules for the year. It's inadvisable to change them in the midst of the year for legal reasons, but it's not a bad time this fall to think about specific rules, and I can provide a copy if you want them again, that we have decided to do. I would follow with the attorney's advice in case we want to start thinking about some potential improvements, but they probably couldn't be implemented until next year. So those are my comments on conduct of speakers at meetings. Well, this can't be a back and forth, sir, but we can take this up on an agenda item or at the end of the meeting. I just want to make two comments, sir. Number one, on the budget issue, if you remember, two years ago you had made some amendments, but this year you did vote for the budget that still had this deficit. Number two, if a person goes to the U.S. House gallery or the U.S. Senate gallery and sits up there and begins to make comments, they will be thrown out very quickly. So I would say that I disagree with you on your legal assessment, and courts can decide that, but if a person wants to go and boo in the House gallery, they will be thrown out, and if the person wants to do that and see where the First Amendment rights are, they can do that. People do not go and boo in a church. You cannot go yell fire in a theater. So there are limits on what you can do and can't do and just recognize that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Boo. So again, this is Board of Supervisors' comments. We can't turn it into a back and forth, but you also can get thrown out or even thrown in jail overnight for making comments out of order in a courtroom. So all of those are different public bodies with different rules. It's a complex subject. We can't take that away. We can't go back and forth and make that up in detail today. We need to get on with the county's business, so I'll close Board of Supervisors' comments. Next, we move to Item 8, 8A, the renamed Moth Update. Mr. Setvin, thank you. Please. Mr. Chairman, thank you. Members of the Board, again, Mark Sutwin with Virginia Cooperative Extension. I know our office has fielded quite a few calls this year, as has county admin and some of you from concerned citizens about this subject, and hope to offer a brief update and happy to answer any questions you all might have this evening. Quick overview of the lifecycle of spongy moth. As many know, formerly called the gypsy moth, an invasive species that we dealt with here in Frederick County in the late 80s and 90s as a species. It was a first new invasive. The moth has one generation per year. We see most of the damage from the caterpillars as they start out as small infant caterpillars in April, feeding all the way through June, primarily on oak species. In June, this calendar before you is a bit misleading from Ohio Department of Agriculture. In June, we saw them molt from caterpillars to pupa to adult and begin to start laying egg masses in late June. Presently, we are already seeing egg masses that will provide us the population for 2025. Those are the overwintering stage that will survive this winter, again, giving us the new population in 2025. A little bit of the damage that we've seen in the region, the Northern Shenandoah Valley as a whole has been the hardest hit in Virginia. This is just east of Woodstock, looking south towards Edinburgh Gap. The Massanutten Range and the North Fork of the Shenandoah are in view. This is just south of Star Tannery in Zepp in Shenandoah County. It is Cedar Creek Christian Church. This is taken at the end of June. All of those oak trees on the property were completely defoliated. And again, another photo. This is a photo offered by Virginia Department of Forestry when they were doing some aerial surveys. This is also the entire area of Zepp just south of the Frederick County border. So that gives you an idea of the level of defoliation that we've seen in the region. I'll have these maps. This is the region, again, all the way from Frederick to Augusta County, where defoliation occurred this year. Approximately 85,000 acres was mapped. Aerial and ground surveys by Virginia Department of Forestry. Here in Frederick County, it was specifically estimated at about 11,000 acres. As you can see, primarily in the western part of the county, Star Tannery, and along Great North Mountain, Shawnee Land, Mountain Falls Park, some of the hardest hit areas. In our region, hence, I believe, many calls to Mr. Jewell. What can be done about this? The defoliation and the concerns about habitat destruction from that, loss of timber value for the property owners, further impacts to declining oak regeneration that we're already seeing, further troubles to oak decline that we've been seeing even before this population resurgence, the excrement and the nuisance that that provides for homeowners dropping on their vehicles or decks and other recreational areas. That same nutrient making its way into the waterways, a few complaints from folks seeing that nutrient leading to fish kills in some of the headwaters of the Cedar Creek. So, spraying can be done. Many in the community remember that from 30, 25, 30 years ago when this was a new invasive and first facing the region. We've seen, apparently, a resurgence of this over the last three years, 22, 23, and again this year, 24. 22 and 23 were dry springs, and those dry weather conditions in the springtime prevented the effective work from some of the biological control agents that have kept this insect in check for the last 20 years or so. And again, just really bloomed and spread to the greatest population and some of the more severe damage that we've ever seen in the region, unfortunately. Aerial spraying. Aerial spraying can be done, and the National Forest Service did spray approximately 11,000 acres in national forest land in the region as well as up on national park land in Shenandoah National Park. And Shenandoah County also took it upon themselves to spray an additional 2,000 acres with private landowners in Shenandoah County. Shenandoah obviously hit the hardest in the region, as you could tell by the photos that I shared. The good news that we did see this year, hard to see in these photos, but these are two oak trees here in Frederick County, and this is what we were seeing all across the region where we had very heavy populations of spongymoth this year. Mass die-off of the caterpillars, I would estimate in the next year, I would estimate in the neighborhood of 90% or more were killed off by biological control. So those are naturally occurring, one of them not native, but they do reside naturally now in the environment. One is a virus, one is a fungus, that act as biological control agents and kill off these caterpillars. So thankfully we saw that with the wetter spring that we had. Unfortunately, we've had dry conditions again for the second year in a row. That coupled with multiple years of defoliation, we likely will see tree decline, possibly some oak death, and I believe that's what some of our residents are concerned about. Unfortunately, despite a large percentage of the caterpillars being killed off by biological control, these are more current photos. This is what we're seeing now. This was up in Shawnee land. Those are adult females laying egg masses on a chestnut oak, and to the right is a black cherry. So we are seeing, again, egg masses being laid for our 2025 population. This is another white oak with many egg masses on it. And ultimately, to determine the levels that we may have next year, quite a bit of ground surveying would have to be done, counting of these egg masses to estimate how much or how large the population may be next year and how many acres that may encompass. But they're still in the process of laying eggs, and both my office, Virginia Cooperative Extension, along with Virginia Department of Forestry, are in the area. The folks that work here locally, we're trying to keep an eye on that and keep in communication with you all and county administration as to the levels that we are seeing should further... action need to be taken. The further action that could be taken, there is a program that allows counties to apply for federal dollar cost shares through the U.S. Forest Service. The application goes through Virginia Department of Agriculture. The county would need to employ an employee to do this ground survey and understand the impact and understand the area that they would identify to potentially need to be sprayed and meet the thresholds set within this program, put in the application by the end of November to Virginia Department of Agriculture to be submitted for possible federal funding, and then that employee would need to notify all landowners that would be in this potentially sprayed area. It operates as an opt-out program, so landowners within the identified area have the option to opt out and then hold public meetings and then carry out the work in the spring. As you consider that, some items for further consideration. Certainly, as I've already alluded, many residents in the region do remember the time when county, state, and federal efforts did take on active work and were doing aerial spraying, but we are now 30 years past that. It's no longer considered a new invasive species, and most of the invasive species work is usually targeted at new invasives on slow-to-spread programs, so this opportunity would be a little bit out of the norm. Community acceptance to aerial spraying, my suspicion, would be less favorable now than it was 30 years ago. And I know even at that time, we had plenty of folks concerned about those activities, and certainly the costs to hire a county employee to do the surveying and all the groundwork that would be needed to carry out this program. And that's all I have for you this evening, so any questions, I'm happy to attempt to answer. Thank you very much. Board, any questions? Mr. Subson, thank you for doing this. I appreciate, like you said, we've received many phone calls, we've talked many times, I appreciate what your office is doing. More than questions is, Mr. Chairman, and I mean, you want to wait until we have a discussion among the board, but I really think that it would behoove us to work with the Extension Office and get an idea of what the cost would be to do this, to have somebody come in, because the county, the way it works, the county pays half the cost with the federal grant, but the way we're going, like I've talked to several owners, we're talking hundreds and hundreds of acres up there that are just being, you know, destroyed by these, the spongy moths, and there are people who I've talked to in these areas that are, they're okay with the spraying. So I just think it would be okay, I think it would be appropriate to work with a county administrator and with the Virginia Cooperative Extension Office just to get the cost, get an idea of what we would be dealing with, because unfortunately, you've got to apply in November for next year, and the way it's going, it's an option. It's something that's in the toolbox, right? And I think that's where we need to be able to help the citizens any way we can. Where, you know, if you're not sitting on land that's being destroyed, it's not bothering you, but there's a lot of people up there that are losing a lot of trees, and they're dying, and if there's an option that we can help them, I think we need to look into it. Thank you, Supervisor Jewell. Those comments probably would have been better for discussion, but maybe we can turn it into a question or two for you, Mr. Siffin. So how much, roughly, would it cost, although you don't have to provide an exact number now, obviously, and what is our deadlines for deciding if we wanted to participate in this survey and program? Yeah, the driving deadline is really the end of November to submit the application through Virginia Department of Agriculture. And so the amount of work to get to that point is really identifying the areas that you want to spray. However many acres that may be that meets the threshold, it's really driven by the number of egg masses per acre. 250 egg masses per acre to 1,000 is moderate. Above 1,000 is an extreme population. Both of those parameters are eligible for the program, provided there is a program that is funding at the federal level for it. And so the cost of an employee up front to do that, really for probably a calendar year, by the time you hire them, do all that ground-truthing, submit the application, if the funding is there from the feds, to match 50%. If it's not there, then it's on the county to fund what's not there. So at max, they would offer is 50%. So that's about 1% of the aerial spraying, not the cost of the employee. So cost per acre this year, my understanding of what the U.S. Federal Forest Service did and Shenandoah County, it was approximately $30 an acre because they had nearly 13,000 acres with one contractor. So you mentioned a county employee for one year. Is that going to be applied next November in 2025? It would be applying now, November of 24, to carry out the program the spring of 25 and then manage that contractor. And when is the survey best done? Is it a certain time of year when the moths are more visible? It's when the egg masses are present. So beginning any time all the way until November when the application is due. Thank you. Any other questions from the board? Mr. Sutphin, in the observation in speaking with the citizens of Frederick County, would there be an opportunity for the citizen to actually invest their own resources and we could still move forward with the cost share program if a citizen really was quite concerned about their timber and such, would they be able to do that on their own? There are opportunities to engage with private contractors. I know Virginia Department of Forestry has suggested and offered some of those contractors to some of our landowners here in Frederick and other surrounding counties. My office has maintained a list of all those who have, the dozens that have called in this year in case there is an opportunity for management in 2025 or to give them such a list that they can reach out and they want to engage themselves. One more question. In your observation in viewing some of these areas in Frederick County, do you think we or believe we might be at that level of qualifying because the infestation is to that level? It's likely that we will have areas again next year that reach that level. Especially just the few photos that I showed of egg masses on trees. If that's prevalent throughout that acre, they're certainly going to meet those thresholds in just those few photos that I showed. Those were some of the worst examples that I've seen, but there are possibilities. Some of the same regions that have been defoliated for three years may see a fourth year next year. It brings one more question to mind. With the climate for the wintertime, have any effect on the spongy moth as far as if we had zero degree weather or below zero degree weather, does that help in this situation? Unfortunately, I don't think it does. The greatest solution to this is that biocontrol, which I showed we saw this year. Both fungus and a virus species both were present on both of those trees that I showed in the photo. They worked fantastically this year and plummeted the population of caterpillars. Unfortunately, they were effective after much of the defoliation occurred. I don't believe many of our property owners and residents realized that that was happening, but it did greatly reduce the potential number of adult moths and egg masses that we have going into next year. That's a natural occurrence, the fungus and such, so we're not really having to apply any of those chemicals, if you will. That's correct. Very well. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Any other questions? Not a question, but just a comment, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Suppleton, I just wanted to thank you and the Virginia Cooperative Extension Office. You've been tremendously helpful every time I've had a constituent call, being able to send them to you and help with that. I just want to thank you for that, sir. Certainly. Thanks. Thank you. So this is an information item and for board discussion, so discussion on this topic? Anyone? The spongy moth from the World War II. On the spongy moth. I think you had wanted to have discussion or at least participating in it. I was hoping it would trigger questions. That's why I went ahead and made the comments I did, but I really think it would be to look into what we can do, the possibilities with this, working with the county administrator and with the Extension Office to get an understanding of what the costs would be and if it's a possibility, because of the grant program, the way it's laid out, and the fact that we have to apply and apply by November for next year. So I just would like the county administrator, if the board feels it's appropriate, to just look into this opportunity. So I'll ask if there's a consensus among the board, ask the county administrator to give us by next meeting. An order of magnitude with the cost would be to participate cost and benefit to the degree we could do so. And Supervisor Jewell, you're in favor? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? So we have a consensus already unless anyone else wants to speak. So Mr. Bolavar, we're going to add to your plate another thing to do. Caterpillars on your plate, I guess. Okay, so next is 8B, recognition of World War II veterans. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Last month, as many of you know, was the 80th anniversary of the invasion of Normandy by the Allied forces against the Nazi Germanys. I had two constituents in Redbud that were involved in that, and since that time I've found a third person. So I'd like to have this board read in a couple of minutes the resolutions for the three. The first person is for Sergeant Orndorff. And Sergeant Orndorff was on Omaha Beach in that invasion. His actions were such that he got the Distinguished Service Cross, which is the second highest military honor in the United States. After he got involved in a breakout, a sniper killed his companion. He then went looking for the sniper, and he himself was shot in the eye. You have to respect people like that to preserve the freedoms we have today. His son and his daughter are here in the audience, and when we get finished reading this, we're going to ask the Chairman to go and make a presentation to his son and his daughter. And when we do, you all should stand in appreciation for the freedoms we have. Ms. Phillips. A resolution of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors honoring the Distinguished Service of Douglas Orndorff. Whereas June 6, 2024, is the 80th anniversary of the invasion of Normandy during World War II, and whereas Douglas Orndorff enlisted in the U.S. Army at the beginning of the war, at the beginning of World War II, and whereas Sergeant Orndorff was assigned to the 116th Infantry Regiment, 29th Infantry Division, and landed with his platoon on Omaha Beach in Normandy on the morning of June 6, 1944, and whereas Sergeant Orndorff found that heavy enemy rifle, machine gun, and artillery fire had pinned down two battalions, and he rallied his men to attack despite the intense enemy fire, fearlessly leading them forward in an assault on the enemy positions, and whereas Sergeant Orndorff's actions so inspired the other troops that they joined the assault and helped carry the positions, and whereas during the battle, Sergeant Orndorff was shot in the eye by an enemy sniper, and whereas in recognition of his actions, Sergeant Orndorff was presented with the Distinguished Service Cross, the nation's second highest military award for valor after the Medal of Honor. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, on behalf of the citizens of the county, gratefully honors the actions of Sergeant Orndorff and his fellow soldiers, which helped preserve the freedoms we enjoy today, and extends heartfelt gratitude to the family of Sergeant Orndorff for his service and sacrifice to our nation, adopted this 10th day of July, 2024. Thank you. We present this in continued gratitude to the family of Sergeant Orndorff, and to the generations of our people and family. Thank you. Mr. Ludley. Mr. Dunn. Other members of the board. Thank you for this opportunity. Freedom is not free. It comes with a price. We know what that price is. No greater love than one man laying down his life for others. What does D-Day mean? It's a coup. For day-day. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Stay alert. Be on guard. Any day, any time you may go. D-Day. Any day. Why do they fight? Why do they fight? They fight to live. They fight for each other. They fight for their families. They fight for us. They fight for America. It's people like you, Lord's supervisors included, that toward their battle, that they might not go down in vain. And I just want to say thank you. And Godspeed to each and every one of you. And I just want to say thank you, Jesus. And this is for Mr. Dunn. This is my father, right-handed corner. And my sister will explain the author. Adrian O'Connor, before he passed, who was an editor here at the Winchester Star, had contacted us and told us of a book that he was compiling of World War II veterans here in the Valley. And if any of you wish to get it, you could go to Books of Million. I highly recommend it. There's so many others that joined my father in that fight that day. And they all should be acknowledged. And I take great pride in going down the streets here in Winchester and seeing all of the slides hanging on the posts. And I'm humbly grateful for this honor. There's a side of me that wishes my father was here. But with what I'm witnessing in our country, I'm sorry to say I'm glad he's not here to witness where we have gone. And with that said, I know that after he came off the beach, I learned of another courageous act that he did. While he was under attack in the boat, my father wounded, climbed out of that boat to hide under the boat in the water to protect himself once again. And you know what that does to me and says for me to my children and my grandchildren? Courage is contagious. And you know we all have to step up to that point in our life when we have to be courageous to face the things, the obstacles that come our way. And I'm grateful and humbly honored again for this opportunity. I highly recommend. God bless Adrian O'Connor. And we read about the book Bill Nordyke had done years ago of all the 200 and some men that served and got the Distinguished Service Cross. And again, I just, I'm glad he was my dad. Thank you very much. I just want to say, anybody that's served in here, God bless you and thank you for your service. Yes, amen. Like Mr. Jimmy Dix here, he's a brother and mother. He's a brother in Christ. And others in the air, just say thank you. And a good friend of mine came back from Vietnam after serving in the Corps in the late 60s. And I asked him, what were you fighting for? He said, we were fighting for each other. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Phillips, I believe we have two others to be recognized who were not here tonight? Yes, sir. A resolution of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors honoring the military service of Leon Foster Pope, whereas June 6th, 2024 is the 80th anniversary of the invasion of Normandy during World War II, and whereas Leon Foster Pope enlisted in the U.S. Army at the beginning of World War II, and whereas Private First Class Pope was assigned to the 116th Infantry Regiment, 29th Infantry Division, and whereas PFC Pope landed on Omaha Beach in Normandy in the second wave at about 1030 a.m. on the morning of June 6th, 1944, and whereas PFC Pope received heavy enemy rifle, machine gun, and artillery fire during the battle, and he and his men finally moved inland after a long day of fighting, and whereas later in July 1944, PFC Pope was wounded by shrapnel in the head and shot in the leg by enemy fire, and whereas Leon Pope acknowledges that five of his friends with whom he served, known as the Valley Avenue Boys, did not return from World War II, now therefore be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, on behalf of the citizens of the county, gratefully honors the actions of Leon Foster Pope and his fellow soldiers, which helped preserve the freedoms we enjoy today, and extends its heartfelt gratitude to Mr. Pope for his service and sacrifice to our nation, adopted this 10th day of July 2024. . Mr. Pope, we appreciate your service. The Saudis appreciate your service. . Mr. Chairman, I have one more comment before we make the comments on Mr. Tietz. And so the last gentleman here is Leland Tietz. Leland Tietz also was at Normandy and at Utah Beach, and at Utah Beach, General Roosevelt, Teddy Roosevelt's son, led a breakout on there before she got the Congressional Medal of Honor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leland Tietz was part of that breakout. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . June 6, 2024 is the 80th anniversary of the invasion of Normandy during World War II. And whereas Leland Teets enlisted in the U.S. Army at the beginning of World War II, and whereas Private First Class Teets landed with his platoon on Utah Beach in Normandy on the morning of June 6, 1944, and whereas PFC Teets survived heavy enemy gunfire and definite explosions, and a few days later, while patrolling the hedgerows of the French countryside, was wounded by a German sniper, and whereas PFC Teets spent 153 days recuperating in an English hospital from his wound, and after recuperating from his wound, he rejoined the Army unit and fought in the Battle of the Bulge to help stop the final German advance to retake Europe. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, on behalf of the citizens of the county, gratefully honors the act, the actions of Leland Teets, which helped preserve the freedoms we enjoy today, and extends heartfelt gratitude to Mr. Teets for his service and sacrifice to our nation, adopted this 10th day of July, 2024. Please rise, Mr. Teets. Thank you. Yes, thank you to all who have served, and to all the families, who have shared in those sacrifices. Surely, if we looked further, we would find many more, in this county that have served over the years. But we are happy to make these acknowledgements, and give these honors well deserved. Next, on our agenda, is item 9, appointment to boards, committees, and commissions. First is 9A, the Historic Resources Advisory Board. Board, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion that we go ahead and approve Elijah Filbert for the Historic Resources Advisory Board. Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I'll take a second and just say he was one of my sixth grade students. He was passionate about history then. I've recently gotten to speak to him after I saw his name on our agenda. And this gentleman has a podcast and was born and raised in Frederick County. And he actually lives in my district as well. But he is into preserving all of our local history. So I think he'd be a great candidate for this. Thank you very much. Any other discussion? My only comment, Mr. Chairman, is they're both excellent. If we could put them both there, that would be good. So recognize that. Thank you. Thank you. Then we'll proceed to a roll call. Vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. We have a majority, but I'll give them just a moment. Hello? Supervisor Liero, we just had a vote on Elijah Filbert for the Historic Resources Advisory Board. The motion was for Elijah. Your vote, please. Aye. Chair votes aye, and Elijah is appointed to the board. Thank you. Next is the Winchester Frederick Tourism Board. Supervisor Liero, your liaison. Do you have a motion to that board? Yes, Mr. Chair. There's a That is, her term expired on June 30, 2024, and she is eligible and willing for reappointment. I'm not sure if we need to do these separately or together. We usually vote for them separately. Okay. So the first nomination would be for Ashley Sontag for another term on the Winchester Frederick County Tourism Board. Thank you. So that's a motion? Yes. I believe it's a motion. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? So moved. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. We will vote on the appointment of Ashley, the reappointment of Ashley Sontag to the Winchester Frederick County Tourism Board. Supervisor Lierro. Well, he made the motion. I'm gonna assume yes, and see if we, go back to him if we don't have a, if we're deadlocked for some reason. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye Vice Chair. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. we're safe here to proceed. Mr. Chair, I'm back on. I vote aye on Ms. Sante. Thank you and give a try for the next person. Okay, the next position is a three-year term replacing Ms. Lonnie Pendleton. Ms. Pendleton is not eligible for reappointment. I'd like to congratulate her on and thank her for serving in this position for the last three years. And for this position, the Tourism Board would like to recommend Gordon Stearns as a lodging sector representative. I would say that I participated in interviews of three candidates. All three candidates were very strong. The consensus of the Tourism Board was to nominate Gordon Stearns, and so I make a motion that we appoint Gordon Stearns to that position. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll proceed to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Ligero? Aye. The Chair votes no, but Mr. Stearns is appointed. And we move on. This completes. Thank you. Appointments to Boards, Committees, and Commissions. There's no Committee business, so we move to Item 11, Public Hearings. Mr. Chairman, excuse me, 9C, the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Oh, I see that now. Had a reappointment, and they are eligible and willing. Yes, indeed. Plus, we have an information item here. I'm sorry, it disappeared from my personal copy of the agenda. That's my fault. So, for the Winchester Regional Airport Authority, how would the Board like to handle this? I would make a motion for the reappointment of Thomas Leone to the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Ligero? Again, we couldn't hear you, so jump in if you get a chance at the end. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Ligero again? Aye. There, we got you, and the Chair votes aye, and the appointment is made. To the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Next, Ms. Phillips, we have some informational open seats. We do. The Board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Northwestern Community Services Board, an unexpired three-year term, and the Historic Resources Advisory Board, Redbud District. I know that Supervisor Dunn is working on that one. Thank you very much. So now we move to Item 11, Public Hearings. There's one under this section of the agenda, the Abrams Creek Trail Project. Do we have a presentation on this? Good evening. My name is Robert L. Dunn. I'm the Director of the Public Hearings. Good evening. My name is Bill Shelton. I'm a civil engineer with ZMM Architects and Engineers. And tonight, we want to give a brief overview of the Abrams Creek Trail and open up for comments by the board. Thank you. And open up for any public comments we might have, and open up for any questions from the Board at the end. So the Abrams Creek Trail Project, is planned to be constructed in three phases. It goes from approximately Cincinnati Road, three miles long, up to Channing Drive. And each phase has been appropriately separated, and it's about a one-mile section at each phase. Tonight's public hearing is about Phase 1, which Parks and Recreation Department is working on right now, and we're working with them. The Excuse me. Abrams Creek Greenway Trail has been one of the top five listed priorities of the Frederick County Parks and Recreation Department for almost a decade. In addition to meeting a need for trails, the project provides access to approximately three miles along one of Eastern Frederick County's most beautiful natural resources, Abrams Creek. The project is a shared-use path, which is common in a lot of natural areas, ten foot wide. Shared use for bicycles and pedestrians, no motorized vehicles allowed. It will be ADA accessible, and it will travel through a wooded area, and then also up through an area owned by the City of Winchester, and onto Woodstock Drive. The project will be one of the most popular projects in the community, and we're really excited to see what it's going to look like. Thank you. Bye, everyone. This slide shows approximately the alignment of Phase 1. It will begin at the top of the screen there on Meade Drive, approximately 800 feet from Cincinnati Road. There will be a trailhead with parking. There will be ADA accessible parking, an informational kiosk, and that's where you could get on the trail. The trail then travels through several properties that are owned by Frederick County through the woods. The trail is being designed to be at grade, so not a lot of earth disturbance, and also it's been carefully planned to go through the trees and minimize the amount of trees that are taken out. There will be a bridge across Abrams Creek Trail, about in the middle, and once it crosses the bridge, it enters the property owned by the city. The bridge will be connected to the city of Winchester, and it will follow a path which is a maintenance path for the sewer that goes through that area with the city of Winchester. So it will follow the creek. At the bottom of the screen is where Phase 2 would continue, but there's also going up the screen. That's where the access will go up to Woodstock Drive, right across from Hilltop Terrace. Slide 8. Slide 9. Slide 10. Slide 11. Slide 12. Slide 13. Slide 14. Thanks very much. So our next project is going to be скажそして Slide 16. Speaker 2 All i have for today is a presentation from Texas Public Health today and I just want to say a few words about the tomorrow quickly дrar the story. Department has work to obtain and they have been awarded both of these grants the Virginia Outdoors Foundation has given a grant of two hundred seven thousand dollars for the trailhead parking area and then the trail development is 2.2 4 million which has been granted by through VDOT and the highway safety improvement program funds as part of the grant funding through VDOT a national National Environmental Protection Act environmental assessment was required that has been completed and the results of that assessment were that it was quick on it qualified for a programmatic categorical exclusion which means the project has no significant environmental impacts and it was reviewed through VDOT and many other agencies and this the assessment results also are with the agenda and are available outside as well the project schedule as you can see the environmental review has been completed we are currently at the public hearing stage so we're just you basically really getting started after the public hearing we'll be meeting with VDOT's personnel to discuss any comments that we received from from the hearing tonight then as the plans this fall we'll have a field inspection with the team from VDOT where we'll walk the trail and they'll get to see where it's going to where it's going to be and make any comments then next spring in May the right-of-way the only right-of-way required would be through the city of Winchester so the plan is to have the plans complete and ready to acquire that right away by next May and then a pre-advertisement team meeting in summer that's again meeting with VDOT making sure all the requirements that they have since it is federally funded are addressed then by the by next fall all the permits should be obtained and advertisement and then in the spring of 2026 the contract would be awarded and construction complete by the fall of 2026 now this is a very conservative schedule and basically it's due to the fact that there is grant funding and there's many hands that have to touch the plans have to review them and a lot of boxes to check and eyes to dot so we allow it a lot of time and we will take every opportunity to make any adjustments to the schedule and be a little bit more aggressive when we can but with so many people involved it's we wanted to leave enough time to make sure we do everything right so tonight as I said we're opening up for public comments or any questions that the board might have thank you we usually ask you questions okay first if we have any and then proceed to public comment any questions that's correct yeah appreciate your presentation we started this couple years ago so at least we're at a good spot my question to you is I know this is the first mile of a three-mile item where it's possible can you go and accelerate for mile two and mile three as you go through this process so if you have many hands that have to touch can they just make a tentative touch on the ground to make a touch on the ground or is it a ten-mile item? can they just make a tentative touch on the ground or is it a ten-mile item? for mile two mile three saying yes based upon what we see etc that might speed up the process when we get to mile two and mile three that's a discussion we can have with VDOT to see if there is some economies that we can do and and get that time timetable moved up and then the other comment would be as much as possible I understand your many hands have to touch if this can go at a faster rate that would be helpful there are people to go from Redbud into Winchester there are people that have gone from Redbud into Winchester on Cessna Road and have been hit by cars so this provides another alternative to get into the city without dealing with car traffic so you know I will support this and if we could be moved faster would that be helpful? thank you absolutely thank you any other questions supervisor Lockridge okay I have one question you had mentioned this is phase one and that this is a hundred percent grant funded will this have to be is are all three phases a grant and then will this have to be is are all three efforts of the city support will be done before the end of the year and then the phases already approved 100% or do you have to reapply? No, the grants that they've obtained are only for phase one. So we could be left with a one mile and then? Each phase will have to be applied. Go through a process? Another grant would have to be applied for, yes. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the board? So I have a question or two. Yes. And let me preface it by saying I enjoy trails. I used to bike to work on a regular basis on the W and OD and Custis trails. So I'm not against trails or squirrels and anyone else who would use them. I enjoy them myself. But representing the public and the taxpayer, I need to ask a couple questions to be clear. So this is 100% to be funded by grant? Correct. County money at this phase? No, completely grant. And then how about maintenance of the trail? Would that fall on the county or would that be by grant as well? The grants, I believe, are only for construction. So, it would be county operational funds or would it be out of proffers that would be continued to come in? How would those cost? You know what, it would be, a proffer has to be for construction so we just need repair on it. I'm gonna take the most likely put in our budget, operational budget, as we do now for insurance. So for the public who might not have been able to hear online, that's the director of our parks and RR,s. So for the public who might not have been able to hear online, that's the director of our parks and RR,s. and rec that answered the question saying it would be a mix of funds. Proffers come from businesses in other locations, but some county funds would be required. Do we know about how much it would cost on an annual basis to keep this phase of the trail in operation? Did she come up with answers? Because if we are on camera, it would be helpful for her. While she's coming forward, I'll just note this room would be closed for a bit after this meeting for a number of weeks for installation of some more sounds, so maybe people will be hearable from the back of the room in the future, but right now they're not. I apologize, Mr. Chairman. No, quite all right. Just looking at the annual cost to the county. I don't have a true annual cost. We do have fees built into our budget annually for trail repair. They've been very low maintenance to date. We do have some trails in Clearbrook Park that need repair now, but a couple thousand dollars for cracks and things like that. I don't anticipate. I anticipate an extensive maintenance cost. And one clarification. I think it was obvious, but I want to make it explicit. No motorized scooters or other vehicles on this trail? Is that going to be the rule? That is the rule, yes. Just bicyclists, pedestrians, wheelchairs. Okay. Thank you both very much. Any questions for the Parks and Rec Director since she's up? All right. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you. Appreciate it. So for the board discussion, and public hearing. Oh, that's right. Public comes before us. Public hearing. Ms. Phillips, anyone signed? No one has signed up. So if there's anyone who'd like to speak here today who didn't sign up on the trail, please come forward and give your name and magisterial district to start. Yeah, James Mulder, Back Creek District. I didn't sign up to speak about this because I really wasn't sure what it was about, but this is how we grow our government bigger and we spend more money. A couple thousand dollars for trail maintenance. Okay. What's that going to cost us over 20 years of taxpayer money? We have a lot of trails out there. We have the Tuscarora Trail. People can go hike, walk on. The city of Winchester has a lot of trails. So this might be a grant, but this is also going to grow our budget over the years because in a couple years, Parks and Rec. Parks and Rec. is going to turn around and say, well, we need more money to maintain that. Where is that going to come from? The taxpayers. So reconsider what the taxpayers are going to pay for this over the long term, not the free government money to get a new trail in here, but over the long term. Think about that for us. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Hearing no one, I'll close the public hearing. Public hearing portion of this. And now we go to the board for discussion. Anyone? I have... Supervisor Dunn? I made a comment on this three years ago when I brought this before Parks and Rec. I think it's a good project. I'm sensitive to your comments there. But this will take pedestrian traffic off of Sun City Road. It takes bike traffic off of Sun City Road. So I'll support it. Thank you. Any other comments? I already asked this question, but I just... My only concern is we go through and we get the one mile, and it is 100 percent grant, but then we'll be fighting... If we can't get the money, are we going to finish the other two miles and have to make that decision as a board and pay... I mean, the trail was almost $2 million. Is that... Just for the one mile. So my understanding, Mrs. Lockeridge, is that this is a piece-by-piece item. Yes. I think it's a piece-by-piece item. In previous comments I've had with Parks and Rec, et cetera, they expect they'll go through the same process again for mile two and mile three. This is such that you have to do step one before you can get to step three. I think there's a high probability that we'll get to step two and three because the funding source is coming from the same pot. Parks and Rec can speak to that as well, but I believe that this could be step one completed, make the grant application, et cetera, step two. Thank you. Thank you. And I was involved in this grant application before, so I think the process will be okay. Okay. I'm not going to guarantee, but I say I will. Right, because if the pot dries up and we have one mile that leads to nowhere, that could potentially be an issue. So I guess it's a good question as to how usable is the first mile of trail. Does it necessitate the next mile in order to reach homes or to be used? I think the Parks and Rec Director could make the comments, but basically this first mile comes a little along the creek. Then you're going to have mile two and three to get into Winchester. So it's a process. If it ends as a road to nowhere, that would be unfortunate. I don't think it will, but that's the situation. You can ask staff their probability on whether they expect to be able to do that. I think we will be able to do that. We don't have the option of saying we want one, two, and three before we can get the money for one that's step by step. If staff wants to make any comments about that, they're welcome to do so. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I do have a question. Is staff seeking a decision by us today? My impression is that this was a grant that was already approved, and you can ask staff. This was a grant that was already approved, and this was simply an information item saying, here's the status. The grant's been approved. We probably approved applying for the grant at some point in the past. That's right. We approved for applying for the grant. So this is an update status on where we are. Okay. Any other discussion? Thank you very much for the information. Certainly I'll be sensitive as we go forward to projects that we received by grant but have tail end costs involved with maintaining them. That's why I ask questions like that. So then we move forward to item 12 on the agenda, planning commission business that are public hearings. And we have one removed, 12 B. 12 B. We still have three items to cover. First is 12 A, a proposed Golds Hill Road and Upper Ridge Road through truck restriction. Do we have a presentation on that? I do, yeah. I'm here. Oh, presentation by staff and then we'll ask for comments. No, it's... Okay. You will get a chance to speak, sorry. I kind of sneak in. I'm sorry about that. Sorry. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. As you've noted, this is a public hearing to consider making a request of the Commonwealth Transportation Board to apply a through truck restriction to Golds Hill Road and Upper Ridge Road. As noted in the slide to your left, this is something, as you can tell by the citizenry you have here this evening, this was brought forth by virtue of a number of concerned citizens contacting Supervisory Secretary. Supervisory Secretary. Supervisory Secretary. Supervisory Secretary. Supervisory Secretary. Supervisory Secretary. Supervisor Lockridge. This had been considered last year by the Transportation Committee, but at that time the option, the decision was made to hold off a little bit for it. However, concerns continue to come in and the Committee looked at it again and has decided to go ahead and recommend to the Board that we do try and proceed with this request. A quick note on the conditions of the road. In terms of most recent counts, you do actually see a bit of a drop. Supervisory Secretary. in overall traffic we do not have a broken out uh truck uh count however uh i believe the citizen concerns speak for themselves as as regards the fact that trucks are there um the asterisks next to the 110 uh that shows a dropped really is that that second count was done uh in 2020 so we feel that's rather heavily affected likely by the covid drop that was experienced nationwide so i don't fully believe that there's an overall drop in traffic there i want to make sure i point that out in addition to that you have the physical characteristics of the road as noted in your memo we're talking about a significantly narrow road in both these cases upper ridge and gold's hill the pictures frankly to me speak for themselves in terms of the type of facility we're dealing with and whether it's appropriate for tractor trailer traffic um as known as quite in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state ofительно narrow you couldn't you have enough difficultly passing two passenger vehicles let alone a truck or even a school bus and and a passenger vehicle or another larger vehicle part of the required request is that you provide an alternative route suggestion uh to to the commonwealth transportation board now that that suggested alternative route doesn't become part of the signage or anything it's just part of the consideration process but as As you can see, highlighted in red are the facilities that we're talking about adding a truck restriction to. Gold's Hill, if you'll forgive my shaky hand on the pointer here, is your east-west movement. Technically, it's still Gold's Hill here as you come south to Apple Pie Ridge. This is Upper Ridge Road, this little bit here. There's actually staff that included Upper Ridge Road for the specific reason of enforceability. It's been interpreted to me more than once by law enforcement and VDOT that if you enter a restricted facility somewhere within the bounds of that restricted area, you're no longer considered fully a through trip as the legislation designates the trips. So that is the reason for the inclusion of Upper Ridge. It sort of takes away that get-out-of-jail-free or potential get-out-of-jail-free. It doesn't remove all the difficulties with enforceability. These are still somewhat tough to enforce. And that's because of the need, once again, as interpreted to me by law enforcement, to see the vehicle fully violate. That's actually something we brought up fairly recently with Delegate Wiley, so there may be some updates that would help us there coming soon, hopefully. But in the meantime, you still get the signage, you still get, at the very least, catch-the-rule followers, as I would call. And they're trying to enforce this. As noted, and as you can see, you do have citizens have provided a petition in support of this request. The Transportation most recently reviewed this item at their June 24th meeting and has recommended that the Board go ahead and request this through truck restriction, following the public hearing staff is seeking an action on the included resolution. With that, I can take any questions you may have. Thank you very much, Mr. Bishop. Any questions? Supervisor Wells. John, when you had the picture up there of the road, so I'm a truck driver and I decided to go down that road. What's my reason for that? You know, I'm going to get philosophical on you here because I've tried to figure that out with a number of instances across our county, and I can't figure out why some of these decisions are made. I think it comes down to that. I mean, I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I understand. A lot of times we see where it's a cut through to get to 5.2 faster. Yes. You know what I mean? But this doesn't really relate to that. It just looks like they're getting bad information. Would I be correct in saying that? I think that could well be. They're not being well steered. And if they, the upside to an actual formal truck restriction, and this is assuming they're using some sort of a proper trucker, trucker oriented or freight oriented GPS system, they're more likely to get directed away from that road. Now, if they're using the same, you know, ways that I use, it's not going to do a thing for them. But hopefully they'll see the sign too and obey it. But yes. So I have a. And did you say you did not have a count on the number of trucks? No, we don't have a specific. The traffic count's low enough. A lot of times when you're reading through the, the VDOT, the annually release count document. And that doesn't necessarily mean that every road is counted every year. They'll use automatic growth factors and that sort of thing. But there'll be something on there called a K factor, which represents the percentage of multiple axle vehicles. And I think it's because this one's so low, it's actually not broken out in terms of overall trips. My only question, the reason is we just have a lot of roads like this. We do indeed. In front of county. And. If we get another petition from other people that say, Hudson Hollow Road or whatever is being, you know, we'd like to have that restricted. Are we in the, are we doing the same? Not that it's not a good idea. I'm just saying there's a lot of roads like this. I'll be. And I don't want to cast that. What I'm about to say, I don't want to cast it as the reason this one's here because it's not, this one's been hanging out there a little while, but it wouldn't shock me at all that as this one makes the paper, I get a few more phone calls. It's a little bit of the nature of the beast. And we kind of have to look at them each individually. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Bishop? Yes, ma'am. Yes. The alternative. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you, sir. So now we'll move to the public hearing portion. Ms. Phillips, has anyone signed up? Peggy McKee. I'm coming. Sorry. Okay. Once I'm up. Thank you. Thanks very much. Please. Your name and magisterial district. My name is Peggy McKee and I live in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. Heather Lockridge is my supervisor. And I've lived right there on that red line where the little circle, little short circle comes around. I've lived right at that intersection for 40 years now. And I would say for the last five to seven years, truck traffic has significantly increased. And I, like you, I'm wondering what causes a truck to go across that road. Um, for the most part, trucks are coming down 522, which is the green line on the raw on the left and cutting across that road to avoid that intersection at the bottom of the picture where 37 and 522 all come down. All come together and we, we call that intersection and there's another intersection around around the corner on 37 that we call malfunction junctions because they're very difficult to get through. But if you can cut across there, you can save yourself a bit of time. Um, I've got some friends here who are who have signed this petition with with, uh, with me and I want to thank them for coming and they all live along the road too. And, uh, they've witnessed what we've witnessed. Um, this increase in truck traffic. I did bring some pictures. I'm sorry, I don't have slides, but I want to share pictures of the damage that the trucks have done to the road. Um, over the years, over the last few months, they're aware that they're where the small circle, the long line and the small circle come together. There's a mailbox right at that little intersection. And that mailbox, has been knocked off at least five times. Uh, the mailbox of a fellow you may remember, um, Ron Schickel, Dick Schickel's cousin. And the last time a truck came through there, knocked that post off mailbox off. He came from 522 is coming across, uh, Golds Hill Road and he got to that intersection. He wants to turn left. Now it's about, uh, you can see, how tiny that angle is. Plus it's steep. So you come down this way and then you go up this. He knocked that mailbox off. He bounced across the road. He knocked off the guy wire for the power, uh, phone pole and, uh, Doug, that you see that ditch dug that ditch in the road. Um, the big deal was about, I would say, when was that? Five or six months ago, there was a, uh, wreck on 81 South at closed 81. So traffic diverted off of F at the Clearbrook exit off of 81 came, came down Apple Pie Ridge, got on upper Ridge Road and wanted to turn, got in this right turn, right hand turn onto Apple Pie Ridge to go over to 522. There was a backup there for four and a half hours. A backup of, um, most of them were 18 wheelers. The person who delivers our mail was in the, in that traffic for four and a half hours. Um, a lot of it I think happens because the truck drivers are using ways or Google maps or one of the GPS systems I have gotten on, have had a colleague, uh, change the ways, maps, and the Google maps to indicate on those, um, platforms that the, that road is not appropriate for, um, trucks. Uh, that, that is not a guarantee though, that that's going to stop the truck traffic, but we're hopeful that it will. Um, Ms. McKee, if you could wrap up, I am, I'm finished and thank you very much. And I do have a, an example of a proposal. Thank you very much. Yes. Thanks very much for, for all of this. There's no one else signed up. Thank you. Great. Is there anyone else though who has not signed up who would like to speak about this proposal on a through truck restriction? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item board. How would you like to handle this? Um, can I just make a comment really quickly? Please discussion. Yes. So after talking with Ms. McKee, my biggest concern is, is enforcement. So is this, is a sign really going to make a difference? Um, but I, I liked what you've said about, you've had a friend check into ways and because I think that's what's leading it. And those accidents, I think our entire County infrastructure, we're just, we're just kind of behind. So I don't know that this sign, that's what bothers me. This sign, I don't know that's going to make the difference, but I'm willing to, to take that chance and hope. And we've, I've talked to Mr. Bishop. Um, I did have a question. It slipped my brain about, uh, when we, as a board, decide, uh, push this through, this is still falls on VDOT. Is that a true statement? Yes, ma'am. This is at its heart is a request from the board. Okay. I'm a little transportation board from here. It will go to the Stanton district. They will, they will do an evaluation, which they will send then to the state traffic engineer who will ultimately make a recommendation to the commonwealth transportation board. So let's say all of those things go swimmingly, um, from your action tonight, assuming you choose to make the request, you're easily three months from actually seeing signage go up. So just create that expectation. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. Mr. Bishop, while you're here, I'll jump the line because I have a question. Yes, sir. You can answer. So I wanted to address this also came up during the transportation committee. One of the members asked if we're going to do this on this road, why not other roads? And I've been turning that over in my head for awhile and I have an idea. Uh, maybe it's not doable with VDOT, but for me, I was, I was invited by supervisor Lockridge to drive that road since it is in our district. And I did, and I made the following notes. This road is different from perhaps some of the roads in that it is definitely not passable by two vehicles. I don't know what I would do if I had been driving down the road and a semi trailer had come the other way and a two ever met going the other direction. I think they'd still be there today. I don't know how they'd get out of there. So that's one thing. Another is damage to roadways. We've, we've put restrictions in another case recently because a road was not built for trucks. So that's maybe a reason that to discriminate between what roads we've make requests on and, and what we might not, uh, with regard to enforcement, the sheriff has said he, it's hard to enforce these things. As you noted, he's got to follow trucks from beginning to end before he could issue a fine. However, in this case, if a truck got stuck with another vehicle and couldn't get out of there and had to call for assistance, he could receive a ticket with this restriction in place. So it would have that benefit. And then to my idea, my question to you, uh, so no through trucks, you know, that's a sign, right? And people can ignore it. But if a sign said this narrow one laid road, no turnarounds, some kind of advice to a driver saying, if you do violate the sign and come down here, you may just get stuck. That might cause more drivers to make a different decision. Is there an option for signs like that, that the County or that VDOT could put up warning them about how impassable it is? Yes, sir. In past, that's been quite situational with VDOT, where we, we make requests and frankly, sometimes they seem willing and sometimes they don't. It's a worthwhile discussion to have with them for sure. The truck restriction signs them themselves are a fairly standard sign. Um, personally, I'm not a huge fan of them because they're a bit of a word salad. Um, and I think they're hard to interpret as you're coming down because they just have the route number and everything like that. But I don't have much say over that, but specific to your request, uh, I think at the very least it's worth a conversation with VDOT. Thank you. And we already had a discussion. With delegate Wiley about it, but we could add that idea if the board approves to that discussion. Yes, sir. Supervisor. Well, the sign she handed me notice road, not suitable for trucks. Is that, that's not the sign we're going to, you wouldn't know. That's not the sign VDOT will put up. It'll be a white sign that says such and such road number. I'm trying to remember, I think it's six 73 or something. Like that, um, is, is restricted to through truck traffic or something like that. But a sign like this, in addition for certain roads might discourage. I just thought it might be more effective. I was looking at, that's not going to do any good at all. Thank you. Any other questions or comments? Question and a comment. Um, I'm a trucker and my GPS says to go down this road. I start down this road and I see the sign. What do I do? I'm a tractor trailer. I'm following my GPS, et cetera. The question then becomes, what do I do? The woman behind you may want to make some comments here too, but my question is if that occurs, you're stuck. So as the chairman said, if there's a sign that says, um, you know, no turnaround, or if there's a sign that says go to go right or left and you can get the person out of that predicament because there may be some truckers are just simply following what they're meant to do. Now they're stuck with no place to go. So if you can answer that, that'd be fine. If the woman, if Mr. Jerry, if you agree, the woman behind, he wants to address that cause she was raising her hand. I'd be open to that too, but go ahead. Um, yes, sir. An appropriately placed sign would be one that would prevent you from entering the facility. And typically with a truck restriction, it's before you enter the facility that you see it. And would they have been an opportunity? They see the sign. I can't enter. Cause then they know go right or left. Or is there a way for them now to go to their destination? At least an alternative to that road. Theoretically, they're already on a road that's appropriate. So they would have to continue on and sort of, figure it out. Assuming they're using, um, a, a, a GPS, uh, app. Um, it would at some point go ahead and reroute them. I know, uh, sometimes my, my, uh, my ways, Apple yell at me for awhile before it decides to reroute reroute me. But we would end up in that type of a situation. I would concur with the chairman. If you can, when you talk to VDOT, um, figure out a way for the person that comes through to figure out an alternative from that, or, you know, you can't turn around or here's a turnaround spot. That'd be helpful. Yes, sir. Okay. Public hearings closed, but if you have a quick comment, can you go to come to the mic though? So the public could hear you. Do we have a mobile mic for certain situations? We might want to think about that. Sorry, I'll make this very quick. Um, if the sign is on five 22 and apple pie Ridge before you get on Gold's Hill road and upper Ridge road, then because once you get on the road, you can't turn around, you can't back up. So, there you go. I saw that myself. Thank you very much. So any other comments? So the supervisor, I'm not a comment. I'm already, I'm ready to make a motion. Please. Um, I'd like to make a motion to request the Commonwealth Transportation Board to enact through truck restrictions on Gold's Hill road, Virginia route 673 and upper Ridge road, Virginia route. Um, six 50. Thank you. We have a, we have a motion. Do we have a second second, Mr Chairman? We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I'll just note that that would be at the cost of VDOT that will not count. Count cost County funds at these signs up. Great. Then we'll proceed to a roll call vote. Supervisor jewel. Hi, Supervisor done. Supervisor Wells, vice chair, supervisor Lockridge, supervisor Liero, and the chairman votes. I, so this is approved. Next item is 12 B, which has been taken. Off the agenda. I didn't see anyone come in, but if anyone came in late and didn't hear that we removed it from the agenda, the item on Snowden bridge and Stevenson village is being delayed the public hearing because it's being revised. Uh, if you came all the way down here and still want to speak, you can do so at the end of the meeting, uh, which won't be too much longer. So then we moved to item 12 C an ordinance to amend Frederick County code chapter one 65 zoning with regard to church. And places abortion. Thank you, Mr Chairman. This ordinance amendment is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to change the term church to churches and places of worship throughout the ordinance. No changes are proposed to the definition, which is buildings or structures primarily used primarily intended for the conduct of organized religious services and associated accessory uses. This ornament, ordinance amendment also adds a new conditional use to the rural areas zoning district for nationally chartered fraternal lodges, civic clubs, social centers and their related club facilities. Currently, this is listed as a conditional use in the RP zoning district, and that would remain the same with this amendment. The additional regulations for this use are currently listed in the RP conditional uses section. So those additional regulations would remain. The same. They would just be moved to a different part of the ordinance under the additional regulations for specific uses section. The planning commission held a public hearing on this item on June 5th and recommended approval and following a public hearing tonight, staff is seeking a decision by the board on this ordinance amendment, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Any questions for the presenter? No, very clear. Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Has anyone signed up? No, sir. Is there anyone who'd like to speak on this proposed language change to the county ordinance? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item and open it up for discussion of the board. Anyone? So we, I'm sorry. . Mr. Would someone like to make a motion then? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we amend chapter 165 zoning the ordinance that is prepared in our board packet that would place the CUP in the RA district for, let's see, it would be for the full civic organizations and lodging and such as presented. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. Then we'll proceed to roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chairman votes aye and this ordinance amendment is adopted. Next 12D, another ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning definitions and corrections for, which must login to the EPA. Oh, that's also going to be different parking lot. Are school programs fairly disconnected? Kilachopp- Mr. May. mccnię. k令? by staff for clarity and consistency. The first slide is a summary of the definition changes for the terms Country General Store, Caliper and Public Garage. The table summarizes the changes for the allowed uses. Per the Board's discussion, data centers have been removed from the B-2 District. The remaining uses were permitted in each district prior to the National American Industrial Classification System conversion and are being specifically called out for clarity. Additionally, at the direction of the Board, staff was directed to establish additional regulations specific to data centers. Staff is currently working on this item and will bring that forward to you in the near future. Lastly, the Supplementary Use and Regulations section addresses the size restriction for grocery store and retail store in the B-1 District and relocates it to conform to the traditional zoning formatting. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on June 5 and recommended approval. Following the public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board on this ordinance amendment. I am happy to go into more details if necessary and I am here to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Any questions from the Board? Mr. Chairman, I have one. Data processing. Data processing. Are we strictly talking about data centers here? Because data processing could be a company. You are looking at that. Are you inquiring about the regulation? Yes, B-2 where you have got removing data processing from the B-2 business general. So we are removing... If you could go back to the table. There we go. So we actually have... When we converted over to the NAICS... Data centers were in the B-2. When we converted over to NAICS, the data centers got lost under a telecommunications title. So it made it difficult for people wanting to know whether the data center specifically could go into those uses. And that's why we called it out. I am totally in agreement with you about data centers. It is not the data center part. It is the data processing. Right. So in the B-2... That was... The B-2 was removed. It is still permitted. Telecommunications systems and a variety of uses are still permitted in the B-2. It is specifically for the purpose of data centers being added in for clarity. Thank you. I had a similar question based on the chart. So infrastructure providers are also still permitted. It is just the data centers that are removed? So when we did the conversion, data centers got thrown into this title of infrastructure. And providers, I would have to go back and look at the specific language and how it connects to NAICS. But I am pretty confident that it was just data centers. The variety of telecommunication providers that were permitted under the B-2 are still permitted under the B-2. It is specifically data centers that are being removed. Does that help? I think so. Yeah. You are thinking like I am because you have got your fiber companies or anything... We could go ahead and then fix that if we inadvertently removed something. We might want to make sure we are not removing... Mr. Chairman. ...things we haven't talked about. To ease in that process and ensure we don't need to burden the Board with another conversation, I think you could just clarify to that effect with your motion that of those three elements, you only want data centers to be what is removed from B-2 and that infrastructure providers and data processing could still constitute individual uses that remain as allowed in B-2. Very good. Thank you. I will remember that when we get to the motion time. Any other questions? Thank you. Mr. President. Very good. Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone signed up? No, sir. This is an ordinance change that applies to just one zoning district in the county, but if anyone wants to speak who hasn't signed up, by all means, please come forward. Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing portion of this item and bring it to discussion of the Board. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion. Since we are adjourned. I don't see any discussion regarding that. It appears that the questions have been answered. So I would make a motion to amend the ordinance, Chapter 165, Frederick County Code, definitions and corrections for conference event centers, data centers, solid waste collection and material recovery facilities, revision to amend the definitions to update standards, correct error, and to remove data centers from B-2 and to remove multiple types of public garage. I believe that covers everything. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we will move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Lieero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. There are just a few restrictions that were issued. Thekay approval. Second? Yes. Thank you. Ministrern O'Connor? Yes. Mr. Chair, as of Jan. 2013, the whether 13 I believe the so it is the last decision item that we have in our agenda, re-filing five silver lake LLC at Round Hill Crossing. It is a minor proper amendment. I believe that Mr. Bishop is coming forward to present. Thank you, Mr Chair and members of the Board. As you noted, you have a re-filing item before you. 0 5 24 silver lake LLC. This is as you noted a minor proper amendment. to the original rezoning which was done in 2009. It was 01 of 09 is that rezoning number. And what this does is it doesn't really change any material of the proffer with the exception of specific elements of the transportation proffers in phase one and phase two. It converts, it creates the ability for those to be paid out as a cash proffer as opposed to a physical proffer, physical construction proffer. And that's actually specifically in support of a staff request because it supports one of your smart scale applications, specifically the interchange upgrades at the interchange of US Route 50 and Route 37. So this amendment language was coordinated with staff and with the Virginia Department of Transportation just to allow everyone to have their bearings here. You are looking at the Route 50 corridor through the bottom third of your map. Just east, right off the border of the map is where you have the Walmart shopping center, the Route 50 Walmart, and there's the entrance road to that facility. And then you have Lutheran Home Boulevard here and of course the continuing care retirement community of Lutheran Home which has been built out. However, part of that original rezoning was all of this B2 property that you see colored in orange here and the applicant still has significant transportation proffers tied to that. So that's a little bit of a different picture. So that's a little bit of a different picture. So that's a little bit of a different picture. And part of those is what we're addressing here. So with that, this is a minor proffer amendment and technically does not require a public hearing which is why that's not been scheduled that way. The Planning Commission did review this last Wednesday on July 3rd and has recommended approval and staff is seeking action by the board. Of course, I can take any questions you may have. I think we, yep, Mr. Frank is here on behalf of the applicant should you have any questions for him as well. Thank you, sir. So any questions for Mr. Bishop or Mr. Frank from the board? Hearing none, we have discussed this before. Thank you very much. This is not a public hearing so I'll proceed to the board for discussion or motion. I don't have any discussion. But does anybody have any discussion before I make a motion? Go ahead then. I would like to go ahead and make a motion to amend the zoning. District map for rezoning 0524 for the Silver Lake LLC for the cash proffer in lieu of the actual construction. Second, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, we have a motion and a second. And once again, any discussion on the motion this time? Hearing none, we'll move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. And this is approved. Board liaison reports, do we have any? Mr. Chair, this is Supervisor Lero. Can you hear me? We do. We do. You usually make very good and very detailed reports. I'll jump in and start hearing you. The Planning Commission met last Wednesday the 3rd and approved the conditional use permit 0324. On 172 Firehouse LLC and Barbara Singhaf regarding a landscaping business. Also, the Planning Commission met on July the 3rd on a subdivision waiver for 0324 Darien LLC regarding curbing and guttering. That was approved also. Both of those matters will come before the Board in the August 14, 2024 meeting. Thank you. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you. We were able to hear you very clearly. Appreciate it. Are there any other Board liaison reports? Hearing none, we'll move to Item 15, Citizen Comments. Ms. Phillips, is anyone signed up? James Molder. Good evening, Board. James Molder from Back Creek District. Mr. Dunn, when I've talked to you in the past about... I've been a little bit involved with the Department of Housing and Planning. And I think I've seen a lot of people cutting the budget for the county. The items I'm talking about, when I pull up salaries, I see non-range... Salary range, non-swarm positions. I'm not sure I can go through the numbers and see who's what and that. But we have a maximum of $302,000 a year. A midpoint of 225, that's the type of cuts I'm talking about. I would love to have that cut. I would like to see that cut. But I think that's just... I think it's a good thing. I think that's just... I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. But we have a maximum of $302,000 a year. A midpoint of 225, that's the type of cuts I'm talking about. I would love to have a county job making that kind of money. Who wouldn't? I mean, you got the benefits, all the perks, all the days off and all that. That's the type of stuff I'm talking about that we need to cut. This past year... And now I mean, it went down. These people that made this kind of money should not have gotten a 4% or 6% pay increase. I mean, to me, that's a lot of money. That's the type of cuts I'm talking about. And last Board of Supervisors meeting before, y'all talked about community college scholarships. I don't think my taxpayer money or anybody's taxpayer money should go to the community college for scholarships, especially not with them charging 30% or 40% to handle the money. If they want to go to community college, they can join the National Guard. They'll help them pay for college. They can work and go to college. There's many opportunities to go to college without the taxpayer flipping the bill. My next comment is I've heard that there's 13,000 new homes that can be built. That wasn't approved by any of you guys over the last few years. These have been approved a long time ago. I see these amendments come forward to change proffers, to change zoning. You as the board, can't y'all go in and do something to repeal some of this housing that got approved 10, 20 years ago and the proffers are nothing compared to what they need to be today? There has to be something that the board can go back and look at, rezone it, repeal it. Just tell them flat out, you know, this is outdated. We've got to come up with something better. If it comes down to an impact fee and the state don't like it, then at some point the county's got to tell the state to stay out of our business. And this is going to be an impact fee. Let the builders see. Let them take it to court. The last thing, last month, before the board, there was a nomination for the Board of Building Code Appeals. Mr. Kevin Kinney wound up getting his seat back. I knew the name sounded familiar last month to me, so I looked it up. Mr. Kinney ran last year. Part of Frederick First. Mr. Wells, I remember you ran as part of Frederick First. Congratulate you on helping getting the Frederick First guy back on his thing. But everybody else up here, I believe, has always ran as a conservative Republican. And we have two or three conservative Republicans that try to do the right thing. But, yeah, we got three. And I think we've got four. And I think we've got three or four that want to sway with the Frederick First people, are the more liberal people. And if that's what you want to do, change your name to Frederick First, change your name to Democrat, but don't say you're conservative and don't say you're Republican. Thank you for your time, Board. Thank you. Is that the end of the speaking list? D.N. Kinney. Thank you. Hello, everybody. I'm D.N. Kinney. I'm from the Gainesboro District. I wrote this a couple of weeks ago because I went to the transportation meeting. And everyone in this room at some time has run a red light, been speeding through a zone faster than you should be. We're all in a hurry. There's always something. The light changed too quickly. You know, we've got to be somewhere. But the fact is, we broke the law. There are those people out there who have a lead foot, who never drive the speed limit. They're in a hurry. They live life like, you know, I've got no place to be and I've just got to be everywhere in a hurry. Whichever category we all fall into, and we all fall into one of those, we're breaking the law, and breaking the law is breaking the law. When we hear about tragic accidents, like the one that happened on, 522 North, where a friend of mine was killed, it makes us all kind of take note of the fact that breaking the law is breaking the law. And I don't know the specifics of the accident other than the fact that my friend was killed. All the powers that are here today know that the speeding problem on 522 North and South, 50 East and West, 7 East and West, and 81 North and South is out of control. And we have to make a decision. Nobody here seems to want to make the decision. We have studies, then we review the studies, and we talk about the studies, and then we do more studies. And we're still not coming up with a decision. VDOT doesn't seem to be at all interested in either finding an answer to the issue or funding the issue. I don't know that there's anybody who's going to make a decision. But my guess is we haven't lost enough lives yet to get anybody's attention. And we've got to get somebody's attention. So I'd like to offer up an idea. And I know it's not going to be one that's going to be popular, but here it is. The continuous green tea that's going to be up at Gainsborough Road and 522 North is the beginning of the fix. But we know by sitting in on the, in one transportation meeting, nothing happens fast. I bet it's two or three years before that continuous green tea is finished. That's the fact. But we got to do something in the meantime. So how about we do school zone speed cameras? I know it's not a big popular idea, but that could be an alternative, an attention getter that lets people know we've got to slow down in these school zones. Because the Sheriff's Department is not funded enough to sit out there and write to the police. They're not going to write tickets to the people that are flying through there. So we can use our resources in better ways to get the school zone speed cameras up until we can get the continuous green tea that is going to help slow down the traffic. But there has to be an alternative somewhere. So driving is not a right. Driving is a privilege in the state of Virginia. When you sign your name to the application to driver's license, it says that you are agreeing to, you obey the laws of the state that you're driving in. And that's what we need to do. It's not a right, it's a privilege. Alice Strickler. I'm Alice Strickler, I'm from Luray. I know that you guys know me and yeah, I'm back. It's been 374 days since I saw my son alive. My memory tonight driving down the road, I hate driving down here because I always picture him in Winchester Hospital. I remember when he was in the hospital on the stretcher where he was dead and his ears were purple from where the blood had cooled because it couldn't find us fast enough to tell us that he had passed. In this time, there's been no investigation done. His memorial's still not done. And I want to add that I feel insulted that there was a photo op with my son being remembered by the fire department. And that's what I consider it because they never notified us. They never invited us. They never invited me, his mother, who carried him in her womb and his first sound was my heartbeat, was never invited to his memorial and the wreath laying. That's not right. His wife was not there. That's not right. And my husband was not there, his father. That's not right. It was a photo op. It made them look good to put that on Facebook. Well, I find it offensive. If you don't invite the family, but you invite recruits who have quit the program, Alexis Douglas, there was another man, another man there and a wife with a baby. No relation to my son. And yet we weren't invited. That's not right. It just isn't. His bills are still not paid. We spoke the last time I was here. I said his death was ruled a line of duty death. I sent a copy to your lawyer. I sent a copy to Mrs. Lockridge. That it was ruled line of duty. If you're line of duty death, then workman's comp, this should be a no brainer. You pay my son's funeral. You pay his hospital bill. I'm tired of coming down here. I don't wanna come here anymore. I want this to be over with. I want his bills paid. You know, I live in a small town. Page County is little. And Luray is really little. And when you sit there and you have to run into the funeral director and the bill's not been paid, it's very uncomfortable. It's very uncomfortable. It's very uncomfortable. Although he has never asked for payment. But you all need to do better. Vacor works for you all. Tell him, pay the bill. Pay the bill. I don't care what you do about, my daughter-in-law will fight for her part of this. I'm fighting right now for justice for Ann. He gave his life for your county. The least you can do is pay for his funeral and pay his hospital bill. I don't think that's asking too much. You know, the department's completely blown us off and that's fine. I don't care anymore. I found the National Fallen Firefighters Foundation. They embraced us. I'm going to a retreat with them that they pay for to get counseling. I'm in counseling all the time, but I can't heal until you all take care of what I'm asking you to take care of. And I want to heal. I want to find joy again, because there hasn't been a whole lot in our house for 374, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. It's been 34 days. And I deserve it. And I expect it. And I'm going to keep coming to meetings. And this isn't a threat like that one guy who used the F word. I'm not threatening you all. I'm just telling you, I'm not going to go away until this is handled. Della DeHaven. I'm Della DeHaven from the Gainsborough District. And I just wanted to comment about the behavior during the Board of Supervisors meetings. And I am a regular attender. It is very disappointing. And Robert's Rules of Parliamentary Procedure are appropriate. And although it is difficult and challenging, it is very interesting when you read those, too, to see if they're appropriate. And I think that that's what I'm trying to do here today. I'm trying to get everyone to be aware of that. I just want to make sure that they are allowed to know that there is no guarantee. We're going to have to wait until the Resolution date that I have set up this year. I'm going to have to wait until the Resolution date that I have set up this year. I'm going to have to wait until the Resolution date that I have set up this year. when you read those again, and I did read them again after not having read them from high school, being on debate team. Very interesting. Even someone that needs to boo, I'm sure this will bring interesting comments, needs to be recognized by the chair because it is a point of speaking. I thought that was interesting to see that. And lastly, because there have been other important issues brought here, this is definitely not the most important one, is that you can't legislate morality, you can't legislate common sense, and you can't legislate respect. It is earned, and we're here trusting you in our community to do what's best for us. So take charge, and thank you. That's the end of the webinar. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on any matter involving the county? Coming to speak, sir. I'm from the Back Creek District. I'm a transplant. As you all know, I'm not originally from this area. The display from a person I've seen earlier today, I want to say is not the representation of the people I know in Frederick County. I've never seen such bad display from that gentleman. Thank you. I want everybody to know that it's not what I've seen in the county, as far as people. I found everybody to be very pleasant. Mr. Dunn, you're 100% right about being threatened by speaking at this. I have been, and it happens. I agree with what you said on that. Some people need to grow up. Obviously, this gentleman hasn't. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Thank you. Thank you. Seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. Board of Supervisor comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. We're just going to finish off this comment about decorum. My comments earlier in the day were that I do think that people who come up here to this podium should be able to speak and lay out policies and not feel threatened or intimidated by the audience. On January 10th, Mr. Chairman, you made some very good comments at your meeting. Mr. Garner? Mr. Garner? We are very grateful. Mr. Raising your 터 but keeping a distance given yourself a State紀 Road adjustment to the bill which is 2a,126-9174,036,036,319,5 leisten爬走 pardons ch spawn炯 of procedure that we follow, a short version I'm sure we posted. It includes some citizen responsibilities in attending this meeting and when you get to speak. I've seen a lot of confused people in the past so I just wanted to make one comment before we proceed. You get multiple opportunities to speak. We always want to hear every citizen. We have Chairman DeHaven that established a system where we don't cut it off if you haven't signed up, although we very much encourage sign up because the nights can run long and there are certain circumstances where if we have the right count we would have to cut down the time. When you speak at the beginning you address an item on the agenda that's not a public hearing, later in the meeting you can sign up for special items that are public hearings and address it right before we consider so it's better to speak on those then and at the end of the meeting you can speak on any subject you want even if it's not on the agenda. We have a rule where you address the board. Roberts Reservoir can constrange how we operate if you ask us questions about it. We're still here in the room so if you have questions please speak. If you have any questions about that, we're starting by asking the committee at the end of the meeting. questions. Sometimes people do and they mean they're very well meaning about it but we're not allowed to answer questions. We can only take your questions under advisement for future consideration and always contact us before a meeting if you want to have a discussion before we vote on something. You're also not allowed to address each other by name or turn around. That's just so that we don't have arguments occur and the people's business get delayed. We do not demean. People can be removed. I don't remember a case where that's happened but we don't make demeaning or insulting comments to the board, to each other, about people's family, about their behavior. That's not relevant to the business. We try to think of this as a business meeting, present your business and again always contact us if you want to have a further discussion afterward. We just have to do that or we'll never get done in some nights. We have multiple public hearings tonight so this might be one of those nights we need to move along. So with that said, please. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I thought those were most apropos and I agree with them. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other board comments? I'd just like to congratulate the wonderful Fourth of July celebration for our county and remembrance of our veterans and our country and the history behind it. It was wonderful. Thank you. Thank you Supervisor Jewell. I'm going to piggyback on that. The Middletown had a fantastic parade and it was the biggest turnout I think we've seen. It was wonderful. It's small town USA at its finest and I thought it was just really the joy to me is when you hear the kids laughing on the side and waving their flags and having a good time. So that really just sends a shiver up your spine. So thank you to Mayor Charles Harbaugh, Fourth and Middletown for doing what you did. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and also my slides here. And thanks to Governor B Zoelle who gave a Alright great thank you all. Again, thank you, our county, our veterans citizens so we have no discussions on our land psych HIS What they did thank you. I'll go any comments from the side. Thank you. which we're allowed to do every year, as Supervisor Dunn has proposed, and we've taken it under advisement and taken it to VACOR pretty much every year, I think, about impact fees. And we are being granted the right for new impact fees regarding traffic impacts. That went through one of our committees some months ago. In fact, I hope the ball's not dropped. I'll send a reminder up to myself and to Supervisor Balhoffer about where that item is. The state allowed counties to assess some impact fees. On traffic, the traffic impact alone, not schools, not fire and rescue, et cetera. And our committee at least had approved it, so we need to get that through the rest of the process. That would apply to homes and businesses not yet built, but whose rights were already granted. So that would be in a, we can't amend the proffers from the past, nor cancel the right to build, however we can assess that fee. So that little bit is something I believe this board will probably vote for. So that is the end of board comments. Just a couple comments, because we have a meeting, I believe it's what, July 27th, or? July 30th is the date in my head, yeah. Okay, the Development Impact Model Committee will be meeting and we will be having a presentation from Tischler Beiss about the updated traffic model and how that will fit into the, development impact model. So that is coming and hopefully moving forward. We also did have a meeting with Delegate Wiley, guess it was last week, right before the 4th of July, and we had talked about making the proffer amount coincide with the development impact model at the time the building permit is issued. And I know that Mr. Pearson is working, to try to craft some language so that we can get that to Delegate Wiley. We did speak with him about that and he is willing to carry that legislation forward for us. So I think that'll be a huge improvement as well. Thank you. Yes, sir. Then I believe we're ready to adjourn. If you'd like to make a motion. I'd be happy to do that. Make a motion, sir, for us to adjourn. We have a second. All in favor say aye. Any opposed? We are adjourned. Thank you.
