Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-11-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=203
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I invite folks to join me in rising as we... as we greet the creator of this world. Father, we do thank you that you allow us to come before your throne of grace this evening and not only allow us, but invite us. You desire to hear from us. And Lord, we are thankful that we live in a country where we can engage in free elections without fear of retribution. We can engage in public discourse and dialogue. And we know from your word that there is no authority except that which comes from you and that each authority over us is appointed by you. And so, Lord, we are thankful for each of these men and women that are here serving our community this evening. We pray for wisdom and discernment in the decisions before them and as they serve this... this community. I thank you for the season that we are entering of reflecting on things with a spirit of thankfulness. We know, Lord, that there are many facing deep hurts, life challenges, maybe the loss of a job or of a loved one. But in all things, Lord, we know that you are sovereign and you are good. We pray that you would allow us to reflect on these blessings, um, the... the blessings of God and the blessings of God and the blessings that are before us and that our minds would be drawn to that in a spirit of thankfulness in that we would be an encouragement and joy to one another. Tonight, I give thanks for each of the elected officials over us, for the staff here tonight facilitating these matters, for our various county administrators and their support staff, for the school staff and the school board, for our first responders, our utility workers, for the opportunity for each of us to be in this community. We give thanks for these and, Lord, we, in closing, give thanks for the opportunity to come before you in this upcoming Christmas season. Reflect on your great love, uh, to us in sending your one and only son to take on our... our sin as a perfect sacrifice. It's in Jesus' holy name that we give thanks and praise. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Mr. Wells. If you would face the flag, please. Join me in the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic of which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. Discussion. All in favor? Aye. All opposed. Ayes. 90. Citizen comments. These are citizen comments that are not the subject of a public hearing. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, Stephanie Mitchell. Stephanie Mitchell. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to know if you have any concerns. I'd love to hear them. Thank you. Stephanie Mitchell. If your name is called, just come on up. And this will probably ask the second person as well so we could have a continuous flow. Yes, following Stephanie Mitchell, we'll have Kay Dawson. And hold on a second, ma'am. Ma'am, hold on. And so for all of you, we need your name and your magisterial district, please. Go ahead. My name is Stephanie Mitchell and I'm from Back Creek. And I thought I signed up for the Carmoose, is this that one? Okay. So good evening. As a resident of Middletown, I support this rezoning. If it is not approved, 250 tractor trailers plus the 25 that already come through town, making a total of $275,000. Ma'am, you can pull that mic down too. There you go. Thank you. Making 275 tractor trailers a day going down our Main Street. The impact on Middletown, small historic community would be devastating. Main Street is also Route 11. When there is an accident on Interstate 81, which is at least once a week, more than once a day, it would be devastating. We would be in a lot of trouble if we didn't have a road that would be able to get to the main street. More or less. The cars stuck on 81 get off on Route 11. I live in town right on Route 11 and always know when there is an accident because it is bumper to bumper cars outside my front door and down Main Street. Add 275 tractor trailers to that and it would be gridlock. Also, Middletown's fire and police departments are on Route 11. It would be extremely difficult or impossible for the city to get to the main street. So I'm going to be very careful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The все that is on Route 11 and only on the main street are the drivers of Route 11. So we will be very careful. And I am hoping that we do what is possible for those departments to respond to emergencies under these circumstances. Putting our residents at risk. I think rail cars are the way to keep the tractor trailers off Frederick County's increasingly overcrowded roads. But it appears that is not an option. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Kay Dawson, followed by Mark Regan. Kay Dawson, Red Bud. that I won't mention what board it is, but it serves the entire Frederick County. Frederick County is really big. I've got a bigger, closer understanding of that since I've been on this board. And my feeling is that you can't let one tiny little part of Frederick County control the rest of Frederick County. We've already lost a really good tax base company, a good clean company, because we let that happen. And you cannot let that happen again. Thank you. Thank you. Mark Regan, followed by David Reiner. Good evening, supervisors. I'm Mark Regan of the Stonewall District. And we have a lot of, in Clearbrook, our Route 11 is jammed to 275 trucks are going to totally. Gridlock us. I have serious concerns about the proposed increase in blasting at the Carmody's Quarry here in Clearbrook. Within a three-mile radius of the quarry, the negative impacts on our lives will be significant. Currently, about three blasts a week are causing damage to our homes, including structural cracks and disrupting our peace of mind. If the blasting frequency is increased five-fold or 500% as proposed, these damage effects will completely disrupt our lives. The increased dust and debris generated, from these explosions, which we already encounter, will pose even more serious health risks to all of us. Inhaling the harmful particle matter and limestone quarry dust can lead to severe respiratory issues, especially kids and older people. Additionally, our quality of life will be greatly reduced. An increase in noise will affect our sleep patterns and overall well-being. Property values will plummet, causing financial impacts on our ability to sell our homes and support our families. The environmental impact is also a concern. Quarry dust is a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. It's a very important part of our lives. Quarry's expansion will disrupt ecosystems, destroy animal habitats, and contribute to further destruction of our environment. We have a responsibility to preserve and maintain this region for future generations. Tonight, I urge you to weigh the short-term gains against the lasting damages caused by increasing the blasting of the quarry. The negative impacts on our homes, health, quality of life, and environment are too significant to ignore. Please put the safety, tranquility, and future of Frederick County over short-term economic gains and unanimously deny this impact. Please put the safety, tranquility, and future of Frederick County over short-term economic gains and instantly deny this impact. Please put the safety, tranquility, and future of Frederick County over short-term economic gains and instantly deny this impact. Thank you very much. Thank you. David Reiner, followed by Tina Bragg. David Reiner, Stonewall District. What if... What if Car Moose tracked down rail service with the same intensity that they have pursued rezoning for approval of their mining expansion? Would their odds for rail service tilt in their favor if they flew in a professional rail service? Would their odds for rail service tilt in their favor if they flew in a professional rail service? An individual of rail expertise equal to their long-winded geologist? A person top of his field with a proven track record for excellence? What if Car Moose contracted a rail engineering group to study their situation and propose various solutions for transporting raw product to their processing plant in Clearbrook? What if they plied reluctant rail service providers with the same schmooze tactics they have used to ply Frederick County residents, and sway public opinion into their favor. If all that failed to secure a rail service contract, maybe they could bus all their employees to the appropriate rail service headquarters. They can don light-colored shirts with Carmoose logos, stand before their boardroom executives, and plead for them to save their jobs, even though there is no threat of job loss. If that fails to garner the proper pity response, may I suggest one of these? It's crude but effective if your aim is to manipulate by pity. If all else fails to secure rail service through sympathy, they can always push to proffer their way into favor with the rail companies. You can bet that that contract will have no loopholes. After exhausting all that effort, if they still haven't secured rail service, they can opt for a threat tactic approach like the one they are using on this county. Let us mine or we will clog up your roads with trucks. I don't think that approach will work with rail providers. I would stick with the we'll mine for food pity tactic. Pity is a more powerful negotiating tool than threats. In conclusion, Carmoose doesn't have the type of needful rail service that they can use. If they don't have that service, it's because they simply don't want it. If they spent one half of the effort to secure rail service that they have spent schmoozing this county and pressing this board of supervisors, they would secure rail service in a day. This conflict is not about rail, trucks, or even limestone. It is about money. If Carmoose had a mother, they would throw her under the bus, feed her to the sharks, or tie her to a railroad track to get that money. They bought all that property without any promise to be able to mine it. And that's their... flawed business decisions. And I don't think we should have an obligation to uphold their bad decisions. Thank you. Tina Bragg, followed by Charlie Gardner. Tina Bragg, Stonewall District. Studies show property values decrease 25 to 30 percent on land up to several miles away from active quarries. If the rezoning is allowed, think about how that will affect landowners, whose property adjoined the land-zoned extractive mining. They thought they bought land in a nice rural setting. Others, whose families have lived there for generations, would now be faced with the effects of losing their current way of life. Carmoose bought the land knowing it was zoned RA and obviously doesn't care how disruptive their mining would be to neighboring landowners. I have concerns about water rights. If there is a spring or a stream on my land, do I own that? Do I own that? Do I own that water? Does Carmoose own the water that seeps into their pits because they mined deep enough to reach it? Do they really have the right to sell it? Do I own everything from the surface of my property to the center of the earth? Because that's the feeling we're getting from them selling this water. I firmly believe the quarry is affecting water sources in the area, and if the county doesn't have a third party conduct a hydrogeologic survey, I feel things will only get worse. The gentleman, Carmoose, hired can't be the only expert. I can Google the subject and find more articles involving the detrimental effects of quarrying on water supplies than I can find articles touting the benefits. My husband and I received no survey regarding the issues with our well, although I believe that was the request the board made at the October 25th meeting. Were owners of other wells in the area surveyed? We've lived with the blasting plus the noise and light pollution for many years. If you approve this rezoning request, our community will experience the same issues for many more years to come. Eventually the new pit Carmoose mines will suck more water out of the ground and disrupt the lives of citizens and destroy wildlife habitats. Please don't allow that to happen. Keep the Stonewall District safe from more extractive mining. Thank you. Charlie Gardner followed by Dan Carter. Charlie Gardner, Stonewall District. Hey, just want to apologize. Last comment I made in the meeting. I may have been misinformed. I apologize to you about what I said. All right. Thank you. With that being said, you're welcome. Just want to sit here and say real quick, seeing as we're limited to three minutes, but the quarries had hours and hours and hours and hours of your time, so I might run over. But, um, it's long been known from geologists, whatever else, Brewstown is a big, huge underground lake. It's an aquifer. It's a big, huge underground lake. It's an aquifer. All right. I'm not going to sit here and tell you my well has run dry and it's been permanent dry, but I've had it run dry. Twenty years ago when I bought, four kids in house, two wife, or I'm sorry, wolf shit. One wife. Sorry, I'll get in trouble for that one. One wife, ten pets, everybody showers, whatever else, case machine, washing machine, whatever else. Never did my well run out. Now, me and my wife, two pets, my well, if I sit here and run it for a while, if I sit here and run it for any amount of time, it'll run dry. What I'm trying to say is what's wrong with my well is a recovery of my time. That means the aquifer has dropped. Why has the aquifer dropped? I don't think I have to explain that to you. All right. Another point I want to make, everybody in here that's been pro-quarry, pro-quarry, pro-quarry, name one of them that's not receiving some kind of monetary funds for what they're saying, including who's sitting in this room tonight. Right? We're not receiving anything. We're not getting anything. And another thing, the most biggest important thing, and this has to do with America. You're going to sit here and approve this. They're going to get all these proffers and everything else. They're going to have control of that land however they want. Right? What if they decide to sell it? What if China buys it? What are you going to do? Nothing. Because you done sold everything. You sold directly. You sold the rights. All for $3 million. One year's worth of funds for a lifetime mistake. Think about that. That's a serious situation. China in your backyard. This is America. When are we going to take care of America? It's time. Another thing, if we need water that bad, go build and dwell 20 wells. Put them in different locations in this county. You know what? You'll own them. Not car moose. Not somebody charging you or whatever else. It's a one-time fee. You will own those wells. You can do what you want with them. You don't have to worry about somebody else giving you threats, offering you money, whatever the case may be, and all that stuff. I ask you to deny this for what's right for this county, what's right for us citizens that live in that and have to deal with this every single day. But I can probably sit here and say, none of you on this board has been out there to see the problems we're dealing with. None of you who have been out there to look at the crack in the ground where Turkey Run runs in there and no longer goes to our property. Do all of us along there, along the property, have to get an attorney to go after you, to go after car moose? Do we have to do that? Where's our rights at? Thank you. Thank you. Dan Carter followed by Megan DeVries. Good evening, everybody. Thank you for letting me speak. My name is Dan Carter, and I own land off of Rest Church Road in the Stonewall District. This is going to be a little drinking from a fire hose, so bear with me. I'm coming to you as a landowner. I'm coming to you as someone who is a conservationist, as someone who is a hunter and a fisherman, and as someone who ran a blasting company for 10 years. I understand how quarries work. I understand ground vibration. I understand seismic reports. I understand stratification. I understand the angle of the strike for the limestone up and down 81. What I can't understand is the land that I own on Rest Church Road is also where Duncan Run erupts from the ground. The spring comes out of the ground on my property. For two years, it has not left my property. This year, my lake, which we excavated about 15 years ago, is down 10 feet. It's a 14-foot lake, 14-foot deep. I now have 4 feet of water. Like the previous gentleman said, where'd my water go? Like Miss, uh, I forgot your name. Yeah, Tina Bragg. Like she said, at this point, this is a natural resource that is on my land. The spring literally spurts out of a rock face on my land. At this point, right now, I'm in the middle of the spring. At this point, right now, the animals that I have on my property are struggling for water. Who do I go to? Do I go to Carmoose and go, hey, what happened to my water? Do I go to the Frederick County Water Authority and go, hey, where'd my water go? And how am I going to get it back? So, I would vote, I would recommend at least delaying the decision until further investigation is done with peer review. With verified surveys of local landowners and local people that live downstream from the headwaters. Because I'm concerned not only for me, but for my neighbors. What's happening to their animals? Has anybody else happened to come up and say, yeah, I live downstream from Duncan Run. It hasn't run for two years. I don't have a dam that's stopping it. It's not going off my land. The reason for that, as the first gentleman said, is an aquifer. It's the water tables. It's hydraulic pressure. That's why. Pretty simple. So, for that reason, I would recommend putting it off. Thank you. Thank you. Megan DeVries followed by Beth LaRusso. Megan DeVries, Stonewall District. We recently had a sinkhole in Clearbrook Park Lake, producing a visible vortex in the lake and draining the water. Where was the water from Clearbrook Lake going? Do dewatered quarries cause sinkholes? No. Given research around sinkholes includes distance to quarry as a contributing factor, the answer is yes. But how was the situation remediated? Well, the county was able to hire an engineer who had previously discovered a sinkhole in that same park years earlier. The engineer identified the sinkhole and filled it with chemicals to prevent further damage and drainage. Well, what should local citizens do when they discover that their water sources have gone dry? Many of them do not have enough money nor knowledge of whom to contact in order to hire an independent engineer to assess and rectify their situation. The citizens are complaining about their water now. But we're in the middle of a drought. So, how could it be a quarry pumping millions of gallons out of the water per day? Mm-hmm. Twenty-one and twenty-four years ago, during 2020, the water was still in the water. And twenty-one and twenty-four years ago, during 2002 and 1999, Frederick County was in a more severe drought than what we are in today. Just last year, though, what's really interesting and I sent you all is the USGS monitoring well closest to us in Berryville actually checked in at lower levels than what we currently have in that well today. Yet in our area, the springs and streams are being reported as dry. Why is that? What changed? Can the drought be the culprit when previously worse droughts did not show the same impact? A local farmer north of the existing quarry owns several farms here with previously very prolific water sources. For the first time in over 40 years, he has been lugging water to his cows for three consecutive months. He has never had to lug water more than three days. He was here during the droughts. But this year, in spite of the drought being recorded as less severe than those in the past, he has had to lug water continually. Why is that so? To Gainesboro District farmers lease land from a farmer in Stonewall District. Their livestock are also having to have water brought to them. What's happening in Stonewall? I'm sorry, I'm almost done. Go ahead. Lastly, there are the elderly. There are the elderly folks living at Branson Springs. I actually went to visit them. One of them has been there over 24 years. Never in the history of living there have they had their spring go dry. Their spring is their well. Their well is their livelihood. Their son is having the, well, her son is having to bring them water so they can remain at their house. What's different about this drought that their spring suddenly went dry? If we cannot 100% guarantee that Carmoose is not the reason for all of these water issues, then why don't we wait until the drought warning is completely gone and see if the springs and streams return or if the irreplaceable damage has already been done? If the latter, then we can confidently deny this rezoning request, knowing that we are not destroying the livelihoods of even more people, not to mention the water. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. LaRusso followed by Brenda Fristow. Ms. Hi, my name's Beth LaRusso. I'm your neighbor again. I'm back. I've lived in the area for 35 years. And I taught physical science for 10 years in Frederick County. I'm a Berkeley County resident and I'm here speaking on half of the area residents within the Stonewall district. The district is under construction. We're not the only residents. We're not the only residents. and just across the border I live five miles from the quarry my two springs are dry I would like the local people in attendance with water issues to please stand there are a few who are unable to attend so some of them are being represented by others and some don't even know about this meeting please stand this is a small fraction of the many who are currently being impacted as you've just heard the waters levels last year were lower in the USG monitoring wells than what's being recorded today please we cannot blindly approve this rezoning request without ensuring that the local pit dewatering you is not the cause of our citizens some of our citizens livelihood and our water thank you thank you Brenda Fristow followed by Andy Wright members of the board thank you for serving Brenda Fristow Stonewall District thank you I sent each of you several documents that I've been reviewing to determine how Middletown found itself in a dilemma which pits Middletown residents against Clearbrook residents clearly Carmoose has its own comprehensive plan long-range planning but the difference between Carmoose and Frederick County is a Carmoose does not waver they are vigilant to stay on course no matter what Carmoose is like a battleship that pushes anything that gets in its way to the side to reach their goals Frederick County unfortunately has proven over and over and over again with past approvals that the comprehensive plan is just a document that doesn't really steer the county as it is supposed to the vision mission core values rural community centers land use categories are all just something to appease the state of Virginia and really not a long-range planning document after all this is very sad let's compare and contrast the time and attention the board and planning commission gave to the Middletown residents versus the time given to the Clearbrook residents remember this rezoning package was just submitted in July and not brought before this board until September the Middletown review occurred over a period of one year Clearbrook residents should have the same careful vetting of the rezoning package now being considered we're in month two Middletown successfully mitigated careful careful placement of berms for Clearbrook no berm discussion yet Middletown one with hours of operation 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. Clearbrook has 24 7 Middletown one with lights out at night Clearbrook has lights on 24 7 the one key item that wasn't mitigated was the truck traffic the road trip to Clearbrook and the major road trips to Clearbrook in 2020 sadly this was missed but compare those 250 trucks a day with 400 proposed for Clearbrook if Clearbrook plant operated the same 16 hours a day 400 trucks means one truck every 2.4 minutes sharing the two lane road with Clearbrook Park families with children I'm almost yeah this alone should warrant a no to expansion I'm almost yeah this alone should warrant a no to expansion There is one huge issue that I can't compare with Middletown, and that is water. The water issue in Clearbrook needs to be researched thoroughly before any future discussion of this plan. I urge you to see clearly, adhere to the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, protect the health and safety of your citizens. Stop this madness, which does not bring one extra dollar or one new job to the future of our county. Car Moose is wreaking havoc on the south end, and they're wreaking havoc on the north end. Car Moose bought this land zoned RA. The future value of the 19 properties adjoining this RA land will bring in tax revenue. Let this land lay dormant forever. It'll do no harm. Please use your long-range plan and think of the future value of this area for the tax base. Thank you so much. Thank you. Andy. Right. Hello. My name is Andy. Right. Back Creek. I worked at Car Moose for 23 years. I left the company about five years ago, and I'm no longer affiliated with Car Moose in any way, shape, or form. Although I've stood here in the past representing Car Moose, tonight I'm here as a citizen of Frederick County. I started with Car Moose in 1998 as an electrician. Around 1999, I went to my plant manager, Joe Farrell, had a discussion with him about my future. Joe was excited to talk about my future with Car Moose and said he was willing to do anything to help me be successful. I told Joe that I'd like to pursue a degree in mechanical engineering. I was already a licensed electrician. Joe made me an offer I couldn't refuse. He offered to pay 100% for books, my tuition, and offered to work with me on my schedule should I have a conflict with any classes I take. Five years later and a whole lot of work, I couldn't refuse. I completed my degree, 100% paid for by Car Moose, and I'm not one of those folks that's out here with my handout expecting taxpayers to pay for my college debt. I soon moved into the role of project manager, a job I truly loved. I was with my newfound skills. I gained a tremendous amount of experience in the field. Because Car Moose is a global company, I was able to travel the world and see a lot of things that a lot of people never have the opportunity to. I managed projects that ranged from $20,000 to my largest project. Which was actually the Kiln Project in Winchester that was a tick over $100 million. Through those opportunities at Car Moose, I gained a tremendous amount of knowledge. As I grew older, I learned that knowledge is a skill set that must be acquired over time, often the hard way. It is the knowledge that is priceless. It is knowledge that opens doors of opportunity. I left Car Moose about five years ago. I had a great opportunity and it was just time for a change. However, I'm keenly aware that that opportunity was not enough. I'm not going to give up. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep going. And it was also an escort. VanpooSerview.com, to interactひ hours I need to make sure that my degrees umsal practice is accepted. Say I clean from a car and you start to just estoust you feel a lot of pressure that you need to actually get the work out of it. I would like to see a Carla ser e t on car. Going back to my Mom and Dad... I keep supporting her in makeshift But we need to keep in mind, you know, between the steering wheel and the seat of that truck, those dump trucks, most likely sets another citizen of this county that needs that truck to provide a living. So tonight I ask you that you approve this zoning request, do your duty, act in the best interest of the citizens of this county, do your duty, and give future generations the same opportunities I've had. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list that we have signed up. Is there anybody else that would like to speak on any issue that is on the agenda but not subject to a public hearing? Hearing none. We're going to have the consent agenda. Motion for that. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Is there a second? I'll second it. Discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. And that passes. Takes care of the consent agenda. Board of Supervisors comments? Are there any? Hearing none. Hearing none. County officials. Supervisor Slaughter has made a request for discussion of a hydrology report submitted to rezoning 03-23 for O.N. Materials, Carmoose. I believe we have Mr. Green on the line. Mrs. Slaughter? Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to introduce Jeff Green. Mr. Green is a groundwater hydrologist. He worked for the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. He worked for the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. He worked for the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. He has spent over a decade in the field of natural resources in Rochester, Minnesota from May 1990 to May 2021 on karst and groundwater issues in southeast Minnesota since 1990. His primary areas of emphasis are karst groundwater investigations, fluorescent dye tracing, spring hydrology investigations, and limestone and sandstone quarry hydrology. These efforts are done to provide technical assistance to local units of government, state government staff, and the citizens of Minnesota. He has designed and conducted more than 300 fluorescent dye traces for spring catchment, mapping and aquifer characterization in the Paleozoic bedrock of southeast Minnesota and elsewhere. He has an MS in Water Resources Management and a BS with distinction in Soil Scientists. He has a PhD here, too, and tastes herbal medicine.گс Isn't that interesting? from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and is licensed as a professional geologist by the state of Minnesota. Internationally, he has done groundwater investigations in the Andean foothills and Brazilian shield areas in Santa Cruz Department of Bolivia, and has done a water resource investigation for a clinic, school, church facility in Quijada District in Quina. He has been an invited speaker at conferences and events in Minnesota, the USA, and internationally. Mr. Green has also used his extensive field experience and Master of Science degree to teach many other geologists, including some from the USGS, who have worked in our area. It is my pleasure to have Mr. Green speak to us tonight. Thank you. Mr. Green, are you with us? Can you hear me? Yes. We can hear you just fine, sir. So if you could share your screen now. All right. I will do that right now. You see that? Yes, we certainly can, sir. Thank you. Mr. Varo, could that be blown up larger or not? Yes, it is. Okay, sir, you are on. All right. Thank you. My name is Jeff Green. As you have heard, I worked for the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources down here in southeast Minnesota from May of 1990 to May of 2021. One correction to what was said about me. I was a licensed professional geologist. Since I have retired from the DNR, I have also retired my professional geology licensure. What we will talk about tonight is an Aquarium Pit Impact Study that I led here in Minnesota from 2001 to 2005. Let's see here. Trying to get my PowerPoint to work. There we go. This is Minnesota off on the left. This is the Minnesota State Park. This is the Minnesota State Park. This is the Minnesota State Park. This is the Minnesota State Park. This is the Minnesota State Park. This is the Minnesota State Park. On the left, this is the Twin Cities area. Can you see my cursor moving on the screen? Yes, sir. All right, great. I actually live down here in Rochester, Minnesota, which is, it's claimed to fame as the Mayo Clinic. Southeast Minnesota is limestone and sandstone and shale country sedimentary rock. Big part of my job here was to work with local governments and to support local governments. I know that they were going to be a little bit more active and a little bit less active in a while. and provide technical assistance to staff and elected officials, provide that technical assistance in the area of groundwater. Like I said, I started that in 1990. And one of the questions I got quite often was from local officials about the impacts of limestone quarries and gravel pits, because as you could hear the testimony tonight, that's a big issue. It's a big issue here and it's a big issue there. So I kept getting asked those questions. I looked for literature on the subject, found very little, and was able to get a grant from our Environment and Natural Resources Trust Fund to investigate quarry and pit impacts. Now, quarries and pits can lower local groundwater and surface water levels. They can affect turbidity in the groundwater and wells. As you take the rock away, that can change the direction of groundwater flow and you can also have thermal impacts in springs and streams. This is one of our sites. It's in the south side of the Twin Cities, Minneapolis-St. Paul. This is the Minnesota River flowing on its way to join the Mississippi. These blue lines are the groundwater elevations prior to my visit. This is the quarry right here. Groundwater before mining was flowing through the limestone and discharging into the Minnesota River. They started mining, and I'll ask you to look at this contour, 730 feet in this little patch of woods here. This is a few hundred feet from the quarry. This is that same spot when we started measuring drawdown back in the early 2000s, and you can see that this is the same spot. You can see that elevation was 680 feet above mean sea level, so the groundwater elevations dropped about 50 feet when you got around 300 or 400 feet from the quarry. There are these very steep groundwater level declines around the quarry, which is something we saw here and at two other sites. At that same site, the Kramer Quarry, we also looked at turbidity impacts in our observation wells that we had drilled next to the quarries. It was one of the things quarries can do, or it's alleged and been found to be true also, that when blasting is done, it will cause turbidity in people's wells. So we looked for that. We put our wells in, and we monitored turbidity, and this shows you the turbidity units, and here's a blast, and nothing changed. So we did not find impacts on well turbidity in our study, and the reason we think that's the case is because the wells were new, and they didn't really have time for precipitate from the water to get onto the casings and the pumps and pipes in the well, so there was nothing really to shake to show what was going on. So we do look for that in that well with turbidity. This is another site south of Rochester. It's called the Big Spring Quarry, just kind of an aside. Minnesota is the land of 10,000 lakes. Well, southeast Minnesota doesn't have any lakes, but we have the Big Spring, which is probably similar to western Virginia, and we have multiple big springs, and up in this area was the Harmony Big Spring, and back in the early 1960s, this quarry that had been operating since at least the 1940s broke into the conduits, the joints that were carrying water through the landscape up here to the big spring. And you can see there's a pond now in the quarry and the spring actually started flowing in the quarry. I went to this farmhouse, the farmhouse at the big spring in the early 1990s, and the farmer answered the door and I told him I worked for the Department of Natural Resources and was hoping I could get to look at his spring and check it for fluorescent dye when we did dye tracing in the area. And he would not let me on his property. He was still angry that 30 years earlier no one had done anything about the quarry interrupting his spring flow. Of course, you know, I was like seven years old. There was nothing I was going to do. And. There's really nothing you can do once you disrupt a spring flow like that where it's coming in the quarry. There's really no good way or efficient way or even reliable way to stop it. It's once it happens, it happens. And what we found in our research project as we were looking at this was that this light blue area here, about 90% of the area that used to go straight to this spring, now comes out in the quarry. The water is exposed to mining operations to dust, rock, flower, and water flows on the surface and gets warmed up. And that causes a big impact in this stream that used to start at the big spring, like I said, now starts in the quarry. This is a state designated trout stream. And we folks in Minnesota love our trout. We love our trout streams. And this has had a negative impact on the stream. One of the other things we saw from the interruption of the groundwater flow that is now coming in the quarry, we looked at temperature impacts. Our groundwater here, because we're north and it's cold, a good chunk of the year, our groundwater temperature is about 48 degrees. And the, where the water comes out in the quarry now, we measured that in mid July, 2003, and it was that water was 48.7 degrees. In the pond, it had warmed up to almost 72 degrees. And when it came out of the big spring, it was up to 56 and a half degrees already. And as it left the quarry, it was 65 and a half. And that's getting pretty warm for trout. I mean, 56 and a half degrees. 66 is still okay. 65 is okay, but it's really pushing the limits of what you want to see in a stream. That's going to warm with sunlight as it flows. So that's an impact that we found also. A summary of all what we saw was that these two limestone quarries, this is the one I talked about first. We saw the same thing, steep declines in the aquifer, for water levels around the quarries, which is what we expected. And then we saw no impacts on well turbidity. This quarry called the Spindler quarry, which I did not show you a photo of, that's west of Rochester. They actually changed the levels of the aquifer and the sand above the limestone. That used to be the highest level aquifer and then limestone water levels are below that. It actually flipped. The watering changed that. And it also caused the river near the quarry to start sending groundwater flow, start losing flow into the groundwater. And it was going to the quarry instead of water flowing into the river. We did check another quarry. This is at the Fountain, Big Spring. We looked at turbidity in the spring. We looked at impacts from blasting and saw it didn't really see much there. And the last site we looked at is the one that I was just talking about, the Big Spring quarry, where we saw that the water was now coming out in the quarry instead of coming out in the spring. And we saw significant temperature increases as well. I know one of the things that's been, one of the comments that's been made about this study that my colleagues did is that sedimentary rocks, here, are relatively flat lying. And where you folks are, they are folded. And that's true. That's absolutely true. There is a difference. However, the way water flows through limestone, whether it's folded or flat, is it's flowing through the fractures, the joints, the conduits, things that have been enlarged by the acidic groundwater. It flows that way regardless of whether the limestone's flat or folded. Folding does. It does make things more complex. This is the spring complex, the Fountain Big Spring and a couple other ones. And we did a bunch of dye tracing. Again, this is the headwater. It's the start of a trout stream. And we were dye tracing to try to determine the groundwater supply area, the spring shed, we call it, for these springs. These points are all sinkholes where we, red Xs are sinkholes. And these points are sinkholes we pour dye into. And you can see up here, we poured dye into a sinkhole and it went all the way down here. And this is a, there's a trough in the bedrock here. And it went into that and came up with a spring. This spring and this spring are much closer to this sinkhole. And these are both, those are both springs that are limestone springs. They turn muddy after rainstorms. They're good size springs. We were not at all, you know, not at all expecting the dye to come out here, but it followed that trough in the bedrock, which illustrates that, yeah, when things are folded, they get even more complex. We were not really expecting the dye to come out here, but that folding made it more challenging to determine what was going on. As I read through the report about this site, it was noted that, you know, there hasn't been a lot of reports about springs going dry. Although what I just heard from the citizen testimony seems to contradict that this is a spring on the upper Iowa river, which actually upper Iowa starts in Minnesota, go figure. But we're going to be pouring dye into the, into this sinkhole along the road. And I had been at this spring. It was flowing nicely, in fact while I was there, I was there, a local resident who was about 85 years old stopped to see what I was doing. And he told me about the spring. And when he had been a young man, he drank water out of it as he was going to town to go to dances and things. And he never said anything about the spring ever going dry. So the spring was slowing. I came back a week later and the spring was gone. It was dry. And I couldn't figure out what happened. Well, I went to this quarry. This is a limestone quarry. It's about 1,000 feet away. And it had been flooded like it is now when the spring was flowing. But in the interim, the company wanted to start mining again, so they dewatered it. So when we poured our dye, all the dye and the groundwater flow was going into the springs. And this is just a representation. There were multiple springs in the quarry. It went to the quarry instead. No one ever said anything about this spring being dry. Not to the height of the spring. Not to the height of the spring. I talked to hydrologists with my agency, not to the local park staff, fisheries biologists, county citizens, or anybody. So we never knew. So these things can happen, and you don't know they're there. This is just a few observations on this proposal. And one of the things that I read in the report about it is that the groundwater surface is going to be 300 feet below the land surface in the new quarry. One thing I didn't see mentioned or addressed was the idea that this could, in fact, pull any kind of contaminants, nitrates, pathogens that might be in the limestone aquifer would pull those deeper into the aquifer. You know, this new quarry is going to be a 75-acre well, essentially. Didn't see anything about thermal impacts from the quarries on springs and streams. And I don't know if that's an issue there. I don't know if... Here, when quarries are dewatered, generally they dump the water back into whatever stream is near the quarry. They aren't typically used for water supply. So I don't know if that's an issue where you folks are, but it is here. When the water warms in the quarries, it warms the streams. I also noted that there's well construction information lacking for the wells. There's like 50-plus wells in the mile. And I have... There's like a half around the quarry. That would be good information to have. And I already addressed this thing about, you know, widespread impacts. And, you know, as they said in the report, if there were widespread impacts, you would think you would know about it by now, but that doesn't mean there haven't been any impacts. And the last thing I want to mention is when I did this study, some people in the mining industry and in my own agency, were on my case saying I was anti-mining because I was focusing on quarries and pits that were very likely having an impact and not doing like a random sample. So they thought I was anti-mining. Once I got the study done and we started applying it, I had citizens saying I was pro-mining because when we did this study, we didn't look at other mining impacts, including things like effect on price, property values, and, you know, future land use, traffic issues, dust, noise, quality of life. You know, I didn't look at any of those. And they're significant. They're significant in Minnesota. They're significant in Virginia. But I didn't look at those because that's not what I know. That's not what I do. So this allegation that I was pro-mining because of that was simply not true. So we didn't talk about those things because, the guy who worked with me on the study were groundwater hydrologists. We're not, you know, we're not trained in any of those areas. So that's about it. I think I'm at my 15 minutes or maybe a few more. And thank you for allowing me to present this work. And I understand there's going to be some questions. So thanks again. Thank you, Mr. Green. Thank you, Dr. Green. Does, do board members have any questions? Do you have any questions for Mr. Green? Mr. Chairman, I do have about 15 questions. I'd like someone else to get their questions first. And then I'm going to hit him up because I've got a lot. With all due respect, I didn't tell Mr. Green that you'd be asking him 15 questions. I was trying to prepare him. Ms. Slaughter. Thank you, Mr. Dunn. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Green, in your presentation, am I to understand you to say that a quarry operation of this size and operating at this depth could cause contamination in the aquifer and local wells? Did I hear you correctly? What I meant to say, maybe I didn't say it quite right, is that when you are lowering quarries themselves, my experience has been as long as they're run cleanly, in terms of groundwater quality impacts. The. The. The. Generally don't have significant groundwater quality impacts. But when you lower the water table in the limestone, if there are contaminants in the aquifer, you're dropping the water level, you can pull those contaminants down, down deeper into the aquifer. Whether it's limestone or whether it's sand and gravel, you can pull those contaminants down. If they are present. Assuming your area is like here, where we've got thin soils, which less than 50 feet of material of limestone, where we have that, we have high nitrates and we have bacteria and viruses in the groundwater. So when you lower the water level and the, and the, when you drop the water level from pumping, you pull those down. I'm assuming that it's similar there, there with nitrates and pathogens. And the limestone. Does that make sense? It does, sir. I guess, lastly, I would ask you though, based on what you just said, would a hydrologist be able to inform the community whether we would have those impacts as far as contamination and such, if they did a thorough investigation of, of, of our community? Well, you'd have to go out and sample people's wells, particularly wells that you know the construction of, so you know what aquifer they're in. If you did that and noted where those wells were, yeah, you, you know, if you had somebody trained in groundwater hydrology or hydrogeology doing that, yeah, they could figure out the potential for that. Yeah. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Green. Before I get to Mr. Graber. Mr. Graber. Mr. Green, thank you for sharing with us this evening. I have a couple things for you, multiple questions, so we'll just get started. The first question is, is have you ever studied quarries here in the Shenandoah Valley, in any format of the Shenandoah Valley? Because there's a lot of rock quarries here in obviously Winchester area, but it stems on down through Shenandoah County. Rockingham County goes down through where there's quite a few limestone quarries in Shenandoah Valley. And as you alluded to in your presentation, we have folded stone here compared to flatstone where you're from. Have you ever done any specific studies here in the Valley that would help determine your presentation this evening? Um, I have not worked in the Shenandoah Valley. I have worked in folded sedimentary rocks and several sites in Bolivia doing water and, you know, water mining. Right? Right. resource investigations for work I did with a small U.S. mission agency. So I have worked in folded strata before. I have not worked in the Shenandoah Valley. How would the geology compare if we're looking at Minnesota versus Virginia? I heard you talk about the sand on top. Most of our dirt, our subsurface, our top layers are clay or other matters and not normally sand. How would those two changes, how would that change how the water would flow? With the different soils being something other than sand that you are used to? Well, that comment about sand was actually for one site that's west of here, about west of where I live, about 40 miles. We also have clays and filts in our soils above the limestones. So that's actually, it's pretty similar to what, you know, you're telling me is there. I'm kind of drawing a blank on the rest of your question, actually. I mean, it's, limestone is limestone. And the way the water flows through it, through the joints and the fractures and the conduits that have been enlarged by the acidic groundwater, water flows through limestone versus whether it's folded or flat. So it's the same. The folding does make things more complex and it really does control, has a real strong control on the way that, you know, the direction the water moves. And when you, like when you dewater a quarry, it really helps control the shape of the drawdown around the quarry, making it more like oblong and not a circle around where you're dewatering. So I'd like to ask you, two additional, well, many additional questions, but two of these are going to relate to themselves. When you were answering Supervisor Slaughter's question about the groundwater quality that you haven't seen it impacted unless it finds other contaminants, as you said, stated drops. What if I told you that there's currently a pit of 300 feet where the current quarry is, however, there are wells within a third of a mile radius that are 140 and 170 foot deep that have not been affected. How would you answer that? Um, as it doesn't appear that this quarry is maybe affecting some of those wells that are within that quarter mile, third mile radius that are significantly more shallow than what this pit is. In fact, some of the pit is double the depth of some of these wells that have not been affected. Is there a way to answer that? Well, yeah. Um, I mean, there's, there's two different things you're talking about. There is the water level in the well, but what I was, what the Supervisor Slaughter, sorry, I try not to call you commissioners. We have county commissioners here in Minnesota. Um, Supervisor Slaughter, what she was getting clarification on was the thought that when you are lowering the water table like that, if there are contaminants in the, in the aquifer, in the limestone, you're dropping that water table. And so those contaminants will be pulled deeper. Um, that doesn't say anything about the level in the wells that you're referencing. I am. I saw that I am, I saw that part of the study and I'm familiar with that and I'm no way would dispute that. Uh, that's what the hydrogeologist found and that's good enough for me. But, so Mr. Green, just for, just for clarification, you understand then that what you saw in the report of the well water staying, would that be any indication then that that groundwater is not being affected if that well water is 140 feet or 170 feet and the pits currently 300 feet as you just alluded to in the hydrology study that was presented, presented to us, would that not indicate that the groundwater is maintaining is, is not being affected by the quarry if those wells have maintained? So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, what, the fact that the levels are where they are, that does not at all address the question of whether or not, if, if there are contaminants, if there are nitrates and bacteria in the limestone, the levels of those wells does not indicate, anything about the quality of the water. That's a separate question. So Mr. Green, I'm not asking about the quality of the water. I am asking about the water's depth. Those wells are 140 and 170 feet deep. If I've got a pit that's 300 feet deep and it's within a quarter mile of those wells and we're not seeing an effect on those wells, is it reasonable to expect that the water level is being maintained even though the quarrying operation is going on? If the groundwater was being affected, would it not affect those wells? Yes or no? So again, you're talking about the level evidence from what you're quoting. Apparently not drawing those wells down to that level. No, that's true. It's not. But again, that doesn't address water quality. I'm not asking about water quality. I think you're missing the boat here, my friend. So let me ask you another question about water quantity then while we're on that subject. There is a entity that pulls water from these quarries. If these quarries were allowed to go static, meaning allowed to fill to whatever the static level was in the quarry, whether that's 50 feet from the top, whether that's 100 feet from the top, how does that affect the groundwater? But it's not under it? You're asking that for ... It depends on how thick the formation is that the quarry would be in. I don't know ... I'm assuming that water comes in to those quarries, some of it's coming in and then going out to the springs and streams, some of that down, you know. So, I'm beginning to think that a say it's leading up to song Should the Poison Sod is called? A springs and streams. So, you know, if the quarry fills up with water, that's going to reflect where the water table is. So my question to you is, if there's an entity that's pulling a million, two million, three million gallons of water a day out of those quarries, would that affect the residents surrounding it? Potentially. Very good. I've got another question for you. The groundwater as it moves through limestone is vastly different than as it moves through shale. Would you agree with me on that? I'm not sure what you mean by vastly different. If I drill a well in a limestone rock, or if I drill a well in sandstone or in shale, the water is going to flow significantly differently. Correct? The flow patterns? Yeah, the water in the line. Well, not necessarily. What we have seen here, and I've seen it elsewhere, is that water is flowing, even in sandstone, water is flowing through the joints and the fractures predominantly. That's what we've been seeing. Mr. Green? Mr. Green, I appreciate your input. I've talked with a few folks here locally, and where you are in Minnesota, that may very well be true. Where we are here in the Shenandoah Valley, it is significantly different with shale and with limestone. So I have to question a little bit your understanding of the limestone that we're dealing with here. Just one last question. May I ask you who... Excuse me. Can I ask you a question? Sir. What do you mean by... You're just talking about... Water quality from limestone and shale? No, sir. I'm not talking about quality at all. I'm talking quantity. I'm talking volumes. And movement therein. Okay. Well, yeah, I mean, again, we have shales here that are heavily fractured, and water moves through them similar to limestone. We also have some shales here that are very tight, that no... It doesn't move through the same. So it's not a... I mean, the answer is it depends on what rock you're moving through. I read some of the things about the Martinsburg Shale, and it sounds... The Martinsburg Formation, it sounds like water is, in fact, moving through fractures to some extent. Last question. May I ask who contacted you to provide the presentation this evening? Why is... I guess I'm not sure if I need to answer that or not, actually. I'd like to know if there's a conflict of interest, my friend. I'd simply like to know who asked you to speak this evening. I don't think it's a question out of the way. Some local residents of your county contacted me, asked me questions. So, yeah, some people from your county... No, no, I did not. No. There were citizens. Mr. Chairman, point of order. So you had some citizens of the county contact you. Is that what I understand? Yeah. Okay, very well. Thank you kindly. No more questions. All right. All right. Where'd you get your question? Thank you. Are they sending their questions to you? No. Okay. Mr. Chairman, point of order. Mr. Green, you're welcome to stay on this call. Mr. Sire, you can go up. Do you know what he wants to do? Mr. Green, you can drop off the call now if you would like, or you can stay on. Which would you prefer, sir? Mr. Green? Oh, sorry. Yes. You can stay on the call, or you can drop off now, sir. We're going to move on with the meeting. All right. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next item of business is an update on the Laurel Ridge Community Center. Mr. Ballhoffer, I believe you have some comments. Hold on. Mr. Green, if you can stop sharing now as well. Yeah, I'm trying to do that. Mr. Varner, we'll let you solve that problem first. All right. My apologies. No problem, Mr. Green. Thank you. Let's see. Oh, here we go. Stop. There you are, sir. All right. Thank you. And you're free to leave the meeting if you wish. You good, Mr. Varner? Okay. Mr. Ballhoffer? Yes. A couple of meetings ago, I brought to this board the proposal to work with the Educational Foundation to provide scholarships to students to go to Laurel Ridge. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Community College. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And at that point, members of the board had asked me to look into also expanding those scholarships to go to students of home schools and private schools, et cetera. So subsequent to that meeting, I went and started doing some research, and I found out it's a little bit more complicated and a little bit trickier than I thought it was going to be. For instance, I started looking first at homeschooling, and you have two different groups of homeschooling. You have what they call, through the state of Virginia, your non-religious exemption, homeschooling, and then you have your religious exemption homeschooling. And the non-religious exemption homeschooling, I think they actually go through the public schools. They're real easier to deal with. And the religious exemption homeschooling, they don't have the same way to track them as such. I also contacted one of the large organizations for homeschooling. It's called the Homeschool Legal Defense Association. They're a national organization. They're also a state organization. So I started working with them so they could help me out, and then moving forward with this endeavor. I also contacted some private schools and discussed with them how to move forward trying to provide scholarships. What I found is, to provide scholarships for these different organizations can be done. It's just a little bit more difficult. The Education Foundation, that's not their mission. So it will take a little bit of time to do this. I think there's . This is not about providing funding to private schools. This is about providing funding to our residents. So they can provide scholarships. So they can go to the community college, which is the goal of this thing. So that part is easy from a philosophical standpoint. The difficult part is when you get to logistics. So one, it would take some work to move forward with this. I think, one, I need to meet with the private schools, put together a group of people, and also the different groups with the homeschoolers to move forward and find a way to solve all the logistical problems and the criteria problems. It may indeed take work. And to create a separate not-for-profit to do this. To manage these scholarships. I'm not sure yet, because I haven't got that far along in this endeavor. I think it will be a time-consuming process. So from a staff perspective, one of the things we've looked at is possibly moving forward this year with the educational grants through the Educational Foundation. As you know, they provide the grants 100% to all the students. There is no cost administration. And in the meantime, working for next budget year, find a system, a methodology, or a way to distribute those scholarships to the community. Thank you. If we can, at night. That'd be great. Okay. Thank you. All right. No problem with pitch, cier nah can any of you all even speak up for a little bit about that. Yeah. We definitely speak up for church results and there might be some good chances in the future. We really should because we'll podemg be in listen item. This is absolutely a great problem. Interestingly, when you know 17estänh Jasmine. I'm putting in sitztrorz interactive things through by about a third. as soon as we have the information and the methodology to do the same thing with the private schools and the home schools, it may be two different organizations, it may be one organization that can do it all. So basically Mr. Administrator, if we were to do something for the public schools, which is what we had, we have to do it before tomorrow. Correct? Yeah, that's to get them into, I guess, think into the January terms and the spring terms and that runs out. And then the second question is approximately how much time would you need to be able to pull in everything else that we were looking at for a ballpark timeframe? I'm not sure. I would think it could take a few months. I mean, just for the information, finding out the information, then if it comes down to you have to create a not-for-profit or a not-for-profit, that could take more time. I've never done this before. So a lot of this is new territory. I think we're seeing now in today's world, you're seeing more and more people go to private schools, more and more people go into homeschooling. So it's a interesting endeavor. Do any supervisors have any questions for Mr. Ballhoffer? Go ahead. Mr. Ballhoffer, just a quick question. I appreciate the work you've done. If we go forward with this, you feel reasonably comfortable that we can get this done this year with the plan that you've presented just for the public school students and execute it? The public schools absolutely could be done this year without any issue. And as I said, going through the educational foundation, there is no cost. So 100% of the funding goes to prospective students. Thank you very much for your work and efforts. So is there a question? Is there a consensus on the board or just going forward as we discussed before? I think we can move forward with the educational foundation this time and then we have the research study and come back. Okay. We have a consensus. My feeling. Mr. Chairman. Okay, so we have a consensus. We'll go forward with that. Is there anything else on this issue? No, Mr. Minister. Then. I'm good. All right. Next item is appointment to boards, committees. This is an information item for the public that there is a vacancy on the Northwestern Community Services Board for information about that board and a link. There's a, you can go to the website and download and see that information. We have no committee reports. We have no public hearings. Next item is a planning commission business, a public hearing for rezoning 04-23 of Dover Hill Crossing. Good evening, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the board. This is rezoning application 04-23 for the Dover Hill Crossing 2 application. And this is a proposal to rezone approximately 4.75 acres of property that's presently zoned RA rural areas to our RP residential performance district with proffers. By enabling this, or rather approving this rezoning, you would enable the development of 25 or more single family attached townhome units. The subject properties in the Redbud, Magisterial District, and it's south of the signalized intersection of Sunciny Road and Channing Drive. Many of you are familiar with this, but for your orientation, the subject property is outlined in blue. Sunciny Road forms the northern property boundary, and here is that signalized intersection with Channing Drive, which is currently a three-way intersection. And then you have Sunset Drive just here to the east. What does the comprehensive plan say about this property? It is identified on our long range plan as part of the Greenwood Urban Center, which is envisioned as a large, urban, residential, residential, and residential area. It's envisioned to be a mixed use community that's walkable, architecturally distinctive, and promotes urban living. The residential densities in the core area of this urban center are envisioned to be 12 to 16 dwelling units per acre and tapering off to six dwelling units per acre on the perimeter. For your orientation, again, this is the Greenwood Urban Center as it's shown on our comprehensive plan. The subject property actually is on the perimeter of that urban center, shown here with the star. And the urban center is this kind of brown and red hatching here. It extends from Cincinnati Road to the south, to Sulphur Springs Road, and ultimately to Route 522, which you can see from the map. Staff notes that the proposed rezoning does not include the mix of uses envisioned by the urban center land use designation or comprehensive plan, but the rezoning may otherwise be appropriate given the relatively small scale of the project and the ability of the project to be connected in the future. That's the reason we're doing it. And we're also looking at the future to a larger, more integrated and mixed use development if other parcels in the vicinity develop as envisioned by the comprehensive plan. The plan also identifies a new major collector roadway bisecting the subject property. This would be your extension of Channing Drive, which runs south from the intersection with Cincinnati Road across the subject property towards Sulphur Springs Road and ultimately Route 50. And paralleling that major collector roadway is a multi-use trail that's also shown on the plan. And this is again a map that staff has prepared showing the subject property in blue, the urban center designation again is that dotted hatching. The extension of Channing Drive is the new major collector roadway is shown in the blue hatch line and then the multi-use trail is the green line for your orientation. Again, you can see this parcel is on the fringe of the urban center as envisioned in our plan. When considering residential rezonings, the board, as I said, is going to be looking at the plan as a whole. So we're going to be looking at the plan as a whole. The board, the county has a tool known as the Capital Impact Model or CAPM, which is a tool the county utilizes when considering land use policy decisions and rezoning application. You all will be quite familiar with this model. You last updated it actually, in fact, in October of 2023. And when evaluating capital costs for new residential development, the county projects the per unit costs through this model. Staff would note that at the time that the model was first ran, the numbers were slightly higher than they are today, reflecting that change in the adopted Capital Impact Model. I can speak to those changes in subsequent slides. So this is our Capital Impact Model. It's a tool, again, that the county has a subscription with, with Tischler-Bice. Within that tool, you're enabled to put in various inputs that output what that capital cost is. So starting on the left-hand side of your screen, we fill out various service areas, noting that this is an urban service area. We identify what schools would be served by the development. For the case of the Dover Hill Crossing project, you're looking at Evendale Elementary School, Admiral Byrd Middle School, and Millbrook High School. We also input the Fire and Rescue Station service area, the library, and the park service areas, which is all urban. Then we put in the number of units. In this case, 25 was the baseline number of units the application was proposing, and it spits out a table that shows that capital cost, and I'll zoom in on that screen. Staff would note that the capital cost to the county per unit is estimated in this model to be approximately $9,912. And this is your total, so you have your infrastructure category, schools, parks and recreation, sheriff, fire, animal protection, libraries, general government, courts, environmental services, and then you have, the next table is your full capital impact, which is just the cost that assumes new development throughout the county, and then your capacity triggered is that service area trigger, and assumes what the cost is for the services that are triggered by this development in that area of the county. So that's the first table. Staff would note that the state code is limits what proper categories we can collect funding in, and that's gonna be those that are shown in yellow at the top of the screen. So that is gonna be your schools, parks and recreation, your sheriff, your fire, and so forth. And then at the bottom of your screen is a per unit breakdown. So again, that cash proper categories that we can collect as enabled by state code, $9,912. So the applicant has proposed a per unit contribution, assuming the inputs on these model, and they are proffering approximately $11,504, which staff would note is an excess of what the capital impact model projects for a project total of approximately $287,600 to offset capital costs. And staff has provided a table showing that comparison. You have your capital impact model projection here, and the per unit cost, and their proffered monetary contribution. Speaking to my earlier comment about the change, the biggest change in this area of the county, as a result of your most recent adoption of the model is pertains to the Greenwood Fire and Rescue Station. They completed a fairly significant renovation and you can see that per unit cost actually went down from approximately $900 to $39 per unit. So that was a significant change in the model reflecting the capital impact program and other capacity triggers from the schools and things like that. So that's where you see that drop in the per unit cost, but the applicant did exceed that per unit cost recognizing their impact. So in addition to those monetary proffers that the applicant has proposed per unit, they've agreed to limit the total number of townhomes to 25 on Land Bay A and limit potential future development on Land Bay B. They did not specify a number of units and they did agree to prohibit multifamily development in both land bays on the subject property. They've also agreed to a construction of a two lane extension of Channing Drive south of Cincinnati Road and terminating at their southern property boundary to serve as a two lane extension to access to the development. And they're also proposing to reserve future right of way for that ultimate four lane urban section of Channing Drive with the multi-use trail. And they are providing inter parcel connection to properties to the south should development occur in the future. Again, addressing those comprehensive plan conformity statements that I made earlier in the presentation. This is their generalized development plan. Again, for your orientation, this is Cincinnati Road forming the northern property boundary. This is Land Bay A, where they intend to develop 25 single family attached townhome units. This section here is your two lane section of Channing Drive that the applicant proposes to construct to serve and enable access to their development. And the future right of way is shown in the full width there and the multi-use trail on the dotted line here. And this is Land Bay B, which is that residual parcel, which the applicant intends to leave open for development in the future. But again, it's not specified what that may look like, but it is not going to be multifamily. We do know that. And then there's also this future inter parcel connection, which is noted here. Apologies for the quality, loses a little bit when you zoom it, enlarge it. So there are no outstanding issues from the agency comments that are unresolved at this point. And the proffer statement is in a form that is acceptable to the County Attorney this evening. The Planning Commission did hold a public hearing on this rezoning application on October the 4th, and they unanimously recommended approval. Staff is seeking the decision by the board this evening, on this proposed rezoning. Mr. Ken Dondero, who is the property owner and the applicant is here this evening. And I believe he's prepared a few remarks as well. Thank you. Board members, do you have any questions for the staff? I do. Mrs. Slaughter. Just for clarity, this application and request for the 25 additional town units, is it in compliance with our comprehensive plan? It is. And land use plan? As I stated earlier, the Greenwood Urban Center envisions a more fully integrated community. This is a very small piece of that. So we believe that given its ability to be connected to a larger development in the future, it may otherwise be appropriate. But in this most stringent interpretation of the comprehensive plan, no, it does not meet the comprehensive plan. Thank you, sir. Mr. Kramer. Mr. Klein, just a question. I saw your numbers. If you could go back a couple of slides to the comparison near the 9,011, there you go. That's simply what they're willing to proffer. The true cost of these is about 26,000 a year to carry them. Is that not correct? You're referring to the capacity triggered amount or the full capital impact amount. Yes. The capacity trigger is driven by the service areas. And as you're well aware, the state code only allows us to collect those monetary proffers and categories that are directly attributable to the development. So true cost though to service these a year is gonna cost the county somewhere around 675,000, would it not? Based on the model output, yes. Yes, that would be correct. Okay. So the county taxpayer, just want the folks who are watching online and folks in this room and the rest of our board to know, we are accepting $11,000 if we go forward with this and we're gonna be spent per unit and we will be spending in excess of $675,000 to service these every year. The math doesn't add up. It doesn't make sense to me. Mr. Chairman. Is that right? It's a one-time capital cost. That's correct. So not annually. Okay. So we're still about 16,000, 15,000 upside down. Is that what I'm understanding? Yes, potentially the difference between the full capital impact figure and what is allowed under state code under capacity trigger, but no, it contemplates a one-time capital cost. Okay. So at 15,000 for these units, it's 150,000 per 10, it'd be 300,000. That'd be what, roughly 400, just 375, 400,000. We're asking the taxpayers of this county to supplement the services needed for this county. We're asking the taxpayers of this community to the tune of almost $400,000. It just doesn't make any sense to me, but I appreciate you showing us the math. Thank you so very much. Anybody else have any questions? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mr. Chairman. Let's see, can you show us the map? One of the early charts for the Greenwood Urban Center? Yes, sir. So that's extremely close to my home, so I feel comfortable thinking about this out loud just for a second. So people will note that the red row, the road coming on the bottom left quadrant is 522 coming from roughly Costco down south, headed toward Clark County. And then the green road headed right at the bottom of the map, that's Sulphur Springs, which goes to the landfill. So it's quite lightly populated now. Could I ask a couple of questions? One is that the westernmost edge of the urban center designation, that is, that, in, really, the green road there? I believe so, yes. This is actually, it's mislabeled, it's not 522, this is Route 50. Yeah, I'm sorry. This is future cover, so here's Inverleigh. 522 goes south. I misspoke as well reading that. Yeah, that's 50. So, so that, so some of those homes are already built, right? Inside that urban center, the new development that's been put there, could you show that? This is the existing, this is that area you're referring to. This area is mostly, you know, the urban center. This area is mostly unimproved. It's just agricultural land, open space. Okay, so the roads, so if you go to the end of Inverleigh and you turn to the right, that's the new development of homes that are a little bit tighter together than the homes in the Ravens to the west. You're right, that's Raven Oaks, yes, yes sir. That would be, it's right on the, it's on the east side of Inverleigh, and then again, this development is indicated here with the star. Right. So the comprehensive plan envisions an increasing density of homes as you travel to the east there. How do we envision getting traffic in and out since City Road is pretty tight as it is now, in the far future, at the end of this urban center? What solutions do we have in mind? So the most notable one which impacts this development is Channing Drive Extended, which runs from the south across the subject property to the south all the way to Sulphur Springs Road, and then it ultimately goes south of Sulphur Springs Road and connects with Route 50. There's also another minor collector roadway. I don't believe it has a, I can't recall the name of the top, but it would be the extension of Inverleigh up to Cincinnati Road, and then there's a planned road that's indicated here, which is kind of lost under the Greenwood label that would connect what is now Inverleigh and what will be future Channing Drive. So you have a network to circumvent traffic around Cincinnati Road, ultimately, but again, it's not part of this application. So the one option running north, continuing north, continuing Inverleigh to Cincinnati, the county tried to do that before, but the landowner blocked that and didn't want to sell, right, so we don't have an option right now to do that. I'm not aware of that project, I apologize. That's all right. I know just because I live near there, and so I know the history of the, so I don't know what the chances are of bringing that to fruition maybe sometime down the road. And then the road that runs east through the middle of the urban center, is that the same farm, the same property owner, or is that something we have a little more, we haven't explored yet? I don't have the information on those properties. Okay, so. There are a number of property owners here. There are some large tracts, but there are also a number of small tracts, so. I realize a lot of it is not very well developed right now. So one advantage to this proffer is that it begins the extension of Channing Road towards Sulphur Springs. About what I know ultimately would go to 50, but once it reached Sulphur Springs, it would be, I don't know, I don't know if it's gonna be a lot of work. But I think that there's a lot of work to be done to get it extended. So if we're looking at the Sulfur Springs, that's definitely a solution, or a partial solution at least to Inverley not being able to be extended. We're always looking for north-south routes that parallel I-81. And that would be a partial solution it seems. What percentage of the road down to Sulphur Springs roughly do you think that looks like? It's a very small percentage. When you look at this scale, you're talking about, not even the length of the star. So it's a start obviously, it would, you know. It begins it. It begins it, but it doesn't, it's not gonna make that whole cut through. Do you know what the priority is in any of our plans, how that ranks getting that road continued? I have to defer to Mr. Bishop. I apologize, I don't have memorized where it fits in the rankings on your capital improvement plan, but if you'll allow me to rewind a bit, I can go back. I can confirm your statement regarding Inverley that the Ambrose farm there at this time can continue to be unwilling to sell. While that remains on your comprehensive plan, it's difficult to say when that could happen. I'll be blunt and say it should happen sooner than later, but that's a future decision. Regarding your questions about the east-west proper, the east-west connection. That doesn't go across Ambrose, but I also can't necessarily, quote who does own those properties and that particular connection is looking at looked at a little further out than the more immediate needs of the Inverleigh connection and frankly the Channing Drive connection so I had thought that the Ambrose family did own some of the land all the way down to the intersection of with Sulphur Springs and Greenwood but I could be wrong there's a few property owners immediately to the south of Mr. Dondero's property of folks that do not live around here that have that as investment property and you also have property owned by the Groves beyond that I'm not sure I could name additional property owners you could correct that that's the Ambrose I'm just not aware of that thank you Mr. DeHaven do you have any questions on this I do not think right right does anybody else have any questions Mr. Klein I have a couple sure number one this currently is zoned RA is that correct that is correct yes sir and to the best of your knowledge is this the first rezoning of RA to potentially RP in more than a decade more than 15 years it's it's certainly been a very long time I'm not sure if any I was not here the last time there was a residential rezoning I'm sure there's maybe Mr. DeHaven or Mr. Wells might have been on the board last time there was one but it's it's been quite a long time and then approximately how many existing lots are available to be developed in the county Mr. Pearson said at a meeting we had before I think for someplace the number 13,600 it's generally in that area approximately that okay at various levels of entitlement you know zoned right in the urban development area proffered etc if that's the case then with the applicant like to make a comments presentation you're welcome to do so Ms. Martin I was wondering if that too many annotations have been thought of yeah I mean I think there's a ήI can get something done to get itson make up for all the civilizing that are constantly addicting and more than a decade in the just do or I make is form 가 you mim victory an that have been made so far and I think when I get through this we'll have some satisfactory answers for a lot of these things. So like I said my name is Ken Dondero. I am one of the owners. I own the property with my sister, my wife, and my sister's husband. We are two retired police officers, an office manager for a small business, and a special education teacher. We live here in this community. We live literally just blocks down the road from this site here. Our children went to the same schools that will service this community here. We've been in this community for more than 25 years and have no intentions of leaving. What we're not, we're not a national builder who's come in here only during the process and gone immediately following. My intentions are to partner with the builder and to stay involved in this until the last brick is laid and the last home is seen. That's the only way to stay with some measure of control over what happens here. So that's our intention. We're trying to do our best and we're working on that right now. So I'm going to leave the everything above board here. We're coming in, we're not using any transferable development rights, although they're perfectly legal and nothing wrong with those people who do them. That's kind of a, in my opinion, a back door way of kind of doing things. I came here to the front door. I knocked on the front door and I'm asking for permission to come in, I'm not trying to do anything underhanded. Yes, this is the first one in 15 years that this has happened so it's been a great learning experience for me and a lot of the other people who are involved. But just because it's the first one doesn't mean it should be denied. So speaking about communication, I'm a big communication person. I've spent many times speaking with Supervisor Dunn. I've spoken with the surrounding property owners, Mr. and Mrs. Hummer who are sitting in the back of the room. I hope they speak this evening. They were out there for the Planning Commission meeting. Great folks, I spent a lot of time on their back porch just speaking about this and what was happening with it and how to go through learning the process, not just myself but hopefully showing them as well. I met with the owner of the properties directly behind mine. As mentioned before, it was the Grove family. They thanked me for the information I provided for them but they really had no interest in anything that we're doing on our property. The owners of the property that abuts mine to the east, the little driveway there, I call that the doctor's group. It's several doctors who purchased that property many years ago as an investment and I've spoken with them, educated them on the whole rezoning process and how things go. They were very happy with the information I provided them and in fact, they wrote a letter of support for this, rezoning. I hope you have that in the packet that was given to you because if not, I have a copy of it for you. We're doing everything we can to be above board. We've shared every piece of information that we've received with the community and with the county. So, I'll speak to this in just a second. So, the capital impact model. It was voted on October 11th, less than a month ago. By this board, seven to zero, you all voted that the capital impact model should remain the same. Keep using the same one you've been using for years. You did that less than 30 days ago. I think it's important to point out that this is not my model. I didn't come up with these numbers. These numbers were provided to me. I don't get to say what those numbers are. With that being said, I have heard the concerns of some of the board members here and with some of the residents in the area and I offered more cash than what was being asked of me. So, what I did there, but I don't want you to think that cash dollars is all we're dealing with. Because you're right, like you had said, Mr. Graber, that there's a cost that goes beyond this. So, just to break down some of the things that are also going along with the cash, I have to give up 25% of my property to the county for the extension of Channing Drive and I'm being paid nothing for that. On that land that I had to give up, I have to build the extension of Channing Drive, not to the edge of where I need it to go, but to the edge of the property line for a cost of approximately $336,000. I'll need to provide a new traffic light and a new signal arm. That cost will be somewhere between 75 and $100,000. I'll be building a section of the county's bike and walking path along Channing Drive to a tune of more than $25,000 for that alone. The total amount being given to the county is almost $800,000 in cash and in-kind services that the county is getting, far exceeding what the total impact is for this project. So yes, are you looking at just, if you're comparing dollars to dollars, it doesn't work out that way. However, you look at it, and these items that I'm giving up, is that the main point to make about this is that this is not the land, the roads, the lights, the bike trail, they're not just to benefit the community that I'm putting in there. It's to benefit the entire county. Everybody gets to use that. And the other thing I'd like to point out is that, just remember that when we're talking about dollars here, it's not just, I mean, these are every dollar, it has to come out of my pocket. It's not a matter of playing with somebody else's money. When I talk about offering more money, and more things, and more roads and everything, it's, they're real dollars to me. So we've been working with the guidance of the county staff and the rules set by this Board of Supervisors. Everything asked of us has been given, and then some. I'm not sure what else we could have done to make this a cleaner package. The other thing is, when it comes back to communication, I'd send every member of this board an email asking to meet with anybody who was willing to do so. Some people said yes, they would be willing to meet. We had great meetings. I think we did. And some chose not to engage at that point, and that's fine too. But it comes to level of service that I'm trying to provide as well. I'm trying to be above board in everything that we're doing. So I thank you for the time to speak here, and I ask if you have any questions of me, please fire away. Do any supervisors have any questions of Mr. General? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ludwig. So the profit amount is 11,000 and some per unit. Correct. Is that profit amount separate or from the improvements you're going to make on the road and the sidewalk and the land you're giving out? That is correct. That is on top of all of those other things. So I haven't done the math. I did. Okay, please. Total amount being provided in services and cash, $795,200. Now if you look at the number, I'm sorry, I'm, I'm gonna mess up your computer by trying to switch it. If we go back to what the full capital impact cost is, you'll find out that it's less than that. All right, significantly less. And then I also looked at it to be fair, because I believe in being fair. I bought this piece of property while that road was already planned to be there. So giving up the land is something I would have agreed to by just purchasing this property. Take that dollar amount out of what I paid for that land, and you still exceed the entire amount, thank you, thank you for whoever changed that, of the $707,000. I far exceed that. So I can't think of what else you could possibly ask me for that I have not already provided. Thank you very much, Mr. Bender. Mrs. Lockridge. I had the pleasure of meeting with you, I think in August, and I have always been under, we're about 27,000 for, and that was my initial when we spoke, and you educated me quickly on the, on the cost of the property. And I think that's, I think that's a lot. And a lot. And this seems to me that the Greenwood Urban Center falls in line really well. Like you said, you're gonna be giving up 25% of your property to expand Channing Drive. I think I've voiced concerns about traffic and that sort of thing. However, this does go right, right where it eventually will connect us all for spring and add another outlet out to 50. It appears to me that, appears to me that after, you know, you've done that expansion, the traffic light, and also the cash money, according to our model, I am in support of this project. Thank you. Anybody else? I want to say thank you very much for your comments. I'll make some comments when we get finished with this. But if there's somebody else here, then this is a public hearing, so we'll, oh, sorry, Mr. De Niro, one other comment. 800,000 divided by 25 is 32,000. Did I mess up the numbers? No, no, no, your math is fine. I'm just letting you know. Oh, okay. It was, you know, 32,000. 32,000 is a little bit in excess of the 28,000 that's listed there. Thank you. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. May I like to speak either for or against this proposal? Mr. Chairman, we have one person signed up, Michael Gormas. Mr. Boma? Good evening. Thank you for the time. I am in support of Mr. Dondero's project. I am a member of the community and live in the area, and based on what I've seen, 25 townhome units would provide additional affordable housing in this area. I'm a member of the community and live in this county, particularly on that side of the county where I live, as well as some of the other members here. As we have all experienced over the years, especially recently post-COVID, these high inflation and very high interest rates currently are prohibiting younger people from purchasing affordable housing. I have grown kids that, will at some point soon be looking to purchase their own homes, and I think this would be a good option, and it would provide some beneficial housing and much needed housing in the area. So that's all I have for this evening. Thanks again, and appreciate your time. Thank you. Question for the owner. Is there anybody else that would like to go and speak for or against this proposal? Billy Hummer, Redbud District. I probably don't need the microphone. But use the microphone. I understand. I want to thank you all for the job you do. I know it's a thankless one. I just wanted to say I've lived on the same property my entire life, which in two days will be 48. I'm going to have to go back and look at it again. I'm going to have to go back and look at it again. I'm going to have to go back and look at it again. I'm going to have to go back and look at it again. But in two days will be 48 years. So I've seen a lot of changes in this area. I would ask that you keep in mind my family did not move to the Greenwood Urban Center. It moved to us. Cincinnati Road was dirt when my family moved to this area. All we ask is for our property rights to be observed and be able to do as we've done our whole life, which up to now has not been a problem. I don't envision it being a problem. This is a project that we're currently working on and I know it's going to be a problem. this area of poor shale ground has made a lot of millionaires and i can assure you none of them were pushing cows around like i'm doing okay that tells you how smart i am uh but i feel like i owe it to my ancestors because i know what they went through to get it so i'm gonna do it all again and you're gonna have a fight on your hands if you come after my piece i will want to say about mr don darrow he's been open and honest with me from the word go he did not have to be i'm getting nothing out of it matter of fact he gave me a lot of ammunition to go after him but i choose not to do that because he has been so open and honest what's up here is what i saw the first time he come to me i think he's a fine gentleman and i think it would credit frederick county to do more business with him i do not want townhouses right beside me you but i don't get to choose that i don't want a quarry right beside me i don't get to choose that so we have to live with the way things are not with how we wish they were so i would have just asked that the board keep in mind the long time property rights of the people that have lived there we we try to be good neighbors i think anyone in cincinnati road area will attest to that uh i ask that they do the same in return i wish him luck in his endeavor and i thank you all for your time thank you is there anyone else who would like to speak hi you can pull that down it's okay i'm a teacher i have really good i'm here because i support the dover hill project because i have sorry your name please i'm sorry i'm joy white okay i'm a frederick county resident my kids went through the school same schools his kids went through um i'm supporting this project because i'm a frederick county resident and i'm here because i have a college-aged daughter who is in arkansas right now and i want her to come home and i would like her to buy a house in this area but that's not going to happen unless there's some affordable housing available to her um i want to see the options built by someone that i trust that i know that has integrity that has honor when he says something he means it and i think there's a lot to be said for that his family's invested in the community and in the area i don't know if i can say that i don't think i can say that i don't think i can say that i don't know that that always happens and so i just want to be here to support their project thank you thank you does anyone else have any comments to make going once twice all right i just have one question we were talking about affordable housing could you give me an idea of your price of your housing on your townhouse you're looking at a price range of i don't have that answer at this point you know that like the other people who spoke this evening i have young children and i want to try and keep it as low as possible you can't ask someone to pay four or five hundred thousand dollars for a townhouse and expect to get a young family back here so i have to work through the process of getting this but my goal is to keep these units as affordable as possible that's why i plan on staying with the project for as long as humanly possible i'm not planning on selling this project to anybody else not my intention i plan on being with this thing to the end to keep it as affordable as possible and it's not about drink so a lot of people are out there they're going to start selling this project with anybody else there's some people that haven't bought it buy a new home or something else but i believe that people are going to like it but now that goes adding and now that people are wn увing all the houses that own new houses as possible the cost of construction we're talking about still more than a year down the road you know two years down the road before we start to actually see things if I could project that we'd all be very rich folks so but my goal my intention is to stay as involved as possible and to keep them as affordable as possible in projecting as you build you you haven't done any work to see I'm building 25 townhouses this is what I'm going to recoup after I well so I'm just trying to get some idea so the biggest one of the biggest problems we have when we do these things is the groundwork and the engineering and the work that has to be done for that to develop each one of these lots is going to cost me approximately $62,000 that's just to create the dirt suitable to be able to build upon at that point and then we build from there now the houses that we're proposing here range in size from 22 to 20 feet wide to 24 feet wide the smaller unit the smaller the price the idea is to try and keep as many of those things in there as possible would be fair to say you're probably around $200,000 in construction costs I would say yes sir that's probably approximately right if we could keep these things right around the $300,000 price which I know it's more than I paid for my single-family house 25 years ago and it's a it's a scary number but again these are numbers I'm I'm a slave to these numbers I wish I could change them the only reason I ask is we always talk about affordable housing right and when you talk three hundred and four hundred thousand dollars that's not very affordable I have a son who's 24 years old who's a police officer I want him his mother wants him back home in this area this is where we grew up we love this County this is where we plan on being the idea is to give those folks an opportunity to live back here thank you I appreciate it thank you anybody else this is redbud so I'm gonna make some comments first and then I'll make a motion mr. chairman yes sir just a point of order do we have a discussion yes area first we can have a discussion period first so if you want make some comments but you have a discussion on this before we make motion that's fine I'd like to if we're so that's fine so I also visited mr. Dondero I found him very forthright everything I see is exactly what he was telling me I appreciate the neighbors who spoke in that respect that's a sense I get as well I appreciate that he's proffering more than the minimum required That seems to be good faith. It's not a huge number, but it is a good faith effort. It's not often that I get to battle up here with my good friend Supervisor Graber. He does some of the best research of any member on the board, so I don't challenge his numbers too often. But I do think what we've seen now, given the land he's giving up and all the investments he's doing in the road and the sidewalk, that he may just be giving us an amount that matches or even exceeds what our impact is. So every time I hear more about this project, the more I like it. I do admit that it has a short-term problem. That is, when they're built, it's going to put some more traffic on Cincinnati Road, and we don't. This doesn't provide an immediate solution to that. However, it does begin the process of extending the road down to Sulphur. For those of you who don't live near there, lots of people who attend Millbrook, for example, they have to drive up 81 from our community because we don't have good roads. We hadn't invested in them. We don't have solutions yet. I have four boys, two new drivers and two coming drivers, and two of them graduated Millbrook already. And it scared me when they got on the road when they were old enough to drive up 81 because they really didn't have a good solution. The other option... The other option is to build a new road. The other options were not much better, and they were slower. And you know teenagers. They're not leaving early to get to school. So it worried me. This board has begun investing in roads. I think it's a great thing. And I really think that this is one road we need. And even though it's maybe a small percentage of getting there, it gets us that much closer to getting it done. So, Mr. Graber, I'm not challenging you. I'm just wondering what you think of the numbers there and if I've got anything wrong. Let me go and make some comments or motion, and then we can have a discussion. I've had multiple interactions with Mr. DeNiro. Mr. DeNiro is extremely honest, forthright, fair. I have the highest respect for him. I want him to know that. He asked me whether I could support this. And unfortunately, I'm not going to be able to do so. But before I make those comments, he is trying to provide some affordable housing. He's trying to do it within the framework that he has. I really appreciate that. If this were in any other magisterial district other than Redbud, my vote would have been no. Thank you very much. Have a nice day. I spent earlier this year running a Senate campaign. In that Senate campaign, I talked about how to deal with the growth of the state. How to deal with the impacts of this county. How to deal with the costs. How to deal with the roads. I appreciate what Mr. DeNiro has done. I just don't think it's meeting the concerns that I have. To my fellow board members, to all six of you on the 7th, I would ask that you make this decision based upon what Mr. DeNiro said to you. It doesn't affect me one way or the other if you vote with me or vote against me. Make the decision. You still want Mr. DeNiro to vote. You still want Mr. DeNiro to vote. In addition, I've asked him to speak to all of you to make his case. And Mr. DeNiro, I've talked to no board member here, other than what you're hearing right now, intentionally. So I'm going to let each member make his own decision as he sees fit. I really appreciate what he's done. But based upon comments I've made earlier in the year, I can't support this because of the impacts and because of the traffic on the road. And therefore, unfortunately, I'm going to make a motion to deny. I'm going to make a motion to deny. I'm going to make a motion to deny. I'm going to make a motion to deny. I'm going to make a motion to deny. Having said that, is there a second? Hearing none. Mr. Supervisor Dunn, I will second it for discussion purposes. We have a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman, if I may. I came in here this evening planning on voting against this. However, after hearing additional conversations, I plan to vote for it. I don't like to see this happen. I don't like to see this happen. I think that it is throwing additional hardship on our schools and services and the road surface that's already there. However, I also, as I look at this, this is the gateway or the entranceway to that new road being developed long term. And you've got to have a starting point. And this is that starting point. Now, granted, the stoplight he's going to have to put in because of what he's doing. I get it. I mean, that's not really a throw to us. That's something he has to do. But the roadway. But the roadway being put in there is a long-term start to a solution that's been desperately needed. And while I don't like to see the townhomes come with it, and I've voted against doing anything that would expand the ability to put more homes in because of the cost that the county incurs from them, this, as I have run the numbers, as you've been speaking, is about a break-even event. And so with a break-even event. And the long-term needs of the county, we've neglected our roads for 12 years until two years ago where we started putting money back. This is another step to continue to develop the infrastructure needed, the road surfaces needed to start alleviating the road construction problems that have been created by overdevelopment and no road improvements. So for that reason, I will support this project if we get to that point. Any other comments? Mr. DeHaven, do you have any comments? No, sir. Okay. If there are no other comments. Mr. Chairman, just clarifying, you made a motion to deny this, correct? My motion was to deny. There's a second to deny. So if you vote yes, you're denying. If you vote no, you'll support. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Wells? Would you repeat that? That's fine. So I made a motion. You were doing some mathematical calculations while you were talking. That's fine. I made a motion to deny. If you vote no, then you would vote, then you would be wanting to eventually support this. I got you. If you vote yes, you'll vote to deny. I got you. Thank you, sir. Yes. Supervisor Slaughter? Yes. Supervisor Ludwig? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Supervisor Dugan? No. Done votes no. Supervisor DeHaven? Yes. I apologize. My vote was yea. I apologize. So we have one, two. Just a quick clarification. Just a quick clarification here. I want to ask for some clarification from our county attorney. Are we allowed to change our votes after the vote has been taken, sir? There is nothing in the rule against it, and common sense tells me that the Supervisor misspoke in voting against its own motion. So in this case, the yea's habit, I believe, four to three was Supervisor Lockridge, no, Mr. Graber, no, Wells, yes, Slaughter, yes, Ludwig, no, Dunn, yes, and DeHaven, yes. I'm sorry. The motion passes. The motion to deny passes. Next item on the business. Is it possible to ask a question, sir? I haven't been through this process. I'll give you 30 seconds to, I'll give you a second to ask. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I just want to be clear, and I know we're all doing math, we're doing different things behind here, myself as well. So if I could just get everybody kind of looking at me for just a second, I want to make sure that I'm understanding this correctly. The people who voted here tonight, you're voting purposely to deny this proposal. Is that correct? I just want to make sure that, because there was confusion about how it was said yes or no, were they, they're voting yes for a no vote. I just want to make sure I understood that correctly. And everybody sitting here is understanding it as well. So is it possible to kind of recap that and just say, yes, I'm voting to deny this, or I'm voting to approve it? I think we have, sir. I think we have, unless there's a consensus among supervisors to do something different. I think we have. Okay. You all comfortable in that? Okay. Next item is a issue's permit 02-023 for Gateway House. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the Board. This is an action item for your consideration this evening. You all will recall that you all discussed this application at your October 25th meeting. And at that time, Supervisor Lockridge had directed the applicant to make several changes to their application. I won't walk you through the entire proposal again, but I will highlight the one change that has occurred since the public hearing was held on the 25th, was the addition of condition number 16, which states that at no time, while this conditional use permit is in effect, the owner sever any transferable development rights or subdivide the property other than for the purposes of widening the existing VDOT right-of-way or public utility dedication. The number of units remains the same, 90 campsites. And I'm happy to answer any other specific questions about any changes to the application. But again, this is the only change that has occurred since the 25th. And the applicant is here this evening as well, Mr. Scott Levitt, representing the Gateway House Corporation. Thank you. Do any supervisors have any questions of staff? I don't have a question, but a comment. I worked on this back and forth for multiple times, why it has been available and the click of a hat. And Scott has been very receptive to my questions. And we have the last condition is just so that the people of my district don't get this conditional use permit. I was concerned about those conditions. I was concerned about those conditions. There were 90 campsites. And with this additional condition, they cannot break it off and develop it even further. So they sold it, I believe, as leaving the 430 plus or minus acres open. This is going to disturb about 5% of the land. 95% of the land will remain untouched. And with this new condition, I am in favor. Okay. Any other questions for the board? Any other questions or comments? I just have a comment. Go ahead. I just want to thank the applicant for adding this. At the end of the public hearing two weeks ago, I was asking about these and wanted to have clarification. I appreciate him putting that understanding in there so that there was a level of understanding with the community, as there had been several folks from the community that were very concerned that we're going to take 5% to 10% of this property, we're going to put this camping, glamping situation in, and then the other houses would be sold off in five-acre lots, which would have essentially doubled the number of trips on that road from doing so. This makes sure that we are sticking to what has been promised with the 90, and it gives us some assurances as well as the residents who are surrounding it. So thank you guys for clearing that out. Any other comments? Supervisor Lockridge. So I would like to make a motion to approve CUP number 09-23. Which is Getaway House. I'll second the motion. Okay. Discussion? Hearing none. Mr. Chairman, if I may. Sure. The only thing I certainly want to support Supervisor Lockridge, that's her district, but I just want to say I hate to see our rural agricultural land going away, and I will vote to support this, but it really does pay me. Supervisor Wells, I agree. And this was a hard one. We had talked about the traffic on the road. Realistically, I would like to leave all open farmland. However, we don't own this piece of property, and by condition, this is allowable. In fact, by our county code, I believe they can do 10 per acre. This is 430 acres. And the more I've worked on this project, they're leaving 95%. And I like it. That part of it. I understand. But yes, I agree with you. Any other comments? If not, we'll vote. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I have a question. My head was still spinning from our last vote, which I didn't understand. So this motion is to approve? Okay. Thank you. Mr. Ludwig. Aye. Mr. Slater. Aye. Mr. Wells. Aye. Mr. Graber. Aye. Mr. Lockridge. Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven. Mr. DeHaven. Aye. I'll be with the same one. This motion will pass. Mr. DeHaven, are you on the line? I am. Okay. I'll vote no. Okay. Vote no. All right. Thank you. The next item is the rezoning vote 323 of owning materials, Carmoose. We had a public hearing on this last time. Before we begin this process, I would like to ask if the applicant has any questions in light of the comments we had on Mr. Green's comments. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. I'll yield to Logan Thompson to answer the Chair's question. Thank you. So, Mr. Thompson, we heard a hydrologist, Mr. Green, make some comments. My question to you is, do you have any comments that you'd like to add, address on anything that was said on those issues? Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and good evening, members of the Board. As was noted, my name is Logan Thompson. I'm the Site Operations Manager for the Carmoose facility in Clearbrook. With me tonight is our Director of Geology, Lindsey Williams, and Mr. Mark Krummenacher of GZA, who co-authored the report. As you've requested or stated, and in light of Mr. Green's testimony, I would make them available, and Lindsey may have a short comment or two, but out of respect of your time and everyone else's time here, and after knowing that Mr. Krummenacher presented a very thorough summary of his report and the contents therein last time, we don't expect to make any comments. Thank you. Thank you. I don't want to make that lengthy, but we would be honored and happy to answer any questions that you folks have here this evening. So I'm going to turn it over to Lindsey. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Chairman Dunn and members of the Board. My name is Lindsey Marhefka. I am the Director of Geology for Carmoose. Thank you for allowing us the chance to speak tonight. Before we get into questions. I would like to make a couple of points pertaining to the groundwater study that we had our third party conduct and the questions from the follow-up from Mr. Green. I would just like to make a couple of points. The first being on geology and groundwater. So while I appreciate the study that was presented earlier by Mr. Green, with all due respect, that study took place in Minnesota. We have tangible data here that we are using to come to our conclusions when we say we do not believe we are affecting groundwater. So as you all know, in this part of Virginia, we're located in the Valley and Ridge Province. That's part of the Appalachian Mountains. It's tightly folded and tightly faulted. And you switch geologic units quickly. So you can be standing on limestone here and you can put your foot. On shale just, you know, five feet away. Okay, well, I can't spread that wide, but you know what I mean. So the distinction I wanted to make here is that we are it's worlds different between groundwater flow in what you would expect drawdown in Aquarian Minnesota to be. It would be relatively symmetrical, like a nice circle, whereas here drawdown is controlled by the geology. And I heard you. I heard someone reference geologic strike. And all that means is the direction that the rock is in is trending. So think of I-81. It runs right down the gut of the Shenandoah Valley. There's a reason that that road exists in that in that way. So our drawdown, what we would expect would be much greater in the north and south direction and almost none in the east and west direction. However, we monitor. Water wells. On all sides of the quarry. So we have two to the west and one to the south. And we know that the elevations in those wells are at least 140 feet higher than the current bottom of our quarry. So that leads us to conclude that drawdown in all directions is seemingly minimal. The next point I just wanted to make was on our neighbors and groundwater. So. We understand the nature of the request to canvas our current neighbors. But we simply can't go back in time 60 years to before this quarry existed to get baseline data on all these wells. So surveying our current neighbors over the past two weeks with no baseline data would introduce almost no additional useful information to describe the potential impact or lack thereof of future mining. Which is why. We proffered six additional monitoring wells around our future quarry. To establish a baseline. So if our neighbors in the future come to us with well. Problems we have a baseline to refer to. And we've gone even further than that because we've proffered to fix neighboring wells within 1500 feet of our newly zoned property. And as I mentioned, we already have wells very, very close to us, 300 feet away, and we are not having material impact on those wells. And so we think that buffer is more than fair. Just another point I wanted to make, our closest neighbor can attest to this. Proffer or not, we stand by our word to fix any well issues that can be attributed to mining, as we did with the 15-foot well that went dry over the summer. As it turns out, it seems like the well did not go dry due to quarrying because it now does have water in it, but we fixed the well regardless. We drilled a new one less than a week later, and we had water there that day. And just as a final reminder on neighbors, we're moving to a more remote location than we are now. So we're getting even further away from our neighbors than we are in our current mining area. Just a few more points I would like to make. The next one is on surface water specifically. So we understand the community frustration regarding local streams and spring flow. I think I speak for us all when I say we have drought fatigue. We have a lot of drought here. But according to drought.gov, Frederick County is experiencing its 14th driest year in the past 130 years, and that's not insignificant. Another point I would like to make is that previous droughts were referenced within the past 20 to 25 years. I would like to point out that the population of this area has increased significantly. So in Berkeley County, we have a lot of drought. And in Frederick County alone, you're talking about 80,000 more people. So if you do the math on how much water a person would consume in a day, you know, population growth has something to do, I would say, with groundwater in general. And just in closing, just a few short weeks ago, you all heard Mr. Krumenacher's full presentation summarizing his report. Democratic OUTDAGED topic so far today, we're both but one and though several were coempt looking to answer questions. We're both selfish and doing something that takes us two feet from hell or a man. And we say that because there's so much water, throwing up our hands to make sure we're going to make this such a Arab up and jumping stand in New York and living down the coast of New York, that actually is out of the question area. And that's the question I talk about quite a lot today. Why? and still is the correct firm to opine on hydrogeologic effects of clear brook, of quarrying in clear brook. This is also the reason why we do not believe a peer review on this report is necessary. So while a peer review is standard in academic publications, it's not something I've ever been familiar with doing in my professional career. It's just simply not commonplace for an instance such as this one. So thank you. For with that, we can take questions. Do any of you have any questions? I do. Go ahead. Just a quick question. The study that was done, the group that did the study, is GZA, is that correct? Yes. What other localities in Virginia have you done studies on? Can you share other localities that you've done studies in Virginia? I know it was listed. Mark Crummenacher with GZA. I don't have any other studies. I don't have any slides to present, but it was every county in Northern Virginia except Frederick County. Until this one. Until, yep, now we can color that. Remember I had the map up and there was 20, I think it was 20 or 22 counties. And we're working there today. We're in West Virginia and Berkeley County. We were there two weeks ago drilling. I mean, that's what we're doing. We're helping those communities find water. So it's sufficient to say that if you erred majorly in one of those counties that, it would affect your reputation. Yes, yeah, that's fair to say. The reason I asked that question is, is while I also would like to see a peer review study, knowing that you have a firm who has done extensive work in the region, who knows the formations of stone and other items and has a good track record is very encouraging to me. And that's why I asked that question as to how many other localities. As I was writing the report that you presented and I knew it was nearly all, but I wanted to hear that from you, Justice Confort. I wanted to hear your confirmation that that is what you have done and it would be a severe detriment to your organization to give a false report to this. Oh, absolutely. And we get that work in those counties by word of mouth from one county asking the other, how did you, why were you so successful in getting water? How did you do that? We hired GCA. And we're not just given the work. We do have to bid on a plan. We developed a plan, but as I showed, we're very successful in that. Thank you. Yep. Mr. Thompson. Mr. Dunn, if there are no further questions, excuse me, Mr. Chairman, if there are no further questions. Either is fine. I would ask about the order of operations here. Are we about to embark on a public hearing? We had a public hearing. That public hearing was closed. We are gonna then have a discussion among the board and then we will have a vote on your proposal. If you'll allow, then I'd like to make a closing statement on behalf of the applicant. Before you do that, let me ask you a question. Okay, you got me. That's a surprise. I did have a conversation with the Department of Energy, and they said that you have a existing permit dealing with water. They also told me that if this is approved, that you would have to go to that department and they would go and do a hydrology study to see what impacts there would be. They would then have to go and see what adverse effects are, you know, of the technology relative to the water, in a passionate, fast and physical way, internship opportunities out there. We're gonna have to make changes to that. Thank you. We have to hold onto a good news report for reference. There's something about water bottles. You know, I know what they're talking about. I can you on the phone for realers. impacts there would be, and then you, Carmus, would have to go and rectify those before anything could be done. Are you familiar with that? Yes, sir. As a normal process? That's a standard process, and any mine operator in the state has to go through that. There's a significant amount of oversight in this business, as we've had the opportunity to discuss, yeah. So therefore, on the water issue, the Department of Energy will be a player when determining whether there's adverse impact or not, and if there is adverse impact, how you would have to rectify that. Absolutely. That's absolutely correct. Having said that, you can make a closing statement. That'd be fine. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate the Board's time. I appreciate the opportunity to make one last statement this evening. We understand that this application has raised valid concerns, and I want to assure the Board and our neighbors that I and we take these concerns seriously. In the past few weeks, we've heard some fascinating information about water. We've certainly learned some things. We've heard many concerns from neighbors and citizens. And we've actually heard some positive things from neighbors and citizens and businesses in the community. I do want to make a few points quite clear, however, so they don't get glossed over in the fervor of the evening. Multiple years ago, when we began developing this application, we envisioned that there would be concerns from the public on a variety of topics, not just limited to water. It was for that reason we set out to develop what we feel are thoughtful, deliberate, and generous proffers to mitigate those potential concerns. Again, many of which address community concerns that are unrelated to putting a future quarry on the land that this application addresses. We've included measures of protection that exceed regulatory requirements, and we're committed to being responsible stewards of that resource. We note that, as we've shown in a past presentation, that this future quarry gets closer to a few neighbors but further away from the majority. Thank you. We've talked about the water study. We've talked about GZA. The report states in no uncertain terms the negligible impact of quarrying on current and future quarrying in groundwater, but we didn't just take that response, say thank you very much, wipe our hands of the water issue, and submit our rezoning application. Not at all. In line with the GZA study recommendations, and actually in line with the same study that you heard Mr. Green report on. One of his recommendations to localities was to make sure that the mine operator establishes a well monitoring program, and we've proffered exactly that. We proffered to install an additional six monitoring wells to give us, the Virginia Department of Energy that you just mentioned, Supervisor Dunn, and any other third party groundwater expert sufficient data before, during, and after quarrying so that reasonable data driven, I'll repeat that, data driven conclusions. The relationship between the spillways and the fifth and sixth and fourth efficient flood sorties Hmmmmmmmmmmm. and I stand behind that. Two weeks ago, you heard from a neighbor surrounded on essentially four sides by quarry property. In fact, he and his wife are literally the closest neighbors, I think, to the quarry. Their home is roughly 200 feet away from the southern end of our active quarry. And he stood before you in support of Carmuse. So I can't think of or draw a better picture or provide a better example than that of Carmuse's commitment to its neighbors and our doing what we say we're going to do. Our desired long-term business plan is for us to co-locate our quarry next to our existing processing facilities, plain and simple. It's the best, most logical plan for us, for our customers, for traffic, both in Clearbrook and the rest of the county, and so on. For more than 60 years, this business has existed, utilizing this resource in this area, and we're asking to continue that. Please consider the strong message of support that your decision tonight sends to other businesses currently and future looking in Frederick County. Let that be the resounding message, that compromise and collaboration are necessary and achievable when a business works with the board, with residents, with organizations in developing and implementing its business plans. I would add that after this vote tonight, as I've said on multiple occasions, my and our commitment to working with the board stands firm and certainly doesn't go anywhere. In closing, we're a long-term planning company, and we sincerely ask for a decision, not a deferral tonight, to allow us to start methodically implementing those long-term plans. I want to thank you, the Board of Supervisors. I want to thank county staff for the significant amount of work on this application, the revisions. I want to thank the Board of Supervisors for the support that they've provided to us. I want to thank the Board of Supervisors for their support in implementing the upgrades and ask for a favorable decision in support of this application. Thank you very much. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn, can I ask a question? Go ahead. What is the contract with Frederick Water? Because I'm often thinking of this, I do worry about our groundwater. However, I don't know that it's the mine that is doing that. It's pulling. I mean, Frederick Water, do you have an answer? I have asked that question. In the, I guess it's the Martin Pit that has the reservoir, or I'll refer it to, how many gallons are coming out of that? Let's see. So in order, without a graphic, to not get too confusing. And I remember seeing it. So there is one existing large quarry called the East Pit. Okay, sorry. Right? We're no longer mining in there. That's across the road from the new Frederick Water plant. Right now, the water level in that pit is rising, and Frederick Water has installed a withdrawal system that they can suck the water out of the East Pit and feed their Slowinski plant. Okay. That is 100% Frederick Water's MO on how much they want to draw out of it and how much they can process it. I think it's public record that the plant can produce 8 million gallons per day. They are monitoring the water levels coming into it. I don't think the plant is fully ready and operational and qualified to discharge into the system. But their withdrawal on that pit and thus impact on the aquifer is something that they manage and that they're ultimately in control over. They are also withdrawing water from wells north of, or quarries north of Bruce Town Road and wells north of Bruce Town Road that feed the existing Anderson plant. Thank you. So, when we move north, they transition to solely being supplied by the East Pit quarry, and then when we're done mining in the Martin Farm, they have access to the Martin Farm quarry. That's that 3 billion gallons of water storage that kind of sets the county up for a drought or whatever in the future. Which is incredible for our public water. I'm just wondering, in this new expansion, if we continue to take from our groundwater, I'm wondering if we just limit growth residentially or even... I'm in support of your expansion, but I'm wondering if that pit cannot, after you're done mining, cannot be filled back in. Is that correct? It could stay open, but could it be recreation where we're not continually... I don't know what the... No, it's a fair question. It's a fair question. There's certainly examples all across of... I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. There's certainly a cross of multiple post-mining uses of quarries, water being one of them, recreation being one of them, other things. Our discussion with the board and with Frederick Waters is certainly, there is a discussion to be had. In fact, we've proffered to have the discussion with them. But we've not committed to what that looks like, because as you referenced, there's gonna be a different looking aquifer in 30 years. There's gonna be different land uses around that quarry in 30 years. We can't sit here today and say exactly what that looks like and what the right thing is. For the county, different water studies in 30 years would inform the right decision with what to do with that at the time. Certainly the water reservoir capacity is important, but to your point, it's not the only thing and may not be the end all for that pit. Thank you. You answered my question. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Mrs. Slaughter. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin by reminding my colleagues who feel compelled to decide this item tonight of the timeline up to this point. Our Planning Commission first heard this rezoning application on October 4th, 35 days ago. Let us not confuse the extensive Northeast land use plan effort with the consideration of this rezoning application. Its application was in note with the d'Algernon directives화. And I want to underscore the intent of this file and my tremblance to this outcome. While, asiera. The state obeys that accompanying version of the Вс© mah usando at the original timeline is dedicated to stick-by policy collecting. Applicants may not haveiled adoptions or congressional rule in line with the General everybody's belief or need to maintain that they they North 100%. complaints, and even some of those who showed up at our public hearing and spoke have not even been contacted. We all know and speak to many more people with issues than those who can find the time to come to a 7 p.m. meeting. Lastly, tonight, the citizens provided a speaker, Mr. Green, who presented various concerns and doubts we have already heard and continue to hear regarding how this project may impact our residents' access to water, a very critical and important resource. I would implore us all, let's not make a hasty decision tonight on something so impactful to our community. The applicant has stated multiple times in these sessions that they have 8 to 15 years of remaining water. This is not imminent, but it is irrevocable. We cannot take this back. I move we postpone this consideration of this application until the county can procure the services of an independent hydrologist to further evaluate the impacts from the rezoning application. And that is my motion, sir. Thank you. Is there a second? Mr. Chairman, I'll second and give it a vote. It's open door for discussion. Thank you. So the motion has been seconded. Discussion? I have some discussion, sir. Mrs. Lockridge? To your point, Supervisor Slaughter, this is not an expansion, but it's prolonging their current operation. However, you pointed out groundwater, and I think Ms. Bragg talked about water rights, and that's where I don't... I believe maybe we need to reassess with Frederick Water and, you know, limit growth and the usage of our groundwater, but that has nothing to do with the actual quarry. That quarry has been here my entire life. I know in the 50s is when the fray operation. Growing up, I lived on the other side of 81. However, that was always... That is the quarry. Everybody in that area, that's all. They talked about. Continually, when I talk to neighbors that have been here their whole life, same exact thing. But I think we do need to address our groundwater, and I don't know when the deal was made with Frederick Water to... You know, the water is coming from somewhere, and it is a valuable resource, absolutely. But I don't know that their mining operation is addressing the neighbor's concern. I think it's that we need to not be using so much. Of that water. That's just my comment on that. Do you have a response? I do, and thank you for sharing that. I guess in speaking with Frederick Water, with the current resources that we have, I have been told that we have enough resources to support this community for at least a century. Provided we don't have a very heavy use, industrial use, if you will. Okay. So, what I would say is the current pits that we have would address that. We are expanding the pits, and as you heard from some of the presentations, water going into those pits is coming from somewhere, right? It's coming from our groundwater, clearly. So, my thought is, and based on all the reach-outs I've had from citizens in Stonewall, and let me tell you, the last two weeks, it's been excessive. We have been able to get water to the site of Branson Springs going dry, people with wells that have gone dry, sinkholes in Clearbrook Park. And, frankly, either way we go in addressing this, whether it's an up or a down vote, I believe we owe this to our citizens at least to have an independent hydrologist evaluate the situation and give our citizens some peace of mind in all of this. Again, as I said, we have a lot of water. Again, as I said, this applicant has said they have 8 to 15 years, and, frankly, I'm not sure why we are so hastily moving forward. I think one of the speakers this evening said with the Stephen City operation, it took well over a year before that application was approved. And so, I genuinely feel we should take the proper amount of time to evaluate if it's the issue. Okay. Supervisor Lockridge, that you raised, let us find out from Frederick Water, and let the hydrologists make that determination for us. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Several items. If we want to minimize our water usage, it's time to tell half the county to move out. Because if you look at the last 25 years, and you see where we are, we're continually putting these straws in the ground called wells and sucking water out. I had the opportunity within the last week. I had the opportunity to go look at the heads of North Fork and South Fork, the Chena River. That's where Winchester gets their water. If you go look at where they begin, where they originate, most times you can't walk through there without having waders on. Last week, I could have walked through several places I used to fish in the shoes that I'm wearing tonight and not gotten wet. I could have stoned to stone to stone. That's because of the drought. I wish it was differently. I like fishing. I wish I could have went fishing. Last week, when I was out there, I went fishing. I was there looking at my favorite fishing spots that were dried up. The more water we pull from the ground, the more it's going to affect the water table, whether that's for businesses, whether that's for residentials, whether that is for other things. So if we really want to be concerned about the groundwater, it's time to tell Northern Virginia to stay in Northern Virginia, and for us to tell Frederick Water to quit pulling water out of these pits, let the pit get to a static level, and let the thing stabilize. That's really what we want to do. But I haven't seen us doing that as a board for the last 15 years. Second thing, sinkholes, it's not just Clearbrook Park. Some of you guys know that I have the wonderful opportunity to represent Shawnee Land. And if you know anything about the lake in Shawnee Land, we seem to deal with a sinkhole in Shawnee Land about every two years. And it's significant. There's no quarries around Shawnee Land. So what is causing those sinkholes? It's not a quarry digging out the rock, taking out the water from underneath of it. I think that we are in a situation where we are not doing that. I think that we are very ill-advised to blame all these things on a quarry when we don't have the facts to back it up. So we're blaming these things now on a quarry that we have no starting point with where the water level was 60 years ago or 40 years ago, how much it has or has not fallen. And we are not experts, but I can look at the report, and believe me, I've read the report cover to cover. I've spent... probably several hundred hours reading the report from GZA probably at least three times, if not four times, and I've asked a lot of questions about it. It is a very thorough, very detailed report. And it's a good one. And there's other localities across Virginia that use them for a reason. The reason they use them is because they have knowledge of working in the valley with the limestone and the courses of water that run through them. So I think that we are ill-advised to come and get someone from Minnesota or from any of the other states that are in the valley to come and get a report. So I think we are ill-advised to come and get a report. So the localities across Virginia, or somewhere from half across the country who has never been here, never set foot in the valley, hasn't done a lot of the geological work here that has already been done, to give us an outside person's point of view that may, or very well may not, be relevant. We have to deal with what the facts are that have been presented, and I think that they, the detail that has been presented has been very thorough and very forthcoming. And I have appreciated that. So having said those things, I would like to note that we have a larger public health emergency coming up in the fall, and I think it's an important one. We have a larger public health emergency coming up in the fall, and I think it's an important one. if you vote no on this, you're essentially saying that you don't believe the study that has been presented to you. And if we're not going to believe that study, how are we going to look at other studies and say that, well, I'm going to trust your study because it's something that I maybe want to go along with, but I'm not going to trust the next study. If we're going to do this and we need to get everything peer-reviewed, every single study that comes before us, we're going to have to have a peer review, in my opinion, because otherwise we're picking and choosing winners and losers. And I just don't feel that's right. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if I may. First of all, the reason I would like this hydrological study is for peace of mind for our citizens to understand why we've had this reduction in the water levels in our community. I know you say drought. I've made several phone calls to DEQ, and our drought people have sent emails. I've sent emails to me, which I shared with you, that said, we are not in a 30-year drought. And that was a quote in the emails I sent you. We had record droughts in 1999 and 2002. And the reason I called them was to find out historical data. I've lived here all my life, and I cannot believe this is the worst drought we've ever had. And I realize impacts. We've had more growth. I know the geologists from Carmelite, they've had more growth. I know the geologists from Carmelite, they've had more growth. I know the geologists from Carmelite, they've had more growth. I get that. What I want to understand, whether it is Frederick Water, if it's the quarry, if it's not either one of them, I think it's incumbent upon us to, this study didn't address the water reduction, the wells going dry, the springs going dry, and all of these sorts of things that we've heard about. The study didn't talk about those. A hydrologist should, hydrogeologist can inform us. Can inform us as to specifically where these reductions are taking place in the wise. That's all I'm asking, is that we do our due diligence and ask for this study. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A couple things I've heard as well. Hastily moving forward, I just want folks to know, this process is not an easy process. I've worked with some folks in the quarry business in my past. They've been really good people. But a lot of these permits, the environmental studies, the environmental studies, the environmental studies, the environmental studies, the environmental studies that are done, and all the other studies are normally, from what I'm told, a three-year process. Once you get past that three-year process, you can't just the next day go and start matting stone. That's not how it works. It has to be uncovered. It has to be unearthed, cleaned up. The top areas have to be taken off, and then the stone can, at that point, be drilled or however they choose to remove it, blasted, however they choose to remove the stone. So you look at at least a four-year, a lot of times five-year process, and that's if, if, if you're looking at a four-year process and you're looking at a four-year process, and you're looking at the amount of stone that's taken out, and that's if, if it's taken out and it's not going to be removed, you're going to have two years of work starting today. If you know that you've got a six to eight year window that you could need the stone, it is very prudent in why they are asking today. So I don't think the ask is out of question at all on the timing. If you look at the long-term requirements to get permits, the long-term requirements to unearth the stone, the long-term requirements to meet the regulatory studies that will have to occur, I think it's a very timely issuance of the request. to allow them to know do they need to spend the money to even start pursuing some of these permits as they're very um cost it can be very costly to uh to get done but they are needed to be done those those um different studies need to be done to protect the community and that's that's why the dmme department of minerals and energy is in place to protect the community uh from groundwater and blasting and that's why all the different this seismic and other items are required to make sure that the community is protected and that's what what that agency is for it's just like the um it's just like our school system our school system has certain regulations and things that are pushed down from the state and those are things they have to follow it's no different for these fine folks there's state regulatory agencies that tell them what they will and cannot do and there's things that they have to follow and those are specifically in place to protect the community if you look at the community at the track record of this quarry for safety it is a very good track record and that is to be thanked to keep our community safe. That's what we want. You also want businesses. At some point, you're going to have to provide the stone for construction, for animal feed, for the many different things that this lime is utilized for, or we're going to have to truck it long distances for our farmers and other things. There's a cost involved in that. We have to think long-term, and I think long-term this is a good opportunity for us to expand and continue to grow as a community because a community that's not growing is dying. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ludwig. Any such proposal like this of such a large scope is a difficult one for us. This board has its different opinions, not just because we're different people, but we represent a different community. I remember two years ago, almost exactly now, one logistics park had filled this room, and people who were my neighbors were screaming about it. They didn't want to see so many trucks coming in on 50 Highway, and I got to admit, if I had been on the board at that time, I might well have voted no because I didn't want it either. Instead, I would have researched it more than I did as just a citizen, and I did make a lot of efforts to try and think of a solution and propose it. I went to one or more companies that were involved. I worked with the development, and I spent a lot of time with them, again, just as a citizen, but they did listen to me, saying, well, can we delay this? The same kind of thing. Can we find a solution with less impact? Maybe it'll even make more money for you. We'll get a new highway interchange that's worked for you as part of the deal with the developer. But in the end, this board voted 6-1, the previous representative of my district, with that business going. So I'm going to go there. Voted no, and everyone voted yes because I can't see into people's minds. They thought that was the best answer for the community. So fast forward a day. I'm not a hydrogeologist. I am an engineer, which helps a little bit, but I'll admit being a complete amateur in a lot of what we've had presented to us. And I've been studying it. I've toured the mine. Thank you much for that tour. And I've also visited with citizens in the area to hear their concerns. I guarantee you that there are people in the area who legitimately will feel like their life will be adversely affected by the expansion to the North Pit. Any big development is going to affect people. So what do we do about that? We just do our best as a county and trust the agencies that exist. We don't have the power. The state has the power to monitor such a thing. Eventually, we have to make a decision. We can't kick the can down the road forever. I really do worry about we keep hearing new things every time we have a meeting about their wells going dry and springs. And I'm not doubting you. I believe that these things may well be occurring. The question is from what? If mines have been here for decades, many decades, and we didn't have many of these problems, how can that be? Well, when I went and watched the operation, basically dewatering is as they dig the mine, water seeps in or rainfall. It goes in to the bottom of the pit and they have to get it out to continue mining. What I saw, and I don't have any engineering figures on this, but I saw a lot of that water being returned to the water table. They used it to wash the tires of trucks and to process their materials right there on site. So maybe that's an answer why mining went on for so long without affecting the water table, because they weren't taking the water away. So do we have a new problem now? Are there new problems? Are the things you're presenting true? They might be true. They might be due to the fact that we're now using a pit to pull so much water out to provide water for our community. That wouldn't be CARMOOS' fault. That would be water management by the county. It would be something we have to study and we have to continue to do right. If we have to draw less water than we do now out of the pit to save your wells, then I personally will vote for that down the road. Because you deserve to have your wells not impacted in your water supply. Not dry up. If it's eventually proven that our use of the pit as a quarry is affecting you. We'll still get to use it, but we would probably have to draw less out until it's stabilized. I once thought that an advantage to the north pit was that we could have yet another quarry, but that was silly of me. Quarry meaning reservoir of water. Because that would be a magical solution if we could just dig holes in the ground and then everybody has enough water. Obviously it's going to fill part of the pit. Obviously it's going to fill partly from the water table. So we're not going to be able to use the north pit in the future because imagine if we had two or three pits all filling from the ground water and we just were constantly greedily siphoning out more and more water. We would damage your water table. So that's not what's going to happen in the end down the road. I doubt we would ever use, if this is approved, the north pit for water in the same way that we're using the current pit. So. But all those things said, I think the county has the ability to manage the mining and the water table to protect the public. And I know the state has a strong incentive to do that as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? Hearing none. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. I have a question. I've been in the information years for a while. The motion is to table this until when? That's correct. Until when? Until there's a hydrologist that can come in and do a third-party study. So that could be months to years until we get the results back? I don't believe it's taken that long for us to receive the report we did from GZA. I'm sure Mr. Mark could tell us how long that took you to prepare. I don't know. But I don't envision it's years. The approximate time frame? Possible time frame for a hydrology study to understand why Branson Spring, Clearbrook Pond are drying up and Turkey Run is dry? Is that really it? Whatever study you prepared for us, I'm asking how long did it take you to prepare your study? Because I think it would be reasonable to assume. That it would take virtually the same amount of time. Probably two months. Thank you, sir. So 60 days. It would probably take us to have a study back to resolve some peace of mind for our citizens. And maybe put our finger on what is truly causing this. So Mrs. Porter, are you going to amend that or do you have a comment, Mr. No. I don't want to see us table it. I've spent a lot of time on it. I know a lot of my fellow supervisors have spent a lot of time on it. If we table this again, I see us keep kicking the can down the road. Mr. Ludwick will be the chairman here in about two months. And so that seat will be open. Whoever would be to come in to fill his seat would have to be educated on what has been done to date and where we are. It's going to take that person some time to get up to speed. I know that Mr. Jewell, which will be taking my seat, has seen a lot of progress. There will be some updates that he will need to catch up on. It's just going to continue to kick this can down the road six months, a year, maybe even longer until it were to get figured out. I know many of us have spent a lot of time on this. And it's just time to move forward. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. So we say two months to duplicate the study that was just done. But the study that was just done didn't answer those questions. I think what's being asked are harder questions. People talk about the fact that we're going to have to do something about it. People talked about dye tracing and trying to characterize all the underground water flow. I don't know if the gentleman would like to answer again. But based on the broader questions we're asking about where sinkholes would be coming from and how the water flows underground, I've got to think it would be more than two months. Isn't that much more expansive question, the things we're worrying about, than what you've addressed in two months? So the work that we did, we did in about two months. But the questions that you're asking are much broader. We looked at the impact of the existing quarry and the proposed quarry. Now you're asking for a broader hydrogeologic study to understand how the drought might be impacting things in a bigger area. So if this is a – if the county is a – if the county is going to do the study, then I imagine there's a public RFP process which is going to take time. The holidays are coming up. Yeah, this is going to be six months. You asked how long it took me, us, to do our report. It was about two months. But if you're going to propose to have this broader study and go through a public RFP process, we go through those public RFP processes. We know what they're like. And, you know, we're six months. So – I'm not sure. Unless I'm wrong. Does that answer your question, Mr. Ludwig? Yes, it does. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Only to say that six months isn't that long for our citizens to be – have some validity to this or an answer to these questions. So therefore, the motion on the table is to postpone this until the county gets an independent hydrologist to do it. Correct, Mrs. Slaughter? So that's the motion. Mr. Ludwig? No. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Wells? No. Mr. Graber? No. Mrs. Lockridge? No. None votes no. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Mr. DeHaven? Aye. Votes aye. The motion fails. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes. The motion fails. Go ahead. Mr. Chairman, prior to offering a motion, I would like to identify a couple very concerning matters. First, as we evaluate any potential economic impact, we should be aware that CARMOOS may challenge the basis for future tax assessments, as I know that it has been done so in at least one other Virginia locality. So the benefit to the county in terms of future tax revenues, future tax revenues may not be as great as anticipated. Additionally, as mentioned previously, CARMIS representatives told us and the community that they would conduct a peer review of the hydrogeological study because they know how important water is to us and have failed to deliver on that promise. When we asked them two weeks ago to look into the issues with residents who may not have had time or desire to come, encouraged to come to a public meeting or file a complaint, we received nothing in return. Lastly, I do not appreciate illusions made that if we don't support this application, that it will decimate agriculture, poultry in particular, and that they will in turn destroy Middletown and Stephen City with truck traffic. Binding decisions that have a lasting impact on our community should not be made, hastily or with our backs against the wall. I move to deny rezoning application 0323 for O.N. Minerals CARMIS based on the totality of the information presented regarding the rezoning proposal, including that the application is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan and that there will be unstudied and in turn unmitigated impacts if approved. And that is my motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Mrs. Lockridge? No. Mr. Graber? No. Mr. Wells? No. Mrs. Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Ludwig? No. Second votes no. Mr. DeHaven? It's a motion to deny. Aye. Aye. The motion fails. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. I make a motion that we approve rezoning request number 03-23 for O.N. Minerals Chemstone doing business as Caramus Americas. And as I believe it is in general compliance with the comprehensive plan as presented. There ends my motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Again, discussions? Just a correction or a comment just for clarity. Supervisor Graber, you say it is in compliance with our comprehensive plan or Northeast Land Use Plan? So it was originally as it was presented. There was a group of folks on this board who took it out after it had been voted on by the planning committee. So I believe that it is in general compliance. While this board voted against it a month ago, the planning commission saw that the proposal, as was predicted, was not in compliance with the planning committee's proposal. So I believe that it is in general compliance with the comprehensive plan. As was projected, would be in compliance with the long-term growth and thought process of the county. So while it is not in the present quote-unquote plan that was just passed a month ago, the planning commission did recognize its need for this entity to be able to expand to meet the needs of this community. And therefore, I believe that it could be in general compliance with the comprehensive plan. Okay. No other comments? This is a motion to approve. This is a motion to approve. Mr. Ludwig? Aye. Mrs. Slaughter? No. Mr. Wells? Aye. Mr. Graber? Aye. Mrs. Lockridge? Aye. Done votes aye. Mr. DeHaven? No. The motion passes. Next point on the agenda. This is an information discussion on an ordinance for home occupation, accessory dwellings. Mr. Klein? Yes. Good evening Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the board. This is an information discussion item on a number of ordinance amendment items that have been packaged together as we work through various improvements to our zoning ordinance. The changes before me this evening include proposed amendments to our home occupation, the cottage occupation regulations, accessory dwellings, master development plans, and other and other minor text amendments. Staff will work through each of these items individually for your information. The first is as it pertains to our home occupation and our cottage occupation rules. You all will know these are mainly home based businesses throughout the county, small businesses, and this is a proposal to amend the regulations for both of those uses to modify where the use may be conducted, the number of employees that may be allowed with each of those uses, and clarify allowances for commercial vehicles. Staff would note there's a slight change from the item that was on your October 25th agenda, and it was actually quite timely that it was postponed because there was an extensive discussion at the Planning Commission last week about a cottage occupation, and we do believe that this proposed change that's before you this evening does address a lot of the stated concerns that have been given to us over the years, and recently from the board, the Planning Commission, and the public about operating a home or cottage occupation in the county. So our current standard for a home occupation is an occupation or profession customarily carried out fully within a dwelling unit. There are no employees typically associated with a home occupation except for those members of the family residing on the premise, and we limit our home occupations to less than five customers a day. Home occupations are gonna be a buy right use in all of our residential districts. A cottage occupation is a slightly more intense use. It's an occupation or profession customarily carried out within a dwelling unit or an accessory building or structure, so that would be like a detached shed or garage that's on your property. And then, you'd really be centering on the office space for more or less than one employee. So it covers a lot of the state's oversight and consultation in our clinic itself, so the option to chocolate budget What you see in white is what the existing ordinance says. But for home occupations, we're proposing that they be allowed in a detached structure on RA zone property. And we're adding an allowance for one employee that would not reside on the premise. We'd still maintain that less than five customers a day. And we would limit to one commercial vehicle, which is what is currently allowed in the zoning ordinance. For our cottage occupations, again, they would be conducted in a principal dwelling or detached structure. We would allow for two or more employees that do not reside on the property. To work at that business. And we would continue to require that they be allowed to serve more than five customers a day. And have more than one commercial vehicle. So, again, home occupations would be allowed one employee. Other than members of the family residing on the premise. And we would remove the one employee limit from the cottage occupation rules. And we've also clarified for the cottage occupations that they would be allowed to have one or more commercial vehicles. The next item for consideration. Pertains to our accessory dwelling regulations. And this is a proposal to amend that section to establish a new minimum square footage allowance for accessory dwellings. Of 500 square feet or 25% of the close floor area, whatever is greater. Presently, we limit our accessory dwellings up to 25% of the primary dwelling. So, for example, if you have a 1500 square foot home, you'd be permitted an accessory dwelling of up to 375 square feet. And what we've been told. By people looking to do accessory dwellings. That's just not enough habitable space. So, we've proposed a minimum of 500 square feet. And that number was not just pulled out of the air random. We did talk with building inspections about what is habitable space. And they broke down for staff what that looks like for a bedroom, a kitchen, a living room, and a bathroom. And it's right around 500 feet. So, we rounded up to 500. Set that as our new minimum. And you'd be permitted to have 500 square feet or 25% of the gross floor area. Whichever allowance is greater. So, if you have a larger home, you'd have an accessory dwelling more than 500 square feet. If that were the case. The next item pertains to master development plans. This is really a cleanup exercise. To amend the section. To adopt. Or, sorry. Rather, to reflect the county's adopted submission procedures for our master development plans. And to remove our remaining reference to a public meeting requirement prior to MDV approval. Many of you will recall we used to bring master development plans. Which are these kind of generalized concepts for developments to you all. As information items. They weren't actionable items. They weren't public hearings. And they created some confusion with the public. So, we removed the requirement to have a public meeting. They're administratively reviewed and approved by staff. As they've been. And there's one extraneous reference to a public meeting we found in a section. That we would like to clean up. Just for clarity. The last item are minor amendments to terminology in our zoning ordinance. The first is a proposal to definitions for group homes. Etc. To remove and update language that does not conform to state and federal definitions. For intellectually or developmentally disabled persons. The other is a separate proposal that updates the word use where principle was used incorrectly. That's actually in our extractive manufacturing district. Instead of principle when referring to a primary structure. Mr. Williams has been pressing us to make that change and use that word correctly. So, this is a clean up item to reflect that change. So, where have we been? The development review and regulations committee actually reviewed this item back in the summer. The planning committee reviewed this item back in the summer. The planning commission discussed on the 6th. And they sent the item forward to the board of supervisors. Staff is seeking direction from the board this evening. On whether this item is ready to go forward for a public hearing. You certainly can separate the items if you'd like. If you're not ready to send one item forward. But we're working again through this batch of ordinance amendments. And ask for your consideration tonight. And I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Staff have any questions? Or does the supervisors have any questions of staff? Good. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. Just a quick one. So, looking at article 1. Home. Occupation. I've asked this before. So, I apologize to both of you if I'm still struggling with it. We say that an occupation for under home occupation. An occupation or profession customly carried on in a dwelling unit. In the RA rural area zoning district. A home occupation may be carried on in an accessory building or structure. So, we're not saying it can't be in the dwelling unit in RA. Right? It can be in the dwelling unit or the accessory. It could be either. It may be in the dwelling or it could be in a detached structure in the RA district only. Do we need to say that? My thought about the grammar is that we're not excluding the dwelling when we say that about RA. Do you have the text in the slide deck? I do not. It says it may be carried out. And we could specify that it may also be carried out and just add also in there. Since the item is for discussion, we'll make sure it's clear when it comes back for public hearing. Great. Thank you. And then, let me see if I had another question here. I might. The last few days have been rather busy. But I wouldn't object to this going to public hearing. Anything else, Mr. Waterwick? No. All right. Thank you. Mrs. Waterwick? I think it's ready for public hearing as well. I'm going to make some comments. First of all, I appreciate the correction of principle and principle. So, thank you for the English grammar. That's good. I have some concerns on the home occupation and cottage. My concerns are for home occupation, less than five customers and one employee. So, what happens if you have a business person that has two or three employees that are working remotely and once a week or once a quarter, whatever? He says, come on in together, et cetera. So, I'm not keen on the word one. And I'd like to see if there's a consensus to direct staff to go and increase that number and what that means to go and increase right now the total number of five and one, which is six, and increase that number or specifically to the number of employees. But with the ability to work from home, the ability to work off-site, I think that one employee is restrictive. And so, if there's a way to do that without... causing a hassle to the neighboring homeowners, that would be a plus. Right now, you have six people that could come on a daily basis. That's the five plus one. Well, I personally had two retail persons come, but had three employees. So, I'm prepared to go forward with a public hearing. But before I would support this, I'd like to see that done. I'd also like to see the same issue done on cottage industry, where right now you have two and five, and see if that can... can be modified so that if a person has more than one off-site person or more than two, they can go and address that issue. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. So, as I've read this, I think it protects our communities well. What we have done a poor job in the past of maybe considering is, while we want to protect people's property rights, we also want to protect those rights of the neighbors. And the way this is written protects those rights. When we have a lot of folks coming into a residential neighborhood, folks who have never been there before, they don't know where they're going. I had the unfortunate opportunities many, many times to have a neighboring small business where folks went up my driveway several times a day because they were lost. And while it's not a genuine concern to me as I'm way out in the country, if this was a small subdivision and it was tight on parking, it could very easily be a big concern. I think that the proposal as it's proposed is wonderful. If we have a period of time, if somebody grows a business, that's larger than this, there are opportunities where you can rent office space for a day, for a week, and you can facilitate meetings and things of that nature, whether that be a hotel, conference room, or other places, and it would meet your needs and it would protect our neighborhoods. So that's why I support it as presented. So my only comment would be, if you have one employee and you have five customers, or six people, or if you only have two customers but you have three employees. So in the area where I am, which is a little bit more dense than yours, I would not want to see 100 people. I would want to see 100 people coming down Bedford Drive. But if we had six people coming and three of them were employees and three of them were retail, it doesn't change the numbers. And so for that reason, I made my proposal. I'll support going forward, but if this comes forward again, we'll have a discussion on that. Does anybody else have any comments on this? I call for the question. I do. Yeah. Mr. DeHaven? Yes. Go ahead. I do think that it's good to look on the changes with the economy. I think that the exception of accessory dwellings looks to me like some number got thrown on the wall hoping it would stick. I don't think anything creative went into that discussion or particularly helpful. Accessory dwellings in my vision tend to be the ability to have a person who requires a caregiver and a caregiver. You're talking about a minimum of two bedrooms, minimum kitchen area and a living room, dining space. And the ability, I'm sorry, and the ability to, one of those baths would have to be full ADA, you know, for a standard bath. For the caregiver, it would be fine. But for whoever they're caring for, would need a full ADA bath. I think it needs work. You broke up. That's it. You think, sorry, Mr. DeHaven, you just broke up. You think it needs more work? Okay. I think it needs full creative work. All right. So I'm going to make a suggestion that maybe we take. . I don't think it's ready. I don't think it's ready to go forward. Okay. I'm going to make a suggestion that perhaps we just take these one by one and then we can see where we go on this. If that's okay. Mrs. Slaughter? I would support Chairman DeHaven's suggestion that we investigate that and bring it back. Okay. So, Mrs. Slaughter, would you want to have the whole, all of them done? Or do you want to just take this piece by piece? Do you want to consider it in block? Or. I would suggest, just a suggestion, if we're going to send it back for further work, will we send it all and bring it back, do it one at a time, and you're having to hear them one at a time. Okay. We could batch the other items and take accessory dwellings off if that is your preference. Yeah. Let's just, you know. Public hearing is. Let's do it. My suggestion is send it back. We can correct the ones that you've got, bring it all back in one package, and then we can take it back. We can look at it. That's right. That's my idea. That's fine. I support that. So, at this point in time, I think there's a consensus to go and send it back for further revisions based upon comments that were made. Then you can talk to Mr. Graber and myself on the areas where we had some disagreements. You can talk to Mr. DeHaven on his concerns, and just get a package that might be more conducive to what we're trying to do. Yes, sir. Okay. Anything else on this? Sounds good. Having said that, Board of Leaders on reports. Are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments. Are there any citizen comments on any subject that you'd like to address to the Board? Mr. Chairman, we have just one. Alice Strickler. Okay. I'm going to let Mrs. Strickler go first. Good evening. My name is Alice Strickler, and as you know, I am the mother of Ian Strickler, who died at the Fire Academy on July 5th. Tonight, I come to speak to you about the fact that in the letter I received about Ian's death, there was a reference to another recruit who almost died as a result of the paramilitary-style training techniques employed at that academy. After I spoke, Mr. Ballhofer said to the Winchester Star, and I quote, that the allegations had no factual basis and were false and defamatory. Two weeks ago, Nick Blake, that recruit, stood before this board, shoulder to shoulder with his mother and I to speak the truth of his experience at the Fire Academy. It has now been said by Mr. Ballhofer to the Winchester Star, and I quote, that he mischaracterized what happened to him. Nick spoke his truth, and there is a retired trainer who will verify this truth. Mr. Ballhofer was not there that day. He does not know what Nick experienced or continues to live with. To this day, any independent investigation, which has been suggested, of what happened to Nick or to my son, Ian would be more than welcome with certain conditions. The independent investigation needs to be done by someone outside of Frederick County or even the Commonwealth of Virginia. I wholeheartedly would support an investigation of the death of my son and the near death of Nick Blake. However, it is... If this is... If this is to truly be a fact-finding mission, it must be done by a truly independent organization or individual. All my family has ever wanted out of this was transparency and accountability for those who were involved in his death that day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Brian Neary. I'm a resident of the Opechan District. Well, 24 hours after an election and we're already making decisions for the county. And yesterday was quite an eye-opener for a lot of people in this county. We traded a lot of experience and civility for arrogance, ignorance, and self-interest. We traded a 15-year veteran of the Commissioner of Revenue's office for a jewelry store manager who ran a platform on rebating tax money and critical race theory, two fields of area that are not in the purview of the commissioner's office. We traded a 16-year veteran of the Clerk of Congress, a 16-year veteran of the Clerk of Congress, a 16-year veteran of the Clerk of Congress, and a 16-year veteran of the Clerk of Congress, a 16-year veteran of the Clerk of Congress, court office for a speech pathologist who has never stepped foot in the clerk's office and promised upgrades that can't be granted by the county clerks that would have to be approved by the Supreme Court of the state of Virginia, again, out of her purview. We traded a 16-year veteran of the county planning commission for a chairman of the board who has done nothing but stonewall votes over the course of his career, especially against school issues, except for the fact that he could give away a school for less than 10 percent of its value. He was also on the bankroll for his campaign from the governor, his political action committee, construction firms, and two other right-wing advising political action committees. We also traded in three parents who are heavily invested in our public schools for three school board candidates whose platforms were based on empty promises of restoring parental rights, which were not in the school board's hands. We traded in three parents who were heavily invested in our public schools for three school board candidates whose platforms were based on empty promises of restoring parental rights, which were not in the school board's hands. We traded in three parents who were never in question in the first place, masking a two-year-old issue that was done during a pandemic and a basic lack of understanding for the function of the board of, or for the school board itself, in addition to demonizing many of the parents that would have supported them otherwise. At least, the only two good things to come out of it is we are now rid of Dave LaRock and Sean Graber as our leaders in this area. But I would be very concerned for a community who elected leadership based on a platform that consisted mainly of cheap political slogans and baseless accusations and name-calling rather than good common sense for the county. So it's going to be a rough ride for the next couple of years. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Mark Regan from Stonewall District again. I just want to say thank you to those who voted down against Carmoose. You people care about the citizens. The rest of you, this was the worst decision that this county has ever made. Passage of this was the worst. Carmoose lied about the kilns that got passed and should have never passed. It should have been shuttered 10 years ago, and Mr. Wells can attest to that. Flat-out lie. That's why I can't believe anything they say. I have property damage at my house. It hasn't been fixed. They looked at, oh, it's understate vibration, whatever. It's still got crack in the wall. I'm going to tell you something. The passage of this is unforgivable. It's unforgivable. It's going to come back and haunt you, and I'm going to, you should be held liable, the four of you that voted for this. Goodbye. Thank you. Is there anybody else who would make any comments to the board? Hearing none. Mr. Wells. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor comments? I apologize. I know you want to get out of here. Supervisor comments. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to tell Supervisor Ludwig congratulations on his victory to become the next chairman of this board. I know that you will do well. I wanted to give a shout out to the Adams family, I guess, for their wonderful billboard that they've had up supporting you for the last eight months or nine months. It's driven a lot of folks to look at things, and I don't know if I can tell them thank you for the red billboard with the yellow letters, but I guess they paid for it as there's nothing underneath the bottom. I love it. It says who paid for it, so if it was them, thank you. And if it was not you guys, thank you to whoever it was. On that note, the parental rights items that were brought up here. Hold on a second. Mr. Varner. Let's get Mr. DeHaven back on the line. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Mr. DeHaven. I noticed we lost you on the WebEx, sir, so we're just calling you back from the room now. As far as I was concerned, the meeting was over. Oh, I'm sorry, sir. So, Mr. DeHaven, we had citizen comments, and then we are currently having supervisor comments, and Mr. Graver is making some comments, so that's where we are right now. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the parental rights, many of us remember two years ago when the school system was working to require mask mandates and other mandates that did not have any scientific backing to back them up, and they were shoved down the throats of our students and shoved down the throats of our parents. Parents' rights matter. The education of our children is our future, and we must make sure that the parents have as much input and as much say as they can into our school system. And I am very thankful for the folks who have been there. I am very thankful for the folks who chose to run for the school board positions over the last, for the next four years, and I am very grateful to see the folks who were elected be folks who will support parental rights moving forward. Having said that, that was all I had to say. It was quite a wait to be able to say it, but thank you very much, and I congratulate you, Mr. Ludwig, on a job well done. Anybody else have any comments? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ludwig. I just want to say thank you, Mr. Graver, for that comment. And I just want to thank you, Mr. Graver, for that comment. And I just want to also echo your comments on the school board. I think we have an excellent cross-section of our community who is now going to be taking office in the school board. I think they will put parental rights first, and I know they're also concerned about overcrowding and other issues. I think they're going to represent the school system very well and work with us closely, as opposed to the more divisive interactions we've had in the past. I think we're going to have an excellent relationship in the future and solve many of the problems we've had. Thank you. Having said that, anybody else? Mr. Chairman, I move to adjourn. Second. All in favor? Aye. All opposed? Motion. Meeting's over. Did I mention the treasurer's race? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I say aye, second. I Dafür? My second'd was the� My second's a qufon echo. Thank you. aye.
