Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-09-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=161
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please join me in prayer. Oh, Lord, our God, creator of this world, we welcome you this evening and ask that you would lead and guide the discussions before the Board of Supervisors this evening. We know that all authority is ordained by you and that we are called to respect that authority. And I thank you for the men and women of this board that sacrificed their time and talents to provide leadership to our community. I thank you for their families and the sacrifices they make alongside of them. I pray, Lord, that you would bless them as they lead us as a community. God, you tell us in the book of James that we can ask you in faith for wisdom and that you will give it generously to all who ask. Tonight, I pray, Lord, that you would provide this wisdom to the members of the board. And I pray that you would provide grace and clarity and discernment in the board's questions, decisions, and discussions. I thank you for the workers in our county that serve and protect us daily, including members of law enforcement, fire and rescue, social services, and so many more. Lord, I thank you for those in our school system and how they are working to, as school is coming back together, working to meet the needs, the needs of this community. So, Lord, we lift all this up to you in Jesus' holy name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Van Schoenen. Supervisor Wells, if you'll lead us in the pledge. Yes, if we'd all stand and face the flag, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman DeHaven is unable to join us in person this evening, so I'll be presiding as the chair at the meeting. Supervisor DeHaven would like to participate by telephone, so at this time I'll entertain a motion to approve the participation of Chairman DeHaven by telephone. So moved. Second. There's an official motion. Mr. McCarthy. We need an official motion. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you. I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County approve remote participation by Charles DeHaven from Frederick County for medical reasons. Thank you. I assume there's a second. Second. Thank you. There's a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Supervisor DeHaven is authorized to participate remotely. Next on the agenda is the adoption of the agenda. How would the Board like to act? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. There's a motion and a second to adopt the agenda. Any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? All those opposed? The chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you. Thank you. This brings us to citizen comments for agenda items that are not subject of a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone in the audience that would like to speak? This is on anything that's not part of a public hearing this evening? All right, hearing none, we'll move on. The consent agenda. Is there a motion to approve the consent agenda? Yes, Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. There's a motion and a second. Is there a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Any discussion? All right, we'll take the vote. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Chairman Haven? Aye. And the chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I believe we omitted Mr. Supervisor Ludwig. I'm sorry, Supervisor Ludwig. It passed anyway, but aye. I apologize. It's my first time sitting here. All right, so that brings us to Board of Supervisor comments. Are there any? All right, moving on. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. So we have three vacancies with potential appointments. How would the board like to move forward? Mr. Chairman, on the Frederick Winchester survey, I would like to move forward. Mr. Chairman, the board is moving forward. The board is moving forward. Mr. Chairman, the board is moving forward. So the board is moving forward. Mr. Chairman, I would like to move forward. Mr. Chairman, I would like to move forward. Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion that we reappoint Dr. Cleveland. He's eligible and willing to be reappointed. And I'd like to see Ned reappointed to that position. Second. There's a motion and a second to reappoint Ned Cleveland to three-year term on the Frederick Winchester Service Authority. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman, I would move for the approval of Ms. Eva Miller to the Shenandoah Area Agency on Aging for the current and an additional term ending 9-30-2026. Second? Second. There's a motion and a second to appoint Eva Miller to the current term and an additional three-year term ending September 30th, 2026. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes. So we are nominating. We are not appointing. So the Board appoints. We simply nominate. I did talk to Mrs. Miller. I think she would be a good nominee. But we are nominating, not appointing. All right. Thank you for clarifying. Thank you. The motion is to nominate Eva Miller for that position. Is there any other discussion? All right. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? And the Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We have one more. Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Aye. I'd like to nominate Kylie Walker for the Winchester Regional Airport Authority. Second? Second. There's a motion and a second to appoint Ms. Walker to the Winchester Regional Airport Authority for a four-year term. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? The Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. All right. Committee Business, Public Works. This is a public hearing. Mr. Wilder, if you'd like to come forward. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Tonight, before you, we have a request from the Building Inspection Department to adopt a new fee schedule for solar projects. As you all know, Frederick County is poised to have multiple projects built in the county. And all we have right now in our Building Inspection Department for fee schedule is commercial fee schedule. So when you apply the commercial fee schedule to a thousand acre solar farm, the building permit fees become very, very large. And one of the big differences in talking with the building official is the amount of inspections necessary. When you're building a building, you have multiple inspections. When you're building a solar array, there's more, there's a lot less inspections need to be done. So at the request of one developer, they asked us to adopt a new fee schedule for solar projects. And we're going to talk about that. Okay. So I'm going to ask us to just look into the fee schedule that's adopted right now. So talk to the building official. He first started out by calling around, seeing if there was any localities that had a fee schedule. And there really wasn't anybody that could give us a fee schedule. So then I asked them to evaluate how much man time, how many inspections would be necessary. So he went back and determined how many inspections would be necessary. And we come up with a proposed fee schedule. And he said, well, we're going to take the cost of the construction. So we're going to take a fee schedule of $0.05 per square foot for the first 250,000 square feet. And then $0.03 per square foot after that. So we feel that that fee would be appropriate. There's also a code section out there on buildings that we need to have a fee schedule that's consummate for the services we're providing. So we felt compelled to at least evaluate this fee schedule. We did take this to Public Works Committee and it was unanimously approved. So we're requesting the board to take the request. the request of adding this fee schedule. I'll be glad to answer any questions anyone might have. Does the board have any questions for Mr. Wilder? I just have one you may. This covers the the fee schedule covers your costs. Does it cover cleanup at the end or is that not related to this? It's not related to this no. So 20 years from now the solar farm is cleaned up how's that it how's the cost of that addressed? So under that there's a decommissioning bond that the county has that is there in case they don't clean up the site at the end it's different. This is just for the construction of the solar array separately. Okay so therefore the deconstruction is covered. Okay thank you. Questions for Mr. Wilder? This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Is there anyone that would like to speak to this this item? All right seeing no one we'll go ahead and close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Mr. President. I would move that we accept the new fee adjustment for the solar farm project in Frederick County as presented. Is there a second? Second. There's a motion and second to accept the suggested fee schedule approve the new fee schedule. Is there any discussion on that? All right. All those in favor? I guess we have to do a roll call. So Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. The chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Next item on the agenda is public hearing proposed easement to Shindo Valley Electric Cooperative. Is there someone presenting that one? No? No one in particular? Does the board have it? Mr. Chairman, I mean, I can speak to it, but it's rather straightforward. They have an easement right now for their electrical service at the site. This is the Round Hill convenience site, and the lines they have there are part of the infrastructure that they'll be using for the broadband. So they're just dotting their I's and crossing their T's because the easement does not, obviously when it was written, nobody knew what broadband was. So they want to make sure that it covers it, and there's really no further imposition on the site. They're going to be using the existing structures and whatnot. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Any questions for the county attorney? Okay, this is a public hearing. Is there anyone signed up to speak on this? Yes, sir. Is there anyone that would like to speak on this matter? Seeing no one, we'll go ahead and close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this? Great. Back Greek? Mr. Chairman, I make a motion that we grant easement to Shindo Valley Electric Cooperative over that certain land identified in Frederick County, being 120 McFarland Road. Partial number 51A17, DeBrava. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? There's a second. Any discussion? All right. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Chairman DeHaven? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. The chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. All right. Next public hearing, Planning Commission. Is there anyone to present on this one? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is an ordinance amendment to amend Chapter 143, Stormwater Erosion and Sediment Control, Chapter 144, Subdivision of Land, and Chapter 165, Zoning, to codify an agreement that you all already adopted previously to your May 25, 2022 meeting. For your reference and memory, that monetary guarantee and performance agreement policy that was adopted at that time is an enhancement to our existing monetary guarantee policy to allow for us to require performance agreements alongside of some of the other documentation that we require the development community to submit when bonding improvements. So monetary guarantees are required for public and other certain physical improvements. These include roads, sidewalks, and stormwater management controls more often than not, as well as other miscellaneous. And again, this agreement that or the policy that you already adopted is really just being codified by these code amendments. And the primary purpose for the policy was to allow for performance agreements to be part of that. This item is presented for public hearing. Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 17th and recommended approval. Staff seeking action by the board on this proposed ordinance amendment. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Any. Have. Questions for Mr. Pearson? Okay. No questions. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up for this one? No, sir. Is there anyone that would like to speak on this matter? Seeing no one, we'll go ahead and close the public hearing. How would the board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman. Mr. President. I'd like to make a motion that we approve all three of the proposals that we have in front of us. We've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. There's a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll go ahead and take the vote. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chairman Haven. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. The chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you. All right. Next one is the rezoning of Greystone properties. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the committee said. The mayor. Mr. Chairman. Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board. As you have noted, this is rezoning 0522 for Greystone Properties LLC. This proposed rezoning does seek to modify the proffer statement from previous rezoning 0221. You may recall that as the will run property in which some of that property was down zoned back to RA and this property was continuing to be for what it is. Specifically, this minor proffer amendment would expand the current tax. Defining age restricted to bring it more in line with the federal guidelines for an age restricted development. Just for locations purposes, this property's primary access is currently off of Cedar Creek grade. However, in the future, there is proffered right away across the north end for the eventual jubilee early drive extension. Of course, that's way into the future, but eventually that'll be there. But just for reference purposes, that is your property. Yeah. No other provisions in the previous proffer statement 0221 are being asked for a change at this time. It is simply the expansion of the language to clarify the age-restricted development to be more in line with federal guidelines. This is an action item. It's not a public hearing because it's considered a minor proffer amendment. The Planning Commission did discuss this last Wednesday at their meeting on September 7th and has unanimously recommended approval. And at this time we are seeking action by the Board and I can take any questions you may have. Questions for Mr. Bishop? I see the applicant, Mr. Wilkins, is here. Anything to add to that? Mr. Bishop was pretty clear, but this really just there was a couple instances our current proffer language doesn't allow anyone under 15 to have a spouse under age 55. The HUD language does allow in a few instances, for instance, a surviving spouse, a caretaker, where you can have some people under age 55 and we're just trying to make the two match and so that we don't have those conflicts. So that's all. Thank you. Any questions for the applicant? Okay. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Graber? I make a motion that we approve the proposed amendment here for, let's see, 05-22 for the proffer amendment. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All right. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Chairman DeHaven? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. And the Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, Capital and the Board. Any discussion on the capital impacts model? That is correct, sir. Thank you all for the opportunity for your annual update for data as it relates to the county's capital impact model. Annually, we do provide an update to the base year data that kind of drives the model. It was developed in 2019 by Tischler Weiss and authorized for use at that time. And as a reminder, we use this model for any new developments that require rezoning in the county to determine the capital costs that are going to be generated. And provide a suggestion to the applicants of how to offset those costs via cash proffers. Every year, really four major data points are updated within the model population. And this year, we were using the 2020 census counts and the Weldon Cooper Center projections. Frederick County public school enrollment is updated. The jobs data within the model. And we subscribe to ESRI Business Analytics to get that information. And then we put in your updated capital improvement plan project. Thank you. We have had with new information related to what we do with our Fès statement Giant A school building, so you're able to get real-timews looking area at that upon that. Those external data points are also updated, and also49 19 client that we submit at that學 14 6 six 5 6 6 18 28 19 18 22 s 29 28 30 20 21 22 28 23 24 27 24 35 17 the public school enrollment was hit in 2021, likely due to the impact of COVID-19 and the same four jobs located in the county, but there's a clear recovery in 2022. The only really other noteworthy data point for you all that I would point out is middle school enrollment is lagging currently, and that's related to a demographic anomaly that occurred with birth rates in the 2008 to 2009 timeframe where people were a little bit more hesitant to have children because of the economy. It made its way through elementary school enrollment, and now it's in our middle schools, and it's creating a small amount of capacity in the middle schools. In roughly four to five years, the school system, we think it will be in our high schools and provide some capacity there as well. Only reason I mentioned that is it does drive model inputs. So if there's capacity in the middle schools, the model does not allow for us to provide a calculation that would require a developer to contribute, or not require, but request, a developer to contribute cash proffers towards a school that is not over capacity. So two test runs for you, not expecting to read that. Put the final figures on the right side of the slide for your reference. The inputs are elementary school Bass Hoover, middle school Aylor, and high school Sharando using the fire and rescue service area for Stevens City, and test scenarios, 100 single family detached homes. The 2021 model put a per dwelling unit output of $18,539, 2022 is $20,096. Staff is seeking authorization from the board to utilize the updated base year data as we continue to run the model for the next year. Happy to answer any questions that you all have on this topic. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Mr. Dunn? So if we update it, the model's a static model, not an active model, is that correct? The model and its calculations, the model is a static model, the calculation of the capital impacts is static and the annual updates provide. And there's nothing in here that deals with the road growth that occurs, is that also correct? It does not provide a calculation for transportation impacts. And from what I understand here on this model, if you have 1% capacity left in the schools and a builder builds the last house to build that, he does not have to contribute to the impact of that additional house, correct? That is correct, per state code. But if the second. If the second builder comes in and builds a new house, since you're over the capacity, then he does have to address that issue, is that correct? Yes, sir. So does it take a change in the legislation so that the cost of development is borne equally by developer one and developer two, because we know that we're going to go and grow, so do we need to change the legislation to deal with that or can this board address that issue to try to make it more fair to all the developers that are, and builders that are working here? It's related to the 2018 proffer legislation that changed the state level and modifying that state legislation or advocating for that modification would be the appropriate course. Yes, sir. So the only option that we have is to deal with change of the legislation to make this more reflective of the actual costs that are occurring? Yes, sir. Second question. I'm in Redbud, Cincinnati, Roseville you might be familiar with. In the next three to four years there's going to be close to 800 or 900 homes that are built there. Cincinnati Road was built for a specific volume. There are probably similar areas in Stephen City and there's probably similar areas up near Stonebridge. The question is does this model address that? If so, how do we address the road growth that is occurring when those houses are built and start to flood those roads? Yeah, I've had this conversation before with Supervisor Slaughter as it relates to factoring transportation costs into the capital impact model. It is a difficult calculation that admittedly, I do not have the expertise to address specifically, but the way I've described it previously is because of the many variables that factor into transportation systems and calculations that would occur to evaluate that impact, it would be difficult to platform a model similar to this one that would churn out a specific dollar figure for each individual development scenario. In lieu of that, our process currently requires the applicants to prepare and submit a traffic impact analysis and Mr. Bishop, and his colleagues at VDOT work collaboratively to evaluate that and then look each individual development application on its merits and figure out whether on-site improvements and off-site improvements are necessary as part of the process that comes through your planning commission into you for recommendation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Questions for Mr. Pearson? Thank you, Mr. Pearson. So staff is looking for an approval of the capital impacts model for 2022. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the update of the updated base year data. Thank you, sir. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes. So I did have a conversation with Mr. Pearson, and in my opinion, I'll support this, but I think we need to change. I think that we need to go and get somebody in the General Assembly to go and make this more active. In my example between developer one and developer two, one doesn't have a cost, the other does. That's one component. I think we need to have a component in here that deals with roads. Okay. And so that's going to be General Assembly. We're going to have a legislation issue maybe in November, but I'd like to encourage all of us, if there's a consensus, to say that we as a board, you know, need to see this change, and for all of us to go down, or you as the Vice Chairman, Mr. Haven as Chair, to go down and really advocate for this. This is something that we in this county need to address. Redbud is growing tremendously. I know Stephen City is growing tremendously. Stonebridge is growing tremendously. And we need to address how we deal with the growth. Otherwise, we're going to have a discussion and budget, and the question is, do we raise real estate taxes, or do we have another way to pay for the growth that's occurring? And I would concur that those people that are building houses here should not be subsidized by those that are already here. They can build a house, make a profit, and still have a house that's cheaper than Loudoun County or Fairfax County. So that's my comments, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Other comments? All right. Let's vote. So Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chairman Haven. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. The chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. All right, that brings us to board liaison reports. Are there any? Yes, sir. I have one. Supervisor Wells. Yes. I'm the liaison to the Frederick County Parks and Recreation Department, and I'd like to publicly congratulate Ms. Stacey Harbaugh for being selected to be the new head of our Recreation Department in Frederick County. I'm sure she will do a great, great job. And while I'm on that subject, the summer season of recreation is coming to an end, and fall's beginning. We had a wonderful summer season. It was everyone looking for employees. We struggled, but we got through. And I'd say 99% of all of our programs went through and did a good job. And we're gearing up for the fall. The activity schedule is out. And take time to look on your Frederick County website, Parks and Rec, and take advantage of some of the great things that are happening in Frederick County, and also the upcoming events. If you don't have that available to you, you can certainly call into the Frederick County Parks and Rec Department, and they will get you a printed copy and mail it out to you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Supervisor Wells. Any other liaison reports? Mr. Recting Chairman? Yeah. Go right ahead. I'm liaison to the Department of Social Services. I raised this issue at our work session earlier today, but I wanted to raise it again for public awareness. The Frederick County Department of Social Services currently has vacancies in half of their supervisory programs. They're missing a child protective supervisor and a foster care supervisor. These are critical roles overseeing the safety and well-being of children in this county. Currently, Director Tamara Green and Jen Smith, the program manager, are assuming these duties, but that's a tremendous undertaking as they are still managing their primary responsibilities. There are also two vacancies in frontline child protective services, and these vacancies add additional strain on the existing staff. I'm afraid that we may face a problem if staff continues to be overtaxed, and we may suffer greater attrition and even possibly a crisis in providing basic child care for children in need. In the past, we've seen a number of cases where we've seen a number of cases where we've seen a number of cases where we've seen that. How many of those cases are asking for liver transplant?конneüss llevar die It seemsиходund a little though. Goodcommerceocces.com. of both suitable housing and staffing. Another coming problem that applies to DSS is the current public health emergency. That's the COVID declaration. That emergency is expected to end sometime this spring. When that happens, it will have a huge impact on another part of the Department of Social Services, our benefits services staff. Currently, all recipients in the county are not reevaluated. They receive full benefits during this emergency situation. But when that ends, there will be a huge bow wave of work required of the benefits department. It will also produce a wave of people who lose benefits and then seek relief from other charities and organizations. It's a hard job in the Department of Social Services, and it's hard to keep staff. We also face the situation where other nearby counties, for example, Prince William County, pay $20,000 per year more for benefits positions, and they offer those positions as full-time telework. So you can see where it's hard to maintain our staff. The Department of Social Services and the Social Services Board are both exploring options, but I want the public, as well as this board, to be aware of the challenge currently facing this department. I believe that it's very possible this spring that the Department of Social Services, may have trouble remaining in compliance or a dip in the compliance statistics that the state requires with data entry and reporting. Because in a crisis, our county will prioritize seeing clients and ensuring the safety and well-being of children and adults in need. We did give additional funding for additional staff this year, but again, there remains an issue with retaining staff and meeting needs. I encourage the public where they can. We need more foster families, and we need more ideas, more solutions for housing children in emergency and long-term situation. We'll see where this goes in the near future. Thank you. Thanks, Professor Ludwig. Other liaison reports? All right, that brings us to citizen comments. This is the part of the meeting when citizens can make a comment on any topic. Is there anyone that would like to come forward? Is there anyone signed up? No, sir, no one signed up. Please come forward if you'd like to make a comment. And if you'll give us your name and your Magisterial District and- And from the Back Creek District. Let me try to come up with three names. I'm kind of confused. I'm not sure if I should say Mr. Chairman, because I know he's in the ceiling somewhere, or the chair, so I'm kind of confused on that. I want to go back a little bit in history. On July 13th, Mr. Martin stood at this podium and introduced himself to everybody in the county. He brought up a lot of good points. One of the things he did was he said he wanted to attend a lot of these meetings so he could bring everybody up to date. Well, don't you find it kind of interesting that three major administrators from the schools have all quit in 30 days? Kind of weird. Why? Well, I don't know. What we do have a problem is I believe that this county should, I encourage everybody, to go and get a forensic audit done on the schools. Apparently, there's a major issue. You have Dr. D'Angelo who says we don't care about our kids, we don't care about our parents, they cause too much trouble. You have the budget director that says we can't operate on a line budget because it interferes with day-to-day operations. None of this makes any sense, and they're the two only people that stayed. Kind of weird. But I'm urging everybody in this county to contact your supervisors and ask to get a forensic audit done on the schools. This would be the third. Third district in the state of Virginia that's having an audit done on the schools. So you wouldn't be the first one to do it. But there's something drastically wrong here when you lose three major, or three main people in the schools within 30 days, 60 days. So, what else? That's about it for now, but I do urge everybody to contact your supervisors. I'm not saying that you can't do it. I'm not saying that you can't do it. I'm not saying that you can't do it. But I'm asking you to contact your supervisor and ask them, I could demand it but that would be wrong, to get this forensic audit done prior to this upcoming budget. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak? Please come forward and state your name and Magistral District and limit your comments three minutes or less. Alan Schaefer, Shawnee District. I wanted to, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I wanted to make sure I understood something. The capital impacts model, the way it would currently work is builder A would not incur costs that builder B would once capacity is reached. Is that correct? We can't really have a conversation, but I would direct you to Mr. Pearson. He can answer those questions for you. That's correct. I'm a builder. I work for a major commercial construction company in Northern Virginia. I can tell you now what that's going to cause. It's going to cause builders to compete, to be the first ones to build. And it's going to cause them to cut corners because they don't want to incur that impact. I would think a better plan would be to come up with some kind of percentage rating for all builders throughout. Otherwise, planning, building, the inspections are going to become overwhelmed because they're going to be trying to get the buildings in as quickly as possible. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else that would like to comment? All right. Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So to the gentleman that just spoke, I concur. I think that we need to go and change that so that the cost is borne by everyone that is occurring. Right now, we expect to have another 20,000 to 40,000 people grow in the next 20 years. So if you want to go and contact your local delegate, local senator, lay out your concerns as a builder, that would be helpful. The building community can still make a good profit. But I think this just makes the issue more fair to everybody involved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, ma'am. Mrs. Lauer. And I may ask Mr. Pearson, and I didn't ask him prior to the meeting, but for those folks at home and in the audience, on the screen you will see information about the Frederick County Northeast Land Use Plan. And there will be public meetings for the public to come out and speak on those plans. And of course, they will be presented. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. izk": That information will be mailed through the Planning Department in the very near future. And I don't know, Mr. Pearson, if you have a date that that information will be going out. But it will talk about public meetings October 18 at Jordan Spring Elementary School at 630 in the evening. And on October 25, at 630 p.m., at Stonewall Elementary School. That's right. Thank you very much for covering that. And I appreciate the opportunity to just speak a little bit about this initiative. We're really excited. We really want to get as much public involvement as possible in the Northeast Land Use Plan. So help us spread the word on the screen. You see most of the information. But if you want to, tell people just www.fcva.us slash NELIP survey. All the information is available there. We're going to be doing a mass mailer to residents within the Northeast Land Use Plan. Roughly 4,000 letters going out this week, more than likely, to try to inform people about this and get as much turnout as possible. So all you can do to help would be very much appreciated. Thank you. And thank you, Supervisor Slaughter and all the citizens who have put the input and the work into this plan. It's been a long process and a detailed process, but you've done great work. Thank you. Any other? Supervisor Graber? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To the speaker that spoke about the superintendent, the assistant superintendent Bach, and then the interim leaving all within a short period of time, I, too, have some concerns. Regarding why maybe our interim left, he was, before us in July, very, very kind, offered us an in-depth view of the funding for the schools and how schools operated, and just really was trying to be an open book. Really kind of concerned as to why he left so abruptly, and I hope that our current interim school superintendent will follow through on those promises and give us that information in which was promised. If that information is not given, I do agree that a forensic audit would be well in line, and it's not that there's concerns of blood in the water. That's not what the concern would be. The concern would be that a new superintendent coming in would be able to have a good overview of what he or she is stepping into, and it would also give this board a good foundation to know what type of budgetary issues might be needed or should be anticipated, and it would also allow for this board, hopefully, to have a lot of our questions answered, that I personally have been asking for three years, and several of my other fellow board members have been asking a lot longer, some answers to some budgetary questions that have just gone unanswered. So I think an opportunity, and I would encourage interim superintendent LaManna to give us an in-depth view of what is happening, as was promised in July, and I would hope, excuse me, I would hope that we would go down that road and have a good working relationship. If that should not choose to be delivered to us, then I would agree. It would be only fair to the incoming superintendent, whoever that might be, to know where they stand and for this board to know where we stand. So I appreciate the comments made this evening. Any other comments? No. Supervisor Wilson. Yes. On September the 1st, I attended, along with our county administrator, Mike Balhofer, and our head of human resources, Mike Borsario, the County Fire Association graduation ceremony, which was held on September the 1st. It was held at Round Hill Fire Department. And then on September the 12th, I attended, along with Supervisor McCann Slaughter and Mike Balhofer again, and Mike Borsario again, the County Fire Association's awards and promotion ceremony. And I'd just like to make a public announcement on behalf of myself and all of us supervisors, county staff, and our county residents to congratulate all that were, and all of our county residents to congratulate all that were, and all of our county residents to congratulate all that were, participating in that. And thank you for your continuing service to our community. Thank you, sir. Mr. Reza Ludwig. Mr. Acting Chairman, I concur with Mr. Graber's opinion. I think having the clearest and most open books that we can have can only help future administration and relationships between the boards in this county. I also want to raise another issue, and that is, to date, this board has not reached a consensus to offer a rebate or relief for people. I also want to raise another issue, and that is, to date, this board has not reached a consensus to offer a rebate or relief for people. I also want to raise another issue, and that is, to date, this board has not reached a consensus to offer a rebate or relief for people. I really hope that changes. I encourage residents of this county to reach out to your supervisor and encourage them to consider this. I think we can act to provide some relief. This was an unintended tax windfall due to the jump in values in cars, and some people are really hurt by it. Thank you. Any other comments? All right. That brings us to the last item. Last item on the agenda, the closed session. Supervisor Wells, if you'll make the motion. Do we need to adjourn first? No, we don't. Go into closed session. Do we? We don't adjourn at this point, do we? Okay. Okay. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County enter a closed session pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3711A7 and 8 for consultation with legal counsel. I vote that the Board of Supervisors, July 2017. golpeburg. Charactered Cardinal msckend roll Recommendation scandal Nay, Mr. Chairman. The Summary. I would like to vote on the application and establishment and provision of legal counsel by the LAC. I vote. The Katherine Re��. Sorry, Mr. Chairman? Measurement of detective transmission. Delegation. représent theilstrobility.com County Commission. Delegation. At the boxes. concerning various notices of violation issued against and enforcement proceedings against Winchester Wireless LLC Williamson Enterprise LLC trading as Winchester Wireless and or any affiliate affiliate entities regarding the construction of one or more telecommunication towers and concerning the legal requirements for conditional use permits and or other county approvals for such telecommunication towers you've heard the motion is there a second second any discussion all those in favor signify by saying aye aye aye anyone opposed chair votes aye and the motion carries we'll retire to the board room you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
