Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=319
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you What would you say? What's 50% of the time? Yeah, that's all there is. Yeah, that's your question. For being here, I was just trying to get it up. I'll just take it the way I have it. I'll certainly help you. I just want to find a sense of the interest. Okay, I like that better. Thanks. For a moment. When it's red, it's on. I think you're having issues with the system. I think so. I think hopefully my point is that RJ will. Yeah. I was going to say, that's Donna. I was going to say, that's true. Okay. Just looking around. There they are. I used to read that. I'll get it for you. I'll get it for you. Okay. Two minutes. No, but she was from the end of it. Yeah, probably. Engineering project. Stonewater EMS. Project management. There's a designation. That's all I'm going to do. But I want to. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What's your guy's name? Perfume. Perfume. Yeah. That's all. Okay. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. as you get more urbanized, as you get into this program. It's not down to get in. They say, you know, how to have a job. Can you guys see me? I can't imagine a good job. So I'm asking for a lot of people. Good, how are you? Just to be able to manage. Who can just sign? So that's, I usually don't get that. I mean, it's a bit. So I'm just trying to align that. I don't think you have to. It's such a nice idea. It's very independent. That's true. We haven't seen you in a while. We've seen you in a while. We've seen you in a while. That was important. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. That was my kindness. I'm not doing anything right now. I'm not going to. I'm just trying to make it because there's one right after us. I'm not going to try to touch that. I'm just going to use a clicker. I'll hit the wrong button if I didn't. John, our time frame tonight is 4 inches. That sounds like a nice time frame. Is it? Is it an hour? We're planning on an hour, but if we get it done earlier, we've got... We've got a work session just behind here that we're going to see how it goes. We're going back to back to back. So, you know. So, we're just happy to get everybody out here. So, we're just happy to get everybody out here. So, good evening, everybody. Thank you for coming out. I will... I'm going to skip the introductions, if that's okay. We've got name cards in front of us. We're opening up the work session for joint work session between the 425s and the EDA. Oh, sorry. It worked. Okay, I'll start it again. Sorry. We're going to get a move forward. We're going to skip introductions, and we're going to go with... You know, everybody's got their name card in front of them. Thank you for coming. Thank you for coming out, and we're looking forward to your presentation by the EDA. Mr. Barker, it's your show. I have a few comments. Okay. Mr. Chairman? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Warren. Oh, microphone. Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to my world. It's glowing. That's good. So, and the rest of the board, thank you for hosting this meeting. We won't do... I'll follow Supervisor Jewell's... Chairman Jewell's lead and not introduce. I think you know these folks that are at this table. I want to publicly welcome Jason Aikens, Supervisor Aikens to the EDA. We're glad to have him with us and look forward to working with him. I think tonight the word and the objective for the meeting is alignment. I've read that in the paper and I've seen other places about that. So, you know, to work toward that, we've developed and Patrick's developed kind of a two-part agenda, a short overview of the EDA. I think the first part is that we're going to have a meeting that's going to be a little more of a discussion, a sort of a discussion of EDA activities, some results of those activities and what we've been doing in the past, you know, year, recently and past years. And then really the remainder of the meeting left for open discussion, questions and those kinds of things. As you're aware, the EDA meeting, the mission statement talks about two main things, is recruiting companies that are good for Frederick County, that we want to attract. We want to attract companies, expand companies, retain companies that have high quality jobs and also have capital investment that obviously looks at tax revenue for the county. And I know that, you know, looking around the table here is that I know that there are many and varied opinions about how we accomplish that mission and those goals. So I think that's part of this discussion. We want to be aligned, obviously, with the Board of Supervisors together to get what's best for Frederick County. So we're going to, you know, we're going to start that discussion. I don't think we're going to finish that discussion tonight, but I think we can get down the road on it a bit and have some good dialogue. Please know also that, you know, Patrick's available, I'm available and any of the members here are available to have ongoing conversations about these topics. So as we look at a number of things, and Patrick will go through some of these, the EDA target industries, you've heard that term before. Are we aligned? Are we aligned with those target industries and what we're looking for? Large companies versus small companies. Are we aligned in terms of, you know, what we're looking for to attract, expand and retain? Workforce development activities. Are we aligned in terms of expectations around workforce development? And we've this has been an ongoing discussion, site development site, finding sites, developing sites, those kinds of things. And are, you know, and also associated with the utilities needed for. Yeah. Sites as well, which is obviously whole part of that site development part. And last but not least, data centers and where we're headed on those. So those are things I think that are certainly on your minds, on our minds and things that we can follow on and discuss. I know there's a lot riding on the success of the EDA when we look at the net, your next meeting in terms of the budget and revenue and tax and tax revenues. So we're looking for companies that are going to. Prove. Provide strong capital investment and quality jobs. So turn it to Patrick and go from there. Thanks, sir. Thank you very much. I'm happy to be here today. Before I get into my remarks, I do want to give a shout out and acknowledgment to the staff that I get to work with every day trying to make the economy of Frederick County better for every business and citizen that's here. So I have Wendy May, my marketing manager. I have Shayla Ricard, my existing business manager, and I have Donna McElwee, our administrative assistant that's present here today. This is the team. We're going to be working with the team that works every day to make sure that we are good stewards of your tax dollars and, more importantly, making the place better for the future. So here's a little roadmap of what we're going to try to do today. We're going to hit it right from the start and tell you kind of what you're getting for your money from the EDA. Then we're going to dive in and kind of talk about that mission statement and how that helps drive that return on investment. We're going to talk about a little bit on the goals, activities that make up that mission statement. And then finally, we're going to talk about where we're trying to go in the next 12 months. And then finally, looking for your feedback. So we're going to talk about what we're trying to do today. And then finally, we're going to talk about what we're trying to do today. So let's hit it right on the start. You guys obviously need to understand what kind of revenue, what kind of return you're getting for your investment into the EDA. And we're going to look at that through various different lenses to give you an idea of what that return looks like. The first one really, and please understand, everything we're going to talk about are only EDA supported activities. So what you're seeing here is the EDA success over the last 10 years. And we all should be pretty excited and proud. The EDA is a success. Frederick County stands in one of the top tiers among all Virginia localities and cities when it comes to capital investment and new jobs created. Over the last 10 years, that's $1.1 billion that has been brought in and over 4,000 new jobs, putting us in that top 15% for capital investment and top 10% for new jobs. So taking it a step further and looking at things that, you know, what we're doing over the last three years, you can see for every dollar you're giving us, we're turning around and bringing $20 back. Over the last three years in direct revenue, we've brought in over $50 million. And at the same time, you all provided us $2.5 million. So that includes both operating and incentive funds. So the real question is what have we done for you lately? This is a slide that shows you that. And I want to take particular note on the size of the companies that we have helped out. There's both new ones, there's small ones, there's large ones, there's existing ones. Within that, there's all those four projects when they're up and running. And we're going to look at those. And we're going to look at those. And we're going to look at those. They're going to provide $2.2 million on an annual basis. They're going to create over 300 jobs with an average salary of over $73,000, which is well above the county's average of $61,000. But it's also important to take a look at the projects that don't make the headlines. And what you're seeing here are the companies that we have either helped find employees or helped increase sales over the last 12 months. That's 71 companies that we've helped out. If you look at that list, there are all different kinds of companies in different sectors and all different sizes. The EDA is working very hard for all kinds of businesses. The EDA is working very hard for all kinds of businesses. So our mission statement. This is what guides a lot of the success that we just talked about. And it's really, as my chairman just said, it's fundamentally centered among retention, attraction, and expansion of businesses for Frederick County. So they create capital investment to help you all pay for services and create high-quality, high-quality jobs for our citizens. So at the end of the day, Frederick County remains a premier business location for the Commonwealth and the nation. To fulfill that mission, we need to be reduced four major goals. They relate around talent engagement, business retention, business attraction, and business climate. I want to stop and really talk about that talent side. The talent and economic development are so deeply embedded, you know, as we go forward. And we'll talk more about that later. The success in talent will lead to growth. It will lead to success in business attraction and retention. Now I just want to touch on a couple of the different aspects of the projects that we work on and projects underneath those. The first one is talent engagement. This program is all about trying to connect employees with employers. And we have lots of ways that we do that. One way we're doing it right now is through our regional talent strategy. And one of the big hallmarks of that is a new website that we just launched. And I encourage you to go check it out after we're done. It's called LiveLoveShenandoah.com. And it includes everything from our talent engagement to our business development. It includes everything from a regional job board to a cost of commuting calculator to a cost of living calculator and more. Another way we're doing that is through our widget cup. This is an annual event that is held that showcases our CTE talent inside our schools. It's a great way for those students to be able to showcase their skills, but more importantly to showcase those to employers that are acting as judges and assistants and otherwise. And the last one I want to take a little more time to talk about is our employer expo. This is a regional hiring event that we do two times a year in the spring and the fall. Over the last two events, we had over 100 employers attend, representing multiple different kinds of sectors of companies and all different sizes of companies. Over 100 interviews were scheduled out of those activities. Close to over 1,000 job seekers attended those events. And it's really important to know this is just not a job fair. People can come here and they can get their resumes reviewed, get help with interviews, and find out about training opportunities that are available for them. Next thing is business retention. Traditionally in the state of Virginia and elsewise, you'll find that over 80% of the capital investment announcements that are done are from expansions. They are the lifeblood of a lot of economies and why we have a specific program that focuses on that. And we do that first and foremost through our business call visit. That is an activity where Shayla, my existing business manager, goes and visits with each company on a regular basis, just trying to understand how are things and more importantly, how can the EDA and the county help them grow. Thank you. I'd like to go back to our staff and say, hey, this is our family. We're actually here to help you grow and stay here. The next thing we have is our small business development center. They're out there helping our existing companies, making sure they're getting their financing in order, getting them proper training to make sure that they succeed and go forward in Frederick County. Our Frederick O Eats program is all about helping out our food economy. It is one of the largest segments of our community. And this touches on everything from agricultural to food manufacturing and restaurants and beyond. And then one we're going to take a little more focus on is the Fast Forward program. that is run down at Laurel Ridge Community College and other community colleges in Virginia, and there are short-term training programs that have a lot of financial assistance to help to do that coming from the state. We have the Workforce Solutions people in at one of our partner showcases, and we discovered two things. One, there's a lot of Freddie County residents that are accessing that program, over close to 400 in the last year, and out of that, their wages go up by 64 percent, all great aspects. The one part that was a little discouraging, that that program is so successful, they were running out of money to help out their individuals. So what we decided to do at the Freddie County EDA board is provide $200,000 to help keep that program funded for the current year, or help announce selective fast-forward programs that go to help our existing industry base. Our hope is to help at least 50 people, and I think we're way on the way on the road to do that, and it's also important to know that funding is only for Freddie County residents. Business attraction. The This is almost as important as business retention as we go forward into our process, and the way we do that in many different ways, the first thing is obviously relationship. When you all are in business, relationships are key in what you do. The same thing in economic development. The main thing we want to make sure that our lead generators, we are maintaining and growing that relationship. For economic development, our lead generators are site consultants, corporate real estate brokers, and the project managers at VATP, the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. We want to make sure we're touching base with them on a regular, regular occasion so they understand who Freddie County is, what we have to offer, more importantly why we are different. Other thing we were doing on this round, couple years ago you tasked the EDA to bring in grocery stores so we went and thankfully we had success with the Publix down in Stephen City. We continue to work the remaining list to hopefully bring in some additional ones over the next coming years. Small business development center is a part of us there as well. They're helping people who are trying to bring their idea up to fruition, helping them with business planning, helping them get bank ready. They're helping them with their business planning, helping them get bank ready. We want to make sure that they're able to do that. They're helping people who are trying to bring their idea up to fruition, helping them with business planning, helping them get bank ready. planning, helping them get bank ready, and helping them with that training so they get started, they can be effective. And probably the single part, biggest part of what we do in business attraction is our targeted industry analysis. And I'm going to stop and take a little bit of time on that side because I know there's some new board members here who perhaps haven't seen this. This is an annual process that we go through at the EDA. The EDA staff does this. It is simply the pinpoint traded economic sectors that are going to leverage, capitalize on our local assets, at the same time offering promising opportunities for additional expansions and relocations. We analyze local, regional, and state level data when we do this. And we're only selecting sectors that are going to have modest long-term growth potential, and more importantly, are going to pay over the county, at least the county's average wage. And it's important to note, this is not a wish list that we do here. This has really been looking on growth on employment sectors, looking at the announcements of which ones are actually doing new growth. So we can make sure that we are doing that to help move Frederick County forward. And what you see is our current list. It involves sectors in advanced manufacturing, bioscience, corporate services, information technology, food and beverage, finance and insurance. Now I'm sure a lot of you are probably saying, wow, those sound like a lot of the same companies that a lot of other communities are trying to get after. And you're absolutely right. So why it's important for us at the EDA that we need to be able to tell our story. Why should that site selector, that company, give Frederick County a better look than other places? So we have developed value propositions that are distinct and unique to Frederick County. So when we're out there talking to them, we can give them key different points on why Frederick County is the answer for them to hopefully give us a deeper look. The last goal I want to touch on is business climate. This is all about having the appropriate assets and policies in place to make sure we foster a positive economic environment. One way we do this is working with our friends at the Winchester Regional Airport and helping to make sure their strategic plan gets implemented. For the inland port, we're making sure we're touching base with them on regular occasions to find out how that tool can help our existing manufacturers grow even more. And the last thing we're going to talk about is the project ready sites. We know at the EDA it is absolutely key to have business sites be able to bring in new companies. We are also very aware that the inventory, in Frederick County, is diminished. So to do this, we launched this project ready site program. And to be clear, a project ready site, in our definition, is either a site that is over 100 acres, is either zoned or comprehensively zoned for industrial purposes, and either has the key infrastructure in place now or can be within the next 12 to 18 months. When I say key infrastructure, I'm talking about wastewater, water, electric, gas, fiber. So when EDA went and we reviewed lots of areas in the county, we did a lot of work on that. And we did a lot of work on that. We did a lot and what we came to start realization pretty quickly that our area is infrastructureally challenged in a lot of areas and that includes everything from what wastewater to water to electric that being said we're excited we have we are actively discussing with one property owner of over 100 acres that was part of the original process that were very hopeful that that process will move forward quickly so we can take advantage of the business ready site program we application deadline is coming this program is the same program we utilize for Valley Innovation Park and working with the Peterson companies that helped us to bring in the Colossum quality chocolate project and their 230 million dollar investment so looking forward these are the priorities we have the next 12 months first thing we're going to focus on is new business we're going to keep doing it in a strategic measured way making sure that we are maintaining and growing those relationships with our lead generators the people at the Virginia Economic Development Partnership appropriate site consultants and corporate real estate individuals telling them again of our industry targets and more importantly why it was Frederick County and how are we different than the other folks and why should you give us a longer look than others and obviously to do that we know we need sites this slide clearly shows that Frederick County's got you know a little bit less sites and other or other competing locations which is why we've been doing the project ready site program and we're very excited and hopefully that that one site that we're working with will give us another opportunity to provide some project ready sites we couldn't have any presentation without talking about small business over 97% of the county businesses employ less than 99 people again I said the EDA is working hard for all different kinds and sizes of businesses we continue with what we hope to do and we will do is continue to partner with a small business development center increasing awareness and utilization of that operation we know there's lots of other people who don't know about that and we want to make sure that that program gets used to the maximum extent for our own self we're going to take and we create an individual page on our website for small businesses in Frederick County to make it easier for them to know where to go get resources in the same vein we're gonna work with the small business development center and other individuals and create success stories on small businesses in our area underlying what kind of tools and steps they took to make success hopefully blazing a pathway for others and micro grants we heard about this last month from the small business development center how a lot of clients are still having problems getting for any financing and they're just not going to be able to get it done. so we're going to revisit the micro grant program and see if that is a possible option for our community and lastly we're going to continue to talk about workforce I talked about this earlier workforce and economic development are so very linked in our business there's a lot of catchphrase called talent is king and what that refers to those communities that can retain attract train and connect talent with employers are the ones that are going to be successful this is really shown every year every year area development which is a leading economic development publication does an annual survey of consultants and corporate decision-makers and every year talent workforce however you want to slice it is always in the top tier of sites location decisions and you see those are referenced in the green arrows that are that are on the slide now it's obviously really important you know for us for the next 12 months we're gonna do for the current for the future workforce those inside the K-12 state and local communities to make sure that they get a job and that's how we're going to do that. 12 we're going to continue to employ our widget cup getting more students involved getting more businesses involved we're going to continue our role to work activity that obviously will evolve but getting eighth graders in touch of what opportunities of are available for them so they can start planning their career curriculum for that for the current workforce we're gonna make sure those employer expos are including even more companies involving more people we're gonna keep pushing our live love Shenandoah program and making sure people employers are aware of the tools that are there for them we're gonna continue to partner with all the people inside the K-12 Shenandoah and Laurel Ridge making sure that we've got alignment on our target industry look for opportunities to work with each other and we're also going to be nimble and ready for opportunities like the fast forward program that comes forward to make sure that we can respond to that and be effective so before we close and get to questions I do just want to deeply express the gratefulness that I my staff and EDA board have for your contributions to the economic development authority of the last years we are excited to continue the moving that the economic forward in Frederick County working with you to making sure making the Frederick County stronger so every business and citizen can thrive with that was just have some conversation we look forward to that thank you mr. Barker anyone on the board ever like to start yeah I'll start I got here we're good could you go back I know you can so let's go back to slide 11 and that's your direct support that you were talking about those are companies that don't hit the head they hit the headlines okay help me out a little bit with understanding this process sure so those are a list of companies that you know have either we help through the employer Expo or our Fredco Eads program Expo being help find employees that's correct the employer Expo that's correct and what else again the Fredco Eads program is a program that we support and we're not going to be doing it for the rest of our lives Eats program is in there as well, helping the increased sales of our restaurants that we do on an annual basis, as well as other companies that were smaller in impact but still had EDA support. It would also include support around helping organizations get permits as they're coming in with investments, things that the organizations can do on their own, but trying to get through some of the county things that are going on. Patrick's team helps those organizations out on that. So it picks up a lot of different parts when you start looking at this many companies. Those big companies that we brought in, it's kind of easy. We all know what the EDA does around that. This is the piece of it that's really not seen particularly clearly. Okay, so I'm just going to pick one for the heck of it. So Wayside Inn. They've participated in the Fredco Eats program, which helps, you know, again, that's a program we do a restaurant week during that time that helps to recreate a little more social media buzz and sales. And they've done a lot of research and such to help bring more people into the restaurants. And they're surveyed to ask whether or not they experience any increased sales during that time. Did they come to you to ask for that help? The Fredco Eats program? I'm just saying, the Wayside Inn. Some of those people we seek out, some of those are brought to us. All right, how about, I'm just trying to understand. That's fine, understood. West Oaks, another business. So what have you done for West Oaks? Again, that was the Fredco Eats program as well, the restaurant week that just finished. This past couple weeks. And again, that is helping marketing, bringing more people in that traditionally would not have come in during that time. Bringing customers in? That's correct, sir. Okay. I'm just trying to understand. Understood, that's fine. Great question. If we're helping businesses, bringing customers in, that's great. I'll give you a call. I'm just teasing. But I'm just trying to figure out, I know that helps the economy to have business. Mm-hmm. I'm trying to put the EDA in that position. Right, and that's why we have surveys done at the end of the restaurant week asking for them. Again, some people tell you, some people don't. But generally, their response is they see an increase in business over the previous time. Okay. I have another question, but I'll yield my time to somebody else. Another thing, Mr. Wells, is that Employer Expo, one of his slides earlier had 100 employers and two events and 1,000 job seekers. And again, that's the way it is. That's the way it is. Yeah. That's the way it is. And all of those companies that up there were involved in the expo as well. Okay. So it's something that, it's the largest job fair or expo in the region. By far. And it's been ongoing for what, five, six years? Again, that has so much success that the employers asked us to do a second one in the fall. Okay. That's part of this program. That is correct, sir. That's correct. Okay. All right. All right, I'm going down the line. I've got a question. So I'm going to. I'm going to ask you a question. Okay. So what is the story for why? What is you telling companies why should you come to Frederick County? Any company? I don't care who you pick. Well, I'll pick the. Will you make a pitch that why should we go to your county? What is it you're saying? What we talk about a lot really is we do an annual benchmark survey, a study every year, that basically looks at our area in comparison to other competing locations. And the big thing for food manufacturing in South Carolina is that we're going to be doing a benchmark survey every year. Okay. And as the data shows that we're going to have a higher rate of sales in South Carolina than other regions. And that'll actually Represent. And after 1-2 years of doing that methodology, I'm going to ambitious thinking of, making a benchmark,70% increase the number of new employees a week. Next slide. There. When we go to subject matter, the one source of information that we talk about isальное than anything in South Carolina, of whether there's some need to make that decision. We've actually had like a lot of town choke queues Ten weeks ago in here. One of the things we've worked on recently, mehr than a quarter where some people get the federal money for making their deal on 이 shod a little much higher than certain things like theンダepay financial trip lights it's not about food Republican. There's other things that they've made a decision. that we do inside with the employer expo that commitment to once they're here helping them a lot of other communities don't do those things but more importantly it's the number side of it that we show them the fact that we can tell them that with the advanced manufacturing different employment segments our area has an advantage over other ones so on the back end of that what is it that frederick county is competing against when you say that you give them the pitch that this is why you should come and we're competing against either let's say north carolina georgia whatever other counties what is it that we are missing out on that's causing us not to get companies coming here what have we what did if we've lost a company i see you're saying you're you've gone after this company and this company it's went down to the cost of business lost the business cost of business why because our areas are generally higher cost of business than other people to the south of us another states are usually a little lower cost to do an operation than us north carolina south carolina have always been traditionally been that way but what's the purpose what's the reason behind that we're more expensive is it taxes yes is it taxes utilities is it what is it all the above okay okay yeah i mean that's when we're when we're in competitions to states to the north of us i have a much better comfort level on our success probability because i know the higher cost than do things up there there's obviously some variables you can metrics but there's something you can't um you know with the flight we don't ever believe where some of their supplier chains are so some of that you know we like they might we might map out as the best location but if their suppliers and everything are further south and further north then that's part we can't metric out what we're doing that analysis yeah we you and i've had this conversation and i think it's important for for anyone listening watching to hear this it's an uber competitive environment you know we're all in this uh it's it's it's a really competitive environment you know for all states and such. Virginia has made inroads in some ways. With the other counties, the states to the south of us and such, we've won a little bit more than the past, but it's still a challenge because workforce rates are much cheaper down there in comparison to us. So it just depends on a lot of factors going in. Sometimes we get the information and we can talk over it, and sometimes we can't. Thank you. Next up. Yes, Mr. Chair. A couple of comments. First of all, thanks, EDA Board and Patrick, for presenting tonight. Good overview. I'm going to be Captain Obvious, I think, in this couple statements here. We need a game changer in Frederick County. You've probably been following along. We currently have a $42 million hole in our budget. We're kind of over-relying on real estate or just the normal taxes, real estate, personal property, meals, lodging, sales taxes, et cetera. Everything that you've mentioned tonight is important. You know, taking care of the current businesses is important. Work force development is important. Retention and all that is important. To me, the two biggest things are business attraction and project-ready sites. I mean, and like I said, I think we really need a game changer. In terms of the project-ready sites, we've got to figure out how to reduce obsolescence. We've got to figure out how to reduce obstacles, resistance, and opposition to what we want to put in in those potential, quote, unquote, project-ready sites. So, you know, we can keep going back to the well on raising real estate taxes, raising personal property, raising all these taxes, but looking at three to five years, the picture is not getting any better in my view. I think our debt service is going up over the next couple years with the opening of the fourth high school, and we're badly in need of a game changer. So, yeah. I think we're in need of a game changer. And so I guess I'm telling you some bad news here. Keep doing everything to retain, but we really need to. We're right with you on that. We really need to attract large businesses. That's just my input. So I'd like to respond to that. First of all, we're not going back to the well on taxes. We haven't done anything with taxes. We've got the lowest tax rate around. We've had the lowest tax rate around. Sixteen years, one cent. We lowered taxes four cents. What do you expect to happen? So am I saying raise taxes? Yeah, I am. The citizens need to pay for the services they desire. And if that's there, that's what we should have been doing it incrementally as we went through all these years of time. We did not. But we're not going back. And so, you know, Bob, on your part, we're not going back on taxes and raising taxes. We haven't raised taxes. We haven't done it. We haven't even looked at it. And I've been an advocate of that since I've been on the board. I'm not an advocate of taking your money and throwing it away. I'm an advocate for paying for the services you desire and need. And we've done a good job of doing that up to now. But we went through five years of nothing. We went through eight years before that. So, yes, we need your help. That's great. But we also need to help ourselves. and we've shot ourselves in the foot for a long time it's time to own up to it and so we've got to do something folks we got to be the big boy here in the room thank you for helping us i'm looking for anything that you can help us with but it's not the magic bullet for this year it's not going to happen this year and we have to meet the budget this year three or five years old we know it's not and that anything that helps to keep taxes lower that's fine with me but right now we can't survive where we are and it's obvious it's been obvious thank you supervisor akins um i'd like you to move to slide 11 please so i'm i'm gonna i'm sorry maybe i'm maybe it's 21 it was that your strategic plan or what you were focusing on 23 i was way off good lord sorry um i'm going to yield my time i want to i want to go to the last um but i'd like to make sure that we're all on the board and we're all on the board and we're all on the board and we're all on the board focusing on those priorities for 26 and 27 and addressing our is those priorities what we want eda to be focusing on because as the board of liaison i need to carry your all's flag on on what we want the eda to be focusing on so i'll yield my time until the end al you're up no pressure supervisor he can yes uh i would go go back to the slide patrick oh sure thing i would agree that's the focus i'd uh piggybacking off of uh supervisor lero uh game changer i don't know that there's gonna be a single game changer it's uh it's consistent growth uh and and all the components and uh having the labor force having the labor force that's trained and uh so we've got some work to do there but we're not going to change things overnight and it's it's looking down the road and addressing all those issues the site readiness certainly is a is high on the list as well and that's just from from my perspective and again primarily your perspective as a former educator thanks sir going down and mr groove supervisor here we go i'm going to ask some some tough questions and some of those will be pointed at at the county itself and i would like honest dialogue if we're going to have a work session i want to hear it and i want to talk through it and i want some opinions are we business friendly and that's an open question for you all right now you consider the county business friendly generally speaking i would say yes the county is friendly to business a lot of the work that patrick the team does the way the supervisors work here wanting to bring business in could we be more business friendly absolutely can we make it easier for permanent can we make it easier as people want to come into the county that they're going to have to work or do with different constituents i think there's a Ichthy Resignation a lot of things are work in the county asking for more here is there when i'm asked by the commissioner and one of the priority hall meetings is given before we do this is um i got sir george martin brody scribert governor of new dams foods dichotomy department role in part 2 of this cfsa action the county policy report on ins yn Are we business friendly? And back then when I owned my business, I said no. You put more obstacles up to success for us, and the permitting process or business licensing, how long things take sometimes are an obstacle. And if there are obstacles, we need to know what they are. So if you're hearing them, if the small business development center is hearing them, we need to know because we can't course correct. But what I want to tell you is I'm going to piggyback off some of these things. We need to throw this thing on its head. We need to come up with new, innovative ideas. We need to look at what are the obstacles holding us back, but then we need to know what they are. I'll also ask you, in an age of communication and teamwork, what are the obstacles that are holding us back? If you're working on bringing businesses here, I don't see why we wouldn't want to know what those businesses are. If you're talking to a big corporation, because in a world of LinkedIn, somebody might know an owner or somebody in the C-suite of those companies, and we could try to make phone calls, help you with trying to bring those businesses in. I, for one, would... If there's a business in my district that you're trying to retain, you're trying to help grow, I want to go visit them with you. I want to let them know that I support them, that this county supports them. I want to be active in my district in helping you achieve your goals. But if I don't know what those are, then I kind of can't help that. So I want to be an active participant in trying to help us. I want to succeed. I want to find out how we can create open dialogue. So if you're working on something hot, how can we help you be successful? I'm new to this, but I would assume if there are perceived silos, I want to break them down. We want to be partners. We want to work together. So I'm telling you, I'm that person that wants to do that. And I know some of my supervisor partners would want to do that as well. So I want to ask you another question. What would, if you could turn this thing up on its head, what would turning on the economic engine of this county look like? Sites. Okay. Sites. So this is the first I've heard of it, but if that's a priority, what do we got to do? Well, that's why we're hopeful with the one property we're talking with. I won't say the exact acreage so the person knows, but that has. Potential to be a part of it. There's a much longer issue that has to be dealt with. Do people with a lot of the infrastructure that's involved in Gary knows this a lot with the wastewater. There's just restrictions that are in the water has plans for that. It's just time. So, and they're not, and obviously those most any kind of infrastructure process isn't cheap and it isn't quick, but that's why we're hopeful that we can, at least with the one property, we can be working on that, getting that up and running and then start worrying about the other ones. Can I make a comment? Sure. I'll make a comment about the sector that I know about, which is ag. Um, it is, it is going through a transition period and right now people are trying to figure out how to hold on and the answer is not going to be in my mind anyway. It's not gonna be big things. It's going to be small, small farms. We're not going to have the five, 600 acre things anymore, you know? And so anyway, it's like to really think outside the box, it's like, what can we do to help foster people who want to grow things and sell them directly? To the consumer. We're having a hard time attracting supermarkets. I mean, you know, so can we think outside the box and figure out how, because everybody seems to want to support ag, but what are we actually doing to do that right now? I'm not sure I see a whole lot, you know, so it's like we need to put all our heads together and figure out what is that? What programs can we do? And I'll say back, let's do it. Let's let's have that dialogue. Uh, I think this work session is going to have to be one of many, but I think whether it's going to be, what does the airport want to attract to help drive the economy here? What does, what can we do with the ag businesses? We have to start talking. We have to start working together and figuring it out and stop kicking the can. I don't want to use the kick in the can down the road phrase, but what can we do to have action? I think Jason are going to be pretty aligned on the on a comment about. It takes too long for things to happen here. How can we make faster decisions to make this engine run? And we need to hear it from the businesses. We need to hear from you all. What can we do to make things go faster? We, you know what? I don't know. I just feel like in the world of business and some of you sitting across from me know this quite well. You can't take so long to make decisions because you just lose money. And so I figured. If we're running this as a business, we got to come up with a faster way to move things forward. All right, I'm going to pass now to Gary. Thanks before you do that. My priorities to realign or do we not? I think now with site readiness, I get it new business retention. The small business thing. I'm not quite sure. Yet. You we have this the small business development center, which we fund which you fund. Correct. So I mean if that's if that's their thing, then as long as you guys aren't physically working on it, then to me the per I want to see these priorities, maybe separated from the small business development center. That's something I like. Like what is your office doing for your priorities? Not the small business development centers kind of its own thing. Me at least in my mind. Yeah, shoot. Shoot. The SBDC does work as a separate entity. It's an extension of the economic development team. And so in any given year, they're working with probably 150 Frederick County business owners in one year. So they are doing work. Separate from what they're doing. Separate from what Patrick and his team does. If they're like an extension of the team, if that makes sense. It does. Yeah. So if we're a four, if we're focusing on on your shop, then at least in my mind, I would take that one out. And then workforce readiness. Again, it might be a combination of other smaller entities. But the to me, the big thing is. Site readiness, new business attraction. And then maybe business retention. Right. That's what that's what I'm looking at. Business retention and new and current business growth. How can we have somebody that's already here grow their business? I think it's important to bring up on the workforce readiness side of it. We want to have these large project sites ready to go. Patrick brought that up as a top thing. You don't even get to the point of talking. With those opportunities, unless you have that workforce readiness. We just went through this as a company not too long ago. It's one of the first questions that are out there. It's great. You got 300 acres that we can move to, but you don't have the employees that can run the facility once it's said and done. So that's why workforce readiness is a really important part to attracting these companies to us. Unless we're bringing in buildings. We all data centers don't use many employees. They generate a ton of tax revenues comes along with other issues along the way. So. Those are the trade-offs that we make depending upon the type of industries that come here. Supervisor Oates, you want to speak, sir? Sure. I guess I'll be the ass here. I've worked in site development for over 30 years in Florida County. A number of the businesses I see up there. I was there when they came built. There is no interest in the EDA. I've helped them come here do anything. I guess they showed up to a job fair. So now you take credit for that particular business. I'd say Frederick County has been closed for business for about 20 years. 15 but probably 20 every time a rezoning comes up for an industrial park. You never hear a word out of the EDA. Hey, we need this. They never come to a public hearing. The reason we're closed for business is the Board of Supervisors. The reason we're closed for business is the Board of Supervisors. Because we don't approve business parks and we're out of land. Because we don't approve business parks and we're out of land. I was said for years when I was on the planning commission back in 2005-2006. I was said for years when I was on the planning commission back in 2005-2006. We need another Stonewall Industrial Park. That's where local businesses come. It's an incubator. They can buy an acre, build a building, start a concrete business, an electrical contractor. There's nothing out there anymore. They can't do that here. There's a business up in my district. We went through and changed the zoning ordinance I think two years ago. We went through and changed the zoning ordinance I think two years ago. I mean, that's a big deal. I mean, that's a big deal. You're not going to be able to get a business up here. ago now he's no longer allowed in that particular zoning order or zoning category that he's in now so he can't expand at that spot so we get in the way of business we're definitely not business friendly um there's been many projects over the years where they've come in and they've requested not to get the eda involved because it would get in the way the thing about permitting again i did site plans and engineering i've been involved in permitting for 30 years it's not a hold up you go to clark county yeah i could do as well when i did site plans i quit doing them when i joined the board one or two iterations site plans approved you're ready to go clark county you're looking about 12 submissions takes a whole lot longer frederick county is very easy to get permits through so that's that's an excuse that's not something that's realistic i've never believed that i mean the two trex building well shocky's did them out there along 37. one's through over 300 000 you know there's over 400 000. that took me about four weeks to get it approved through the site plan process there was no push no help you just do the job it's not a big deal so i'm really great at hearing permits holding everything's up that's not it if you want business here you have to have land approved and we have none flat out none so when industrial parks come in we need to we need to start considering them usually the biggest thing with industrial park is transportation there's a lot of money required from the developer in order to meet that transportation need when the tia comes in that's where i think an eda if we keep an eda of some fashion should be helping by helping get grants for that transportation we reap the benefits from the eda if we keep an eda in some fashion should be helping by helping get grants for that transportation We reap the benefits from the tax revenue off of that. But a lot of times that's what stops an industrial park from coming in, the transportation. That and we've got more and more houses around here and nobody wants it in their backyard, and that's a huge problem. But that's our holdup. And until we get over that hurdle and suck it up and start getting some more land in this county, it's not going to get better. And you're going to see the residential side of things start having to pay more and more taxes to keep up because we won't have the business here. We should have 30% businesses contributing to taxes at least, and we're nowhere close to that. So, again, never been a big fan of the EDA, worked for 30 years, really didn't have any involvement. And that's where I'm at. Thanks, sir. I want to make one statement, Supervisor Aikens, about the priorities. Small business is a priority for me. And I've actually had, and Patrick and I have had conversations about this. They're out there and they don't feel like they're being supported. So I'm putting the gauntlet down. You've got to do a better job of getting small businesses. That's what I hear. I hear that they don't do anything for me. And I'm glad you got the website. I'm glad you are working on the grants. That's what we need to do because small businesses are the backbone. You put out there 90%. Employ less than 99 people. They employ a lot of our local residents here. So we've got to be doing that. The other thing is, and Patrick and I have had this conversation, we need to do a better job supporting the airport. Winchester Airport is a gem we have here. And we've got it. We've got an opportunity. It can be an economic engine if supported. And I just want to put that out there because we've had these conversations. And I want people to know we've had these conversations here. So those are the two things that are really on my priority is what are we doing to, you know, the site ratings, I get it. But like Supervisor Oates said, we've got to get that through. I mean, that's a big hurdle right there. It really is. And the new business attraction, I know you're doing that. Data centers. Folks, absolutely, I support bringing in a couple data centers. A couple. But even if we did, even if we approved a data center. Even if we approved a data center. Even if we approved a data center. Today, you're talking five to possibly seven or eight years before you're going to see that up and running. So everybody wants to put that out there as the golden ring that we're going to get taxed. That is not going to help us right now. And right now, $42 million in the hole. We're looking at this year. And then I'm looking past. And I know everybody on here is. What are we going to do next year and the following year? So, again, we've got to go with what are we doing to support our existing businesses, especially the small businesses. And help with the growth. We've got to be working side by side. And we need to be working with all our partners. Like McSaba, for example. You know, so I'm just putting it out there. All right, Supervisor Akins, all yours. Bob, Bob, anything you guys want to say before I go? Anything you guys want to say? We can't talk after you. You can. All right. Appreciate everybody's comments. I've been thinking a lot about this in preparation for this meeting. And. I think what's. In my opinion, we need to do what we're really good at. At the. From the EDA. And be super laser focused on just that thing. Okay. And that's business attraction. Trying to get the sites. I mean, you've heard sites from everybody up here. We've got to figure out how to make it more. We've got to figure out how to do a public-private partnership with sites to make it happen. And one site's not enough. We might be working with one individual. But we need to think much larger. Okay. Because if you look at Stonewall. For Collier. You look at all our industrial parks. They're full. There's no way. Excuse me. There's very limited availability for a new industry to come into Frederick County and be successful without having to put a shovel on the ground and put in an extreme amount of infrastructure. Which is very expensive. The. I'm a big proponent. Last Thursday. I think it was last Thursday. When I was at the EDA meeting. Loved hearing about the Small Business Development Center in Laurel Ridge. I think that it's important. And I agree with you, John. We need to support our small businesses. 99% of the businesses in Frederick County are small businesses. We need to do that. But we need to make sure that we stay in our lane. Okay. We only have so many resources as EDA. We can't be everything for everybody. And if as a board, we chose, which I'm not saying we should. I'm not saying we shouldn't. Something to discuss. To allocate funds for the Small Business Development Center to do more. To really focus on that. Okay. Throwing a website up and saying that we're going to go and touch 99% of the businesses in Frederick County is not going to happen. We've got to really think outside the box and make sure that we've got a team focused on exactly what their mission is. From a workforce readiness side, I feel the same exact way. We need to support Laurel Ridge. We need to support the organizations out there that are truly doing the work. But from an EDA perspective, we need to focus our time on retaining businesses that are here and getting new ones to come and developing sites. And if we try to do everything with the resources that we have established, it's going to be we're going to get limited results is what's going to happen. Okay. I agree with Gary. I feel like the county, Gary is very connected. Mike, you're pretty connected as well. I'm pretty connected. There's a lot of people and developers in town that feel that there's a lack of confidence with the EDA. And we've got to get over that hump. We've got to get over the hump of why that's there and figure out what we can do and truly let the general public and the businesses out there. What? Resources we have available. Bonding is a perfect example on really advertising. Okay. What we can do to help businesses through the bonds that through the EDA can do. I mean, our name is economic development. We've got to figure out new and exciting ways to build economic development in town. Excuse me, in the county. The I think we've got a long road ahead of us in achieving that. And. Because we've got to get that confidence back. I think part of our challenge. And Gary, I have to disagree with you. I think sometimes we we put businesses through the ringer in our planning planning process. Probably a little too much. The. And. We've even had a consultant tell us that we were at. I think it was back in November. A consultant came in. That's looking at our at our codes explicitly stated. Your planning process is too laborious. And we've got to figure out how that's how we overcome that. To be more business friendly. And we as a board. This is not on the EDA. This is on the board. As a board, we need to decide. Okay. Do we want businesses in Frederick County that's going to bring trucks potentially the big bad word trucks? Because it's it's yes, we know that going back to whatever slide. Obviously, I'll get the number wrong. Um, the there's there's a lot of good targets there. Um, but if someone wants to do business in Frederick County, then we need to support them as an EDA. Doesn't matter if it's our target business or not. We need to support them because they we have this beautiful thing. Some people won't call it beautiful, but it's interstate 81. We've got something that no one else that lots of counties don't have that were strategically located, located with 81. Okay. Okay. Okay. So and practice that. And and we should communicate the definition of a sentence when I'm helping vintage fish in Dickison County. I do. I do. Um, and we need to embrace that. I think it was slide 11, Patrick, was the shotgun slide with all of the employers. And we touched them at different points, and I've sensed some pushback on that slide. Go back to the $1.1 billion slide, if you will, Patrick. These are companies that in the past 10 years EDA has had a direct involvement with, and that's what's happened on that. There are companies, which you know, that have not been involved with the EDA. And some of them choose not to be, or they've made decisions like that. They've not been involved in incentive programs or any of those. And again, they make some choices to not be involved in that. And that's something that, you know, it's not like we don't know they're there, Patrick. But they've chosen not to engage directly with EDA. So, you know, we are in the top 15% in the Commonwealth. Is it good enough? I'm hearing from all of us, no. You know, there's more work to do, and there's more that we can't. We can do, and we will do. So, thanks. Thanks, sir. Now, I'm going to give five minutes to wrap this thing up. So, I see a hand down there. Supervisor Oates. Yeah, I'd like to make a comment about maybe businesses you don't have up there. I think a big problem is targeted businesses. For years, there's a lot of businesses that want to come to Frederick County. They aren't on the target category, and they get the cold shoulder. And they feel that. So, that may be why they're not showing up. I think. The idea of having a targeted business is stupid. Any business is a good business, in my opinion. If they want to come here and start a business and give us their tax dollars, we should be welcoming them, not saying, well, you're really not what we're looking for. So, good luck to you. And that has happened. Thanks, sir. Thank you, sir. A couple of things. I agree with Diane. I don't think we do enough for the agricultural community. I've talked to the county administrator about an idea I've had, and I'll bring it forward to the EDA very soon when I get a few more facts. The other one is something that Gary Oates brought up. And if you remember years ago, we had the opportunity to talk to a business that wanted to come to Frederick County that, as I understand it, would be bringing in about a million dollars a year in taxes right now. What happened was a small group of people, most of it in the community where this business is going to be cited, they came in, they made a lot of noise, spread a lot of information. Some of it was correct. Some of it was not. But the board actually denied that company the ability to come in and say, here's how we're going. We're going to address all these concerns that the citizens have. And so right now, if you drive five miles past the West Virginia line on 81, you'll see a big sign that says, we're hiring. Because they moved to West Virginia, and we didn't even give them the opportunity to say, tell us what you've got. So I hope this board and Chairman George, you mentioned data centers. There's a lot of flux out there about data centers. I hope when the time comes, you at least give consideration to thinking about the 90% of the people in the county who are not opposed to data centers, as opposed to the 10% who wants to keep taxes higher for residential instead of bringing in more commercial tax revenue. Thank you. Thanks, sir. And one quick comment I would ask the board is, as you think about these things, and we think about business development and site development, how much do you want to balance that kind of development with open space conservation for the next thing down the road or for just quality of life? So it's just like, what I'm hoping is that you guys can figure out how much you want to sort of save for whatever that is versus how much we want to. You know, like, you know, let's go for it right now. And that's a great question, Diane. I'm glad you brought that up because during our comprehensive plan process that we're really we're breaking apart everything that we're going to be that we have today to truly look at that because we need to figure that out. And we don't have that answer, but we need to get that answer to keep the rural sense and what our community is all truly about. But there's got to be a balance. We've got to. There's going to be sacrifices made. And there's there's many industries that we that. There's lots of individuals that don't want it in their backyard. And that's really unfortunate. But you know what? There's there's there's areas where these industries should go. And and I agree with you, Gary. We're going to have to embrace the fact as a board that, you know what? We want businesses in town. We want them here. And, you know, we're going to have to make some really hard decisions. But that's why we're up here. That's what we're supposed to be doing. And I'll say the reason I'm saying that is that you can probably tell I'm advocating. For ag. I got my ag hat on and say, you've got to have space if you expect to grow anything down the road or raise any animals. God bless you. All righty. I'm going for last count here. Anybody else want to speak? None. Anybody else over this side? I think this was a great conversation. I will say this. This board, you're looking at seven individuals that absolutely support economic development. We're all businessmen. They're all men on this board. One of the reasons why we're looking at this board, and I'm excited about this. We want to align with you. But I'm going to ask you, it's got to be a two-way street. We need communication and we need to be working together. So thank you. And with that, I'm going to conclude the work session. Oh, and we're going to take a 10-minute break. Just a 10-minute break. And then we're going on to the next one. Fire and rescue. Thank you.
