Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-01-21
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=312
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you So it's presented. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed likewise? Okay. We have roles, responsibilities, and bylaws for 2026. Thank you. Meeting minutes from December 3rd, 2025 were presented in a packet. Are there any corrections, additions, or additions? or deletions that need to be made. Seeing none, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have adopted meeting minutes. We move on to committee reports. Are there any committee reports to my right? No committee reports? Yeah, I know. We're early in the year. Committee reports to my left. I do, Chair. Frederick Water had their monthly meeting last night. We had a two-hour work session before the actual board meeting at 4 o'clock. We're working on strategic planning, working on mission statement, values, goals, and objectives. During the board meeting, we approved the 2027-36 capital improvement plan, which includes about $248 million expended over, and we're working on a $25 million plan for a 10-year period. This also includes the East Pit Advanced Treatment to fully bring in the Swilinski plant to be able to use Pit 2. We also authorized two construction projects, a pipeline to support Swilinski, and also a refurbishing of a sanitary sewer line up in the Red Bud area where there's a gravity sewer that's been collapsing. And we've finalized our... Meeting schedule, we're going to continue to meet on the third Tuesday at 4 p.m. That's it. Thank you, sir. Mr. Pearson, I didn't see anyone from Winchester's Planning Commission. Okay, thank you. Any other committee reports? Mr. Orndorff, good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, the Board of Supervisors did meet on January the 14th. A couple of action items of interest to the Planning Commission. One was the reappointment of Commissioner Tim Stowe, which is important, and reappointment of Commissioner Justin Kearns. Also, under Planning Business, they did receive the land use review on data centers, and there was no further action by the Board. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir. That completes our committee reports and leads us into item eight, which is citizen comments. This is a time for citizens to speak for items that are not public hearing items this evening. If you wish to speak to the Planning Commission about anything that is not a public hearing item, you're welcome to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Mr. Chairman, I've got a speaker list for you. Okay. Scott McGeary, followed by Marv Davis. And folks, if you would, please queue up so we can move along a little more expeditiously. Good evening, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and congratulations on your well-deserved reappointment, along with Mr. Kearns. Because the December 3rd, public hearing with respect to the Madison project was concluded. Citizens addressing the project tonight, including my neighbors who worked very long and hard, led ably by Marv Davis, will by necessity have to speak prior to the applicant's presentation later this evening. We'll appreciate your attention, of course, to what we have to say as we do our best to bring to the attention of you items that are of great concern to us. Last time I spoke with respect to the impact of the project on schools, and we appreciate your consideration of the areas that we highlight tonight, addressing the proposals, merits, what we think are some shortcomings, and as of all we know, some missing pieces yet to be filled in. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Marv Davis, followed by Steve Prater. Good evening. I'm Marv Davis, a resident of the Madison School District. I'm the president of the Opecan District living in Lake Frederick. As chair of our community Madison Working Group, we've collaborated with both Mr. Pearson's staff and Mr. Madison's team following your December 3rd meeting. We applaud the many constructive changes made to the application, particularly the commercial area and new buffer, and we've had multiple community meetings and direct outreach to all of our homeowners. Our polling might not be a hard course, and we're not a statistical sample, but our repeated collection efforts inform us a large majority of our residents do not support the rezoning at this time. We accept development is coming our way, but we believe the county is not ready for smart development for three reasons. One, the proposed residential units are not the accessory as proposed by Mr. Madison himself, and identified in the comp plan revision, in January 2024. To the contrary, they're dominant with a 22% increase in units in the overall Lake Frederick UDA. Secondly, the substantial increase of traffic onto 277, reduced somewhat by the reduced residential units, will still be very substantial, and the county infrastructure is not ready in our opinion. VDOT has no plan for the largest rezoning in 15 years, plus, other developments are pending. We've been told VDOT will have to respond. This is another reactive approach to our infrastructure. Well, bottom line is we believe that hope is not a strategy. If approved, up to four different developers will be independently developing the commercial and 1,200 residential units immediately north of Lake Frederick. All of these units, and all of this property, are in the Lake Frederick watershed. As the founder of Friends of Lake Frederick, a nonprofit, I know that this setup will overwhelm the current county procedures for erosion and sedimentation, plus stormwater management. We would need a super organizational coordinating group led by the state and county, along with the developers, to protect the lake, which is the key central recreational facility, and the most important part of the project, the recreational facility in this region. We appreciate Mr. Madison's efforts, along with Mr. Pearson's staff, but we are not ready to endorse this rezoning at this time. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Steve Prater, followed by Bill Moore. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Steve Prater, Peckin District. Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. The proposed rezoning, in our view, for Madison is premature. Any rezoning should be delayed pending the county's comprehensive plan update, which we understand is later this year. The creation of a comprehensive plan, a new comprehensive plan, may introduce new requirements that are not yet considered. Additionally, this development needs to be, this rezoning needs to be after we have a comprehensive plan to deal with traffic on 277, also known as Fairfax Pike. The current development will add in a great deal of traffic. This is a rural highway with narrow lanes and no shoulders. In fact, if you tried to get off the highway, you'd end up in a swale. Some of those are quite deep. There are homes that are 20 to 30 feet, and businesses 20 to 30 feet from the edge of the roadway. There are mailboxes that are right on the roadway to the point where people have to wait there, people have to wait for traffic to pass before they can safely go and retrieve their mail. This is a road that is not yet ready to handle the current traffic, and certainly not ready to handle the traffic that is going to be introduced by this and other developments in the area. A good example of roads that are ready are things like Tasker Road, where they've built the roadways with adequate, adequate, adequate, shoulders, excuse me, and cutouts for future development, as well as Cross Trail Boulevard. Cross Trail Boulevard is built to handle future development. As I mentioned in the last session, I've lived through something like this before, where a series of developments were done on a rural state road that crossed over different jurisdictional boundaries. Each development was done as a stand-alone. It was approved as a stand-alone without consideration of the long-term impact. What resulted was constant tie-ups and as much of a mile during commute times and during school bus traffic. So I think that we need to be doing this smartly. We need to consider the entirety of what's going on in this area, and we need to look at doing the improvements first before we are approving any further development. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Bill Moore, followed by Robin Menefee. Good evening, sir. Good evening. My name is Bill Moore, and I am an Opecan District resident, a Virginia Master Naturalist, and the leader of the 568-member Lake Frederick Conservation Club. Since speaking to you last month about the many negative impacts of this rezoning request, I've met with the proposed project's engineer, and I've read the revised proposal. It was a pleasure to speak to Daniel, and I thank you for your time, Daniel. However, the needle has not been moved for me. I remain adamantly opposed to this rezoning request. Please refer to the map that you should have at your desk area. It's a map of the so-deemed Lake Frederick Urban Development Area, and tell me what's the most important aspect you see on that map. I hope your answer will be that beautiful blue lake, Lake Frederick. The 117-acre public lake is a wonder. It's a wonder that we have to make it a reality. I hope that you will be able to see the beautiful blue lake, Lake Frederick, the 117-acre public lake, and the wonderful nature of the lake. I hope that you will be able to see the beautiful blue lake, Lake Frederick, the 117-acre public lake, Lake Frederick, and the wonderful nature of the lake. It's a wonder. It needs protecting. The development of the existing Lake Frederick community where I live certainly has contributed to the environmental stresses on the lake. We understand that, and we're trying to give back as demonstrated by our constructing an eight-mile trail around the lake, conducting twice a year lake and trail cleanups, and paying for weekly removal the public's trash at the public boat launch. All of this is done by the labor and money of our community. Given where we are, we're doing what we can to protect the lake. You now have the opportunity to do the same. We've chartered the 149-acre area being considered for rezoning and found at least 10 water flow routes that have the potential to drain directly into the northwest section of the lake. We know that mitigations will be put in place, but our experience is that erosion mitigation is far from perfect and often completely inadequate. The bulldozing, the construction, the clearing phases are all of particular concern. And we're going to have to do a lot of work to make sure that we're doing the right thing. Thank you. Afterwards, the impervious surfaces created by structures and parking lots will be an ongoing concern. Why approve even more development around Lake Frederick? Why risk losing parts of this beautiful resource? Why destroy our 100 acres of natural habitat? Is this proposed development? I have just a few seconds to go. Is this proposed development the best that we can do? The Frederick County Comprehensive Plan refers to Lake Frederick as a residential recreation community. Without a healthy lake, the whole premise of our community goes down the drain. I urge you to oppose the rezoning request. We can and we should do much better. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Robin Menefee, followed by Ernest Buffalo. Good evening. I'm Robin Menefee, and I live in Opecan in the Lake Frederick area. I am a native, and I'm a resident of the Lake Frederick area. I'm a resident of the Lake Frederick area. I'm a native, and a lifelong resident of Frederick County. I am here in opposition of the rezoning. I moved into that area, and I think we've got a great thing in this county and in that area, and I'd like to see the RA stay RA. I echo the neighbors' comments with respect to the environmental impact to our only public county lake, and the traffic has surprised me since I moved in there last year, and that has been how many accidents occur at that intersection. I'm a resident of the Lake Frederick area, and I'm a resident of the Lake Frederick intersection, and the congestion up at 277 and 340. I also echo the comment about the consolidation of the various neighborhoods that are being planned get included in when this is looked at, and I also really look at the fact that when a lot of things are not defined in lockdown at this stage, it causes problems later. It all begins here, so any intent by a developer, any agreement, any pro offer commitment, limitation, any of that that's not written and approved here, it doesn't happen. Board of Supervisors generally take the recommendations from here. When it gets to planning, they're limited to what's in whatever you approve now. And I've seen it firsthand. I've been before this committee multiple times and I saw a small country store turn into a truck stop because it wasn't looked at as far as what might be limitations that could occur. So let's all be honest. The developer is here to maximize their property, their investment on that land, and to get as many homes and businesses in there that they can. I'm asking that you look towards the citizens and you keep RA as RA and turn down the rezoning now until more things are in place. Thank you. Thank you. Ernest Buffalo followed by John Tolliver. Good evening. Ernest Buffalo, Opequon, Lake Frederick resident. Signed up by accident, to be honest, but I appreciate the opportunity. Just an individual resident and concerned, not necessarily concerned, just first of all, I'm a transplant. So been here since June of 21. I'm impressed by just the fact that we opened up the door to the city of Opequon and opened in prayer and there's a pledge of allegiance. Don't necessarily always see that in Fairfax County. I respect a lot of the skill and conscience of you guys, other folks I've heard in the past that was much more detailed than I. But I do stand with them that perhaps this isn't the right time for rezoning or at least trying to consider what engineering plans will look like down the road. My two biggies is ecological and traffic safety in general. What's good for the lake is going to be good for everything that's around it, including extended neighborhoods. The same is true for traffic and the planning that goes into all this, which you guys are much more talented in addressing from specific engineering detail. Anyway, thank you for just letting me share for a few seconds. Thank you, sir. John Tolliver, and that's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, John Tolliver. I'm president of Lake Frederick, and I'm retired forest scientist. Lived at Lake Frederick for eight years. I've stomped around that area, around the lake, for a good many years, and I know it quite well. I know the land quite well. I'm also a vice president of Friends of Lake Frederick, as Marva mentioned. I'm speaking. Pretty much for the lake, is what I would like to say. I said some of this at the last meeting, but I want to repeat some of it. BDWR, the Virginia Department of Wildlife Resources, makes the statement that Lake Frederick is the state and regional major recreational resource. It should be the critical feature and focus of anything that is done. It should be the critical feature and focus of anything that is done around the area, particularly in the watershed of Crooked Run. And, in fact, the lake is the bathtub of the entire watershed. Ecologically, that lake is 50 years old. It was created initially, or the first dam was built in 1975, and I won't go through the rest of the history. But it's a 50-year-old lake. It's mature. The first 30 years of that lake basically was filled. Or went through siltation from farms and fields. There was no development around it at all. It was strictly farm fields that silted in a lot of the coves and the lakes. So, for the first 30 years, it was that way. In about 2005, they started the development of Lake Frederick. And so, for the last 20 years, a lot of people would say, well, the development filled the lake in. It was silted. That's not true. The fact is that much of the construction took care of that. But, at any rate, construction and development does put silt and does put debris in the lake. And it continues to go that way. And the Crooked Run itself continues to put silt and debris in the lake at the same time. The result is the lake is much shallower, particularly in the coves. Than it was when it was first created or developed. Further construction north of the lake and in the Crooked Run watershed is going to continue to fill the lake in with silt. Up to, in most cases, in some places, probably to where it's basically useless. In some places, it's almost that way anyway. All of the water coming off the watershed will come into the lake. At two inches. Two entry points. Two of the major streams of Madison come straight off of Madison property and into the lake. So, we need to be careful with that. And I'm concerned about that. Very quick point. I believe it is the critical to maintain the natural area of that area north because it's north of the lake. It is the last opportunity left. To maintain a track directly bordering the lake. Let's keep that surrounding area appropriately zoned to protect it as it is. As suggested by our fisheries biologist when I talked to him about the zoning. He said, if they're going to develop it, could it be a public space instead? A nature park that connects to the Lake Frederick. It would be an excellent asset to the area and local community. And far less impactful to the lake if done properly. Campgrounds, RV park, etc. Mr. Toller, your time's up, sir. Can you wrap it up? Thank you very much. Does anybody else like to speak? Who hasn't signed up? Good evening. The pen ran out of ink. To sign up. I'm Elizabeth Peldunas, resident of the Peckin District and Lake Frederick. My remarks are to the public. My remarks address the proposed Madison rezoning. Lake Frederick, the lake itself, is a man-made diamond Virginia inherited after the Corps of Engineers repaired its faulty dam. The jewel is surrounded by trees and our county is the steward of the land beyond those trees. To date, the county has approved the building of 2,130 dwelling units. The approvals for these units 20 years ago changed the character of this jewel. Fortunately, the jewel has not been changed. It has not yet been irreparably harmed by development. Tonight, the applicant is asking you to rezone the last parcel adjoining this diamond. Kudos to Mr. Madison for protecting acreage, abutting the lake, so the ring of trees surrounding the jewel is complete. The reduction in housing units to just over 600 matches the building density of the existing Lake Frederick community and is a move in the right direction. But does this proposal, as currently conceived, fit the needs of the community? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Well, if the City of Ohio hands out this juror's disciplinary world yet, this may get better for the community. boiled down down. I'll just say that the other areas that we need to save to ponder, that fill up as much as possible as much what has been lost, helped without Hong Kong's saltwater legacy I allforest затем I entered in point close a p gamma r printing one's 30 acres along Fairfax Pike certainly can help. Then Lake Frederick starts to become a real place on the map. By closely adhering to our comprehensive plan and approving a project that the community would be excited about, you have the opportunity to turn Southern Frederick and Lake Frederick into a crown jewel. You will get a mediocre outcome by rushing a decision simply to meet the deadline determined by our ordinances. What's on offer now promises crushing traffic, could harm the lake, and only hopes to tie the UDA together. The most important part, Land Bay 1, is completely undefined. I'd suggest that Mr. Madison, our residential builder, be given time to partner with a commercial developer who can plan for just the right combination of businesses along 277 that will thrive in our existing and growing community. Let them show us renderings of commercial buildings. The comp plan update work will provide plenty of citizen input. Do not hope for successful development on this 149-acre parcel. Make it happen by taking your time, keeping your eye on the county's long-term goals, and obtaining an achievable and enforceable commitment from the applicant. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else care to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public comments. And that takes us to public hearing on the capital improvement plan. Mr. Pearson. Item 9A. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Per usual, I'm going to move quickly through the CIP presentation to leave the panelists. time for any questions the commission may have of me. You all are very familiar with this process, but our capital improvement plan is intended as a schedule of major capital expenditures for the county in the ensuing five-year period. It's really built as a tool to assist the Board of Supervisors in preparation of the county budget, and you're all's role in the process is to ensure that it is consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan. In keeping with our recently adopted changes to it, the departments were advised to ensure that they could achieve the projects within the plan horizon and as we've mentioned before, adoption of it is intended to function as an appendix of the comprehensive plan so that those projects on the CIP don't have to go through the separate 2232 process that you all remember reviewing a public facility, namely the Nextera substation, as a separate 2232 review. So this should cover that for all of them. I would note the total cost of the CIP is upwards of $422 million. This year, which is up last year from I think about $320 million, the bulk majority of that cost is the addition of a fifth middle school to the plan. Last year, there was only school renovations in addition to these three funded school projects, and then, well, fire and rescue might stand out as having more projects than last year. They actually don't. We just had consolidated them by station last year, and now they're kind of spread out for each individual project like that. So Mr. Chairman, I can go through the tables and answer any questions you all might have. I also have the plan itself. It's not a document that lends itself to a PowerPoint presentation, as you've probably deduced over the previous years. So I'll flick through the tables and then conclude my presentation, pull up the actual document, and be ready to answer any questions you all might have. So your Conference of Plans and Program Committee discussed the application on December or the CIP on December 8th, 2025. And expressed that a refrain that we've heard from them in previous years as well, which is they think it would be ideal that it be fiscally constrained, which it's not currently. But overall, they recommended approval of the plan. It's presented for public hearing. We're seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. And Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer any questions. I'll pull the plan up right now. Okay. Ready to go. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Are there any questions to my right for Mr. Pearson? None to my left. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? It's good to go, sir. Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. If you'd like to speak to the CIP Capital Improvement Plan for 2026 through 2031, you're welcome to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak? Going once, going twice. I will close the public hearing. Okay. Is there any discussion among planning commissioners on the CIP? Mr. Thomas. The CIP is always a challenging document, but we need this to be able to accept proffers for various projects and to kind of have a blueprint for the way ahead for future development in areas of the county. The dollars are going to be a lot of money. The dollars are going to be a lot of money. The dollars are going to be a lot of money. The dollars are going to be a lot of money. The dollars are going to be a lot of money. The dollar figure is a daunting total, but then the board has the responsibility. Luckily, we're not the finance committee. They have the responsibility to schedule it and come up with something that's affordable and doesn't kill the county taxpayers. So I think that we should move this forward and get it committed as part of our comp plan so we can accept proffers and move out on it. Was that a motion? I can make it a motion if there's any. Unless there's no more discussion. Is there any discussion to my left? Yes, sir. Please do. I make a motion that we move this forward with a positive recommendation to the board for acceptance. Is there a second? Second. And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? Okay, Mr. Whitaker, can you start our voting, please, sir? A yes vote means we agree with the capital improvement plan as presented. Whitaker, abstain. Granton, yes. DeHaven, yes. Curren, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Marker, yes. Sneddon, yes. Hawthorpe, yes. McKay, yes. Robbett, yes. Valdemar, yes. Chairvice, yes. The motion carries. This will go to the board on February the 11th. Thank you very much. That takes us to our action item. Item 10A, rezoning 07-25. 07-25 of Madison 277. Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the Planning Commission. We are here again to talk about the Madison rezoning. For those in attendance, it's a rezoning of 149 acres from the RA Rural Area Zoning District to your R4 Residential Plan Community District. It's located in White Post in the Opecan District. And you all will be quite familiar with this, not only the rezoning, but the comprehensive plan amendment work that was done. It's a plan amendment that was done in 2023, which not only provided a mapping update, but also provided a number of policies that speaks to the development in this area of the county, which is important and has been used as our guide for how we've evaluated this application versus that plan amendment that you all did only in 2023. This is the location of the project, and we're all familiar. It's in the southeast quadrant of the county. This is your zoning and locator map showing the bounds of that 149-acre tract in purple, south of Fairfax Pike, and north and west of the county. This is the lake Frederick Community, which is shown in the brown. And again, this is your adopted long-range land use plan. It reflects work done in 2023. Again, not only that map work, but also the plan policy work that speaks to the development in this area of the county. The parcel has two distinct areas on it that are two separate land use categorizations. Along Fairfax Pike is that orange and red striping, which is your mixed-use commercial office area, which is primarily, which is a commercial district, and then the polka dot pattern to the south of that is your neighborhood village, which is that presidential component of the lake Frederick UDA. So, since your public hearing on December 3, the applicant has taken all the comments that were provided, not only by the Planning Commission, but the citizens of Frederick County, and they provided a response memo that went line by line for all of those concerns. They also tracked those concerns with the changes they made to their proffer statement. Not only did they offer a revised proffer statement, the applicant is able to provide relevant comments, a review of what the county is providing, etc. not only did they offer a revised proffer statement, but also a review of what the county is providing. Not only did they offer a revised proffer statement, but also a review of what the county is providing, etc. revised proffer, but they also provided an amended generalized development plan, which reflects the proffer statement. I'll do a high-level overview of what changed, and then I'll quickly go through the proffer changes in more detail. They removed their design modifications proposed to the ordinance density and height for age-restricted multifamily. They have revised their land use matrix. Land Bay 1 is now a fully commercial land bay, and they have committed to 50 percent of that 30-acre parcel being restricted to medical uses. They have continued to decrease their total number of residential units. You all will recall when this first came to you at the work session on November the 3rd, they were at about 866 residential units. They are now down to 596 total residential units, and they have removed all of the age-restricted multifamily from Land Bay 1. Again, Land Bay 1 is only going to be a commercial district. They've also made revisions to their land use phasing and timing of development. They have also made revisions to their land use phasing and the timing of development. They have also made revisions to their land use phasing and the timing of development. They have also made revisions to their land use phasing and timing of development. They have, in response to the community concerns, included a 25-foot mature woodlands buffer along Land Bay 3, which adjoins the Lake Frederick community. They've made a commitment to provide off-site improvement construction at the intersection of Hudson Hollow Road, White Oak Road, and Route 277. You all recall that previously they were providing just a cash contribution, but they have made a proffered commitment to fully construct the improvements warranted by their traffic impact analysis, or TIA, at that intersection. They have made revisions to that quality of construction proffer, and they have made changes to the exhibit for residential structures to reflect materials being used in the Lake Frederick community to better harmonize with the surrounding residential developments in the Lake Frederick UDA, again, reflecting that plan policy. This is their proffer statement. Proffer A is their generalized development plan, and they continue to agree to be in conformance with their GDP. Proffer B is that design modification document, which I covered. They removed the design modification document, which I covered. They removed the design modification document, which I covered. They removed the only design modification that was used from the Areaways Designvik project for 30 years. The design modification knockback is closer to 40. Sruction and R&D, which is based on the DOP pumpkin Texas Program, stated that the community should be funded onto their national dwelling plan. To address options, our Better Lake KHL Building disinfection plans are in recovery format for development as needed to eliminate the significant, regional harm caused by wastewater leaks, causing damage to hog land loss to a large соответ with what your Praise Gl川 exclamations signify. Re Tanzania Min controller Nobody novelizing October 2019, the fitter has to do is a fairly common approach with planned unit development. Proffer C pertains to the land use and land use matrix. They've made changes to the land use matrix, which I'll cover on the next slide. They have capped their density or, sorry, their total number of units at 596 residential units. Again, that's down from 866 total units that you all first saw in November. They specify their development mix and allowed uses by land bay. They are making a one-acre dedication to the Department of Game and Inland Fisheries for the extension of the trail system that provides that buffer on Lake Frederick, which was mentioned by the residents. And then they've included, again, that 25-foot mature woodland buffer where the land bay three abuts the Lake Frederick development to buffer their development from the adjoining residential development underway. This is your revised land use matrix. The most significant changes pertains to land bay one. They've actually split that into land bay 1A and land bay 1B. Both of those land bays. They're in the area of the site that's planned for that mixed-use office commercial. So land bay 1A is now restricted only to B1 and B2 district uses with the exclusion of gasoline service stations and self-storage facilities. That's going to be all of your kind of general retail, restaurants, personal care services needs that may be required in this area of the county that are enabled by the B1 and B2 zoning. Land bay 1B, which is about a 15-acre piece of that land bay 1, is restricted to medical uses contained in the B1 and B2. In the plan policy, there is a specific request that medical uses be at the forefront of any development in this part of the county in the Lake Frederick UDA. And they have made a firm commitment where they previously did not to medical uses on 50 percent of their commercial acreage. And then some minor changes to the unit totals reflect that decrease in the total number of units for the development. Again, they did remove the age-restricted multifamily development from land bay 1 that was previously included. Proffer D pretends to that land use phasing. They are limiting themselves to 150 units per year. And those units may be carried forward to the subsequent year. And they are limiting themselves to 200 residential units until at least 10,000 square feet of commercial development has been constructed in land bay 1A or 1B. And then they are limiting themselves to a further 300-unit total. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, so based on the patient conversation they had, today the agency does not expect to have the appropriate taste problemas at transit escorted portion of the charter we have already discussed. The next item from the financial plan policy discussion was neladd central and second龍 potatoes. Thank you for that такой. Thank you. I can unfortunately speak our another sentiment was at the table and we are listening to Roberto grandes who was also part of the Board. You arerooms does not agree. This is for him. development impact model says or the impact per unit on capital facilities in the county and you all will recall that's limited to schools parks and recreation and fire and rescue services proffer f pertains to recreational facilities they are proposing a natural surface trail prior to their 201st residential unit and they have made a commitment revised their commitment to a community building prior to the issuance of the 299th residential unit and that aligns with the county's zoning ordinance as well proffer g speaks to those transportation improvements not substantial changes here since your public hearing but i'll recap them for everyone's general knowledge they are proposing public roads serving single family or duplex lots or private or public roads serving town homes or multi-family they are limiting themselves with the site access as shown on the generalized development plan which i'll cover in a subsequent slide they are agreeing to construct intersection improvements at their development entrance at route 277 and the development entrance at route 277 and the development entrance at route 277 and the development entrance at route 277 and the development entrance at route 277 and the development is dictated by a signal justification report or sjr that they'll conduct after the rezoning is approved they are agreeing to construct a portion of a four-lane collector roadway which has identified our comprehensive plan known as the south federate parkway and they're dedicating right-of-way to support the future extension of that com plan road to the west of their development and they also are making a right-of-way dedication along fairfax pike or 277 for future widening of that by others if and when feed out were to develop a project along 277 the significant change in this sec and this proffer is where they were previously providing only cash they have made into they have agreed to provide the construction of improvements at the intersection of hudson hollow road right oak road and 277 fully agreeing to construct any improvements that are warranted by their tia which includes turn lanes and improvements to the signal at that intersection as you all will recall the tia shows that the majority of trips leaving this development head west on 277 towards stephen city and then they will be able to build a new road at the intersection and the common goal there is to maintain their commitment to an interpersonal connection with the lake friend or community enabling that kind of sharing of traffic and allowing the residents of the lake federal community to access their development and those commercial uses in land base 1a and 1b then proffer h the final proffer deals with quality of construction they had made a commitment to commercial building facades being a combination of the materials listed and they've revised their residential building materials to better align with the existing materials being used in the lake further community and they've included an exhibit a which all of we're announcing that it would help to Yeah, they have essentially, and with that being said, that's the leaner process that we're looking and okay, and would people be willing to share i'd say, questions, many things at this time. why don't you have special stuffing asking you to comment you see we i'm worlds to go into a motel car duct identity and Also, it's been amended to reflect development patterns in the Lake Frederick community, demonstrating their commitment to the plan policy that speaks to harmonizing with the existing residential development in that area of the county. It's just a reflection of those changes to Exhibit A. This is their generalized development plan for your orientation. Again, Fairfax Pike is on the right-hand side of the screen. Again, not significant changes to this generalized development plan, but they did reflect that 25-foot mature woodland buffer along Land Bay 3 here, shown in the kind of brighter green, and then the breakup of Land Bay 1 into Land Bays 1A, which is restricted to B1 and B2 commercial uses, and Land Bay 1B, which is reflected to those medical uses shown here. Then they showed their general development for the pattern of road access and intercirculation within their development. So, as is customary with our staff report, we have identified, positives and concerns with this request for a rezoning to the R4 zoning district. So, given the changes that have been made, the rezoning request proposes a zoning district R4, which may be associated with the plan-identified land uses and the comprehensive plan for neighborhood, village, and mixed-use office commercial. As modified, the proposal enables commercial uses along the frontage with 277 that aligns with the designated mixed-use office commercial land use designation and the proffered land use restrictions to B1 and B2 uses. The proposal also addresses the plan policy for the type of commercial uses envisioned in the Lake Frederick UDA. So, the revised proposal is now generally consistent with our adopted plan policy. The proffered statement fully implements our capital impact model, monetary contributions for residential housing types, addressing capital impacts to county services, such as schools, fire and rescue services, and parks and recreation. In addition to implementing plan transportation improvements on the subject property, the revised proposal also addresses the plan policy for the type of commercial uses envisioned in the Lake Frederick UDA. As modified, the proposal also addresses the plan policy for the type of commercial uses envisioned in the Lake Frederick UDA. The revised proposal also addresses the plan policy for the type of commercial uses envisioned in the Lake Frederick UDA. The proposed plan fully commits to the implementation of improvements that would be required by a signal justification report, and the proffered statement fully can further commits to off-site improvements to address impacts at key intersections to the west of the development. The revised proffered statement includes those quality of design elements that we would envision for this area of the county, including those for residential building materials to harmonize with the Lake Frederick community, and they've included a 25-foot mature woodland buffer to address concerns from the accounting staff. joining residential development. As noted concerns, they did not fully address all of those transportation impacts that were identified in the TIA, and that includes the impacts to the intersection of Route 522, 340, and 277. And VDOT did issue a comment letter speaking to the nature of what they agreed to do and what was remaining as a concern, which is that other key intersection. So in summary, the Planning Commission held a work session on November 5th. UL did not take any action at that time. A public hearing was held on December 3rd. At that meeting, you tabled action until this meeting on January 21st. And following that meeting, the applicant did provide a revised proffer statement to address those stated concerns. So this item is presented to UL this evening as an action item. And following your discussion, staff would be seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to take forward to the Board of Supervisors. And as decided, the UL did not take any action at that time. And following your discussion, that moves out of the Planning Commission, it would go to the Board of Supervisors on February 11th. Craig George is here this evening with Valley Engineering representing Dave Madison. Dave Madison is also here, and they are available to answer any questions you have, as are our staff. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any questions to my right, for Mr. Klein? Any questions to my left for Mr. Klein? Is Mr. Madison the owner of this property? Yes, Mr. Madison is the owner of this property. So he owns the property and has all the rights? go with it. Okay. And as you recall, Mr. Madison also was the requester of the plan amendment that you all undertook in 2023. Right. Let me ask you this. Can you go back to your slide with the, one more, right there, the concern. Can Frederick County collect proffer money for improvements to an intersection that is not in Frederick County? That might be a question for Mr. Pearson or Mr. Fox. Yeah, I think we can. We would have to add the project to our CIP prior to expending the proffer funds, but we could certainly collect transportation proffer funds for something that is regional in nature and funnel it through our MPO for the project if that was the way that it went. Yeah. Do we have any other projects that are outside of Frederick County in our CIP? No, I'd look to John and I don't think we have ever really contributed in such a way, but I don't think we're not, we're prohibited from doing so. Okay. Proffer funds, yeah. Just trying to understand that. Okay. Did you have a question, Mr. Marker? Yeah. Okay. Mr. Pine, I recognize that the model for the impact fee, the proffer, the size of the proffer is less than the actual impact that it has, that a residential house has on our budgetricting, far more employee benefits. Does that want the community as a whole to benefit from the relationship between capitalfen means the governor and city committee orちょっと net net dollars? I error you were getting on west side gripping. Probably based on the improve in value for tutti or being compraff with d сво know to that, going in there, it's rather enough as important. I'm basically getting us on the short and Saint dre you go, that it's about it's about $500,000 plus our sur coffins. Anyways so far so good. Okay. Thank you. So I mean we've seen a year and four last year in terms of a very small 마tho as we have additional fees. Yeah, please go ahead in the Q&A accordingly. My question is how do we hedge capital expenses and again we've been starting to rapidlyPP put communication on fight baseball such SSC h a... to offset what we lose when we approve another residential property in the county. Do you follow what I'm saying? Yeah, the model includes the commercial development anticipated, and as you all are well aware, the state code limits us to certain categories. So while you see that full cost valuation of what the impact is, we can only collect what is known as the capacity-triggered amount. So in some cases, it's about 50% of the actual value. But having additional commercial development and the timing of the commercial development speaks to having the commercial development offset the impacts of the residential because they are front-loading their commercial development to about 50% of the total units. They're going to do 20,000 square feet of commercial, and then they would build the balance of the residential units after that 20% of commercial. Sorry, 20,000 square feet of commercial would be constructed. And to add on to Mr. Klein's response on that, no direct analysis. This was conducted to put any value on how net positive the commercial is. We don't have an idea of final end users or anything to where we could dig into any of that detail, and the developer didn't provide it either. So we don't necessarily know that the commercial square footage or that area is going to fully offset the cost to serve the residential. It hasn't been evaluated, and the information is not readily available to evaluate it at this stage. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. Yes, I have two questions. As far as Lake Frederick goes, have we had any conversation with Virginia DEQ on the quality of the water, if there's been any degradation of the quality over the last 20 years? I mean, some of these comments that have been made about the lake water quality, I heard 25 years ago when we were building the original part of Lake Frederick housing down there. So have we noticed or have we been notified of a deterioration in the quality of the water, the sedimentation, anything like that from Virginia DEQ? And I assume they're the ones that would have the control over it at this point. They would, yes. We have not been aware of that. Obviously, you all are quite aware that there is still active development in the Lake Frederick community going on around their lake presently, and there's hundreds of unbuilt units within their own community that are closer to the lake than the Madison development. And as stated at the last meeting, the applicant will have to comply with all of the state and local regulations as it pertains to erosion sediment control and stormwater management to ensure that the lake is under the control of the federal government. And I assume that's the case. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Second question goes back to the commercial question about the commercial offsetting the cost of the residential. And I think it's great that, I mean, this is a fantastic opportunity, I think, for us to get a medical facility down in that part of the county. But am I wrong that ValleyHealth? doesn't pay the county taxes. Is that true? So, I mean, that commercial development wouldn't help in the offsetting of the cost of the residential. And when we're talking about the initial square footage before the 200th house, if Valley Health, which I hope they go in there and we get that there, that would essentially fulfill the developer's commitment for a commercial area before the 200th residential unit's built. Is that? It's entirely possible that that could be the scenario where Valley Health builds a facility that's 20,000 square feet up front and then the residential development is completely unlocked. Okay. I can't speak to the taxation. I'll look to Mr. Pearson. He may have a better idea of how that. Roger, I think you're correct regarding non-profit status. When do we get the rest of the commercial, I guess? Well, they committed to a minimum of 20,000 square feet. So, if there is additional commercial, then it would just be above and beyond that. They only commit to 20,000 square feet. The TIA when it was evaluated anticipated 90,000 square feet of commercial. So, I think that that's probably the cap when you take into account FARs and buildable area and things like that. Okay. But they can't for them to want to build, they've committed that they won't build housing in that area. So, for them to do anything other than commercial there, they would have to go back? They would have to come back for rezoning, yeah. If they weren't able to attract a commercial tenant and they weren't able to fill that square footage, then they'd have to come back and amend their rezoning to do something else there if they want to do residential or some other component. Okay. I think commercial would do well there, but thank you. I want to go back to Mr. Thomas' first question. How does the county currently monitor the home construction or whatever construction is going on in Lake Frederick? How do you protect the water quality in the lake? How do we do that? I think a lot of you are aware, but for those who are not aware, it's a multifaceted process. Obviously, all development in the county requires plan approval, so they provided the county with a subdivision design plan. Subdivision design plan includes an erosion sediment control plan and also stormwater management plan. It is reviewed by our public works staff. They ensure not only compliance with the local ordinance, but also the state ordinance. We're fortunate that we have staff that is qualified to do the review, and it's not being sent to the state because it helps speed the process up. And then our Department of Public Works staff also is out there actively monitoring projects on a daily basis to ensure that they're not in violation of their erosion sediment control plan and the stormwater management plan. And then there's ongoing monitoring with those stormwater management facilities over the life of the project to make sure that the facilities are functioning in the manner in which they were designed to do. When they find violations, for example, during construction, they immediately stop construction, and they re-enroll the project. So, they're not going to be able to do that. They're not going to be able to rectify any of the ENS or stormwater management issues before they proceed. Or in the case of post-construction, they would work with the property owner or go through a litigation process to get them to correct the issues that were there. Maybe that would mean expanding a facility or improving a facility or what have you. Like I said, we're fortunate that our public works staff is qualified to do the review and that they are knowledgeable and out there actively in the community on various projects. NOMS Brumbacks. Well aware they're out there on the solar project that's on her property, working with them as the property owner to correct issues with the operator of that facility. Okay. And how many occupied homes are in Lake Frederick and how many remain to be built? Do you have a feel for that or maybe Mr. Pearson knows? The total is around 1,200 and they're more than 50%. I know Tom quoted some direct numbers that he saw recently, so he might be able to help out. During budget and finance meetings today, they talked to, Mr. Pearson, about the construction of the property. I know Tom quoted some direct numbers that he saw recently, so he might be able to help out. During budget and finance meetings today, they talked to, Mr. Pearson, about the construction of the property. I know Tom quoted some direct numbers that he saw recently, so he might be able to help out. Right now there's 1,009 homes into 55 and older, and I thought she said 553 in the Ryan slash Van Meter side. That tracks. Going up to 2108, I believe, is the, 2100 is the final number. They're actively working on the design and construction plans in the final phases of Lake Frederick. Okay. Very good. I did have a question. Okay. Mr. Botchoff. Mr. Klein, on the proffer D phasing, I think we had talked about, certificate of occupancy, and it says 200 units until a certificate of occupancy is issued or obtained. But then when they get to 300 units, it says till buildings are constructed. Is that just as constructed used in place of certificate of occupancy? It is. We can make sure that if it goes forward, well, when it goes forward, that that is corrected to reflect certificate of occupancy, and that's dictated by state code, so we'll have to make sure that it's specified as such. I know you built the first one for us, so that's good. Thank you. Mr. Markert. Yes, I know Fairfax County does this. I don't know the details of it. But relative to the quality of the lake and the sedimentation, siltation, they build a decanting basin that dredging can be pumped into while it settles out, the water settles out from it, in order to keep their small lakes, and the water is not viable. Has there been any discussion, any requirements for a decanting basin and dredging? As I stated, their runoff is handled through our E&S and stormwater management policies. The lake is owned by the state, and they would be responsible for any of that dredging activity or anything of that nature. So there have been no discussions about that? No, sir. Okay. Mr. Whitaker. Does the county address the use of herbicide, fungicide, insecticide, fertilizer use, and the salt water, salt sodium increase in the groundwater? Does the county have anything in place to restrict those use? Those are the things that... Sediment cannot... Sediment filters cannot stop. We don't have any regulations regarding the use of those products. So that goes completely unchecked. I would clarify that the nutrients you mentioned are handled as part of the stormwater management. So if it's above a certain threshold, and the stormwater management plan calls for both quantity controls, which is the total flow amount, and then quality controls, there are bioretention facilities that are required to treat for certain nutrients, but that does not include the herbicides and the pesticides and other things that you were referring to. Right. Yeah. Because that would be a great problem to your water quality. Thank you. I do think DEQ is responsible for those, what they call heavy chemicals, flowing into any waterway. So Frederick County doesn't do it because the state has already usurped that responsibility. Right. Yeah. I have... I developed a piece of land where in the restrictions I've prohibited the use of herbicides, fungicide, insecticide, and chemical fertilizers on said lots. Would the developer himself be willing to do such a thing? Okay. Any other questions? Mr. Klein, thank you. Mr. George? Anyone have any questions? Any other questions for Mr. George? Tyler. To my right. You're good. Good job. Oops. To my left. Any questions for Mr. George? They're just asking me questions. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're here, team's here, to answer questions. I don't have a presentation scheduled. I do have some slides in case you have specific questions related to certain aspects of the project. Okay. Doesn't look like we have any questions. You get off easy tonight. Okay. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Lord, I have a question for you. If you could come up, please. Oh, so nothing for us? Okay. I can't believe it. Good evening. Thank you for being here again. Hello, Mr. Chairman. Yeah. I understand you're not one of the designers. Can you remind us Valley Health's plan for whatever, what you can tell us? I realize you can't tell us. I can't. You can't spill them. So we went into the town center up the street. We put our quick care back in there. We've been in the town center for a few years ago, and we have outgrown that space already. So our first priority would be to expand that quick care possibly into a larger size urgent care and then have family medicine like we've done at Strasburg and Greenwood. It would be a building similar to that. Once we realize how much property there is and what size building we can put on that property, then we can then determine what other services that we can bring to that end of the county. Okay. So potentially there could be PT, OT. There could be a wellness component. There could be lots of things. We just haven't determined that yet. Okay. Okay. And so you're still in the study phase. We would be based on how much land that we can acquire and then how big of a building we can build. Okay. Very good. I appreciate you being here tonight. Thank you. I appreciate you coming up and sharing that with us. Sure. Can I ask a quick question? Sure. About how many, that quick care, primary care, urgent care component, how many employees does that typically, do you guys employ at those facilities? If you had a guess. I know at our quick care, there's probably only around seven for the hours that they're open and somebody, employees may come and go. At our urgent care, I would believe there was probably 25. Okay. So, depending on the hours and the shifts. So, employment opportunities could be. Yes. Another component. Okay. Is something like you built on Cincinnati Road? Is that? That is correct. That has been the model we have gone to. We have done that in Strasburg. We've done it in Greenwood. We just opened a new one in Rance in West Virginia. And that's kind of been the model and the branding that we've been leaning toward. And how many employees would be in something like that? Wow. Okay. So, how many people are in that? Because those have primary care. There's a lab component where patients can have their labs drawn. So, 40 maybe. Okay. That's a lot. Yeah. We do have room at the Greenwood on Cincinnati Road to build out an urgent care once we get the population that's out there to serve that area. We definitely plan on doing that also. Okay. Okay. Any other questions for Ms. Lord? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. If there's no questions for anyone, we've talked to Mr. George, talked to Ms. Lord. It's time for us to talk among ourselves. I'll start to my right. Comments, discussion? Mr. Kearns? Yes. For staff, I don't know if this is too much. I don't think this is too much to pull up in a quick manner, but I'm looking at the Future Land Use Map that was just approved a year and a half ago for the entire 277 basic, that area. Is there any way to pull that up to look at that? Is that an easy thing for you to pull up? The one thing I would clarify is the only amendments two years ago were really centered in on that, this property. Okay. We didn't review the entirety of that small area plan. Okay. But it came as a comp plan amendment request. It wasn't like Western Frederick where we opened the whole book and revised the whole plan or did engagement like that. But is that what you're looking for, Justin? Yeah. And so the blue, can we break this down for looking at what we had, kind of for the public to look at what is ... Yeah, sure. So there's two shades of purple. The more magenta one is the planned unit development. You can see the legend in the bottom left there. The darker purple is the mobile home community, which is Forest Lakes in this instance. As far as that light blue color, that's general industrial. There's a candy cane striping color that adjoins the blue that's mixed use industrial office. There's another striped orange and kind of a light red color that's mixed use commercial office. And then there's two hatchings with dots. The ones that you're maybe familiar with for this property. Is the neighborhood village and that's the red hatching with a white background and red dots. And I realize describing these things is actually practically impossible. And then the other hatching example is the urban center. And that's over off of Shrandell Lane. When they did a lot of the Eastern land use plans, they also did a buffer area around some of the existing riparian features, which is where you can see that green kind of wetland look to it. So, that's a mathematical buffer off of the center line of those riparian areas. And then you can see another light shade of green over Shrandell Park, which is a recreation designation that we use as well. Is that what you were looking for, Mr. Higgins? Yeah. I appreciate that. I think it's important to be able to pull back a little bit and look. Obviously, this is not how it's zoned. This is not a perfect crystal ball into what it's going to look like in the future. But just generally of what this plan calls for, that's a lot of industrial. That's a lot of development. A lot of development along 277 that could potentially 10, 15 years from now look significantly different than it does now. I just think that's important to kind of frame this within that larger picture of that longer use. Thank you. I just wanted to take another look at that. Thank you. Discussion to my right. Mr. Thomas. Turn your mic. Yeah. I've been skeptical about the traffic generation and the traffic that's going to be coming in and out of the city. I think that's a big issue. I think that's a big issue. I think that's a big issue. I think that's a big issue. I think that's a big issue. I think that's a big issue. The traffic issues on 277. I'm also realistic enough to know that VDOT doesn't fix traffic problems until after they occur. There is no preplanning and fixing it up front so we don't have a huge problem. It's kind of like that same thing. You don't get a traffic light until you have somebody killed at the intersection and then you get a traffic light. So we're going to have to have the traffic problems on 277 before we can fix it. To Mr. Kern's point. I think the industrial development along there will give us the opportunity to make that four lane from the new Publix the whole way out to 340 and 522, hopefully, sometime in the future. We're looking probably at somewhere 7 to 10 years before we really have a huge traffic problem from this development on 277. And I do think the opportunity to get Valley Health and some other commercial development down in that area outweighs the negative that I'm looking at. The only other option, which I know a number of comments have been, why don't we just break it up into five acre lots? Five acre lots, I think, in general with water wells would probably cause Lake Frederick more damage. And a development of this nature on public water. So I'm inclined to, even though I was extremely critical of this the last couple meetings, I'm inclined to think that this is probably going in the right direction at this point. Any other comments, discussion to my right? Okay. Okay. And to my left. Dr. LaManna. Comment. As you know, this is my third meeting, so I did a lot to try to catch up on past meetings. And what really drew my attention on this particular project, of course, was the issue of the impact on schools. And I think it just has to be mentioned that as we move forward, Sherando High School, as we know, is already way past capacity, over 220 students. The feeding school, the middle school going into Sherando. And I think that's the biggest thing that Sherando is over capacity. So as this thing, as this development gets built out, it, we just talked about the CIP, it is going to require us to build some schools. And I think that just has to be noted as we move forward. The other thing that I experienced in these three meetings is how well the staff and the commission and the citizens worked together to make some significant changes, I think, as we moved along. I saw that chronologically as I went through the documents. So I think that's a good thing. Thank you, sir. Any other comments or discussions? Am I allowed? Mr. Botoff? Yes. I think this is my one-year anniversary tonight for being on the commission. And it has been a very interesting one year, I can say that. I've had reservations about this project. But I researched. And reviewed everything that was discussed in 2023 and 2024 when Mr. Madison came forward and presented the proposal to expand the UDA. And I think there was fairly well bought in by both the planning commission and board of supervisors. A lot of people have worked very hard to get this to, I think, even better than what was proposed. Because I've been in the UDA for a long time. I want to say there was 800 or 900 homes proposed in 2023. And so there's been a lot of work that has happened since we had the work session and the last meeting. I think in my motion, I gave them six items to work on. And to be honest with you, I think they've worked on all six. I want to thank Mr. Pearson, Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Klein for working with this developer to try to get us to this point. And I want to thank Valley Health because in my mind, you're the one that moved the needle. And I think for a lot of the residents, that's what's moving the needle more positive than looking at the negative of it. I am a little bit leery of the traffic. But as Mr. I'm sorry, Roger, by first name, we all know VDOT is very reactionary. And they don't really plan out. Until we get to that point. But that point also, I think, is going to happen eight to 10 or more years down the road before we start to see a lot of traffic on 277. We had a lot of discussions as to what happens once that once the interconnection between Lake Frederick and Madison happens. I still think there's going to be a lot of traffic split both ways. And so, again, I think I've come around the corner a little bit. And I sure hope that Valley Health can come through and put the medical center in that everybody wants. Thank you, sir. Mr. Mark, did you have a comment? Just a brief comment. I've kind of been I've been conflicted about this project. There's there's some benefits on one hand. There's another element that we haven't approved. Non by right residential. For 17 years. Some quite a while. I mean, it's over a decade. And this kind of starts. I hope this doesn't start a precedent because I feel really strongly that that we need to use up our by rights properties that they can build regardless of what we say. They can build residential. They can build whatever. They have the right to do that. Yeah. And there's there's what five or six, maybe seven thousand of those lots still out there that people can sell their land and develop on it. So. We don't really need my position has been we don't really need to approve more houses than are sitting there ready to be built anyway. In my looking at this, there's there's a whole set of I hear the problems that the people are saying. But there's a whole set of benefits that go on with it. So it's a balance. And in. I think if we approve this project. It should not set a precedent that. Okay. Now, we're going to start approving a whole lot of projects on top of the by rights properties that are there. So however, we can. Emphasize that I think it's important. Um. But I've been leaning both ways, and I'm seeing the benefits here now. I'm kind of leaning towards it. That's where I am at the moment. Okay, very good. Any other discussion to my left? All right, we're all clear to the right. Okay, this is the Opecan District. Gentlemen, what would be your pleasure? Okay, I will move to recommend approval of the rezoning. O-725 for Madison 277 with the revised proffers dated January 13th of 26. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And we have a second. Is there any additional discussion? Seeing none, Dr. LaManna, can you please start our voting? Yes. Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Vautorf, yes. Sneddon, yes. Marker, yes. Yes. Thomas, yes. Kozel, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Crane, yes. Whitaker, no. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on February the 11th. I just want to make one comment. I want to make several comments. I know the Lake Frederick group put a lot of time into this. Marv, thank you for leading that group. When we look at this from a county perspective, we have to look at... I think we've got to look at it holistically as to the impact on the county. And there's distinct benefits that are associated with this project that a lot of other residential housing projects do not bring to us, to Mr. Marker's point. Certainly the connection, the traffic, the roadway connection between Lake Frederick and 277 has a lot of value. I've heard that over and over. The medical facilities have a lot of value. I've heard that over and over. I've gotten a lot of comments about this project, both positive and negative, from citizens. And I think the commercial component and what Mr. Madison has added to the project will yield benefit for the county in time. I can't tell you how many Lake Frederick folks have told me, you wish you had a restaurant you could go to that wasn't Regents because you can't get in there. And we understand that. We try to get reservations there, too, and we can't get in there. So a place for coffee or... Or breakfast. I understand. I think there's a great opportunity there for businesses to grow. And I would just say this developer worked with us and did what we asked him to do, which is not typical. A lot of these developers do not do what we ask them to do and are not accommodating. So I want you to know, Mr. Madison, we appreciate you working with us and the staff on this project and your engineer, Mr. George. And Ms. Lord, you guys have been very good to work with. And our goal is to have a win-win where the county gets benefits out of a project as well as the benefits that you would normally accrue. So thank you very much, sir. That completes the Item 10A and takes us on to Item 11. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a couple of projects for your awareness that I'll note as current planning applications. A couple of you received an email from... I think it was from Mr. Mason. Mr. Mason, you're the director of operations at Carmoose. They're working on the berms for the Middletown Quarry expansion, and that's going to be starting soon. We've also received a site plan from a company named AYR Wellness to construct a medical marijuana cultivation and dispensary in one of our industrially zoned properties. We have a small TDR project on Eddie's Lane that's about 80 or 90 units that's going through the master development plan phase. And then I think Roger will remember, probably the only person on the commission, is zoning for Tasker Woods. A master development plan has been submitted for that project. It's about 300 units in the vicinity of Tasker and Macedonia Church with commercial land base that front on Tasker. And it looks like that one's coming back to life. So happy to answer any questions you all might have. Medical marijuana? Yes, sir. And where would that be? It's along Shady Helm Road. Are you asking for personal reasons? What's your phone number? Well, no, some of our visitors may need some of that. Surely, surely, yeah. Good grief. Okay, any questions? Mr. Whitaker suggested we change the road to Smoky Hollow. Okay, any questions for Mr. Whitaker? Mr. Pearson, I'm sorry. Gosh. All right, thank you very much, sir. That takes us to item 12, and we'll be back in a minute. Thank you. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second? All in favor, aye. Aye. Be careful going home, and make sure you know where your snow shovel is. Aye, aye. Thank you. Thank you. No comment. Okay. All in favor? Aye. So moved.
