Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-01-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=311
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for the privilege of being able to come here tonight and assemble. We thank you for your amazing grace as you sent your son to die on the cross for our sins. Just pray for the decisions that are made, the things that are discussed here tonight, that we will be quick to hear and slow to speak, and that everyone's needs will be honored here today, and that the decisions that are made are right and true. And we just thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. If everyone would stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Supervisor Wells. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Okay, next up on the agenda is the organization of the Board of Supervisors for 2026. Foray pursuant to the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended. The Board is required to organize its functions in its first meeting in January. First item up is election of vice chairman. Do I have a nomination? Yes, Mr. Chair. I'd like to make a motion to nominate OPEC and Supervisor Bob Wells, who has the knowledge and experience to be an excellent vice chair and also an acting chair as needed. We have a nomination. Do we have a second? Second. Okay, we have a second. Any other nominations? Okay, it's closed. This can be a voice vote, so all in favor, say aye. Aye. Congratulations, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, fellow board members. I appreciate you. Next item up is adoption of rules of procedure. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I would like to move that the Board adopt the rules of procedure originally adopted by Frederick County Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003, which were amended through January 14th. I would like to move that the Board adopt the rules of procedure as stated in the Board of Supervisors on May 14, 2026. And I further move that the Board adopt Robert's Rules of Order simplified and applied. We have a motion. Do we have a motion? No, we don't have a motion. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. Voice vote again. All those in favor? Aye. Okay, that piece is taken care of. Selection of a parliamentarian. Mr. Chairman, I would move that the Board adopt the rules of procedure as specified in the Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003, which are the following. The first is the motion of the Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003, which is to be adopted on May 21, 2013. Is there another motion to be chính行?又ı selected. Chairman, I move that the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at 7 p.m. in the Board of Supervisors Meeting Room, County Administration Building, 107 North Kent Street, Winchester, Virginia, be the time and meeting place for the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for 2026, with the exception of the November 11th meeting, which shall be held on Thursday, November 12th, because of the Veterans Day holiday, and with the exception that the second meeting in November and December shall not be scheduled because of conflict with the holidays. I further move that it should be a meeting, should a meeting be canceled due to inclement weather, that it will take place on the following evening. We have a motion. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. All right. That piece is good. Revision of standing committee sizes. Yes, sir. Again, Mr. Chairman, I would move that the Board amend the existing charters regarding the size of standing committees as follows. Public safety, up to four citizen members, public works, up to five citizen members. And I so move. All right. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. All right. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. The Chairman's annual committee assignments and Board assignments to the committees is in the packet, so we don't need to vote on that. So we can move on now to adoption of the agenda. How would the Board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman, I would move that the Board move to adopt the agenda as presented. All right. We got a motion? Second. All right. We got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Okay. That takes us now to citizens' comments. Now, citizens' comments, this portion is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Hello there, Ann. Do we have a list? We do. We have several signed up, so I will call. The first person is Jan Van Hout. Jan, before you start. Folks, there was a problem hearing people speak. So, when you come up to this mic, make sure the mic is turned on, it's red, which it is right now, and you speak into the mic. Anyone who is watching the planning commission, a lot of people had a hard time hearing. So, that's all I'm asking. State your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes. Okay? Thank you. There you go. There you go. That's what I was talking about. You touch a lot of people. Address them, if you'reμεingbnasbandth Aqui. Okay? That's cool. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Can we pass the question now to� débày. Thank you. Hello, Chairman. Dear members of the Board of Supervisors, my name is Jan Van Otte. I am at the back Creek District. I'm asking you all to consider to listen to your own citizen. The report that was presented last week for the Planning Commission was, in my opinion, very one directional. It feels like that it was already decided to do this before even listening to your own citizen. We were here with 35 people to speak up and just one, Mr. Dunn, was against. It was for data centers and moving forward with all this. And I feel like when it was approved to move forward, it felt like not even any person listened to us and our comments. It felt very, in my opinion, when it was then decided to move it forward at the end of the meeting, it was like, you know, this was talk behind the scenes about to do this. That's how I feel personally. I did not see any of the community people come together to vote for data centers. I only see I hear from a lot of comments of you all while I hear as many people for and against. I think it's important to bring them together so we can hear those voices, too. If you're that certain about that, then why not having a referendum around our community to actually do a public voting for this? I have not heard any other proposals as well to bring in revenue. It's just talking about this kind of subject. I am, after all the time we're spending on this. And dedicating our time. And I'm going to be a part of this community. I ask a little bit more of your enthusiasm to look at different opportunities for this. So ecotourism, agritourism, as we are bringing gastronomy to this area and building a boutique hotel, there's definitely different ways. And I know that the center is bringing a lot of money all at once, but it's definitely the only one. So I hope that you all consider this. And I personally will bring investors to this county, as I talked to the chairman about. And I just hope that you open your eyes before this is too late. Because if it's too late, it's going to be something that can't be turned back. And no citizen will live here anymore. So you know, the people that voted for you all want to be heard. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Brian Nury followed by Tony Cole. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. What a refreshing change. A new looking board. This is awesome. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. I'd like to try and address some things that the county is looking towards. We're looking to get new revenue for the county. That's understandable. We need to build a fourth high school. We need road infrastructure. But what is it worth to the county? One of the options that's going to be discussed tonight is the data center data sheet. And I think that's going to be a big one. And I think that's going to be a big one. And I think that's going to be a big one. In terms of that, I agree with the previous speaker. It is somewhat one-sided because we're hearing things like it's going to pay for itself. However, when you consider the power, that savings that the county is getting is passed on to the consumer. It's passed on to us. So whether the county is making the money, we're losing the money because the power company itself can't make the data center companies pay. In terms of water, DEQ has already said that we are in a situation where we're going to be in a state of drought since the fall and is saying that we're going to be close to a severe drought soon. And according to the Sierra Club, even low-level or dry cooling systems can draw water from the environment simply because it needs to be part of the system. And cycling that water back into the river just returns pollutants that are even worse back into the river. Noise, the data sheet said it was about 50 decibels of sound. Which once in a while. Sound is one thing, but the constant drone. Go ask the people in Henrico County that are going to have a data center right beside an elementary school when they had a 50-decibel test run. It was audible through the school because it's going all day. So when we're looking at stuff, we really should not look at Loudoun County. They have the tax base. They have everything. But they're still struggling with it. Look at Henrico, Chesterfield, Goochland Counties that have already had data centers come in, and they've pushed them out. And they're still struggling with it. So, you know, it's a really interesting thing. Another thing that I think Frederick County residents need to be aware of is that in December, Frederick County Sheriff's Department signed a 287 agreement with ICE. Basically allowing ICE to be able to deputize our own sheriff's deputies to enforce immigration law. Now, while in 2017, Sheriff Mulholland said, we don't care who they are. We are not going to choose based on race. He is not going to be in control of them. ICE is going to take their Article 1 and supersede it. So, we're going to have to wait and see. We're going to have to wait and see. We're going to have to wait and see. We're going to have to wait and see. And we're going to have to wait and see. We're going to have to wait and see. So, what's happening? The county is going to have to supersede his authority. So, while Sheriff Mulholland doesn't want to point at anyone, ICE may. And whether or not this is bloviation, if we have door-to-door checks and the sheriff's department is executing them, I think that the rest of Frederick County should know where that is, where that's coming from. And whether we're getting funding from it or not, let's just consider what the county has gained if we've profited a couple million dollars on the front end, but then lost all of our green space and our respectability. Thank you. Thank you. Tony Cole, followed by Pete Zielkowski. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much for your time tonight and for the discussion on this topic and for listening to me and all of my neighbors and co-inhabitants of Frederick County. I'm going to do something different. I'm going to read something that my wife and I put together. Name, name, name and MS. Tony Cole, Back Creek District. There you go. Thank you, Tony. Since data centers were first publicly discussed with the residents of Frederick County, many citizens have spent many hours doing research, gathering facts, and speaking with those experienced with data centers and what they mean for the counties they're placed in. They then spent many more hours meeting with members of the board, so thank you for that, for all of you who've met with us, and the county planning commission and many others as well. And... They spent as much factual information as they could. And I think that's the important point here. Let me reiterate, not misinformation, factual information. So in fact, many of us have spent our entire careers in technology. I myself have 40 years in technology and I'm a retired chief technology officer. So I've been in probably hundreds of data centers over the last probably 15 years or so. So it's a little frustrating to hear that, that it's misinformation. This was done, though, in the hopes that information is being shared. It was done in the hopes that information presented was truly being acknowledged by all they met with. So as Jan said, you know, we want to be recognized and that you're listening and hear us and what we're saying. To date, nearly all public comments heard at board meetings, planning commission meetings, and from public petitions with signatures in thousands, almost all have not supported data centers in Frederick County. Almost all. I would like to read an excerpt from the code of Virginia. So title 15.2 with a paragraph from chapter 23. Chapter 23.2, I think it's very pertinent to this. Planning subdivision of land and zoning. The comprehensive plan should be made with the purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the territory that will, in accordance with present and probable future needs and resources, best promote the health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of the inhabitants, including the elderly and persons with disabilities. And I think that's a key point. That we have to think about as we move forward with what we're going to do for revenue. My question for you now is when it comes time to vote, will you cast your vote based on the voices of what your constituents have indicated they want? If you're really confident so that people do want data centers, then let's put it on the ballot for a referendum and let the voters decide. So in the meantime, I suggest we keep looking for an alternative source of revenue. So again, I've said it before, I'll say it again. Don't throw rocks at me, but raise our taxes if you need to. Thanks, sir. Pete Ziokoski, followed by Liz Kasabian. Hello, sir. Make sure you speak into the mic. Yes, sir. And name and magister. My name is Pete Ziokoski. I'm a back-creeker, right? So, and I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My comments are really addressed toward the discussion of the data center report that we had at the planning meeting last week. And there is, of course, a lot of discussion. I'm not sure if you can hear me. Okay. Well, I would like to make a comment. So, one, I think one of the issues that we talked about with respect to this report is that, of course, several issues out of data centers that are controversial. Two, that are the highlights are probably power and water. Right? And the data center report did discuss both. Right? They discussed the power. I think the power is that they mentioned was a little bit understated from what we see from other places. But I would also like to address a couple of the comments that were made in the discussion. One of the discussion points was that electric rates are going up regardless if we have a data center or not, right? So it was also stated that because these rates are going up, whether we have data centers or not, it really isn't a land use. And if we have a problem with electric rates, we should be taking them up through our legislative branch. So essentially taking the electric problem caused by data centers and throwing it onto the citizenry, which I disagree with that. But the concept of saying that electric rates are going up whether we do a data center or not, you could say that, right? Because they are, last five years, whatever, 10% raise. But I would say that as soon as you decide to add to the problem by creating data centers here, you politically own electric rates here, right? This board will say, okay, we're going to accept higher electric rates in lieu of higher taxes, but there's ramifications and there's unforeseen things that could go on. Like, for example, that power, the electric rates, they affect manufacturing. They affect small businesses. They affect farms, right? Do we really want to saddle the backbone of our fellow citizens, right? In preference to multinational billionaire corporations to excess cost of operations, plus the cost to the citizenry. And water is the same deal, right? In the report, it said, well, water is an issue, but we'll work it out with Frederick Water, which is fine. Frederick Water can do our organization. But, you know, basically, if there's not enough water, because of droughts or whatever, infrastructure is going to have to be created. And that infrastructure is going to be, that cost of that infrastructure is going to be spread to the users, right? So is it fair for us to put extra costs on the people that are using water to fund these data, to essentially provide the infrastructure? Thank you. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Followed by Linda Reed. Good evening, Chairman and Board of Supervisors. My name is Liz Kasabian. I'm in the Back Creek District. My husband and I retired to Frederick County from Loudoun three and a half years ago. Enough said. Yes, we escaped the data center alley, or at least we thought so. While we may be recent transplants, we already feel very connected to this community, and we love our peaceful home in the Back Creek District. I appreciate the county's detailed report on data centers and the research that went into it. I still have many concerns and questions, however, but we'll focus tonight on the energy infrastructure these facilities require, which seems to me the cornerstone of any data center. The report makes clear that Frederick County has only two 500 kilovolt transmission lines, and all others are 138 or less, with no 230 lines. And that's... As the report states, I quote, is very... And that it is very likely that the additional power would need to be brought into the site. That means most proposed sites would likely trigger the construction of new high voltage lines and or substations, which the county does not control. As we've seen in Loudoun and Prince William counties, those new lines could run through residential areas, rural neighborhoods, or agricultural land. With long... With long-term visual noise and property impacts far from the actual data center. Before moving forward with designating technology land use areas, I respectfully ask that the board, number one, require an independent public analysis of how much power each proposed area can actually support using existing infrastructure. Number two, disclose potential transmission routes and engage nearby residents before any zoning or plan amendments are approved. Number three, ensure developers, not rate payers, bear the full cost of all substations and line upgrades. Number four, research and disclose potential use of small modular nuclear reactors, SMRs, mentioned in the report, for possible on-site power generation. These raise many concerns regarding safety, security, and hazard waste management. Number five, establish a long-term plan to prevent the grid from being overcommitted. Number six, ensure the city's infrastructure is in place. The question isn't just where data centers belong, but how much power we can reasonably support, who pays for it, and what new infrastructure comes with it. One important non-energy item, a 500-foot buffer from homes and schools is not sufficient. Just ask anyone in Loudoun County. Please conduct further research on this issue. Many lives will be impacted. In closing, I have one very important question for the board. I ask this question because it has been reported in the National News Agency that the city's infrastructure is not sufficient. The city's infrastructure is not sufficient. The city's infrastructure is not sufficient. Please того at hören delayçe Just ask the board and the good members here in the City of Forushaid Central cheeks. The State Department has already reported to the public on the local issues of a national need in the National News, just yesterday, that this is now happening in other locations. Will you commit here and now to not signing any NDAs, non-disclosure agreements, With any corporation or entity considering a data center in a location in Frederick County? We are entitled to and deserve transparency, will you commit? Thank you, ma'am. Good evening and welcome to new board members. My name is Linda Reed. I'm in the Shawnee District. I have been speaking to this group since 2024, saying that data centers are a bad idea for Frederick County. I, along with many others, have identified these concerns. Data centers require unsustainable water usage, especially in our drought conditions of the last three years. They contaminate ground and well water because the pollutants released into the soil. They pollute the air with diesel generators. They create massive e-waste because the servers have to be replaced every three to five years. They require massive amounts of electricity, the supply and cost of which is passed on to the residents and to the businesses. They require the seizing of private lands to construct grid infrastructure and additional power lines. They negatively affect public health because of the noise and vibration, especially in our beautiful area surrounded by the mountains. There's a possibility of gross expansion once they are in place. Fuel storage on site is a safety and environmental danger. There are only a small number of jobs created post-construction, and those construction jobs are many times given to out-of-state contractors. Data centers may become obsolete in five to ten years. Because of the miles and miles of wires required throughout our state to power data centers, they drastically increase the probability of wildfires in our beautiful forests. They massively increase our electricity bills on individual household bills, as has been mentioned. Last week, January 7th, there was an article in the Winchester Star describing how residents across the state, of West Virginia, are now receiving electric bills, many times the normal amount that they have. Sometimes they are higher than their mortgage payments, some approaching $1,000 per month. The article ascribes this as the result of data center development and reliance on expensive coal. People there are having to choose between groceries and medicine in order to pay electric bills. One was using his oven to heat his home this winter. Surely you can't watch this. We want this for us. 1,400 people signed a petition against data centers last year. Hundreds have come here to speak against them. What will it take for the board to just say no to data centers? Why should we sacrifice our air and the quality of our lives and water for some of the richest corporations in the world, who, as we speak, are probably working on new technologies that could make data centers obsolete, and as soon as possible, they will be destroyed. We have brilliant people, creative, intelligent people in this county. Let's spend some time and energy on producing viable solutions. Thank you. Because God gave us this beautiful valley to live in, let's not trash it. Thank you. Paul Miller. Paul Miller. Paul Miller. Paul Miller. Paul Miller. Paul Miller. I'll move on to the next name. I can't make out the first name. Baylas? Someone Baylas. Cindy Lehman. Sandy Lehman. Good evening. I'm Cindy Lehman with the Bat Creek District. I've lived here my entire life. I have a lot of concerns regarding our environment with this data center proposal. I've heard comments to me, not in my backyard. I'm not even addressing that. I'm addressing the environmental issues, which are our water. We are in a severe drought. We've been in a drought. We grow hay and it's really difficult when there's no rain in drought situations. So to me, to add a burden on our water tables to the degree that the data centers will cause makes no sense to me. It just doesn't, you know, what are we doing for our future and our children when we are depleting our resources that we have no control over? We can't replace our water. We have to be mindful on what we're using. It for and how it's being used and not repollute our rivers from the usage of the water we are taking. I just urge the board to find alternatives. It's easy to say to find an alternative when you have big dollars thrown in front of you, but there has to be other options beyond a data center that can generate revenue for our county in a safe and environmental safe way. I looked out the other day. I saw a bald eagle fly. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wonder if that bald eagle will return when there's a constant hum and the heat that's generated and the lack of prey that it can sustain itself on when you take massive amounts of acreage for these monstrosities, in my opinion. I thank you all. Thank you, ma'am. Rhonda Donadu. My name's Rhonda Donadue, and I'm in the Gainesboro district. My family moved to first Winchester and then Frederick County eight years ago from West Virginia, beautiful West Virginia. And I've a number of times said that I thought Frederick County was often more West Virginia than the eastern panhandle of West Virginia. And that's a positive thing, not a negative thing. I just want to first tell each and every one of you that I have prayed personally for you, for your discernment, for your wisdom, and ultimately for God's will to be done in Frederick County and in each one of you. And secondly, regarding the in my backyard, I want to specifically ask each one of you if you would be willing to vote for a data system that would be able to help you in your backyard. And I want to specifically ask each one of you if you would be willing to vote for a data system that would be able to help you in your backyard. And I want to specifically ask each one of you if you would be willing to vote for a data system that would be able to help you in your backyard. And I want to specifically ask each one of you if you would be willing to vote for a data system that would be able to help you in I would say consider those areas for the data centers, your backyard and your backyard and your backyard and the future of your children and your grandchildren and my children and my grandchildren. Because I live on a 50-acre farm out in the Gainsborough area near Gore. It's kind of become a family compound. My children and my grandchildren are there. There's a farm across the road. There's a farm to my left and right, which is a great place to live. And I would say consider those areas for the data centers, I can think of nothing worse than having a data center be bordering my property or having massive power lines going through that wouldn't just make the value of my property go down. It would make the health of my family, my community, my cows, pigs, chickens all decreased. Frederick County is a wonderful county. It's a place that's a wonderful place to raise families and animals and flowers and vegetables. I want it to stay that way. And I think the rest of these folks here would like that as well. Thank you. David Dixon. David Dixon, Stonewall District. All right. It is not part of the comprehensive plan of Frederick County. For the residents, and I'll tell you why. Two days after the meeting we had last week, they had a statewide water emergency for everybody to stop, you know, slow down on the water. And if they're having that now, think about the future on our resources for all the people right here, all these people. That's not part of the comprehensive plan for this county. Maybe Loudoun County, but not this county. So it's definitely not part of the comprehensive plan for this county. Because we're thinking of the people here. It's about the people. And they pay the taxes. They're part of it. Thank you. Kurt Krieger. Kurt Krieger. Kurt Krieger. Good evening. My name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek Magisterial Districts. Pleasure to be here this evening. I'd like to speak specifically to the data center data fact sheet. And looking back on January 7th where I spoke at the Planning Commission, I raised two issues. One had to do with the sufficiency, in my regard, insufficiency by Tishler Bice who's mentioned on page 8 as providing the underlying economic assumptions that data centers provide. that data centers are the best possible land use in terms of their return. The reason I do that is it only looks at the first cost. It doesn't look at lifecycle costs. And to have a complete understanding, I think we need to look at lifecycle costs. I also raised a concern about noise and the fact that VDEQ was already changing the rules for standby generators that would allow them to run several hours a day, not just for electrical emergencies, but for peaking power to augment electrical energy when the cost of electricity was too high. That will drive noise even further than your current ordinance anticipates. So those are two issues. I don't want to dwell on those. I want to talk more instead about the ethos of county government, your reason for being. There was mention at the last meeting a belief that we could waste a couple of square miles of Frederick County to save the county budget. I think. The word sacrifice was used and the word waste was used. Those are, I think, appropriate because that's exactly what is being proposed here. I'd like to daylight that the Bartonsville one and two solar projects consists of 1300 gross acres with about 700 acres in panels. That's on both sides of Marlboro Road. And the Foxglove solar facility covers about 669 gross acres on both sides of Marlboro Road. Taken together, that constitutes three square. Miles that has been taken out of ag production and put into an industrial sized solar facility. None of that power incidentally is being used by us local ratepayers. It's all being used elsewhere. I don't fault private citizens for acting in their own self interest, but it's your duty to act in the public self interest. And it's a false economy to sacrifice our quality of life, our water and to pay higher electrical energy rates to benefit private citizens. So I think that's a good point. There are a lot of things that the best Eenie Meenie Meenie companies really know of today that I don't think a lot of people are aware of that there's a deficit. Why they have這個 there's a good reason to believe to provide jobs, there's a good reason to have access to funding on their own property scandals to the public service, and there's a very good reason to provide job photos. There's actually a great valid improvement downward because owned property is destroyed. anyone else here that like to come forward and speak? The only thing I'm going to ask is if we've got several, as someone's speaking up here, please line up in the back. So I see Mr. Deutch is up there ready to go. So anybody else just line up towards the poll there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the board. Welcome to the start of a new term and welcome to bringing up the most controversial topic really in the country. You're not alone in having community outrage about data centers. So we've been here since the summer and the community has overwhelmingly and repeatedly said that they oppose this idea. It clashes with the fabric of the rural aspect of this community and it's not what the public wants. So I think, you know, at the planning commission, I think about half of the board members here were at the planning commission meeting. So most of you all heard what the board members said. I think about half of the board members here were at the meeting. So most of you all heard what the board members said. I think about half of the board members said there and there was a very factual, factual well-researched case against the data centers and not bring them here. So I'd strongly encourage you to listen to the public and consider it. In terms of the county's, the planning commission's recommendation coming out of that, they were proposing having districts for the data centers. On the surface, it sounds like a great idea. You plan where you want it, you put it there. right? Sounds great, except that it's been tried before, and what we see, just like the usage of power and water, there is an insatiable appetite by data centers for the use of land, and when you open the door, they keep coming. So in Prince William County, they did the exact same thing. They created a data center overlay district. They said, we've got the power coming here. This is a more industrial area. Everybody come here. It wasn't even half full, and they're already asking for a thousand acres up in the west, extra land here, extra land here. So once you open the door, there's an insatiable appetite right now for land to be built for data centers. It's not going to stop. Whatever you initiate as your target areas for data centers, it's just the starting negotiation. They'll fill it halfway. They'll come asking for more, and so you've got to look to where other counties have done it. The data centers are doing that, right? They've got the most well-paid lawyers and land use people in the country, and they're targeting over and over counties all over Virginia right now, but also other regions as well. So they're taking their playbook. They're repeating it. I would ask you to look at it and realize that while it may sound like a good idea, it doesn't work. It hasn't worked in the past. It's time to just say no, or we're going to keep having more people from the community. So I'm going to ask you to come on out over and over and saying, please listen to us. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. Just a reminder, speaking to Mike, the name, master of district, please. Good evening. My name is Neil Tedrow, pay taxes in the Back Creek District. One of the things I left here from the meeting last week with was a sense that this is more or less a fait accompli, and we're out here speaking, but it seems to me that the decision has more or less already been made. And it's been kind of an increasing trend that there's not a lot of voter sentiment considered when there's big money on the table. And we get pushed out by companies that have enough resources and time to dedicate towards making the case. I think it's a good time to get involved with the process of getting that data in the right way. And I think that we have a lot of folks in the public sector who are really interested in this and presenting a one-sided picture. I haven't encountered anybody that I've spoken to about the data centers that's actually in favor of it. So I would encourage you all to consider a survey of the constituents and see if it's actually something that people want and also to consider, you know, I'm not opposed to development. I just am opposed to development that isn't working for most people. The data centers, to me, see mostly like the burden of resources is going to be placed on the citizens. We'll be providing all of that, giving up our water, potentially covering the cost for the increased energy consumption. And the revenues aren't staying around here. As the report notes, it's not a lot of jobs that are going to be in the area. Many of the well-paying ones you can probably do from outside of Frederick County. So I have a hard time feeling that the county residents' interests are best served by a data center. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Next. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesville District. Welcome to the new members of the board. I would like to speak on the data center study. While I am grateful for Chairman Stowe's effort last week, I feel very unsure that I can protect my community within the process we have today as these data centers start coming down the pipeline. I also want to help rewrite the data center playbook in America and Virginia. And I know that the first page is not citing them without our community's full support, which comes much later after the community engagement process. And I know that the first page is not citing them without our community's full support, which comes much later after the community engagement process. And I know that the first page is not citing them without our community engagement process. I want to pass on the last piece of insight, and so do all of the содержal that I am able to Марtys and Carthus, for your Whether or not we are going to provide the realestäger development to the studying diagnosis or the finding proof. However, I do see that legislation is complete and I think we should take the Buy-in window as seriously as possible and take any bias reduction that we can, as weangi will explain, toóis what we should do. I can everything, you know, not be too離 seldom, and at any rate, we have to do everything that anyone could. Do we need a little bit more of this, after the ordinance is crafted? This is a real David and Goliath, and we donít need to let them in already. rebrand what data centers are in Virginia today, and we can be the new model. Our ordinance can work for communities all down the valley, and only three each, too, and across rural America, saving our nation's food security everywhere, and only if those communities want them. When senators and congressmen and world leaders get off their plane and say, I want to go see some data centers, out of the 600 data centers, I want them to say, I want to come to the top every single time. Oh, of course, you have to go to Frederick County. I only want the kind of, that kind of energy, not hyperscale or just money. I know we can do this. We've already built 600 here. We have the talent. Some of these companies' headquarters in Virginia are doing things better, way better in Europe right now. I want our national leaders to go see our wineries, to go take their children to fruit pick, and take their children to our data centers and say, Junior, look at this. This is the only data centers we're going to build back home. I want our data centers to save farmland, nature, and forest all across the country. I want all of our school kids to be educated only on the best field trips to the data centers. Maybe they go to our aquatic center, heated by a data center, just like the Olympic pool in Paris, or go to an industrial park and see what heat transfer can do, and go to a wildlife refuge for our endangered birds, and walk around a community trail and see a geothermal data center buried beneath. I want their teachers to tell them that their county was brave, and reached for the stars, and did our very best for them, so they can be inspired by local greatness, by what we've built together and far better than anyone else in this state. When the beauty competition begins for America's most beautiful and stunning data center architecture, I want that crown for every project we build, all three, and no more. If you keep telling me, But property rights and we need the money. I'm not interested. Let's protect this community. Anyone else, sir? State your name. Magisterial District, please, sir. Hello, sir. My name is Jason Buckman. I live in the Bat Creek District. I did a little survey last week on the internet amongst residents here. It's a Winchester community page. My question was this. What was your electric bill and how much square foot was your house? I got a lot of responses. One of the ones that stick out most to me is $850 for a 1,900 square foot house. That says here, our house is 170 years old with super poor insulation. What is higher electric costs going to do to that family? What is a new neighbor going to come in that's going to raise your electric bill higher and make you go thirsty in a drought? I live in the Bat Creek District and I've talked to multiple neighbors. We've had a few wells go dry on the road. People are gun shy about overtapping their wells and dropping the water table. I think Frederick County can't do that. They can make good decisions for the people that are already here. I just wanted to share that. I wear this hat for the first settlers that came here and the opportunities they came here. It was for the water and it was for the land. They came down with Joe's Tite from Chester County, Pennsylvania and William Penn's failed experiment for better opportunities, better lands. They found them right here. I pray that we keep it that way, every one of you guys. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anyone else? All right. I'm going to close those comments. Thank you, folks. Next up on the agenda is the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move that the board approve the consent agenda as presented. I have a motion. Second. All right. We have a motion. We have a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Leo. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gugermont. Aye. Chair votes aye. It's approved. Thank you very much. Board of Supervisors comments. I'd like to go first only because I'd like to welcome Supervisor Oates and Supervisor Gugermont to your first meeting out here. Thank you for what you're doing for the county. Okay. Any comments? I'll look to my right first. Supervisor Oates. Yes, sir. Back last fall, this board passed an ordinance a lot more restricted than what was advertised on TDRs with the promise that we'd get back to that. I'd like to see that start immediately, whether we do a work session or form a committee. The original intent of that TDR program was a safe farm. It saved the western part of the county. Once it finally got implemented here in the last four or five years, there's been some bugs to it. They need to be worked out, but we need to get the program running again because there's a lot of farmers out there that started participating in it. I helped some of those through my business save over 2,000 acres last year. Again, I'd like to see this board put a commitment behind getting back to that immediately. I would like to see a work session. Personally, and one of the reasons why I'd like to see a work session is I'd like for the new supervisors to get a clear 101 on TDRs and the program and how it was developed and the purposes of it. If someone wanted to make a motion, we'll... I'll move we schedule a work session. Okay, we got a motion. I got a second. Ms. Phillips, do I need to do a roll call on that one? No, sir. I'll do a voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? There you go. Thank you for bringing it up, Supervisor Oates, because it's time for it to be done. Thank you. All right, we've got that. Anything else on my right? How about on my left? Yes, sir. First, I'd like to thank all the speakers tonight. So you know, I do listen. I had a great conversation with Ms. Spencer on the phone, and I'm willing to speak to people. As she stated, she brought ideas of three data centers and the types of data centers that she researched that are ecologically friendly. She went all the way to researching in Paris. Those are ideas. Someone came up and mentioned, hey, if you have to raise our tax, do that. We need ideas. And I welcome ideas. We don't have every solution. And someone else said there's a lot of smart people in our community. So I want those smart ideas to come to the table so that we can incorporate them, we can listen, we can think through them. A nice gentleman brought me a packet to read. Thank you. I just want everybody to know, I don't know anybody up here that's closed off to not listening and not receiving thoughts from the community. We have hard decisions to make, and we're going to do the best we can with the information we have. So I just wanted to say that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity and look forward to working with everybody. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're going to do this? After? Not at this point? No, sir. Okay. Well, let me make, I do. I'll go ahead then. So the folks that have spoken, I've met with a lot of you individually. I've been on the phone with a lot of you and met in groups with a lot of you also. So my comments. I met with individuals and groups to discuss data centers and their possibilities, positive and negative effects on Frederick County. I've also been given reports from citizens or information they've compiled on data centers. I've received a few emails from citizens who are not in favor of data centers, but I've not received any emails from citizens who are in favor of data centers. Additionally, I've contacted other elected officials who have and are presently dealing with data centers in their respective counties to get their input. I've also reviewed the information compiled by our planning department, and I would like to say job well done. And I think that's what I'm going to do. Number one, before we spend a lot of time studying positives and negatives of data centers in Frederick County, I feel we need to find out exactly what's been said tonight. If the majority of Frederick County citizens even want to consider allowing data centers in Frederick County. I'm against spot rezoning of residential and agricultural land to allow for data centers or any other business or industrial businesses. And if, in fact, we as a group decide to move forward with allowing data centers in Frederick County, I think they must be located in areas that are zoned for business and industrial land use areas. If we do not have enough of these locations, I would suggest that the board look at changing the comprehensive plan, and this will require public hearings and citizen input would be deeply involved. In my opinion, the biggest pro to data centers is the tax windfall. that everyone talks about for the county, and the second would be the employment of Frederick County citizens with the opportunity of higher wages. In both cases, it would behoove Frederick County to dot all the I's and cross all the T's and tie up legally any and all loose ends to be sure promises are kept. Without proper paperwork, there are no guarantees for either of the two above. We all know and we've heard tonight the negatives about loss of open space, sound disturbance, water demands, cost of electricity, traffic and road questions. Again, if data centers were allowed, we should be sure that they pay their own electrical costs and water costs. These should not be passed on to Frederick County residents. If there is a water shortage, the data center should be the first to be cut off, and the same would be true for the electrical energy shortages. We should not be wooed into thinking that if we allow data centers that we will never have to have another real estate tax increase. They will not solve all of our problems. Thank you. You now know how Bob Wills of Opecum feels. Thank you. Thank you, Supervisor Gale. Any other comments? Good to go. We're going to move on then. We have county officials, none. Appointments to boards and committees and commissions. 10A, chairman has nominated the following for appointment by the board. I can do a voice vote on this. Unless anybody has an objection, we're going to go with a voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Okay, we're good to go. 11B, Extension Leadership Council at Large. Mr. Warndorff, you're going to be on the Extension Leadership Council. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to make this motion for Jason Craig. So moved, Mr. Chairman. All right. We've got a motion. And I need a second on this. Second, Mr. Chairman. Now, this one, Ms. Phillips, I don't. Beautiful. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Good to go. Planning Commission, Red Bud District. There you go, Mr. Gugermont. Yes, sir. I would like to nominate Tim Stowe to remain as as chair of that committee and to participate. Mr. Stowe is extremely qualified. He's been serving. He's willing to serve again, and I think we need his leadership to continue. All right, I got a motion. Second. All right, you got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Anybody opposed? There we go. Planning Commission, Stonewall District. Supervisor Oates. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Justin Kearns is up for renewal. He's actually the person that replaced me after I served for 16 years there, so I would recommend we reappoint him. All right, we got a motion. Second. I got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? All right, fantastic. Board of Equalization. All right, we have two vacants there, and I'll go ahead and make the motion to be filled by Christopher Grasmunk and Mr. Don Shiley. I need a second on this. Second. All right, we got a motion. We got a second. All those in favor? Aye. That's completed. Committee business, we're good. Public hearings, we're good. Planning Commission public hearings, we're good. Planning Commission business, other planning business, land use review, data centers. Hello there. How you doing, Mr. Pearson? I'm well, sir. How are you? I'm well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. It's a bit of a meaty topic, the data center report, so know that I'm not going to attempt to try to condense 22 pages of writing into a slide deck. Otherwise, we'd be here quite late into the evening. But I will hit the wave tops. If there's anything you want me to go into further, if you have any questions or want to stop me at any point, please don't hesitate to. You'll remember that both the Planning Commission and board in previous meetings in the Senate, in the summer, directed planning staff to go down this road and try to prepare a concise and balanced report regarding data centers as a land use. So we went to go ahead and do that. And I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you read it. I'm going to go through the pieces of it that I think stand out the most. Some of the background information we used to generate this report, where the sources cited on the screen. I would say that the JLARC report was probably the primary resource that we pulled from other than some of the figures. Most of the text was based on some of the findings in that report as well. As you can see, the Piedmont Environmental Council's website was helpful as well as a couple of local government websites. And then some of the most insightful information relative to Frederick County actually came out of conversations with our Economic Development Authority, our water utility, and our electric providers. So Frederick County code does define a data center. It was part of our April report. It's part of our April 2025 ordinance amendment. And it's a premise in which the majority of the use is occupied by computers and or telecommunications and related equipment for processing, storing, or transferring information. In recent years, you've probably heard, but data center demand continues to rise to unprecedented levels. It was already very much on the rise before generative AI pushed it through the roof. But because of that, traditional markets don't have the space, local governments within those traditional markets that have a lot of existing data centers have started to tighten their rules and regulations with Loudoun being pretty noteworthy and eliminating their buy-right allowance for data centers in their commercial and industrial districts. And they have started to look elsewhere in places like Frederick County and all over the Commonwealth and nation at this point. They are capable of contributing substantially to our local tax revenues and require very few public services. But they can certainly create impacts that need careful consideration including noise, power demand, water quality, and other things. So, typically, the site selection criteria for data centers pivots really heavily along abundance, large amounts of power. They also need access to other wet and dry utilities. And more recently, their focus has been on incredibly large parcels of land with proximity to that infrastructure. We talk about them as probably two different types. The campus style developments, which can look to consume upwards of 600 and past 1,000 acres in some cases, many thousands of acres in some localities. And then standalone structures, which tend to cluster near existing industrial parks or otherwise and really be just standalone buildings. So, our report focused on two types of data centers, but there are more beyond this. These are the ones that are built most commonly at industrial scale, and that's co-location and hyperscale data centers. They kind of look the same but operate a little bit differently. Co-location is kind of like a hybrid. It's like a leaseable office building where the servers and everything within it are parceled out for individual companies to rent. Whereas hyperscale data centers are purpose-built typically to maximize computing power and typically have an end user in mind. Facebook, Google, kind of the big tech companies are the ones who make the most use out of that, given the amount of data that they process on a regular basis. That example there is actually from Mecklenburg County, Virginia. Microsoft has a really large presence in Mecklenburg County. Beyond that, there's not much in Mecklenburg County, if I'm being honest with you. So, the existing kind of legislative landscape and our current regulations is important to note, and I've mentioned before, the board will remember adopting a new ordinance to more tightly regulate data centers in April of 2025. As part of that, you all adopted performance standards for how these have to look, some of the considerations that need to be thought through, through any sort of rezoning or conditional use permit process. And, you know, standards that control the location of mechanical equipment, require screening, greater setbacks than any other industrial use in the county right now, as well as those site assessments that are noted on the slide. I want to make it clear that right now, any proposal in Frederick County to do a data center would require either rezoning or conditional use permit, and would have to come before the Planning Commission and board in a public hearing setting for consideration. That was not the case for the previous, 60 years that we've had zoning, and as you can see, because there was not demand in the market, there was not explosive growth at data centers in Frederick County in the same way that there was in Loudoun County and elsewhere. But now you have control, and you can take each individual project on a case-by-case basis. As far as your comprehensive plan, it does not explicitly address data centers directly. It's fair to say that it has the, data centers do have the opportunity to help assist with balancing the county's fiscal goals that are noted in the comprehensive plan. Many of you will remember that there's a key piece of the comprehensive plan that often gets echoed when considering commercial and industrial rezonings, and that's to strive to have a balanced tax base. And I think the metric that's often referenced is 75% residential and 25% commercial industrial, to address the reality that residential often can be a drain on the resources of local government because of the services it requires. I would evaluate the Tighten but conservative approach on those to our titanium reserves is very much to contrast, in example, automatic tinkering and Political física. Thank you, Dr. Smith. if a rezoning was approved and transmission lines being hauled through rural parts of the county to serve the use, which is of particular concern. And then the only thing I would add to the fiscal balance reality is because of the high taxable value and the amount of revenue these things have the capability of generating, if you were to focus on that kind of 75-25 split, you would have to commit far less acreage to industrial and commercial uses to meet your 25 percent goal and to achieve that fiscal balance because of the high generation for these uses. It's probably not a surprise to anybody that data centers use very high amounts of electrical power. The part of that that gets even more complicated and is worth paying attention to from a land use perspective is that they require redundancy and in turn that often looks like diesel backup generators. Those require, you know, testing throughout their existence. I think a speaker mentioned recent DEQ rules. I think a speaker mentioned recent DEQ rules. I think a speaker mentioned recent DEQ rules. Change their rules depending on the situation. Also changed their plans from near town issue to rapidly rising countryside indicates seeking engines and fire Cambria's anyУV I think and attention has become limitations but it's beenShort yet again. Considered an outcome for us, it's resumed the green line in Virginia's population is now cal Hampshire Этот. attend us in at 8 depend on our ideas, I won't respond, we don't have anyone Jed who drew. It's held to be served this dan gia. Understand that there are also supply chains and power grid Observer several banks, for example, under the ferris wheel we saw that as far as working Architect goodbye, but in the past 50 days, if it was opened up, pollution. Other things I'd note is because of the backlog of electrical infrastructure to serve the sites and the demand for these things, many developers are considering on-site generation, and that more often than not looks like natural gas generators, which have a similar concern regarding air quality. And I think in the future, in a number of years, it could include small modular nuclear reactors as well. I would note that local utilities have taken the necessary steps to isolate infrastructure costs, but the regional impact cannot be avoided by local government land use action. It needs to be focused at the state, legislative, and federal level. Whether or not you decide to do data centers or not, it's a legitimate policy concern that our energy prices are rising because of the pool that we're in as far as generation and transmission. And I'll go into that in the next two slides here. So I hope this isn't too much of a challenge for you. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please do give it a thumbs up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. nuclear plant or Mount Storm in West Virginia, those are some examples of that. So generally speaking, power is generated through the generation system. Interstate transmission is handled by a specific type of power company and then they're selling power to the distribution system and we are their customers. Now the reason I say that you know doing data centers in Frederick County isn't likely to make the power price situation all that much worse than it already is, is because of that distribution system rate class protection that Chendo Valley Electric Cooperative and Rappahannock Electric Cooperative have already taken the steps to create and that's shown on this slide. So infrastructure that is needed to serve residential rate classes is what residential rate payers pay for. That infrastructure doesn't look the same as the infrastructure that serves industrial and large commercial users, that is typically much larger lines, bigger subject-to-specialty, much larger lines, much larger lines, much larger lines, much larger lines, much larger lines, much larger lines, much larger lines, bigger equipment in that respect and so those rate payers pay a different rate in order to cover the costs of that infrastructure. That works well for handling those distribution costs. It does not apply to generation and transmission. That is handled in a regional pool that's referred to as PJM and it's a power market that covers many states, Pennsylvania, portions of Illinois, New Jersey, all of New Jersey, all of Virginia, portions of Kentucky, North Carolina. It's pretty much a large chunk of the eastern seaboard and a little bit west of that. That piece of it is unavoidable and that is what we've already felt the burden of as far as the demand for power has risen and not been matched by generation capacity and in turn the cost of power has continued to go up in the PJM region. That is not a, I'm not trying to provide that as a reason to necessarily consider data centers in Frederick County but I don't want you all to operate under the belief that if you don't do data centers that you're immune from people doing them elsewhere and increasing power costs through generation and transmission for our citizens. Water is a big topic probably right behind power as well and from a local land use perspective it's it's more concerning because of our direct relationship with our utility provider. Water usage and data centers varies greatly depending on the technology that they use, their server density and a lot of other factors. I would like to just summarize in saying that according to the JLARC report and pretty much every other reputable source that I could find on the topic, they certainly are capable of using a lot of water and some do but on average they do not. Especially in the Northern Virginia area where JLARC had surveyed all of localities that have data centers in them and concluded that on average they used about the same or less than a large office building. It's not something to forget about if we ever have an application where we have to dig into the details of it. I will continue to stress that we need to know what the water use estimates are and we need to be considerate of whether or not proffers or conditions as part of a condition use permit need to be imposed to mitigate that concern. But don't take all data centers as absolutely requiring to use massive amounts of water because that's not factual in my in my research. As far as noise, like many other industrial activities, data centers are a major source of noise in communities that they exist in. The typical noise generation does come from cooling system components, the HVAC systems and other equipment associated with that, but the backup generators can be major sources of noise as well. It used to be under the assumption that you don't have to worry about the backup generators. They get tested let's say once a week and you'll hear them then for less than an hour and then if they're running constantly you don't have power, the grids down you know we're just going to have to deal with that. But as some speakers have mentioned it's becoming more and more accepted by the utility regulations that apply to backup generators that they want to put them into more common use than true power outage scenarios. So if we're evaluating an application we need to pay particular attention to where they're sited on the property, as part of the noise modeling that your ordinance will require them to provide we need to think not about those emergency scenarios, but beyond that and think that there's the possibility that these things could be running more often than we typically expect that they would there there are tools both through sighting and equipment that can help to mitigate noise it's it's it's possible to be handled it's a challenge if there's low ambient noise in that area much like how my head's been deep into power I would love to learn less about noise over the next ten years if I can but the three things that I like to echo about noise is it's relative it's additive and it's logarithmic so it's relative to me as an individual what I experience is noise is different than what mr. goo Vermont might experience is noise and what a citizen might experience is noise it's relative to our experience both today and after a data center locates next to us it's additive in the sense that if I continue talking and someone starts screaming behind me you're going to hear a lot of noise and you're going to hear a lot of noise and you will perceive the scream louder than my voice but my voice will add to the scream and if I stop talking the screen will be measurably less loud so noise stacks on top of itself and then it's logarithmic and I note that because we're gonna be talking about decibels if we have data center applications and well you might assume that you know an ambient noise level of 40 decibels being changed by an adjoining data center to 50 decibels is not a big impact it's actually like 10 times or sometimes more than that and so I think it's a good thing to consider if you're looking at a data center application and you're thinking about how to do that and I think it's a good thing to consider but I think it's a good thing to consider but it's not linear in nature when you see changes in decibels it's a massive change between small changes in that scale as far as visual and design considerations Frederick County is very familiar with industrial structures and the measures with which data centers are constructed are not at all that different from the tilt up approach to warehousing that we've seen in the county with some changes related to the city we're back in the diagonal and there were several changes over the past decade the ones associated with this change in Vibeville pricesERS shows that neighborhoods under Phillip are going to have the best contact with businesses with everybody's goods I think there's some change in there for sure but one thing I Forum Division is doing our part right now and is trying to develop a better planning as to where to go next we're eyeing very forward for issues aroundé kind of in the Northern Virginia area to be built at industrial scale. And then the one on the right was built a couple years ago by Equinix. And you can see that there was a focus on the facade-facing structure, which is most visible to the public. And then the back of the building was left not too dissimilar from what they built in 1998. In addition to the structures themselves, mechanical equipment exists in great quantities alongside of these structures. And the screening of that is arguably as important, if not more so, because of how that stuff tends to look. So depending on the location of the facility and our relative topography in the surrounding area, for these applications, it may warrant we consider viewshed analysis and think a little bit differently than we have about screening in the past. So some examples. On the left, a relatively wide-open, sprawling mechanical equipment, including diesel. There's a lot of diesel generators in the typical rows that they do for these. I think you can see there's like a six-foot chain-link fence with slats on one side of it, but it doesn't do a terribly good job of screening the equipment. On the right, from the view that's taken, it doesn't look like it's well-screened, but because the HVAC equipment is located on the roof and there's a large metal-louvered parapet wall, if you're at ground level, you wouldn't see any of the HVAC equipment, and it's not a good idea to do that. And the noise would largely be directed upwards. The same at ground level applies for the diesel generators when they're not running. There's a metal-louvered mechanical screen around it that allows for air to be drawn into them for their operation, but generally provides opacity so you cannot see the equipment itself. As far as economic impacts, it's pretty much unquestionable that they can be strong fiscal generators for local governments. Unlike our typical industrial or commercial land uses, a significant share of the taxable revenue comes from the equipment and the computers inside. They certainly do create fewer jobs than other comparable industrial settings. They tend to pay higher, and it's a very legitimate concern, as with any industry or business, that the people occupying those positions may not necessarily be Frederick County residents. On the construction side and the building of these, I think that's of particular interest. It's of particular risk. It's a somewhat unique type of construction, but because of the demand and the rapid pace that these are being built at, they are very attractive to traveling construction crews who bring large quantities of electrician and skilled positions to move around to these projects. I know that not only from my research, but because in my field, my colleagues who have these in their communities, especially the rural ones like Mecklenburg, have been struggling with how to house the traveling construction crews and asking, their fellow colleagues about temporary housing, hotels, and things like that, and how they can help plan for that stuff. It is possible that they can be operated by tax-exempt entities. In my research, that's pretty rare. To my knowledge, there's not a local land use control for how you can avoid that. And the example I'd give is when you regulate land use, you're somewhat considering who is occupying the structure is kind of a no-no. So if you're thinking about a commercial office building, you wouldn't say, we'll only allow commercial office buildings that are occupied by this type of industry or this type of business. You would allow whoever is conducting their office work in that commercial office building to do it. The same kind of applies to data centers. But I think it's a pretty low risk that you'll end up with a tax-exempt entity. Really, it's banks and 501 s that are the primary risks. And the banks pay bank franchise tax in lieu of the local, uh, business equipment tax. And I believe that will be worked out in the future through legislation because I think it violates the intent of the original statute. And then lastly, from the Frederick County context, I received some feedback in the writing of this that the values in it are somewhat meaningless for individuals who don't deal in local government finance. So they said, you know, do an expression of needs and then how this could meet needs. So, this is a really simple version of that. So our county CIP estimates about 394 million in capital needs. Um, and then on top of that, Frederick County's long range capital plan identifies an additional 386 million. So we'll take half those totals and just say around 400 million in debt obligations is what the county would want to service. Um, using typical Virginia Resource Authority bonds and, um, actually kind of a high interest rate. You'd probably need about 23 million in annual revenue. So that's a pretty good estimate. So we're going to go to service 400 million in debt. That equates to a 13 cent real estate tax increase. If the state were to approve, uh, the legislation that's been debated in recent years for a sales tax increase of 1%, that would come pretty close to touching that. I would caveat that by saying I think most versions of that bill have focused it towards school capital. Um, and then there's other combinations of taxation sources that you could combine to get to get close to a 13 cent real estate tax increase. So, a 13 cent real estate tax increase, be that meals tax, uh, personal property tax or other, other sources that you all are already familiar with. Um, and then lastly, a multi, you know, multiple standalone data centers or a campus style project of about 400 acres could provide very comparable levels of revenue to service that amount of debt. I skipped over one thing on water that I had noted for myself. I would mention, and it's just in the same way that the finances of this might seem large to some extent, but it's not. It's not large to somebody who's not exposed to them on a regular basis. Uh, the water use when you hear say 700,000 gallons per day, it sounds like an immense amount of water for any, you know, business or industry to use. But to provide some context to that, Frederick County currently has two food manufacturers that total about 1.5 million gallons per day in water usage. Uh, we've had one data center proposal that was using what was described as a mid range water consumption technology called adiabatic dry cooling. Uh, we've had one data center proposal that was using what was described as a mid range water consumption technology called adiabatic dry cooling. Uh, we've had one data center proposal that was using what was described as a mid range water consumption technology called adiabatic dry cooling. And I think they were over more than 600 acres and they wanted to use 700,000 gallons per day. The food manufacturers that use double that occupy closer to 100 acres and generate probably, um, 1 50th of the tax revenue that's comparable to the 600 acre data center proposal. So the magnitude of it might strike you contextually as being wild, but, you know, 100,000 gallons per day, uh, of water usage is not a wild amount of water usage. And some of these can use as few or even less possibly none, but more often 30,000 gallons per day, which is kind of akin to a large office building. All right. And I'm going back and I think that was the end. Yeah. So, uh, I do believe that data centers present Frederick County with a land use option that offers unusually high fiscal efficiency, but there are certainly some unique considerations. I feel confident that the county is going to be able to, uh, implement those. Uh, the county's updated ordinance allows us to consider those, uh, very carefully and slowly. If you, if you choose to consider projects, um, involving data centers, when this was presented to the planning commission, they asked the board to consider, uh, two motions that I'll just briefly describe. Uh, the first was that you direct staff to create data center policy that would be incorporated into our comprehensive plan to establish strict guidelines to ensure data centers provide measures to protect the health, safety, and safety of citizens and provide information to developers and communities basically about what to expect if they want to do a project in here, uh, in, in Frederick County. And then the other was to direct staff to amend our comprehensive land use map to show where in the county we want these by establishing a future land use and saying this is, we're going to show this on the map and these are the only places where we want to consider data centers. Beyond that, Mr. Chairman, I don't have anything else to add. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Uh, I think that this is, uh, presented only for information and discussion. You're not required to take any action. Mr. Pearson, thanks for all the work you put in. You put in a lot of work on this, you and your staff, so thank you for that. Okay, I'll look to my left. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Good? Good. I have a question. Uh, Mr. Akins? No, no questions. Just really, maybe, maybe this is not the right format here, but, uh, maybe for discussion, uh, can I ask a question based off discussion or just? Yeah, sure. Okay. So, um, the, one of my concerns is, with data centers all together, is that I'm an individual that likes to operate off facts. And, and I don't understand the facts of what we do and do not have from a water availability, capacity, from a, uh, from a water side and the sewer side. So, I think it would be wise for us to, uh, invite Frederick County Water to come and educate us as the board on what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what, what we do, what our situation is. Um, so I'd like to make that recommendation. Um, and also I know there was at one point in time when I was on planning commission, there was something that was discussed about a study being done about the, the amount of groundwater, uh, between multiple counties. Can you speak on that a little bit? Yeah. Uh, the Northern Chineaux Valley Regional Commission is in the process of updating the water supply plan for our, for our area. Um, it's not going to delve into what people think. It's not going to delve into what people want to hear about, like the carrying capacity of our groundwater aquifer. It's more about where the utilities sourcing their water from, what are their current withdrawal amounts? What are they putting back into the environment and do they have backup sources? Um, so it's never going to give you the answers that I think everybody wants, which is like, what is the sustainable amount of withdrawal from the, the Frederick County aquifer that is regulated at the state level? Uh, Frederick water is regulated. Anybody who's extracting, that's not agriculture, but it's not the state level. So, it's not going to give you the answer for what they extract and has to report that to the state. Because there's always a lot of conversations and concerns about, we have a problem, but we don't know for a fact what our problem is and what our problem isn't. And so I just, uh, if there's not a way for us to become more educated on that, then that's really unfortunate. Um, but I can't, I can't beat the drum that we have a problem when the, the Eastern seaboard of the United States has been in a drought for quite a while and everybody's operating under the same facts. Yeah. I think a conversation with Frederick water on the topic would certainly be enlightening as to where they stand on those matters. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Uh, why, how, how many homes are going to be in Winchester East? Do you remember the housing development? Yeah. Uh, 289, I think. Winchester East. Yeah. So I, I think part of this equation with water is when you build 300 homes and the average, and the average home uses 300 gallons of water a day, when you consider the amount of homes we're building, that's massive water use, but we're not saying, no, you can't build those houses because we don't have enough water. So I, I think part of the big picture here is this, like you mentioned certain factories that use billions of gallons of water a day. If we have all these businesses and all these homes, sucking all this water, and we have it, that then there's no problem. So I think Mr. Aiken's point is important because we got to understand where we're truly at to be able to make educated decisions. So thank you. Absolutely. Okay. How about my right here? Mr. Oates, Supervisor Oates. Sure. Uh, yeah, Eric, what's your take on this? I think, uh, I think, yeah, Eric, I've been talking about getting a meeting with the board, uh, probably around April, bringing up the speed, uh, Winchester East, that's about 9,000 gallons. That's the drop in a bucket. That's not a problem. Uh, at Frederick Water, we can serve the housing all day long. That's easy. It's when you bring in the large food producers that want a million, 1.2, 1.5 million gallons. That's the ones we take it to the gut. Uh, that's why about eight years ago, we introduced, introduced a policy in our board that says you can't take more than 10% of the available water or sewer. So depending on what we have available at the time, that's going to put a crimp in say a daddy center coming. If they come up and say, we want 900,000 gallons, we're going to say, no, we can't serve you. Uh, as far as our water projections, we're working on a filtering plant right now. Uh, we should have the, uh, plans ready by the spring, put it out to bid next summer. That project should be done by the end of 2028. That should get us from about 8,000 gallons up to about 18,000 gallons available. But that's what our 20 year plan, and that should take us through 2045. So in about three years, we've got plenty of water. That's not an issue. Seer is going to be an issue, but water's not. Thank you, sir. President. Anybody else? Well, I want to, um, address what was presented by the, uh, planning commission. While I appreciate what the planning commission is intending with their request to initiate comprehensive planned amendments on this topic, I would sooner see us follow through with the original direction we gave staff on this topic to engage with members of the community, to provide an opportunity for staff and experts involved this land use to address some of the concerns that we have about the land use. I would also like to address some of the concerns that tend to surround this topic and to hear our citizens opinions on the possibility of this use in Frederick County. When that is done, if we feel we need to develop policy and land use maps, then we will be better prepared to do so, in my opinion. Um, that's, that's my two cents on that. And, uh, again, I know there's no action. You don't need an action, but we really appreciate all the work that's done. And thank you. Okay. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. All right. So last week, the planning commission met on Wednesday, January the seventh. There was a number of citizen comments, probably around 40 or so. Most were opposed to data centers. One or one or two were in favor. But the last week, the planning commission met. So, but a lot of the same speaker spoke tonight as well there was an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code to make modifications to additional regulations for specific uses contained in 165 204.26 for public utilities and use permissions for the rural area zoning district basically that was approved all except for one person voted yes on that they did vote to recommend that a conditional use permit be used or be required with a transmission electric both voltage substation taking high voltage and I think mr. Pearson's office right now is working on clarifying what the definition of a high voltage transmission station would look like or what the criteria is there next issue was ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code modifications to amend design requirements contained in 165 402.09 for residential performance zone district that was approved all except for one again and those two measures will come to the board this board on January the 28th the data Center fact sheet again last week was presented FYI you, FYI only for the Commission members and you've already talked about the two motions that chairman stone made last week another topic parts and parks and rec is doing a great job I went to their meeting last night they're in the time frame of the year where they're doing a lot of maintenance on replacing posts and rails throughout parks replacing heaters and other infrastructure in the parks getting ready for the spring season so the challenge was finally getting to do just one expected fund-raising worker on the a Palmer Center staff and that one again isn't eight units as far as recreation goes I mentioned last month that there's a A senior holiday luncheon was held in December that had 65 people in attendance. There are about 1,000 kids playing Winchester, or I'm sorry, Frederick County Parks and Rec youth basketball right now, which is near and dear to my heart. I have a graduate from that program who's playing some college basketball now. And the total Winter Wonderland attendance was over 28,000 residents going or visitors going to Winter Wonderland up in Clearbrook Park. So a lot of participation there in the Parks and Rec. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Any other ideas? How about on the right? I want to thank Parks and Rec. That Winter Wonderland was fabulous. It really was. And we're very fortunate with what we have here in this county. Okay, to bring citizens' comments. Do we have any citizens' comments? All right. I don't see any citizens getting up. Oh, we have one. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro District. Thank you very much. Thank you for your words. I really appreciate them. I just wanted to continue because I didn't go within three minutes. So I don't. I'm going to repeat you. It was a big deal. But if we keep telling our citizens about property rights, it means no more farmland or business as usual, and we just need the money. I'm not interested. I don't think anybody is. And I don't trust the process. I don't even believe in that kind of future. This is a different type of industry. They keep copying and pasting. It's not like one factory. You know, it can be many. It can be like 50. That's a failure to protect what is priceless and makes us Frederick County and our community's rural heritage. We have precious, fertile farmland in one of the cleanest counties in America, and this threatens our local food security. Even Richmond on both sides wants us to stay rural. We still have farms that fed the revolutionary families and created this county, created this country. I want to help protect that. I want to help protect our rural legacy and preserve our trust in our community. I sincerely want the best for all of us. Please don't gaslight these citizens and say they are too emotional. They have every right to be. If we are going to do this, we need to rewrite the entire playbook, slow down and gain their trust and show them that the ideas they can be proud of and excited for with no greenwashing. If we can't get them to do it, we can't do it. We need to do it. We need to do it. If we can't get them to get behind even my ideas, then simply don't do them. In 28 states, there are less than 50 data centers, and I'm sure that we can find alternative revenue. In 28 states, there are less than 50 data centers each, and I'm sure that we can find alternative revenue as well. We are so beautiful and are in a way to better revenue and many more smart, high-wage, meaningful careers. Believe in us. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? All right. I don't see you running up. My name is from the Backstreet Creek District. I just want to point some of the pictures that were presented in the study. The pictures of the data centers that you see in those pictures are not the ones that you see today. We have massive amounts. We have massive amounts of towers on top of the roof that weren't presented on these pictures. Six-foot fence as well. For me, I'm six foot, so you're going to cover a crazy building with six-foot fences. It's just something like if I stand next to it and I look to my right, I don't see it. If I do a foot or two this way, I will definitely see it, and if I live 50 yards from it or 100 yards from it, it's definitely an obstacle. So I think that's the way we're going to do it. Thank you. I think it's a little bit misrepresented on these pictures. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Hello. My name is Jason Buckman, and I just want to share with you a recent experience I had with a child in Fairfax, five-year-old. We went by one of these data centers with the six-foot fence. I was in the back of the building. I was sitting there. I was sitting on the six-foot fence, and I said, hey, our county's proposing a whole bunch of these all around where we're going to see them whenever we go around town or go into a business district. Do you want to—what do you think of it? And the kid said, it's absolutely ugly. I said, but you want it here? Do you want it in your backyard? And the kid said, I don't—I don't want that. I'd rather have woods. And that was out of the mouth of a five-and-a-half-year-old. That's all I wanted to share. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hall. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, I want to thank you for your comments. You're welcome. The kid said, I don't want that. I'd rather have Woods. That was out of the mouth of a five-and-a-half-year-old. That's all I wanted to share. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? All right, I'm going to close this thing. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? Mr. Supervisor? Yeah, I'll make one comment. Even if you don't like the data center, I'd caution us against flat-out closing the door. Because generally when you do that or a locality does that, Richmond steps up pretty quick. So there's a lot of uses in this county now that we have no control over that's allowed by right, such as breweries in our farms. That used to be a conditional use permit. You had to go through a process. A lot of counties didn't allow it at all. Richmond stepped in and goes, are you counting? Now it's no longer your decision. So I think we're better off looking at limiting where they can go and put so many design standards. I think we're better off looking at limiting where they can go and put so many design standards on it that maybe Frederick County is not so attractive to build one here and go that route. But if we just say a flat-out no, I think Richmond is going to step in and override us. Thanks, Supervisor Rhodes. Anybody else? Anybody left? Oh, Supervisor Akins. The county is in a tough spot. I mean, we need to operate the county like a business. And everybody up here knows we just started the budget process this evening looking at things. It's too early to tell how that all pans out. But we are staring down the barrel of a $394 million capital improvement plan for the next five years. The long-term capital need for the school system is $386 million. That's $780 million that the county is going to need because everybody in this room, I would guess, that we want to make sure that our kids are taken care of, we want to make sure that we have a transportation network that's sufficient, and that to solve the problem, we're going to need to balance things out throughout the county and find revenue streams in a multitude of different ways. And we can't look for a silver bullet. Data centers can't be our silver bullet, in my opinion. We need to look at every option out there as a county to try to figure out how to do that. We need to look at every option out there as a county to try to figure out how to do that. We need to look at every option out there as a county to try to figure out how to do that. We need to look at every option out there as a county to try to figure out how we're going to solve the problems that we are faced against. And I truly feel that we have a lot of different levers. And what I mean by that is there's lots of different ways that we can generate revenue as a county. And we need to, as a board, look at every single one of them and try to balance how that is going to impact the citizens. I do think that the city and the county both are in a tough spot. I mean, in the news, there's a lot of talks right now about things that the city are looking into. And I think that there may be an opportunity for us as a board and the city to work together and find some synergies there to see if there is some ways for some cost savings on some of the departments that are in both of our localities. So I'd like to make a motion that we at least have a conversation or a meeting with the city or see if there's see if they would even entertain a conversation to see if they would make a point, a room conversation to at least solve any need that they find. to see if there's ways that we could work together to find call savings. Can we do a... Maybe right now instead of doing a motion, just some kind of formal action, maybe have Mr. Jewell, the city chairman of the council, over there and start working together. I definitely see where maybe parks could be combined, maybe even create an authority out of the parks. But I think if we get too many people in the room to start the discussion, it's going to come to gridlock. So I'd rather see our two chairmen get together and start hashing a few things out. Wise statement. I'm all on board with that. I just feel like the conversations need to start. Yes. And for them to be taken seriously to see if there is any traction that can be made. We can do that. We can do that. That's a great suggestion. Absolutely. That's what we'll do. Okay. Anybody else? Vice Chairman Wells, would you... Chair. Okay. I believe we adjourn. We are adjourned, folks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
