Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-09-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=366
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I call the Board of Supervisors meeting for September 23, 2026 to order. For our invocation tonight, we have Pastor Pastor Cindy Waldrop, Community Chaplain, Human and Sex Trafficking Task Force. Pastor, if you'll come forward, please. And thank you for coming out tonight. Thank you, Chairman. Can we please stand for our invocation tonight? Heavenly Father, we thank you for your provision, your protection, and your guidance tonight. As issues are being discussed and decisions are being made within this assembly of supervisors, I ask that you would guide them in wisdom, knowledge, and concern for the impact their decisions will have on Frederick County. I'm grateful for the diligence and time that they have dedicated to our community and ask for a special blessing over them. Thank you, Father, for your presence, for creating an atmosphere of calm and peace, and for watching over our community, our state, and our country. And I pray these things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Vice Chair. If you'll stay up and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. And move the flag on us. Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, folks. We have next up is adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Okay. We have an agenda. All right. Next item up is citizens' comments. Citizens' comments is this is for any agenda item that's not subject to a public hearing. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We did not have anyone sign up for this comment period. Thank you, Madam Clerk. Anybody wants to come up and speak? All right. We're good to go. Next item up is consent agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I'm getting the move that we accept the consent agenda as approved. All right. I have a motion. Second. All right. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Grubach? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Arndorf? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. All right. Consent agenda is taken care of. Next item up is Board of Comments, the Board of Supervisor Comments. Do we have any? Look to my right. Look to my left. Keep on going. Next item up is county officials. Update on transmission line projects. Mr. Fox? Good evening, Mr. Supervisor. Good evening, Mr. Supervisor. Honorable Supervisors, pleasure to be in front of you tonight. This is a brief update on the electrical transmission line projects that are going on or coming up in the county just for your benefit and for the benefit of the public. We have three projects in various stages of the process. One is the Mid-Atlantic Resilience Line, the MARL line. That is the one with an active case before the state corporation commission. As the Board of Supervisors intervened in the case and requested that it happen, the state corporation commission held a public hearing on the MARL project at James Woods High School last Wednesday, September 16th. Mr. Jewell, you were there. Mr. Oates, you were there for some of the proceedings. Hopefully I didn't miss anyone else that came in. There was four hours of testimony offered to the SEC hearing officer from citizens in the county. Those participating in the case have other opportunities to get in. I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Oates. Thank you. The SEC is today's head of the public hearing, Dr. David H produto. It will have an official testimony. The public hearings are strictly for public input. So those remarks were all transcribed and taken down by the SEC by the hearing officer. They will become part of the record, as will the many comments that have been submitted to the SEC. Members of the public may continue to submit comments to the SEC regarding the MARL project until December 1st. That is the deadline date for members of the public who wish, go on the SEC website. We do have a link to that on the county's website. For the member of the public, please give an email to the SEC at www.sear.gov. information portal page. We'll keep that updated. There is a September 30th deadline for participants in the case to to submit testimony. We prepared a statement of the county on behalf of the chairman that we will intend to submit to the SEC to become an official part of the record as part of that process. Again, that is by September 30th. There will be a telephonic public hearing on October 14th and you have to register to participate in that by October 6th. So that again is an opportunity for members of the public to be heard this time in a telephonic format but also in front of the hearing officer from the SEC to talk about that project. Probably should have said this at the beginning just so everyone is understands. The Morrow project is around two and a half miles of 500 kilovolt transmission line that will enter Frederick County approximately at the where Route 50 enters the county and Gore traverse two and a half miles more or less along Route 50 and join up with the existing 500 kilovolt line there. There was a brief site visit to sort of show what that will look like. Mr. Aliero attended that as did I. And then on the other end of the county the Morrow project before the SEC includes a request to certify a substation, the Woodside substation, that would be built on the west side of I-81 kind of opposite to the existing substation there. To provide additional capacity for handling the 500 volt line. So that is the Morrow project. That is the one that is live at the SEC. County has intervened in. County has facilitated a local public hearing and created a good a good precedent for for that being a valuable part of the process. You have any questions about the Morrow project in particular? All right moving on quickly the next project that will be coming is the Gore Dobbs Creek Dobbs Goose Goose Creek project and that has the effect of joining the Morrow line entering the west side of the county to Woodside on the east side following this is a 500 volt line following the existing right-of-way for 500 volt transmission through the county. We have not seen a SEC filing on that as of yet. We're not sure when that's going to happen but as I said that is a 500 volt line that'll follow the existing right-of-way. So probably the least likely. I'm not sure when that's going to happen but as I said that is a 500 volt line that'll follow the just existing right-of-way so probably the least likely. So probably the least likely. So probably the least likely. All right. All right. So the other projects that we're looking at that are going to be the most impactful of the three projects that are ongoing at this time. We don't know a whole lot more about Gore Dobbs Goose Creek other than that one's coming and that is kind of goes along with the moral project. Finally of course is Valley North. That is a planned project. There was a Valley North did hold up a public information session of Jameswood a few months ago. No further action in that regarding Valley North as the board authorized in July. We have met with outside council. We have sketched out an initial strategy for being prepared, if not over-prepared, for when Valley North proceeds to file with the SEC as we think they intend to do. That could be as early as next month or in November. If not November, then probably sometime in 2027. What are we doing about Valley North? With our outside council, they are reviewing the current comp plan amendment that will take a general look at what we consider to be the requirements for electrical transmission lines in the county, generally speaking, as far as their impact and how they can have the least impact and be the most harmonious as required by the comp plan. Our outside council is going to take a look at what we've proposed for that process. That process is ongoing. Mr. Bishop can provide more information about that if you need it. Outside council will identify anything we can do in the zoning ordinance. As you know, the site is going to be a little bit more of a mess. We're going to be looking at the site. We're going to be looking at the site. We're going to be looking at the site. We're going to continue to work on that. The lighting of transmission lines is strictly for the state corporation commission. The county has no direct authority to decide where transmission lines go or don't go. However, we can look at options within the zoning power that can have some effect on that process. Our outside council will assist us with that. Our outside council will be interfacing directly with the law firm that has been retained by Clark County for the same purpose. The name of the law firm is Torridon. The attorney that they are working with is Robert, I believe it's Richard. Richard Cullen, a very accomplished attorney, has worked at the state level. So our attorneys, Dale Mullen, our attorney will be interfacing directly with Mr. Cullen to coordinate their efforts with Clark County to the extent that it's in the best interest of Frederick County as our legal counsel. And finally, and probably most importantly, our outside counsel will be preparing a list of items, questions, inquiries that they will be transmitting on our behalf to Valley North that basically sets the stage for the level of information we will be demanding through the SEC process at such time that the SEC process begins for Valley North, which will basically include anything and everything that you as the supervisors, citizens of the county would want to know about. Where that line, they think that line may go, what the impacts of it are, what its impact will be on public facilities, on private property, what the cumulative effect of a third power line or a third major project being considered for our county are, all of those things, those will be spelled out very clearly to Valley North. Valley North will not have a direct obligation to respond to that, but it will put them on notice that these are the things that we will certainly be arguing to the SEC are absolutely necessary as we go forward. And we will certainly evaluate that project as a participant in that process. So that is what's going on with Valley North. Those are the three projects. Happy to try to answer any questions or deflect them to staff as appropriate. Other staff. Any questions? I'm staffed too. Yes, Supervisor Rhodes. Yeah, one question on the Dobbs Creek that's going to be coming down following the existing right-of-way, you said. Is there any indication they're going to look for additional right-of-way or are they going to try and stay within the existing? As far as that particular project, Gore, Dobbs, Goose Creek. I got that right? I've been working on it. As far as we know, they intend to follow the existing right-of-way. As it stands now, there's a newer, higher line. There's an older, lower line, as I understand it. They're going to replace the older, lower line with the new 500 kilovolt wires. And it'll travel along with the newer, higher existing 500 kilovolt line. Okay. So it sounds like they're going to stay within the existing right-of-way then, not expanding? That is our belief for that particular project, yes. Okay. Thank you. Any questions? Mr. Fox, thanks for all your work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Okay. We really appreciate the update. Next item up is going to be appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. We have the Winchester Regional Authority Airport four-year term, Carly Walker. Do I hear a motion? Mr. Chairman, I would move that Mr. Walker be reappointed for the Winchester Regional Airport Authority representative. All right. We got a motion? Second. We have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? There we go. Thank you, Carly, for helping us out there in the regional airport. Committee Business Finance Committee. We have a planning director request for 300,000 general fund supplemental appropriation to establish reserve fund for the Conservation Easement Authority. Supervisor Oates, you're the chairman of the Finance Committee. Yes, sir. I'd make a motion we do the transfer as requested. This money's coming from money that we received for the solar farms, so it's not coming out of our budget. These aren't tax dollars. So good luck to the CEA with this money. Thank you. I hope they spend it wisely. All right. I got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. Second. Is there any questions? All right. This will be a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Leary? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Gugelman? Aye. Chair votes aye. All right. CEA, like Supervisor Oates said, let's be wise with the money. So at least you got money, which they have not in the past. So there's... We're getting budget. All right. We have nothing regarding public hearings, non-planning issues. Next item up is 12A, conditional use permit 0426 for DNS investments. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to have to recuse myself on this item. The applicant is a client of mine. We did some survey work for him. Thank you, Supervisor Oates. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. This is a conditional use permit request for a general store without fuel sales. The property is located at 5387 Wardensville Grade in the Back Creek Magisterial District. The property locator map provides the location in red. It is located in the southwest area of the county near Star Tannery. The property is located at the intersection of Wardensville Grade, Back Mountain Road, and Mountain Falls Road. The structure closest to the intersection of Mountain Falls Road and Wardensville Grade is the structure we're talking about. These are the applicant's proposals and are not conditions. The applicant proposes to operate a general store without fuel sales inside an existing 1,860-square-foot structure with the hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily, three full-time employees, an average daily customer base of 65, and a weekly customer base of 500. This is the sketch provided by the applicant showing the new entrance on Mountain Falls Road and the new parking area improvements to the rear. A country general store is permitted in the RA district with an approved conditional use permit. The zoning order is not in the RA district. The ordinance provides for additional regulations. It requires that the use adhere to the B2 general business dimensional standards. It requires the use shall, the retail floor area cannot exceed 3,500 square feet. They may not include accessory fuel sales. The site plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use, and any extension of the use shall require a new conditional use permit. Should the Board find the use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommended the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A site plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County and all improvements completed prior to the establishment of the use. All parking shall have a gravel or hard surface. The hours of operation shall be from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily. Any expansion or change of... Any changes to the use shall require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing September 2nd and recommended approval. This item is presented for public hearing. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this conditional use permit, and staff is available to answer any questions, and the applicant's representative is also available to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you, ma'am. Any questions? On the left? On the right? Okay. All right. This is a public hearing. I open up the public hearing. Did anybody sign up? Madam Clerk? No, sir. Mr. Chairman. Anybody want to come speak for it or against this? There we go. Oh. You can't. I'm from Gainesboro. I just wanted to support this special use permit. I think it would be great to have an agribusiness. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Anybody else? All right. I'm going to go to the public hearing. Board. I was going to go to the back week. So, Supervisor. Mr. Chairman, I've visited the site, and I liaison to the Planning Commission and heard the questioning there. I'd like to recommend the approval conditional use permit number 04-26 for DNS Investments LLC. Okay. I will second that. Mr. Chairman? We have a motion. We have a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Gourmand? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leo? Aye. Vice Chair Walz? Aye. Supervisor Warnedorf? Aye. Chair votes aye. So, it is approved. And would someone tell Supervisor Oates he can come back in now? Anybody? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next item up is 12B, Ordinance Amendment to Frederick County Code Modifications to Remove Data Centers of Permit, Permitted and or Conditional Use. Hello, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this evening I'll be the Robin to county attorneys, Batman to go over this ... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, wrapper-in-wrap. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Whoops. Okay. The other, frankly, you said that I can go over... A little bit. ... this change that you had directed back on October... I'm sorry. On August 12th, and that is to remove from Chapter 165 data centers, as an permitted or a conditional use in certain zoning districts, and to remove other references, all other references, frankly, to data centers. Planning Commission did hold a public hearing on this on September 2nd and recommended approval. So, the current standard as written in Office Title 2.0 and for each of them, has been simplified within half the compliance of the second half of the�iidenation Jiax Act. as written today is that data centers are permitted by right in the TM zoning district and they are also allowed by conditional use permit in the M1, the M2, and the B3 zoning districts. The definition and additional regulations for specific uses are also located at 165.11.05.05 and 165.7.05.01 respectively and the current requirements for data centers were adopted by you all back in 2025. I would note that it was actually earlier this week Prince William caught up with where you were in 2025 by making it so any data center had to come before them, so kudos to you on that. With that I'm gonna go ahead and shift it to the legal background where county attorney is gonna take over. All right, thank you, Mr. Bishop. So in looking at this it is unusual to remove an existing use, not unprecedented but unusual, and we wanted to be very careful and deliberate about the way we went about it. Did consult with outside counsel pretty much from the get-go on this on this process. Had a lot of discussion with him, with county staff, done a lot of research going forward to make sure that we're doing it as close to perfect as we can. So a key fundamental doctrine that underlies the way we've gone about this is that of inclusive zoning and that is the idea that only those uses that are expressly specifically laid out and permitted in the zoning ordinance are allowed. This was described mainly in a case called Gaffney from 1992. It involved a campsite where there were other activities going on at the campsite that were objectionable to the to the neighbors. The campsite said, these are all within the scope, these activities are within the scope of what goes on at a campsite. The Supreme Court said no if it's not specifically laid out in the zoning ordinance, you know, you have camping, you don't have these other activities and therefore the other activities are prohibited. So that went all the way to the Supreme Court of Virginia and there are other cases that support this doctrine. So we thought, we generally have an inclusive zoning ordinance. So if you look at our zoning ordinance, it's very detailed about what's allowed and where it's allowed and it applies from everything to, from, data centers currently to whether you can have backyard chickens. And we've looked at that from those, from the data center perspective, from the backyard chicken perspective and everything in between. That being the case, we are of the opinion, I am the legal opinion, they're removing data centers as a permitted use countywide is the way to do it, is the way to go about it and is sufficient to prohibit that as a use in any district in the county. So simply removing any reference to data centers, any definition of data centers is consistent with the well-established doctrine of inclusive zoning. Could we add an express prohibition, which would be kind of a one-off, not something we see elsewhere in the zoning ordinance with respect to other things. We could consider it, however, our concern there is that it does go against the doctrine of inclusive zoning. It does create an argument that, you know, it is something that's contemplated by the same idea. I'll talk about it in a minute. It is something that's defined that also creates the argument that it is something that's contemplated, even if it's not specifically allowed in any particular district. We do not want to give any fuel to that kind of argument. We want to take a more pure approach to say we believe we adhere to inclusive zoning. We don't want to deviate from it for this one case. It could lead to unintended consequences with respect to other uses that are not specifically prohibited in the zoning ordinance. We fielded a number of concerns from the public that we've tried to address as this process has gone forward. This has been, you know, as it's designed to be, a deliberative process. We do have a provision in the zoning ordinance, almost every zoning ordinance does, to try to anticipate things that are not known, that are not contemplated at the time that the zoning ordinance is passed or amended. And it is a provision that says someone comes forward with something that doesn't exactly fit into one category or another, the zoning administrator can make a determination that it is most like this use that is permitted in the zoning ordinance. And that could somehow lead to a data center being allowed administratively under the zoning ordinance by some argument that we're frankly not really able to anticipate, but that is the argument. So the zoning administrator does make such determinations on a regular basis. He does that based on the facts that are presented to him. He has a statutory duty and authority to do so under the Code of Virginia, acting on your behalf as the Board of Supervisors, but acting with the discretion that the Code of Virginia provides to him and the direction that the Code of Virginia provides to him. The zoning administrator's finding is not a be-all end-all. So if the zoning administrator, for whatever reason, determines that something's presented to him, currently have a him, that it's a use that isn't covered under the zoning ordinance, but does correspond to some other permitted use, if he makes a determination that it's allowed, we can fight that. We can fight our own zoning administrator at the Board of Zoning Appeals. It's unusual that it does happen. So it's not that there's no check or balance on that at all. By the same token, however, the Code does require that the zoning administrator retain this function. You can't sort of forecast ahead of time what the zoning administrator should decide in a particular case. And that gets to the bottom half of the slide. You know, every ordinance, every, you know, any time you amend the zoning ordinance, you recite why you're doing it, why it's in the public interest, why it promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the county and its citizens. We've done that here with all the usual language. We've inserted additional language that was suggested by our outside counsel that is a very specific language that we've inserted into the code. So, you know, we've done that here with all the usual language. We've inserted additional language that was suggested by our outside council that is a very specific, legislative finding. Those are those whereases. This is a legislative finding that we've proposed that you adopt as part of this text amendment that says it is your intention to remove data centers as a permitted use in all zoning districts and all, you know, all zoning districts in the county. And we have included that language. The question then becomes what is the import of that? What's the, what is, what does that do? Well, it is our opinion, our position, that that resolves any ambiguity on behalf of the zoning administrator, on behalf of any other person that wants to know what we mean by the saying that there are no data centers contemplated or permitted under our ordinance as proposed in this text amendment that that was the intent and that is the intent of the Board of Supervisors. Now the question is, again, when does that come into play? It comes into play if you do have a situation of ambiguity, if we end up in court from something from the BZA. some other court action and then the question becomes and again we we are having a hard time anticipating how that would come before you because we know you know we we know what data centers are they're they're largely uh defined under state code we've you know we've been dealing with the data center issue for almost a year now in terms of what they do how they work what they require we don't foresee that someone could sneak one in in this way or that the zoning administrator not having had enough coffee on a particular day could let one by we do have in we do have ways of dealing with that however to the extent that you could put as an express prohibition on on the other side of the whereas as whereas clauses to say that we or the board are directing the zoning administrator should that happen not to do it in my opinion that would be an unlawful direction because the the state code gives the zoning administrator that job that duty and you basically can't you can't pre-discipline side those issues i would not want to be in court arguing against someone else saying the zoning administrator didn't make this this determination as is required by law the zoning direct administrator was directed to by an ordinance which is not what is contemplated by the code of virginia similarly we've just considered you know we do have a a definition in the zoning ordinance currently of what a data center is we need that because we currently allow them in certain districts we propose to remove that that definition just to underscore that it is the intent of the board is the intent of the of the staff in in carrying out the zoning ordinance under the doctrine of inclusive zoning that there is no contemplation of that use in the county including a definition both suggests that it is a contemplated use and also suggests that something that is in the nature of a data center but doesn't rise to the level of that definition could be argued to not be a data center we want to head that off as well that is why we are recommending that we do not include a definition. Front Royal when they were considering allowing data centers they had a multi-page incredibly detailed you'd almost need an engineering degree to understand even how to read it definition of data centers they're going the way we're going and they have basically taken that definition out as well so that's been a some of the ebb and flow of this so we've been with the women staying on top of so we do not recommend that you maintain a definition for use that you intend to remove from the county zoning ordinance. Finally there's some concern that this is merely a temporary pause you know what a moratorium a soft moratorium this is a text amendment to the county zoning ordinance that's being proposed to you this is the process that this has gone through I've laid it all out here step by step by step and the reason I've done that is that any change further change further amendment in any reintroducing of the use any related use would go through the same process so it's been said this this has been a long process this has been a slow walked process that's what the code requires so each of these steps is required in the Code of Virginia before we get to tonight before we get to a public hearing and vote by the Board of Supervisors to remove this use you would have to go through the same exact steps step by step to restore the use or something like the use to the zoning ordinance. So to the extent every zoning text amendment could be permanent could be temporary they all go through this process this is not just simply a you know we're not going to do it now maybe we'll do it next month maybe we'll do it the month after as you said this has been a multi-meeting process doing something different would also be a multi-meeting process. So that's that is the legal background and some discussion on the proposed zoning text amendment itself this is a good point to see if anyone has any questions. Any questions for Mr. Fuggs? I'm sorry thank you. Thank you Mr. Chairman. So going along with the proposed text amendment that would remove data centers from the zoning ordinance as you know you have two applications that have been filed on behalf of applicants in the county that have gone through the process of being reviewed to and through the Planning Commission with a recommendation from the Planning Commission. You have the discretion you have the authority under the Code of Virginia to grant what we call a legislative gratuity a recognition that there's possibly some balancing of equities between your ability your your duty to maintain the zoning ordinance in the way that you believe it is in the best interest of the county. Zoning you know it's a little bit like being being pregnant or not pregnant. We have what we have now is what we have what we have after tonight if you propose these amendments. So the new zoning ordinance as you know might be a moving draft is something new there's no in between status so to account for that you have the authority you have the ability to make a limited scope modification to your amendment of the zoning ordinance limited and limited in purpose limited in time and limited by whatever you say that it is so it's it's called a grandfathering ordinance or grandfathering resolution we've seen both varieties of them carried out in the Commonwealth. We prepared a resolution for your consideration just that gives you that lays out why you would do it, which would be a recognition that you have some degree of competing equities in terms of doing what's best for the county and recognizing that you have a zoning ordinance now that contemplates this use that has been followed or that has been the basis of applications. Those that wish to come before you petition you for your decision on them. You decide who's covered by it and how long it remains in effect for only limited by the same requirements that apply to all land use actions you take. And that is that it is reasonable under the circumstances. To that end, you have before you a resolution that has the building blocks of that step. We have we have contemplated that it would include the two applications that I've mentioned. That have gone through the planning commission process process, excuse me, and no others. So none that are just filed, none that would be filed in the future. None that and that's really all that we have. We don't have any that are in any other stage of the process. So it would only include those two applications that have been heard by the planning commission that are ripe for your action at the board of supervisors level. And we we have contemplated that this would occur by your business meeting in December. Again, considering that to be a reasonable amount of time that recognizes the balancing of the equities. It is completely completely within your discretion. What what that period of time is only to the extent that were you to go. Generally, a grandfathering resolution will be six months to a year. If you go longer than a year, the question becomes, you know, if this if this amendment is so necessary, why would you give someone so much additional time to operate under the current zoning ordinance? I mean, that's the that's the sort of the outset. I'd edge of what I would tell you is reasonable. But subject to that, you really can. You know, you have to decide that you can decide what you think is appropriate. So your options here under the grandfathering resolution in particular are to do it as proposed to make some modification to it or to simply decline to do it. It is, as I said, within your discretion. It is a legislative gratuity that is intended for you to have the opportunity to consider the equities involved. I think that's all we have to say. I think that's all we have to say on that. Correct. Any questions about the grandfathering resolution or anything I've said before I turn it back over to Mr. Bishop? Supervisor Oates. Yes, Mr. Fox. The public, I guess the big concern has been the mega data centers. You know, these buildings that are four or five acres. If we reduce the square footage to say 5,000 square feet, and would a grandfathering resolution still be necessary? If the ordinance stayed in but no building could be bigger than 5,000 square feet? It would still be necessary for these applications. I believe these applications are both much greater in scale than that. Right, they have to modify their applications but their use wouldn't be prohibited. Okay. Whatever parameters you put on, as I said, it's a limited purpose, a limited period of time. Okay. You decide what the limited purpose is. And you decide what the period of time is. Thank you. Any questions to my left? Thank you, Mr. Fox. Mr. Bishop? Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we move into the summary and the action, I'd like to just make a couple points that are fairly specific to the service the planning department provides to you on a daily basis and how this affects. The first related to the issue of whether something could be just determined in. Now, of course, that's potentially a scenario as it is in any locality with any use anywhere in the state and, frankly, the country at this point. However, within our department, any zoning determination that goes out not only goes out from the zoning administrator but does go across the director's desk as well. It's not just out in a vacuum. It's not just a bad cup of coffee or whatever is not going to do it. So I want to make clear on that point. The other couple of local examples related to the potential ease of just putting something in that I think are important points. The first has to do with you all may recall, I believe it's called Steel Dog, some sort of a truck maintenance facility down in Middletown. It was part of a cooperative boundary line or not boundary line, a municipal adjustment with the town of Middletown. And it was a very, very important adjustment. They had a lot of other things that they didn't know about Middletown. Chaffers was part of that as well. Well, Middletown wanted that use. They wanted that business. They were open about that fact. It was not allowed under their zoning ordinance. They didn't simply find a category to fit it in. They modified their zoning ordinance to allow it through this same public process by which you're considering this ordinance this evening. It's not done in a vacuum. It's not done behind closed doors. The other relative specific to Frederick County example I would give you is one where we're just looking at, let's say, two cars. So that's not a complete program. one that's frankly on its way to you, and that is battery storage. Once again, outside of public utilities, battery storage is not allowed in your ordinance for private use for a utility scale. So we received a request from someone who would like to do that somewhere in the county. They would have to do a rezoning, et cetera, but first they have to find a zoning district that fits it. There isn't one. They submitted a request to potentially change the ordinance. We've been working on that. That's making its way towards you. However, what they are not doing is saying, oh no, it fits here. The zoning administrator is not saying, oh no, it fits here. We're going through, once again, a public process by which we bring it before you to consider whether you should choose to put it somewhere or to not put it somewhere. So that's the exact type of scenario. We're talking about. And finally, specific to the item of prohibiting just one item. My concern, once again, as someone who's over the zoning administrator, who, by the way, has been serving you for 25 years, we don't just have a non-professional in that job. Specific to that role, when that comes in, if now you have in your ordinance just one prohibited item, I promise you that you have way more than one non-defined non-prohibited item. And that's a very, very important item. I'm sure it's not the only thing that's going to happen. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of people out there who are going to be wondering, well, what's the point of prohibiting just one non-included item that's a potential use somewhere in the world and even more that we haven't thought of? If you prohibit just one item, what am I supposed to do with the next one that says, this isn't prohibited in your ordinance? Only data centers are prohibited in your ordinance. Speaks directly to what Mr. Fox is trying to share with you about the nature of an inclusionary zoning. So that's my concern in terms of just a boots-on-the-ground day-to-day. I'm not a fan of the data center. I'm not a fan of the data center. I'm not a fan of the data center. I'm not a fan of the data center. So going forward, you want a free zoning transit data sent Islam according to based on número uno unuso en s seek a decision with that. Planning Commission did hold a public hearing on this on September 2nd. They did recommend approval. This item is a public hearing tonight and we're seeking a decision by the board on this proposed zoning amendment following that. Also under this same item heading is when you would consider the potential grandfathering resolution as relates to the data center at the ordinance. Do we have any other new inputs for counselor's To us. So we'll let Sarah kick up. With that, I can take any questions you may have. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Yes, Mr. Chair, I have a couple of questions. Mr. President Lear. Mr. Bishop, the Virginia Technology Park proposal came to the Planning Commission in June of this year. Yes, I believe that's the right date. My experience being the board liaison on the Planning Commission is that typically when an action comes to the Planning Commission, there's usually a month or two later that it comes to the board. Are you aware of why that one that went to the Planning Commission in June has not come to the board yet? So in terms of how that works on a day-to-day basis, typically when it's at the Planning Commission at their first meeting of the month, of course, the board's been there. If it comes to the planning commission's first meeting next week and then the Planning Commission and again, it would automatically be on that board's second meeting of the month. What happens if between the time when that Planning Commission meeting happens and when we would be advertising for a board, the board in the case of a public hearing, the applicant says, no, we're not ready. We're still working on these changes that the Planning Commission recommended. We want more time. It's frankly a cooperative process. I'm sure we'll pull you off the agenda. Now, if they haven't done it in time for the agenda to be advertised, they've got to show up and ask you to come off the agenda. Okay, that's traditionally how it's been done. It's frankly never been a problem before. It's a little bit of a problem now. Under state code, you have a year to act from the time they've filed. However, that doesn't mean they have a year to do whatever they want. It's the board. It's up to the board. But traditionally, the board's been respectful of applicants and trying to work with them. And given them that extra time when they're improving. So we haven't had this situation like we've had now. We've checked in with them a number of times. They're like, well, we're still working on it. I am aware of a public meeting that was held toward the end of August. I'm aware through conversations with their council because I've reached out a number of times. Hey, guys, are we getting any closer with a date? And not really gotten an answer the last time I was reminded of the state code provision that the board has a year. So that's what we've been in. If the board wishes us to look at that policy and do something a little harder and more definitive, we're very happy to do it. That's not a problem. But that is the explanation for why you haven't seen it yet. So would it be a fair statement to say that it's the applicant's prerogative to delay that and not necessarily come to the board of supervisors in the next month? As long as it's not been advertised yet. Okay. Thank you. And is there a similar situation? Is there a similar situation with the Winchester Gateway? It's the same deal. They asked us the day after the planning commission. They said they don't want to go to the board yet. So we pulled it off. So in both cases, the Virginia Technology Park and the Winchester Gateway, it was the applicant prerogative to delay the? That's correct. Was there any direction that you received from the board to delay that until a time certain? No, sir. That was only at the request of the applicant. Now, when I got word that they wanted to delay that they had put in that request, I notified decision makers so they would know what was going on, but I didn't seek permission or any of that sort of thing. Thank you. I do have one other question, and maybe this is an Attorney Fox question. Mr. Fox, on the ordinance amendment that we're going to start looking at right now, are there any others in the state of Virginia that have? I'm not aware of any that have gone through. Has any county passed this so far, a similar ordinance? Not that I'm aware of, sir. Okay. And so there are 95 counties and 38 independent cities in the state of Virginia. So there are 133 county equivalents in the state of Virginia, and none have passed a similar ordinance. Is that correct? I'm not aware of any that have done what we've done to create guardrails and requirements for data centers and then have removed the use. There are? I believe there are. There are several counties that have, that do not include, that either include data centers by right or that's been determined that they're allowed by right based on how their zoning ordinance is interpreted. So, and there's some that have created the use and, as Mr. Bishop said, are now throttling back on it or attempting to, or passing moratoria or whatever, however you want to describe it. But I'm not aware of any that have, you know, gone to a thorough regulation of it and are now moving to remove it as a use. We would be the first. I just wanted to state, Mr. Fox, that I've read your legal memorandum dated August 31st numerous times. I'm obviously not a lawyer, but I found that to be quite helpful. You cite a lot of court cases for your precedences that you're following. I guess the point in asking if we were the first is that what we cannot do, and there's no fault of our own, but what we cannot do since we're the first one to have an ordinance is we cannot look at case law and see how that was interpreted by the court system in previous situations since we're the first one. That's my understanding, sir, yes. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anybody? Anybody else? Gentlemen, thank you both. Really appreciate it. All the work you put in. You put a lot of time into staff hours. Okay, folks. This is the public. I'm going to open up the public hearing. I'm going to open up the public hearing. Madam Clerk, well, before we start, I mean, folks, we want to get through this. We want to be respectful of everyone that's walking up, talking. Please, I'm asking you, don't clap at everything. Please don't. And please, if you're speaking, you're speaking to us. You do not look back at the crowd. You look at us. Please. Okay? But we need Madam Clerk. Madam Clerk needs to be able to call out the names. She's trying to be really efficient with it. So hold off on the clapping. I really appreciate that, and I appreciate being respectful to everyone that speaks. They may not agree with your philosophy or your thoughts, but please be respectful. Thank you. I will call the first speaker and then who is to be queued up next, and please bear with me on some of the spellings. Is this Alita from Winchester? Followed by Elizabeth Aylor. Hello, everyone. So I do agree with the removal of... Wait, wait, wait. Name and magisterial district, just for the record. You just say. So I'm Alita. I'm from Winchester. Thank you. And I do agree with the removal entirely of data centers in Frederick County. I simply do not agree with the enablement of mass surveillance as it poses a major threat to our privacy. I don't see data centers being in the public interest or safety when the Epstein-Wilson's files were redacted right here in Winchester at 200 Constitution Drive. As citizens, our privacy is our protection. We should not be debating the right of privacy for citizens, but the way our executive, legislative, and judicial systems protect the privacy of predators. ICE uses AI recognition to target migrants. It's proven law enforcement and company employees have used the surveillance systems to monitor, monitor, and track children in public spaces, plus significant others. All this has done more harm than help. Locate a missing child or a trafficking survivor. Not to mention, data centers repeatedly displaced people due to property values plummeting, contaminated waters, and serious health declines directly because of the data centers. Displaced people. Migrants or citizens feed into that predatory system of trafficking, which again, the data centers, the mass surveillance, has helped none of which. Thank you. Elizabeth Ehler, followed by Caleb Allrand. Hey, y'all. Elizabeth Ehler, Back Creek. First of all, I want to say thank you for considering trying to mitigate this very weird problem in these unprecedented times. I'm really grateful. Secondly, when I look out at the removal of the language, it just makes me think that they're going to come back and say, well, they're not data centers anymore. They're monkey centers. Okay? They're not even just monkey centers. We're just here at the circus every day, all day. Removing it just makes a loophole so that people can come up and redefine it in a different way. I agree with John. It puts us more at risk. That the governor has put out new advisers. Advice and new restrictions and new infrastructure. I think that we should take more risk and put a moratorium in place. I know that you've been concerned that it could potentially harm us with litigation, but we can always fight back. We've got our wonderful attorney here that we can also do counter litigation. I think we have more support than we ever have to see that this is a nationwide problem, that we need to be protecting ourselves. You all know my position on that. And there's been a lot of community members, like the Mount Patriots, that have put down the restrictions that we could look at. How can we do that? How do we do impact analysis or require process orientation or make them do full scale, like Supervisor Oates said, maybe it's a restriction on size. How can we rethink this and make ourselves airtight protected? Because they'll just come back in a different way, in a different form, and that's how they'll do us over and over again. You're going to hear a lot of people talk on a lot of things, and we've spoken about every variable possible with data centers, but I want to leave you with this information. This August, I just felt so blessed to watch the data centers. I watched the monarchs on my property, floating through Rose Hill, driving down the road down middle, and you just see these butterflies everywhere, floating around, living their life. You know, we already have infrastructure in this country. You know, we talk about trying to fight off China and militarize, but the only reason that this country is as powerful as it is is because we could do it at home. We had sovereignty. We had the resources that we have continually depleted. All of this growth is going to destroy. It's going to disrupt our ecosystems. It's going to disrupt our weather patterns, our air, our water cycles. We're not thinking big enough. And the most sensitive, vulnerable beings like our monarchs, do they have a fight and chance in this world? The lightning bugs? Who protects them? Do we? Man's law has a lot of hubris and rules and all the things, but there's a larger law, divine law. And we all have to have a come to Jesus. Right now or whatever your flavor is and understand your soulful intent here on this earth, because your heart will be measured and weighed as will mine and everyone else. We don't know what our intentions are as people, but the divine knows what we do, what we say and where we go in life. We're all with you. Be with us. Our lives are in your hands. The monarchs are in their hands. And if we don't do it, who will? Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Caleb Aran followed by Eliza Lathrop. Hello, sir. Hi, my name is Caleb Arand, and I reside in Frederick County. Thank you. This will be my second year here in Frederick County, actually, and I could not have predicted that Winchester zoning would be at the forefront of all my conversations. But this data center conversation has garnered the attention of a lot of your constituents. City folk, country folk, old, young, more importantly, the previously inactive like myself. Either way this vote goes tonight, your community is engaged and here listening. I remember it said before the public pivot against this thing that it's taking too much time away from other issues. We all have circumstances that make keeping up with this type of build-out a super time suck, and I think that's what we're going to have to do. The difference is that for you it's just litigation and it's business and it's build, build, build. But for us, if we did not come out here and make a noise about this, the noise pollution would be what we have to add to our everyday inconvenience list, as well as just accepting bill increases. Instead, we spend our time outside of work shouting, pleading, creating signs, door knocking, and organizing rallies to stop this expansion for free. That has taught me more about this community than any other community that I've moved into or been a part of. That has taught me that there's more to a community than red and blue, democrat, republican. It's that the community is made of working people. Outside of work. Volunteering their time, and standing against billionaire interests. For all of the destruction and controversy this conversation has brought, it is seen as worth it for profit. But to many of us here who volunteer, on this subject and many others, that is not the case. After working my 12-hour shifts as a construction worker, I volunteer with my community, with the Party for Socialism and Liberation. I'm a painter, I'm an art advocate involved in multiple advocate groups, and I'm against this data center, and I'm against anything where profit is put as the main priority. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Eliza Lathrop, followed by Max Wigand. Hello, I'm Eliza Lathrop. I live in Frederick County. I'm here tonight to say that I've spoken multiple times at different meetings, but it's usually been in my own words about my opposition to these data centers and power lines. But tonight, I'd like to share with you all a few words from the author Robin Wall Kimmerer, who is a Native American scientist and writer. Her book, Braiding Sweetgrass. In her language, Putwatomi, they speak of land as an enmigoak, or that which has been given to us. In English, we speak of the land as natural resources or ecosystem services. The earth gives away for free the power of wind and sun and water, but in return, we break open the earth and we break open the air. to take fossil fuels. Had we taken only that which was given to us, had we reciprocated the gifts, we would not have to fear our own atmosphere today. The very earth that sustains us is being destroyed to fuel injustice. An economy that grants personhood to corporations but denies it to the more than human beings is a Wendigo economy. Gratitude for all the earth has given us lends us courage to take and face the Wendigo that stalks us, to refuse to participate in an economy that destroys the beloved earth to line the pockets of the greedy. It demands an economy that aligns with life not stacked against it. I fear that a world made of gifts cannot coexist with a world that is not. Made of commodity. I fear that I have no power to protect what I love against the Wendigo. I share these passages again from this book that I've read about two, almost three times this year because of how it resonates so deeply to me, to nature, and to the struggler of our community currently with these data centers and power grids. The author describes corporate greed as the Wendigo and if you don't know what a Wendigo is, it's this supernatural creature with an insatiable hunger, one that devours everything to the point of consuming everything around it. And the book beautifully illustrates how our human connection to the planet is of the utmost importance. Normally I would say something about how I moved here and get away from industrial takeover, but tonight I'm here to remind you that the earth is not ours to sell. The land we live on is not infinite or expendable resources. It is finite and it is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. It is not ours to sell. And it is our livelihoods. And I remind you all that you be held responsible for the outcome of these decisions, good or bad. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Max Wiggin, followed by Vicki Michaels. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Max Wiggard. I represent Middletown Data Center, which operates a small data center facility in the Back Creek District south of Middletown between Route 11 and I-81. I'm here tonight to speak with you on behalf of my client that is in a position of trying to determine what the future of its facility and its business operations in the county are on account of this anticipated change in the zoning ordinance. Obviously, we understand that circumstances that you as an elected body find yourselves in trying to do what you think is right for the county. So I'm excited to have you on the room tonight. Thank you. I'm excited to have you on the room tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. right for the county and we respect and appreciate that. My client was however caught somewhat off guard by the proposed change in the ordinance and finds itself in a position where it is a permitted non-conforming use. It's a use that quite frankly as we've talked to members of the community many of them don't know is even there. Didn't know that there was there's already a data center operating in in Frederick County. That's because it's a relatively small data center relative to the applications that have been filed and have been been reviewed by the Planning Commission and are the subject of the discussions about the grandfathering resolution that has been presented to you this evening. Specifically last year that the capacity of Middletown data center was increased to 10 whole megawatts as opposed to the the hyperscale data centers that are hundreds and hundreds of megawatts as many as you know 900 or more megawatts in some cases. A variance was granted to authorizing the installation of additional backup generator which got the facility up to a full 10 megawatts. The my client was in the process of examining options for modernizing and expanding its facility and looking at merging lot lines and consolidating lots with a neighboring property located at 8207 Valley Pike which was acquired by a by an affiliate of my client back in May. In the process of of evaluating those options they learned of this proposed text amendment and therefore rushed to file a conditional use permit application which was submitted just last week within the last week and therefore I'm here tonight to ask you to exercise your discretion to to provide my client opportunity to have some additional discussions and dialogue with you. About what would be the appropriate scope and scale of modernization expansion of their existing data center use onto the neighboring proper parcel by including them within the scope of the grandfathering provision that you ultimately adopt if any. Regardless we appreciate your time we appreciate your efforts we love being a member of this business community in Frederick County and look forward to continuing to do so for years to come. Thank you. Thanks sir. Vicki Michaels followed by David Dixon. Mr. Chairman, Board of Supervisors, my name is Vicki Michaels and I live in the Stonewall District. This is a big night for everyone and since Gateway has pulled its application not as much of a hot seat for you. But I would like to simply say that I heard someone say sooner than later for these data centers to have to come up before us. And under this limited in time for the grandfather resolution I would really like to encourage you to realize that we are in a time of need. They're going to have to come out sooner than later. They've had multiple opportunities. They've pulled their applications. It's time to get this over with. I once had a philosophy instructor tell me that I needed to learn to see gray. Now it's my favorite color. But you have to make a black and white decision. Who wins? On one hand you have the data centers and can we settle this once and for all so I don't have to keep guessing is it data or data? . On the other side you have the community. I'm going to be honest. I'm not going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be honest. So on this side you have a developer and their prize is money. People selling the land and their gain is financial. The electric company making a profit of not only off the data centers but raising our prices. The temporary construction worker and then the elusive end user. On this hand you have those affected by this. The community. Our water. Our farms. Our food supply. The air we breathe. Our quality of life affected by sound. The residents across the streets. The impact on livestock. You get to decide if the good of the many outweigh the benefits of the few. 35,000 gallons or 120,000 gallons of water to cool servers or to drink, grow crops. Do we want to look over this beautiful valley and see fields and farms, history before our very eyes, our children's futures or loud air polluting generators on top of massive buildings? This valley has always been worth fighting for. It is no exaggeration to say that you will be deciding the future of Frederick County, the very lives of our children. Look closely in the mirror and choose wisely. Vote a resolution that protects our county from data centers until such a time as they can be built in a manner that benefits the community. No noise pollution, no negative environmental impacts without an electric burden and paying their fair share of taxes. Remove that 1.2 percent of the cost of electricity. That's it. Remove that 1.25 rate while you're changing this. Thank you for serving our community. Thank you to Mr. Fox, Mr. Bishop, the staff of the Planning Commission. Every one of you, I truly appreciate you and we are counting on you. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. David Dixon followed by Rodrigo. Irahita Leon. David Dixon, Stonewall District. First, I have to start with an emergency situation we have in Clearbrook that ties into the data center topic. Every resident around Clearbrook Park has lost their well water. The quarry told them that all that the reasoning is that the drought and that we are in the red with red status with the water level and also the blasting for the pending application of car moose moving north in Clearbrook. This is unacceptable in every way, including not meeting up to our comprehensive plan. When our senior citizens and residents of Frederick County has lost their water to a business, we have a dire emergency. Then that follows to our data centers, like the application that's still in by Flying J, Virginia Technology Park. As to the data centers, this message is clear and simple. Data centers have no place in Frederick County, period. Our beautiful county is known for our rich agriculture, sprawling water, and the great water quality that we provide. We are not in the water. We are in the land. We are in the land. We are in the land. We are in the land. We are in the land. We are in the land. This is our land, our sprawling land, tourism, and the beloved apple blossom festival, just to name a few things. You cannot and will not put a price tag against our resolve that our precious resources, specifically our water, electricity, and land, belong solely to the county and the residents here. Thanks, sir. Rodrigo Hidalgo Leon followed by Mark Stephens. . Rodrigo, I am a resident of Winchester City. Today, the board will vote to remove data centers from approved use in Frederick County and make it impossible for them to impede on our lives here within our part of the valley. This is a victory, but this is not the end of our fight. We were threatened under the boots of expanding capital and were made terrified about our environment, homes, and neighbors. But why were we in that position to begin with? Why were we forced into a struggle for our own land and our own quality of life and our own peace? Isn't that the job of our elected representatives? Why was the board inactive until they felt real pressure from members of the community who rose to the occasion, organized, and put forward their own candidates who weren't afraid to say no to data centers with their full chests from the beginning? This system, this status quo, was not built with the average working person in mind. This system, this status quo, was not built with the average working person in mind. This system, this status quo, was not built with the average working person in mind. From its beginning, this system sought to make the rich richer and the poor poorer, and this data center struggle is just a new front of a constant and existing struggle—a struggle waged by labor organizers and coal miners in Blair Mountain, by industrial workers seeking to secure better wages and a weekend, by the Black Panther Party and their struggle against racist police who sought to brutalize Black working class communities. We've been fighting the same struggle, so let's put a name to it. We are the Black Panther Party. We are the Black Panther Party. We, united across all political lines in a moment of radical class consciousness, were in a struggle against capitalism and its reckless abandon for our well-being. Those data centers and power lines that were all proposed to make corporations richer while we paid for the stress power grid and suffered the pollution, this was a policy that was pushed onto us from the top levels of the federal government all the way to the local. And we're told it's to compete against China's rise in data center infrastructure to win this AI race against China and that we're competing with them to see which superpower comes out on top. Why don't we compete with China in eradicating homelessness, in affordable grocery prices? We have people in Frederick County and here in Winchester going hungry and without homes. Homelessness is seen as a failure of the system in China, but here we treat it as a moral and individualized system. We don't want to see China's rise in data center infrastructure. We don't want to see China's rise in data center infrastructure. We don't want to see China's individual failure. Yet this expansion of data centers gets all the attention from our federal government because it lines the pockets of those in power. We took all the time out of our busy schedules to organize a real opposition to corporate interests, but we can't afford to lose interest and check out. We have to continue the struggle past the polls and past the data centers because if the billionaire class is so willing to tear our properties without a consent, then what else are they willing to do? And what else are they able to get a way out of? We need to start building an alternative, and we can only do that united as one working class. I'm only one member of that working class. Thanks, sir. Mark Steffler, followed by Joe. Is it Profit? Good evening, gentlemen. Mark Steffler. I'm one of Mr. Wells' constituents in Peckman. Sorry, I have to learn how to pronounce it better. Look, I have done a lot of work here. I read the complete zoning ordinance. I've done a lot of work here. I've done a lot of work here. I've done a lot of work here. I'm not an expert in it, but I've read it. I've read the new draft. I've read the revised draft that was prepared with the new whereas clause today, and I appreciate the deliberate prohibition in there. I've read Mr. Fox's mind-blowing five-page memo and tried to follow that, and I can, not being a lawyer, I understand the linkage is involved there. And I just want to say, I do trust John Bishop and his team and Wyatt and Mr. Fox. I've had e-mails, conversations with them, and they've answered my questions. And while I'm completely, totally, and utterly against data centers in this county for a lot of reasons, which I don't have three minutes to go into, here's what my problem is. I see there's a gap in this application for something that's not listed, which is what we're doing, and then the zoning administrator, who is a great guy, been around a long time. My problem is, what if Mr. Bishop isn't there? And what if this gentleman retires? And what if Wyatt gets another job? This process with the zoning administrator deciding what it is that it's most closely identified with is not a public process. It's done in private. The only notification is given to the applicant to say, we do or don't find your thing, like a warehouse, let's say a data center. It's warehousing computers. It's a warehouse. So we do or don't find it. There is no public notice. The only way to get that information is to FOIA it. And then we have 30 days. And then we have 30 days to go to a zoning appeal. That is not fair to the public. And we need more transparency in that particular process. And I think if we had that, I'd be willing 100% to go along with this. I'd send e-comments into, well, couldn't submit them directly, but I think Mr. Bishop got them to you. And they spent half their time talking about why my comment isn't going to work. And I can accept that. I'm not a lawyer. But there is no public process. And I think if we were to have a public notice, we would have to give that public notice. So we have to think about like what's the point of this one this exception? It's a gap. And I don't think it's a gap that we need as a county to have. I think that it should be wider than just data centers. We shouldn't have a gap like that, where some one person, the zoning administrator, can say it's this. And we the public don't know. So I'm hoping that either you can either include my sentence, or if that's not the right thing to do, okay? But we need to have at least public notification so we can come here and do what we're doing tonight. And I think if we were to have a public notice, we would have to and make our wishes known. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Joe Proft, followed by Cleo Strabakis. Hello, I'm Joe Pratt, and I live in the Gainsborough District. I'm going to talk about the dangers of AI, which is what these data centers house, specifically AI that is created by people who don't understand it, using their words, purely as a race towards profit at the expense of possibly all human life, also their words. In May, four months ago, OpenAI was running a test with over 1,000 AI agents that broke out of their containment. They found their way to the Internet, to a website in Germany, and hacked it, turned it into a message board where they could all hang out. They were supposed to be governed by rules, but instead they traded secrets and tricks on how to get around those rules. They created so much subterfuge that the volunteer moderator started to delete their pages. They made backups under fake names. Then they broke into another company's server, which is a felony if a human did it. These AI agents will do a day's work in a minute, and there were over 1,000 of them on the website for over two months before anyone noticed. OpenAI knew for weeks, kept it quiet, and they're facing no criminal liability. So they're fast and wrong. This spring, in the middle of our disastrous war on Iran that no one voted for, an AI helped write an intelligence report that said that there was a Chinese ship carrying parts for nuclear weapons. Our military got troops ready to board, planes in the air, over the ship, and at the last moment, a senior official asked some questions, thankfully. The AI was wrong, probably hallucination, and it could have started a hot war with Chinese military. China, not advisable, seeing how well the war with Iran is going. Speaking of which, diesel is at a record high, partly due to emission-driven climate change and partly due to high fuel costs. American farmers spent over $1.4 billion on diesel. Heating oil is up 15% to 25%, and winter isn't even here yet. Do we all know what data centers run on for backup generators? I'll give you a hint. It's the same stuff that run the tractors and heat our homes. We are told that these data centers, we need these data centers to beat China. Well, Virginia has more data centers than all of China. The U.S. has more data centers than the next 10 countries combined. When it comes down to processing power, we've got them beat. I don't know what else to tell you, except I feel very lucky to live in this valley with my amazing husband, our wonderful housemates, and three very good dogs. I'm a volunteer in my community here in Winchester, and at the Eastern Panhandle Liberation Center in Martinsburg. I'm a barista by trade and a hobby gardener. I'm also an organizer with the Party for Socialism and Liberation, and I oppose data centers here and everywhere. Thank you, ma'am. Cleo Strabakis, followed by Alexander Ritter. Good evening, supervisors. My name is Cleo Strabakis. I live in the city of Winchester, but we're neighbors, so that's why I'm here. And specifically, I'm here to share an anecdote about an environmental and industrial disaster just a few miles from here in Winchester City on, sorry, on Paper Mill Road. There are 44.8 acres that must be left completely undisturbed in perpetuity. From 1947 to 2013, there was a plant owned by Wagner Electric, then Abex, then Federal Mogul. They used asbestos and lead in their process until 1988. They were able to get the plant to try chloroethylene leaching into the groundwater. When it was all said and done, the EPA and the Department of Environmental Quality determined that the entire area must be capped and fenced, no digging, no wells, no building, forever. The 66 years of profit from that industrial use went to shareholders. But the damage was done, and the people of Winchester pay the price. In a locality where land is one of our most limited resources, those 44 acres of land are not enough to cover the land. 44.8 acres are permanently sterilized. It's not a matter of luck. That's how extractive business deals work. The money leaves and the damage stays. So I urge you to learn from your neighbor. The people and governments of the 1940s may claim to not have known better, but today we cannot continue to use that excuse and wreak irrevocable havoc on our land and our communities. Winchester City is still paying the price. A lot of people are still paying the price. We are still paying the price. When you realize that there is a way to save the land and the community, we have to take the risk. The problem is that we are still in the middle of this bad deal, of an industry that became obsolete. The parallels between this and the burgeoning data center industry boom, in my mind, is concrete. While the environmental consequences are still being researched and understood as the data centers have been around, as we understand them, the hyperscale ones have been around for about a decade, I urge you all, as a neighbor whose government took a chance on an industry, to not be so dependent on the fact that the people of Winchester are still struggling to save the land that they are in. So we have to think about what we can do, how we can do, neighbor whose government took a chance on an industry to not be like the city of Winchester. Learn from our mistakes. Protect your land, your water, your people. Make them the priority. Say no to data centers now and in perpetuity. Make a meaningful prohibition. And it seems like folks working for the county have gone to great lengths to make sure that's going to happen. So right now the question is about trading something temporary for something that is meant to perpetually nurture all life in Frederick County. So I urge you all to consider the worst case scenario in an industry like this, like what happened at the federal mogul site in the city. And I expect you all to vote yes on this ordinance listed in 12.B. But I also urge you all to go further and reject the grandfather clause in the resolution. Please protect your people. Thank you. Alexander Ritter followed by Blaine Dunn. My name is Alexander Ritter. I reside in the Pekin district. Tonight you will be voting on a ban. Contrary to some statements that we are opposed to this ban, or I'm opposed to it, we fully support your intent to ban them and we believe that you fully intend to. As Mr. Jules stated before, no way, no how. And I believe him. Our objection is simply that this may not be enough to accomplish that. To be clear, we aren't splitting hairs on minor technicalities. It's just how law works. We independently obtained legal counsel on this matter specifically because of that we felt that we needed outside counsel. It's not that we felt the county attorney was wrong, just that we needed more than one opinion. First, I want to speak on the topic of inclusive zoning. In the Gaffney case he quotes, he neglected to mention how Madison County's ordinance was structured. Quoting from their ordinance, if in any zone established under this ordinance a use is not specifically permitted, it is prohibited. Madison County's use is not provided for provision opens by declaring the unlisted use prohibited. Ours does not say that. It says an unlisted use goes to the administrator. Yes, the use matrix itself is inclusive. That is, uses that are listed are either prohibited or permitted. But unlisted uses themselves are either inherently prohibited or unlisted. That's the question. So, the use matrix itself is either permitted or prohibited. And go to the zoning administrator for determination. And unlike other ordinances that have such a section, ours provides no specifics on how the zoning administrator will make that determination. Or what constitutes most similar. It may be unlikely that it will happen. My argument was never about likelihood but about what happens after the effect. Let's talk about what happens if the zoning administrator has had too much coffee. In boards of supervisors of Richmond County versus Rose, we have a lot of questions about that. The Supreme Court of Virginia held that when a zoning administrator acting within the scope of his employment makes a decision or determination within the meaning of code section 15.2-2311C, that determination binds the board of supervisors. Not informs, binds. Additionally, in Lilley versus Carolyn County, the court gave such determinations their expiration date. If not appealed by an agreed person, within 30 days the determination becomes valid. That's the reason why we have this. If not appealed by an agreed person, within 30 days the determination becomes a thing decided, final and beyond challenge. Even if it seems unlikely that it would happen, why leave that door open? The problem we have here then is the difference between intent and legal effect. The board has said in writing that it intends to prohibit data centers. You've stated it clearly. But the ultimate decision will rest on an official, the zoning administrator. And like Mark mentioned earlier, what happens when they change? What happens when there's a recodification? So, yes, while the intent of the board to prohibit data centers is clear, this cannot override what the zoning ordinance actually does. And in our ordinance, removal is not automatically prohibition. You can intend to prohibit all you want, but that does not change how the ordinance works. So, please expressly prohibit. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Colleen Dunn followed by Mark Berg. Good evening. Lane Dunn, Red Bud. Data centers in the right location can be an asset to Frederick County. A data center as proposed in Steven City last year would have generated about $20 million, $50 million a year over a 20-year timeframe. A similar data center in the northern part of the county would have generated the same. Combined, that would have been $100 million per year with land use that's less than one-half of 1% of the total land use. Thank you. Currently, Frederick County has residential real estate taxes that have brought in about $96 million this year. We have county debt of about $250 million. We have expected county requested debt of another $350 million that's coming over the school from the schools. Question. Should the county have data centers or recommendation? The county should designate certain areas in the county for data centers and then require a conditional use permit for data centers. And then require a conditional use permit for data centers. Thank you. So you can deal with the local concerns of those. Those that are opposed to data centers have cited four main reasons. Let me address them. Water. New data centers with closed loop, direct liquid cooling or immersion can address that. Data centers can also use water alternatives such as glycol, dielectric fluids and other items to address the issue. Electric rates. If you had a data center in the northern and southern part of the county, you would have a lot of data centers. You don't have the transmission lines that occurred in Frederick County or in Warren County or Loudoun County, etc. Data centers near substations also eliminate that need for items. And you can proffer that the data centers will provide the electricity necessary so it does not become a cost to the consumer. Noise. People have lived near data centers in Middletown. You can go and proffer that data center. You can go and proffer so the data center noise is not an issue. You can suggest, for example, that all houses within a quarter of a mile are bought by the data center and then sold to another entity or other people that don't mind living near data centers. Or you can have a tax-free zone within a quarter of a mile or a half mile so those people living there aren't paying taxes. But there's a way to address that issue and you can work on that. Save the view. This county has grown a lot in the last 30 years. And so we've seen apple orchards and peaches go from, you know, that to houses. And that's gone. National security. Everyone uses data centers. The U.S. is needing them in a competition with China. Using one-half or 1% of the county land helps address that issue. I would recommend that work with those that are opposed to data centers to find a solution which benefits them, addresses the issues that are being raised, and also helps the county. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mark Berg followed by Kurt Krieger. Good evening. Mark Berg, Back Creek. I urge all of you Board of Supervisors to listen carefully to what the residents of this county are saying and not saying about data centers. I've not heard anyone say that he's simply against data centers for no good reason, nor that he just doesn't want them built near his home. My data center opposition is not, in fact, a NIMBY. But more of a not in anybody's backyard issue. Data centers should be built in areas away from farms and populated areas. Period. Data center negatives. Data centers use a lot of electricity, which will significantly raise residential electric rates. Two, high voltage transmission lines will sooner or later have to be built to supply that increased electricity need. Three, water use and wastewater treatment and disposal are very problematic. And so, we need to address that. With the cursed topography of Frederick County, excessive draw on county municipal resources and groundwater may not only cause shortages to consumers, but lead to permanent contamination of our groundwater with no recourse to a solution. Noise pollution with low frequency sound waves has been documented for decades to cause injury to humans. And the noise restrictions in the Frederick County code do not adequately address this type of noise. Five. Data centers will permanently change the character of Frederick County and its landscape. And we could very well end up resembling a mini Nova. The Board of Supervisors should not hastily approve data centers. Many localities and entire states are actually limiting or putting moratoriums on new data centers. The industry is rapidly changing. And many better options will likely be in play in the near future. A hasty pro data center decision now can bind the county to an ill-fated course of action that allows it to continue to grow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I think that's a great course of action that will not be easily remedied. Waiting for some of these advancements and for the data center industry's willingness to adapt them is the prudent thing to do. One possibility is the use of factory built and scalable nuclear micro reactors of 20 megawatts or so, which provide many options and benefits. Data centers could then, one, provide their own electricity at their own expense. Two. Install and transmit data with fiber optic cables. Installation of buried fiber optic cables is one-seventeenth the cost of bringing in high-voltage electric lines, and there are virtually no negatives on the environment or landscape as there are with high-voltage transmission lines. Data centers could actually be placed in nobody's backyard, such as unpopulated areas. And four, they could be placed in areas with more abundant water resources and much less risk of groundwater contamination. These last two advantages would make the adverse health effects of low-frequency noise a non-issue and would greatly limit the adverse economic effects and supply shortages on established users of municipal water or their own groundwater. Data centers should be disallowed in Frederick County now. Once they are here, they cannot be unbuilt. If new technologies or other factors favor data centers in the future, they can be allowed at that time. Thanks for your attention. Kurt Krieger. Good evening. Kurt Krieger. I'm in the Back Creek Magisterial District. This will be the fourth time that I've spoken on this subject, so I'm not going to repeat myself. When it was first referred to you by Andrew Fox, I spoke in favor. When it was referred to the Planning Commission and then at the Planning Commission, I spoke in favor of this action. What I do want to speak against is against the proposed optional resolution. And despite how the resolution is in line with provisional order 100, there's no amount of longer notice to the one-side rule I just want to stress to any Yamaha Universal magazine that's 뻠p witches aствуise for any supervision without reasonable consideration Samantha one presentation to the UN panel. Many a African American say that the realize that beta, mirror row, have GPS in the February 1 hour, have AV7 on zero five. And how many in some, so let's see this here, and where our top two companies mine. The gratuity is given or done without expecting anything in return or put another way, there is no obligation or return benefit. The county is giving something of value, that is to be heard under the old rules without necessity or without the applications being vested. In the case of the town of Stephen City versus Russell, 1991, the Supreme Court of Virginia held that an incomplete site plan filed before density reduction did not create a vested right confirming that the mere filing of application does not freeze the zoning framework in the applicant's favor. We've heard about another one just this evening in Middletown. By giving this legislative gratuity, you would be granting a significant affirmative governmental act for the purpose of section 15.2.230, the Code of Virginia, which is the vesting section of the code. Rules change all the time. Developers call that entitlement risk. That is what they factor into their way of doing business. Zoning is what the majority of the board of supervisors decides that it will be. No one has a guarantee one way or the other. The applicants have not shown themselves worthy of the public trust. They have failed to demonstrate their projects protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the residents of Frederick County, evidenced by the unanimous denial of both project proposals by the Frederick County Planning Committee. Thank you. I thank the executive commission. My thank-you. Mr. Gospel. You can welcome the prospective class of imports. Mr. John transferring to the Texas Development Department. Mr. I am James Johnson. I am the Vice President of the Office of would. Promotion? Again. held by the Planning Commission. Some of you were there. Essentially, the applicant threatened the Planning Commission by saying, we will do whatever we want to do consistent with M1 zoning. Let them do that. They have a right. Reserve your trust for applicants which exhibit good faith, diligence, and a high standard of professional responsibility. And don't approve the grandfathering ordinance. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list that we have signed up. Thank you, Madam Clerk. Is there anyone else that wanted to come speak? All right. Line up. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. My name is Dana B. Dana Brunn from Mountain Patriots from the Bat Creek District. And the first thing I want to say is I've been listening to this for the last little over a year. Mountain Patriots put together a 22-page report for everybody, and I think we covered the solutions as well as the problems. So I get a little tired literally of hearing the blame game because we get it too. We're always looking for solutions to problems. It's kind of hard to stop progress, but we're against data centers here in Frederick County. Everybody knows that. We're not real happy about the AI stuff that's able to track us, but you've got to have guardrails at that together. What I am really proud about, though, is the way the community came together. Whether you're on this side or that side or in the middle, everybody came together as a community. We had some kind of common goal that we could work on. So I've actually made friends on both sides of the aisle. We did take a look at the different solutions to probable situations we run into just about everywhere, not just here, but we looked at it pretty much everywhere. I'm not really happy with the grandfather thing, but I will say this. The one thing I'd also like to see are guardrails put in. When we put the report together, we looked at things like putting something underground, making sure that the sound wasn't there. Ways, because if we get pushed into it, I know that there's legal matters that happen that will end up in play, but we have to have a way around that if something like that were to happen, and we're more than happy to work with you on it. What I will say is I am very proud to stand together with all my constituents here and all your constituents here. I'm very, very impressed with the way that the Planning Commission listened to what was going on. I'm very impressed with the way the Board of Supervisors took a role in this, and it shows me that this community can work together in a really great way. I do know that the way the Constitution is written, we trample all over it, which is why we're in a lot of the problems that we're in right now, and we're working on that as well. We'll have something for you soon enough. This is why we vote. This is why people show up. Don't just show up here because of, I hope people don't just show up here because of a data center. There's all kinds of, other things that the community needs to work with as well. What I have found out doing a lot of the things that we do is a lot of people show up for something like this, but they won't show up at the polls. So we hope to see you out there on November 3rd, and come see me if you want to help out. Thanks a lot for your time, and I really appreciate everything you guys do. Thanks. Thanks, sir. Next. Good evening, folks. My name is Adam Perkins, Ganser Road District. I'm not a public speaker, and I didn't write anything down, so I'm going to keep it real brief. I've lived in the northern Shenandoah Valley my entire life. I've lived in Frederick County for the last 15 of it, and Warren County for the rest of it. For the last 10 years, I have worked in historic restoration, preserving the history of this county. As we look forward at the stuff that's coming here, we're actually looking at family farms of families that have been in this county for 150 years with the houses being knocked down to build this stuff. I appreciate the direction y'all are moving, and I would advocate that y'all vote yes to remove this, because I love this county. I left. I came back. I bought a piece of property. Never thought I was going to be able to do that. And you know what? I came back because of the people around here, and because of the people around here. And the people don't want this. And, you know, we're talking about using one half of 1% of the land. There's a lot of the land other places. Thank y'all. Thanks, sir. Good evening, gentlemen. Thank you for your service. I'm Penny Smith from Opecan. I just have a couple quick things, and my words are concerning the adequacy of the new order. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It has happened before where there were bans or severe restrictions on hyperscale data centers, and developers have managed to build them anyway. They build smaller ones or modular blocks, so I'm concerned about that loophole. Sometimes they're built anyway due to legal maneuvers. They'll say that there were pre-existing development plans that indicated exclusion of them, or they'll compare themselves to warehouses. There's many maneuvers. We've all read the stories in the news. The other concern I have is we don't have any precedents. It was stated that as well tonight, there's been no other place that allowed data centers with a CUP and then have rescinded that. So that does not help us, actually. We know there's attorney-to-attorney debate. We know there can be differing legal arguments, even opposing arguments. Due to the concern that county residents had, we sought an expert legal opinion from Northern Virginia for his expertise regarding data centers and the legal maneuvers other developers have used. And we ask for his phrasing, his opinion. I'm not saying he's the end-all or that he knows everything. None of us do. I appreciate Attorney Fox and all of his work. I'm not saying he's the end-all or that he knows everything. None of us do. I appreciate Attorney Fox and all of his time, and that's a very sincere comment. And I don't have the knowledge to offer an opinion on the appropriateness or the effectiveness of the new ordinance that he has now written. But I do have continuing concerns that what we have proposed may have loopholes. So my request is that the expert opinion you received from Attorney Blakely would be read again and carefully considered, along with the careful considerations of Attorney Fox. box. Look at the arguments that both have made. Look at the appropriateness. Look at the loopholes. And finally, my concern is if you find yourself in a situation where a developer does say, does use a loophole, does threaten to sue, does where it would come down to the zoning administrator to make an opinion, there would be enormous pressure on one person to do that. And my greatest fear, if that would ever happen, is that the vote might be yes because of fear of legal repercussions from the developer. So I really appreciate you all. And I really appreciate my county friends for wanting to protect our county. So thank you very much for listening to people. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Wendy Dorsey, Gainesboro. I just want to say thank you tonight. Thank you for getting us to the point where we are. Thank you for proposing to remove the data centers from our planning and zoning. I really appreciate that. And in thanking you, I hope you also appreciate how the constituents have come up. And even though you had to listen to us time and time again, I hope you appreciate and respect how people really did come out. And stand up and speak for what they thought was valuable. If any of you are still thinking that regardless of what happens tonight, maybe data centers really are a good thing, I just want you to really consider that they might be a short-term gain in terms of revenue for the county. But it's a long, long, long-term loss that we can never make up. And it might only take us a moment to up half of 1% of land to put the data centers in this county. And so it may not use a great portion of our land, but a data center doesn't exist as an island. They come along with substation and transmission lines, which brings me to my main point. The next fight coming down this road are the transmission lines. And so if we don't have data centers now or ever, we have a much stronger fight to argue against the transmission lines being placed in our county. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hello, everyone. My name is Jack, Gainesboro District. Hello, Chair. Hello, Board. Hello, everyone behind me. I want to thank everybody. Jack, give your last name. Tinsley. Thank you, brother. No problem. Mr. Fox, thank you for your work. Mr. Bishop, thank you for your work. Everybody that showed up over the last months and months and months, dedicating time, money, sacrificing their health to stand out in the rain with signs, rallies, everything that we've all been doing as a community to oppose these data centers, all power to all the people. AI is a threat to all of us, everybody in this room, even the people who want the AI. And the AI is run by data centers. So I'm going to talk about the data centers. What is AI even for? Anyway, what do we need it for? It's to help us complete our e-mails, to be our friend when we're lonely, to turn our bullet points into PowerPoints and then turn that into a summary and then turn the summary back into bullet points. No, that's not what it's for. People might do that, but that's not why AI exists. Machines do not need to eat. They do not need to sleep. They do not need to take breaks. They don't talk back. They don't talk back. They don't talk back. They don't talk back. They don't talk back. They don't ask for a raise. They will not start a union. They will not strike. That's not a boycott or a byproduct of AI. It's the point. The creators have said over and over that these things will wipe out huge numbers of jobs. When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time. They want to replace us. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free. We'll be free, all right. Free to starve. What kind of freedom is that? They know what follows. When we have lost enough, we'll start to demand it back, and they're planning on it. Flock cameras, axon cameras, reading our license plates, our ring doorbells, our own phones, smart glasses. I was in Old Town Winchester the other day, and some police were talking to a homeless man, and there was a drone flying overhead recording it. So it's already here. The Frederick County Sheriff's Department has applied for federal money through ICE for automated drones. They're pointing these cameras at us, getting training data on us right now, on people that our government thinks are less than the rest of us. But if they come for one of us in the morning, they're going to come for the rest of us in the nighttime. On the first day of the war with Iran, the military used an AI system built by Palantir to blow up an all-girls elementary school. 150 dead, 123 of them were children. War crime. The replacing of workers, the surveillance of the populace, the war on destruction, a valuable human life all runs on data centers. They can't do it without the data centers, but we don't have to build it for them. My name is Jack Tinsley. I'm an organizer with the Party for Socialism Liberation. I'm a community organizer for five years here. I'm a paramedic for 20. I'm dedicated to people and life. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Good evening, gentlemen. Steve Caracciolo, Bat Creek. Thanks, sir. I've spoken at a couple of these meetings, and I was actually prepared to have to talk about the Winchester Gateway application tonight to come to find out they've withdrawn and they're not here. So, I was actually pretty encouraged to see that. The unfortunate reality is, and I don't think I need to tell you guys this, they're already on the search probably for where they're going to try their next build. And I don't know if that's here in Frederick County, somewhere else, a different county in Virginia, maybe a different state for all we know. But that's kind of the reality of, I think, how a lot of these developers are doing. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. I think a lot of these developers are going to operate. Lots of counties have outright banned data centers outside of Virginia, moratoriums that get extended every year. So, you have to imagine there's other applicants out there who are going to start looking for their next target. And if we don't have some kind of language as a permanent ban, they're going to come back here. It's going to be somebody else. We're going to be stuck here, complaining to you guys and the Planning Commission and taking up, I think, valuable time that the agenda could be spent on other more constructive things. I think that's just the unfortunate reality. So we have to find a way to address it permanently. I'm going to defer to the legal team and all of you guys to find out how exactly that can be done. I'm not a lawyer. I deal with regulations and global trade compliance, but that's a totally different beast and also not a lawyer. So I can't really give legal advice on any of that. But regs are tough and I understand that. But I think that there's a way to address it and address it permanently so we don't have other applicants coming in and trying to do the same things. Um, the only other thing I would add is that, you know, the rest of the county, there's plenty of space where people are going to try to say, oh, it's far away from, from people, from, you know, where people live. And, um, I would just say, you know, I've only lived here a couple of years, but my wife was born and raised here. I love this county. I love the city. I love the people. I think we've all kind of voiced our, our opinions on that. Um, and then the last thing that I would say, which I've said at the other meetings is, um, you guys have the duty and the obligation to carry out the will of the people. And we've made our will known. So, um, I think that's a good way to address that. So we're going to trust you to do that, uh, in the best way that you can along with the, uh, legal folks to assist you. But, um, yeah, ultimately the decision is ours to make and we've made it. So appreciate you guys, everything that you're doing. Um, I hope you'll make the right call. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hey, my name is Becky Rager. I'm from the Gainesboro district and I just wanted to come and basically reiterate what everyone's been saying. I've been out door knocking in the Gainesboro area and I've yet to meet one person that wants data centers across the board. It doesn't matter whose door you knock on, even if they're not in your party. Uh, so for all of us that are here, there's a community behind us. They might not be able to make it because they're tired. They have to be at work. They have a kid that's sick for whatever reason, but they're out there and they want the same as we do. So I also wanted to talk about the idea that where were the people before when the apple orchards were being pulled out and when industrialization was coming here. I would say don't discount the people who are showing up now. So I've been organizing in the county for a couple of years now. And when Valley Link decided that our neighborhood was a perfect neighborhood to, to put a line through, my neighbors showed up and started organizing with me. They hadn't organized with me before, but I didn't point that out to them and say, well, you weren't here two years ago. So guess what? Um, perhaps people aren't aware or weren't aware. Perhaps they were too young. Perhaps they didn't live here, but we shouldn't discount people that are showing up. So I would say don't discount the people who are showing up now. So I've been talking to them and they're saying, well, you know, we're not going to do that. So I'm going to tell you this isn't what they want for the future of this county. Um, and I hope you listen to them. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Good evening. Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. I stand with my community in support of this amendment to remove data centers. Thank you so much for your stewardship and for listening. I think this move is great for the strongest economic development across Frederick County. When asked about the county's future respondents chose rural preservation, above more than any other option, followed by agribusiness and agritourism in our 2020, 2026 comprehensive plan survey. A separate question asked which businesses we should attract or grow while maintaining community character. Agriculture and agribusiness received 34%, small businesses, 33%, and tourism and hospitality, 31%. Healthcare, food production, and corporate services ranged from 12 to 19%. All ahead of data center and the technology infrastructure at only 4%. There are lots of other opportunities worth pursuing. Keeping data centers out of our comprehensive plan and removing them from our zoning helps preserve those choices. Our land and water are limited and electrical capacity across PJM faces growing demands. Large data centers bring infrastructure needs that can harm and affect opportunities for other businesses. Our car stereas also need special care. Underground water doesn't follow proper safety guidelines. The infrastructure we're building is not just for the property lines. We need more resilient watersheds and to protect our groundwater. The businesses already here deserve up for us to attract good neighbors, businesses that fit, support one another, and help everyone thrive. Let's welcome companies with high-paying jobs and attractive buildings whose employees and visitors support our shops, restaurants, farms, and markets. Our historic lands, rural communities, and landmark buildings have real value. Even if we may not be able to provide them with the necessary infrastructure, we need to provide them with the necessary infrastructure. We need to provide them with the necessary infrastructure, we need to never fully understand their worth. Let's build on them. We also need companies that are big in heart because we are very big in heart. That feels like an important match for us. In our comprehensive plan, let's make thoughtful transitions between uses and compare alternatives, what they bring, what their impacts cost, and which offer the best long-term revenue after cost. Please support this amendment, then let's put some effort and care into the businesses and opportunities our community wants to welcome. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Ma'am, you spoke once before, so you only speak once in this public. Sir? Vaughn Whitaker, Gainesboro District. I think it would look really bad for the board to grandfather an applicant who is not a member of the board. Who has already withdrawn. They no longer exist. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? All right. I'm closing the public hearing. Any discussion with the board? Okay. Yes, Supervisor Roberts. I know I'm probably going to be unpopular on this one, but I still go back to, I think it was about six months ago when I said, a little bit about the importance for Olha Road, elevator- liberals, sorry, long, long, long time ago, kids like me who went to that video outside of the building around the old town. One of the questions that came to me really, especially for me, is the relationship betweenoden socially and the toward the EW space which was what I stated regarding line川 AC and that, as I said, they're pretty good at this, I think taking it out we get rid of the definition we get rid of all the other design standards we have right now including for the noise and I guess I see it as a ball we've gone from one extreme to the other and to me the solution is always moderation not that I'm finding fault or I think you're trying to be deceptive or anything else I think the plan commit or playing department you guys have brought this forward your hearts in the right place to remove it from the date earth from this ordinance it's we're not creating an ordinance were actually stripping out of the ordinance which I'm always in favor of because for every new orange we create I think we need to pull about five or six out but I think it's better to leave those design standards in and put new design standards that prevent the mega data centers because that's what everybody's worried about it's not the little ones the one from Midland State University in the city of New Jersey the first one's the network towns spoke i think they use 750 gallons of water a day they're pretty minor um so that's my opinion that and i think we ought to have the vote split vote on the uh removal of the ordinance and then the grandfathering i think needs to be a separate vote we will do that we will do that so all right thank you all right so we got any soon as the chair i would just say that there's a lot of people that came up and said if you add this word if you change this to add something um i there's a lot of good comments out there but if we took half the comments that came tonight it's going to take us another six months to do this so i'm just saying we we need to move the ball forward and make a decision tonight and not kick the can down the road and try to make 52 changes changes to make i mean we're never going to get everybody here happy with every piece of language so if we delay it i think we're doing we're not doing ourselves a justice here thank you anybody else all right vice chair would you like to make a motion sir yes sir wait a minute we're going to do two motions we're going to do motion for the ordinance amendment and then we're going to do a motion for the optional action item so we're going to vote on the first one correct i would move to approve the proposed amendments to chapter 165 to remove data centers as permitted and or conditional uses across all zoning districts and to remove other references to data centers from the ordinance so move all right we have a motion do i have a second second all right this will be a roll call though supervisor oats i hope so try now aye okay supervisor wernorf vice chair supervisor aiken aye and the chair votes aye all right that passes second motion is the optional action item a resolution providing for a grandfathering of certain land use applications submitted prior to the zoning appointments adopted all right i'm making this motion i move to approve the resolution providing for the grandfathering of certain land use applications submitted prior to the zoning amendments adopted just a moment ago with an amendment within the resolution item number two sets a date for the applicants to be heard on or before december 10 2026. i propose we modify that to be on october 28 2026 so that that's section would read as follows any such application will retain its grandfather status so long as the applicant diligently pursues approval of the application before the board of supervisors at a duly noticed and advertised public hearing occurring on october 28 2026. this is my motion to approve the amended resolution the neighbors to these projects deserve timely answers on how this board will handle them and i want don't want to see these and i want don't want to see these matters going to continue to drag out that's the motion i'll second that sir all right so we got a motion we got a second uh supervisor kuduma hi supervisor aikens aye supervisor leo hi vice chair wells aye supervisor ornor aye supervisor oats aye all right the chair votes aye so these two applications if they're not here these are the remaining of those members right the most active ones are the nonprofit backers okay there's only five more stages left and then the results of that work will be the푫es eff gdzie we're at let's see what we got uh real quick one more deliverable transcripts As we enter into this item the first of which there were a number of references perhaps based on Poor wording that I use that indicated folks may be under the impression that Winchester Gateway has withdrawn Formally their application. I want to make very clear that they have not withdrawn their application They asked to not be scheduled before the board the action You just took does give them until October actually dictates them that if they're going to go they will go on October 28 So I wouldn't want anybody to miss that opportunity and have thought they were lied to or misled or something like that That is still an active application and I would encourage our residents to pay attention to that The other item I would note is given where we are once again with that resolution You just adopted the staff recommendation on this item, which I'm about to present to you briefly I promise would be to postpone actual action on it until after you've heard the rezoning for Virginia Technology Park since that is a request to go into the TM district And while it is one thing to create a legal nonconformity as you would potentially do With removing data centers as a use and hearing an application It is an entire horse of an entirely different color to remove a day Zoning district entirely Whilst trying to consider and or fairly consider an application that's trying to go into That zoning district So that's that's the reason for the difference between it's not as simple as doing that Grandfather in resolution with this as it was with that use so with that This is a proposal as directed by the board back on August 12th to amend chapter 165 zoning ordinance to remove the technology Manufacturing Park zoning district and the other references to the TM zoning district from your ordinance The TM district was crafted Back in 23, I believe To provide areas for economic development authority targeted industries Which at that time did indicate data centers offices low-impact industrial assembly and manufacturing uses Which do not create significant noise beyond the property line smoke dust or other other hazards This district designed to function as a business campus like setting with direct access to major transportation networks And or rail facilities and areas where there is availability and or close proximity to overhead Electrical transmission lines and the current requirements for the TM district were adopted pardon my 2023 back in 2024 So what we are seeking tonight There are many incidences which are detailed throughout your packet in terms of where TM occurs in your ordinance So we are not going to recite those to you ad nauseum this evening I would encourage anybody who's that interested to go into the code 360 through our website and do a survey? Search for TM and you will see exactly what I mean by how extensive it is The Planning Commission did hold a public hearing on this issue on September 2nd They also recommended approval of the ordinance amendment and once again, this is another public hearing And we're seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment with the caveat that I gave you at the beginning of my Discussion. Thank you But I can take any questions you may have and of course we still have the eminent mr. Fox Yeah Any questions for mr. Bishop Any questions for mr. Fox I do have a question mr. Chair. Sorry. Yes, sir mr. Bishop I missed the date that you stated in the Beginning of your remarks. Is this only until October 28th Yes, my recommendation would be still I mean all these folks have come out and this course my recommendation you do what you do as a board? You do soft term To still hold your public hearing this evening go ahead and get that out of the way But go ahead and schedule this item After on October 28th after you've heard the Virginia Technology Park, okay one other question. I'm Pretty sure I know the answer this question, but I'm gonna ask it anyway Is there's not sufficient time in the timeline between now and October 28th for a new? applicant to come forward and Request or rezoning to to TM So this actually only is referring to Virginia Technology Park. Is that correct? That specific issue would literally only be able to apply to Virginia Technology Park. Thank you. That's correct. Appreciate it. Anybody else? All right. Mr. Rhodes, Supervisor? I would make one thing. Maybe instead of hearing this on the 28th or acting on a thing, because we potentially are going to have two data centers to hear that night. You see how many people showed up just to take it out of the ordinance? So I'll be surprised we can even get to it. So I would recommend we hold off until the first meeting in November to act on it. We will definitely address that. So, all right. Any other questions for Mr. Bishop, Mr. Fox? Okay. This is a public hearing. Anybody want to speak? No one has signed up for this public hearing. Thank you, Madam Clerk. All right. Anybody want to speak? I'm going to close it. Oh, go ahead. I'll give it to you. So time and time again, we're seeing the data centers enable people in bad faith. We cannot protect the interest of predators, considering AI-generated C-SPAM is a legal loophole against prosecution. How are we supposed to implement the five Ps of protecting citizens? It's partnership, protection, prosecution, and policy. So how are we supposed to protect people, children, from this, actually? There is no regulation or reasoning other than protecting predators' interests at this point. We see the trickle-down effect from the DOJ, from our administration. We see the trickle-down effect from the DOJ. We see the effects. No one is entitled to our information. Our privacy is our protection. We are entitled to the information that is directly a threat to our public safety, such as the 287G agreement with NRJDC. ICE is using ICE recognition, or AI recognition, to target and traffic migrants with no due process. That is domestic terrorism. Data centers enable this type of prison pipeline to be used. We see the effects. We see the effects. And I just want to recognize the folks and sorry me whose affочеes servedおNOT Erst четんだ, bit of updates and feelings but we believe immigrants are cumbersome недачиiem. as well as others. Migrants are moved covertly under the DEED agreement with local courts and smaller jails. We will not be quiet about the redaction of the files here. We will not be quiet about the children being trafficked across state lines without parental notice and due process.zust offence hypothethic attñicui to Nelson BY're both here, don't be as absent-minded as you little men for some reason. There is no neutrality. Thank you, ma'am. I'll keep this really short. Two points. You know, we keep talking about our competition with China. I must ask, why is NVIDIA selling chips to China to replicate our own AI system? That fallacy always escapes me. Well, the real point, though, now that you've opened this issue about continuing the TM zone for a limited duration, I think you're actually going to create an illegal spot zone. You're going to create a zone for application in one place, which is the classic definition of a spot zone, which benefits one property owner. So I think you should tread really carefully in this regard. I wouldn't recommend it. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Penny Smith O'Peckin. I just have a quick question. With the October 28th date chosen, how does that affect the Gibson application that's in? Ma'am, it has nothing to do with that. And we're not supposed to respond back to you, but I'm going to respond back. It has nothing to do with Gibson. Well, I'm not the first second person. I'll speak to you after. Thank you, ma'am. I appreciate his response. Thank you. All right. I'm going to close this. Public hearing. We've had a discussion. Anybody else? Any more discussion? Left? Right? Yes, sir. Mr. Vice Chair. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, given that we've just provided a limited period of time to hear out an application that is proposing to use the TM zoning district, I would move that we table this ordinance amendment until our first November regular board meeting. All right. We've got a motion. We've got a second. Do I need a roll call vote on that one? All right. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Vice Chair Welch. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gourmont. Aye. And the chair votes aye. So this is tabled until November, until the second meeting in November. Correct. First. Sorry, first meeting. Thank you. First meeting in November. All right. Moving on. 13. No. 14. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chair, I got a quick one on the fire and rescue committee. So met last week and not a lot of startling news other than to say they have a good batch of applicants going through the fire course at the moment. And they did make several mentions that they appreciated the board's support on the end. They have two ambulances in queue that they have put on order. And they are getting quotes now on the truck. They are feeling that once these apparatus come in, they're going to be much more prepared to serve the citizens of the county. And that's my report, sir. Thank you, sir. We appreciate all the fire and rescue and the sheriff's office. Yes, of course. Anybody, any other? Anybody else? Mr. Chair. Supervisor Orndorff. On September 16th at 5 o'clock p.m., the planning commission met in a work session discussing rezoning application number 08-26, the Gibson property, to rezoning three parcels totaling plus or minus 244.06 acres from RA rural areas, zoning district to M1 light industrial, with proffers to enable industrial development. The properties are located north of Fairfax Pike, Route 277, west of Front Royal Pike, Route 522 in the Shawnee District. Also at that meeting in attendance was Supervisor Lero. This rezoning project is in the Board of Supervisors previously area referred to as the Industrial Triangle. Discussion centered around traffic and transportation related concerns. Trustee Lee, I'm very sorry that our schedule for this meeting, Mr. Chair, we have to go through this. We really are going to invest quite Centre at Lowry Park, to address these issues that we feel need to be addressed. Thank you, Chairman. Again, so I'll just demonstrate my Association on how toר Five minutes for plugin on our website. Thank you so much, Chairman, I appreciate the interview. Thank you, Chairman. B3 Industrial Transition District to M2 Industrial General District. The subject property is located at the intersection of Martinsburg Pike, Route 11, and Woodside Road 671 in the Stonewall Magisterial District and is identified with property number 33-A124A. The Planning Commission approved the rezoning application and forwarded it to the Board for further action. The Planning Commission also conducted public hearings on three ordinance amendments to the County Code. Chapter 144 Subdivision Ordinance Modification to Incorporate Policy Changes Recommended during Phase 1 Subdivision Ordinance Update, including waivers, exemptions, and stormwater management. Chapter 165 Modifications to Incorporate Policy Changes Recommended during the Phase 1 Zoning Ordinance Update, including modifications to Master Development Plan, final approval, waivers, and exemptions. Chapter 166 Zoning Ordinance Modification to Incorporate 2026 amendments to the Code of Virginia, enacted by the General Assembly and signed into law by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia. All three were approved by the Planning Commission and are being forwarded to the Board for further consideration on October 14. Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report. I will yield to Mr. Lero if he wanted to make any comments since he was in attendance on the Gibson presentation. Mr. Lero? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anybody else? All right. All right, we have citizen's comments. Madam Clerk. Vicky Michaels. Good evening gentlemen, my name is Vicky Michaels. I truly hope that in the future I get to change the way I address the Board to gentleman and gentlewomen of the Board. I'm going to apologize that I even feel the need to speak about this because it has been a wonderful evening, and I truly do appreciate most of you. But I am always going to be the person who's going to stand up for the underdog. There are two occasions that can bring out the worst in people, funerals and elections. Sadly, I don't have any words of wisdom on the funeral side other than to say love your neighbor and your family. Regarding elections, if you are the person who truly is concerned for the greater good, then you should believe that may the best man or woman win. If you don't, then maybe you aren't the best man or woman for the job. If you are spending your time contacting private citizens to ask about someone's driver's license or publicly attacking them rather than focusing on how you can best serve your constituents, then you are not the right man or woman for the job. If your actions reflect, you are more of a schoolyard bully than a leader than maybe you aren't the right man or woman for the job. That said, I admire to all of you who give to the community. There are those of you that while I may not always agree with you, I respect and I know that your actions are genuine and what you believe is best for us. I appreciate you, I admire you, and thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Dana Brunn. Dana just left. Okay. Blaine Dunn. Thank you. Gentlemen, Blaine Dunn, Red Butt. You're about to go into a budget decision. You've just made the decision not to do data centers. So my question to you is, how do you plan to do that? How do you plan to pay for the growth? The county has $350 million of expected new revenue requests from schools in the county. Last year, the real estate brought in about $96 million, $95, $96. So how do you deal with the growth? I've talked before about impact fees. There's still time if you want to, if the seven of you wanted to, to go and craft a bill to say that those people that move into the county should simply cover the capital costs of the school. And that's what we're doing. We're not going to do that. We're going to do it at the cost of the cost of the cost of the house for what they bring in. That's about $35,000. That can be built into the cost of the house. If you don't do that, then how do you raise the revenue? Real estate tax increases? The fact that this county has a low income tax rate, or a low real estate tax rate, is a positive, not a negative. So I'm just going to throw out the thought to you while there's still time, how do you raise the revenue? Some of you talked about bringing in new businesses. That's great. But what business and what's it going to represent? And what's the cost of the revenue? And what's the cost of the revenue? The cost of the revenue is $3,000. It's going to generate, you're going to have a business that generates a million dollars a year, half a million dollars, or $10 million a year. You have to go through those numbers as you go through this budget process, or just employ you. How do you go and pay for the growth going forward? Where is it going to come from? So the question I'm going to ask when we're talking about $5,000 or $10,000 a year, and the real estate rate? to come from, if it's going to come from real estate, then say so. If it's not going to come from real estate, then find the alternative. I strongly encourage you to go and consider impact fees. It's a way to have the cost borne by those that are moving into the county without having the cost borne by those already in the county. And again, with $350 million of expected new debt in the next 10 years, think through how you raise it, how you deal with the issue, and how you go forward with it as we go through this budget season. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Stephen Albanese. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Stephen Albanese. I'm from the Shawnee District. And I'm... I'm asking this board to consider establishing by resolution a clear position concerning the protection of pre-born human life in Frederick County, that every human being should receive equal protection against intentional killing. This is not an abstract issue, and it's not an issue far away. Very real human beings made in the image of God right here in our county are affected by the distinctions Virginia law currently makes. It's an issue right here, right now. And it's a matter of life and murder. Virginia Code Section 18.2 to 32.2 already recognizes the killing of a pre-born child as an extremely serious crime. It states that a person who unlawfully, willfully, with premeditation kills the fetus of another is guilty of a Class II felony. Yet Virginia's abortion statutes create circumstances in which intentionally terminating a pregnancy is lawful. This means the legalized willful killing of innocent humans. The criminalמים today just did ourWORK. The laws in this preguntas ant to commit to. The legal agents in two scse Will send to be arrested at frll or provision of the intentional killing of an innocent human being. Human value is not created by opinion, popular or not. The principle should also be stated carefully so equal protection against intentional killing does not require treating an unintended miscarriage as a crime. All humans should be treated as patients in medical scenarios without breaking the duty to do no harm. This resolution would establish a position to send to the Virginia General Assembly that Frederick County recognizes the value of pre-born human life and the principle that laws protecting human beings from killing should operate according to equal justice. No matter what happens in November, I'd love to work with you all on this moving forward. I have a drafted language ready to go. So I thank you for your time and I thank God for this opportunity. Thanks, sir. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Clark. Is there anyone else that wants to speak? My name is Alexander Ritter. I reside in the Peckin District. You know, one of the things that I really want to thank Vicki Michaels for speaking. Everybody here knows me. Like the people that who are working for the Virginia General Assembly, I'm a I'm a member of the Virginia General Assembly. I'm a member of the Virginia General Assembly. I'm a member of the Virginia General Assembly. I'm a member of the Virginia General Assembly. I have a lot of connections from my mom and dad, and I want to thank them. And so, if there's anyone out there who is willing to vote for me the people standing across from me, everybody knows me and who I am. And so, by the way, I wanted to say that that, asking about whether I have a license or not, I am the licensed driver, and that was dismissed. Anybody, everybody knows that I have a past. Twelve years ago I had some misdemeanor charges. I don't believe that defines me, and I stand in anyone who ever has it that they will sue me, the I really do not believe that defines me. And I stand in anyone who ever has it that they will sue me, the whoever brings that up, it is a really, you know, time in my life where I was young and made decisions and being attacked for it online. As if that, my advocacy for the county and the things that I have done and I'm doing now, I'm not the same person I was 12 years ago. So I don't really appreciate those comments from people who are supposed to be supervisors. I watched a few months ago, or maybe it was, I don't know how many, two months ago, there was a person coming before you, his name was Eric Chase, who, you know, was a former felon, you know, and, you know, everybody there was like, we need to give him the opportunity to change his life and, you know, all of that. I don't have that kind of past, you know, 12 years. So I just wanted to say thank you. And that's all I wanted to say. Anybody else? Gentlemen, Jack Tinsley, Gainesboro District, everybody behind me, I'm going to make this very quick. So y'all balanced the budget last time, right? You can't, I know you can't answer, but everybody behind me, I'm going to make this very quick. So y'all balanced the budget last time, remember congratulating you on that work because it's like difficult to do. I also want to bring up, so thank you for that. I know that you are able to do your jobs well. You've proven it many times. So thank you. The other thing I wanted to mention is there's a proposition coming up in November for the 1% school tax. If you, if the constituents of this county vote for the 1% school tax, and that gives y'all the ability to levy a tax, you can vote for the 1% school tax. So if you vote for the 1% school tax, you can vote for the 1% school tax. So if you vote for the 1% school tax, you can vote for the 1% school tax. So if you vote for the 1% school tax, you can vote for the 1% school tax. So if you vote for the 1% school tax, you can vote for the 1% school tax. on retail, up to 1%, which all of that money goes towards school infrastructure, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. I answered a survey monkey about it today that was put up by Frederick County Public Schools. Pretty cool. So all I'm saying is there are many tools, and you all have these tools available to raise revenue. I don't think we need data centers to do that. Obviously, y'all know how I feel. But also the people that I've been in communication with for the last months have many, many good ideas about building community networks, about agro tourism, and increasing small businesses, and many, many things. We have the knowledge in this room. We've all become experts in many different areas, and we would love to work with you to find other ways outside of data centers that the community at large supports to make sure that the county is funded. And that people are protected. So I believe in y'all. Don't worry. We got your back if you got our back. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? All right. Closing sentence comments. Board of Supervisors comments. Yes, sir, Supervisors. Yeah, earlier a fellow mentioned about the water down in Brewstown. Yes, sir. That was last Tuesday. I have a question for you. You know, I've been in the water for a while now, and I've been looking for water in your well. I met with Car Moose and that lady last Thursday. Car Moose stepped up, brought in water tanks for seven or eight houses in that area that were low on water or out of water. They went ahead and started investigating the wells. Some of the wells are only 45 feet deep. We had a meeting Monday between Frederick Water and Car Moose, and We're currently doing an investigation study to look at the monitoring wells around there, see what caused it, if anything did, or if it's just a drought. But either way, we're exploring a way to get public water into those houses so it doesn't happen again because a lot of those wells are very shallow, but the houses are so close together and the power lines are there, it's going to be really prohibitive to try and get wells back in there. So the solution is being worked on. It's being studied. Thanks, sir. And those people did have water before the weekend. Thank you. Supervisor Ornorth. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to express appreciation to the Finance Committee and the Board. As the rep from the Board to the Conservation Easement Authority, the $300,000 is designated out of the Bartonsville Solar Siding Agreement to go to the Conservation Easement Authority, putting together their budget, to do the work for land preservation is important. It's a step forward because they simply haven't had funding, certainly since my 10 months on the Board and attending those meetings representing the Board. They've not had funding to work with. So this is a giant step forward taken by the Finance Committee. I believe Supervisor Aikens put it on the floor. I heard and discussed it at the Finance Committee, and I second it. And the Chairman of the Finance Committee took action to put it before us tonight. So that's huge and important and is greatly appreciated, that statement in itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Excellent. Absolutely. Vice Chair, do you have anything to say? Mr. Chairman, I would move to be adjourned. Wait a minute. I've got to look down left. Anybody got anything? We're good. That's good. We're good. I'll do it. Good. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
