Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-09-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=241
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. It is 7 o'clock and don't put me down for 7-0-1. We barely got here starting on time in the minutes. And I'm calling to order this September 25th meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. We had a pastor to give an invocation today, but he was at the last minute unavailable. Supervisor Liero, were you able to prepare for our invocation? Absolutely. Mr. Chair, I'll be happy to substitute being the substitute teacher that I am. If we could bow our heads in prayer, please. Dear God, as we approach the Feast of St. Michael the Archangel this coming Sunday, September 29th, and the other angels, help us reflect on St. Michael's roles as a champion for justice, healer of the sick, guardian of the church, and a defender and warrior who defeats the devil in battle. Please continue to help and guide us today. We ask that you would help us in our work to protect our nation and our great Commonwealth of Virginia. And as always, we ask for wisdom and discernment as we work with our departments and staff here in Frederick County to provide a government that represents and serves all of our citizens well. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Vice Chair. Let us all please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the republic for which it stands. One nation. Under God. And indivisible. With liberty and justice for all. Thank you. So we move to item four, adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Item five, citizen comments. These are comments for items on our agenda today other than a public hearing item. If it's a public hearing item, it'd be better to wait until then if you can so we can consider your comments during that public hearing. But otherwise, you should be restricted to things on the agenda today. Anne, do we have anyone? Tammy Canfield. When you reach the podium, please start with your name and magisterial district. And by rule, we have three minutes a person. Thank you. My name is Tammy Canfield, and I'm still in the district. First of all, I want to thank you guys for... Hold on. I'm not sure the mic is on. Someone will come up and help you out if they... And we'll restart your clock, so... Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. Can you say my name again? Go ahead. Tamara Canfield and Stonewall District. First, I want to thank you guys for actually taking action on the chickens and allowing more people in different zoned areas to have chickens. I believe especially how they're killing chickens in other areas of our country, it's very vital people start becoming more self-sufficient. So I just want to make a couple comments or a few comments on some of the stuff. So I just want to make a couple comments or a few comments on some of the stuff. On your specific uses. So first of all, there's chicken coops and there's chicken runs. And so... Hang on a second here. So there's a lot of variables when it comes to them. And my concern when I read through this is it seems like there's... It's like it's trying to be tightly controlled. And I'm a person that thinks that the government should take a step back and allow people to be people and enjoy their land. That they're paying taxes on. Yes, they should be considerate to their neighbors. But there's also... There's a lot of variables in chickens. Coops don't have to be stationary. So they can move around. This also helps with the buildup of the manure and stuff like that. So just regulating it, that has to be 15... It can't be any closer than 15 feet. But it seems like it's all written up to have a... A stationary chicken coop. But giving people leeway to have different types of chicken coops, like chicken tractors, that helps to fertilize their yard in different areas and gets rid of the bugs and stuff like that where you can't free range. So... Let's see. Okay. And then the idea with putting chicken manure in a self... Or an enclosed container. I don't know where that's a good idea because of the ammonia buildup with that. So... And believe it or not, chicken manure doesn't really smell much unless it's raining. If it rains, then it could really smell. But a lot of people don't... Cleaning the coop every week became very expensive for me. And I put tobacco in my coop to keep some of the bugs down. So... And it wasn't necessary. So I think there needs to be some freedom on that. And I would suggest not having it be a permitted... Because when you have a permit, now people have to pay to have a permit. And so that adds more expense. And this one says that it can't be seen from a public or private road. That's really hard if you only have like a half an acre or... That makes it very... Much more difficult. And it limits who can actually have chickens. So I think there's just a lot... Let's see. Let me just go... Um... Let's see. That's okay. Anyway, so I just consider maybe talking to somebody more about chickens before you put it all in writing. So that's my... Thank you. And you're welcome to submit any more of your thoughts. You can get time forward to us by email. I appreciate it. Robert Gallilee. Robert Gallilee, Back Creek District. Um... I also want to talk about the chickens and a couple other things. To me, the idea that we need permission to have chickens is pretty much insane. I'd like to know where the constitutional authority comes from to tell us what we can do with our property if it's not directly adversely affecting our neighbors. My dogs bark at night. My neighbor made me aware. I went and got bark collars for my dog. They stopped barking. Now I've taken them off. They don't bark anymore. I mean, these are things that neighbors will do for neighbors. Maybe some people are very inconsiderate. But we don't need these kind of regulations, I don't think. The Supreme Court has an opinion where they talk about zoning. And what they say is, in that opinion, is that the right of the government to have all of these different zoning ordinances in an economic development area, makes sense. And when I read that opinion, I said, yeah, you know what? That makes sense to me. Because economic development areas, they need to be controlled so that they are as economically developed as possible. We don't want things to be done haphazardly. And then that economic development area isn't as effective for generating revenue as it could be. So that makes sense. On 13B, they're talking about something with data centers. I don't know. I don't know what that is. But I just hope that the board will be very cognizant of how much water is required for those data centers. It seems like we have a little bit of a habit of having water problems recently. I don't know how many years that has gone on for, but it has for the last two. And I think we really just need to be careful about, especially if somebody can get something rezoned, and then by right, they can do a data center, and then we get stuck. Then we get stuck with a massive water problem. So I hope everybody will look into that. The last thing that I wanted to talk about was just, and I won't speak later on it, is the rezoning Fruit Hill. The information might be available, so it might be my ignorance. But when I see a rezoning to different kind of business districts, and this might be the plan as it is, but I think it would be very helpful to the public if we knew all the possible businesses that could go in there. Because if it's rezoned, and we have no specificity of what's going to potentially be done, we might not have a voice about it. And so if everybody was aware of all the things that could happen on those properties, then we might have a much stronger opinion. So thank you, Board. That's all. That is all. Is there anyone else who would like to speak about anything that's coming up on our agenda? If it's fruit and vegetable, if it's Fruit Hill or one of the other public hearings, you're better to wait till then if you can stay that long, because then we'll hear your thoughts right before we take up the discussion. But by all means, anyone would like to speak now? Not hearing anyone, I'll close citizen comments. Board, we have a consent agenda. I believe there are no financial matters in it, so we can approve it by consent vote. How would you like to see it? How would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? No discussion on the consent agenda. Very good. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? The consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Supervisor Dunn? A couple months ago, this Board passed a resolution honoring the three men that were on January 6th in Normandy, invading for the freedom of Europe and the freedom of France. Two of the people that we gave those to, Leon Pope and Leland Teets, really, really appreciated the work that we did. Leon Pope died about a month later after I had given him that citation. His family was extremely appreciative, so I want to thank all of you for doing that. It touched their lives and we appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, we've heard a lot about agriculture tonight. Next Saturday, the homesteaders, which is part of Frederick County and Clark County, are doing the farm crawl. It's an opportunity for the community to get out and see some of the small farms. So I just encourage you all just to, if you have the opportunity, next Saturday, October 5th, to get out there and visit some of these small farms. Thank you. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Very good. Early voting, I'll just say early voting has started for the November election. I do have concerns that have come up in the last 24 hours that I'm not prepared to accurately represent here, but I think this board should take it up and I will bring it up at a later item in the agenda, whether voter security is acceptable in this county and in this state. We have it as part of our legislative agenda. I think what we have might need to be stronger as I understand it. People can now register to vote by Virginia law without presenting an ID. So they vote. The only thing I know of they have to present besides their name and address, their claim of name and address is a social security number. But if they don't have one, it's accepted and it's passed to Richmond as I understand it, for them to decide if they want to require it. So people can register to vote. Now it is a felony to vote early or on election day in this election. And it's not just a violation of Virginia law because there's a federal election. It's a federal felony as well as a violation of state code to vote if you're not a citizen or otherwise you're in a state of emergency. Thank you. And I'll ask you to vote. You can vote early if you're a citizen or otherwise you're not allowed to vote. So it's just very alarming the more I hear about the process and the lack of safeguards on it. Anyone who votes who isn't supposed to vote may be canceling out your vote. So I want the board to think carefully about that and take that up when we get to the legislative agenda. And if the public has concerns, I think they should speak out, not just to us. But to Richmond and your representatives about that. Make sure that they are speaking up for you and your voting rights. Those are my comments. I'll close Board of Supervisor comments. County officials, we have on item 8A, and here we are, approval of the draft 2025 legislative agenda. We have a draft agenda that we want to take as our county's position to Richmond that's been circulated to the board recently. Thank you. I'm going to begin with the motion and then in discussion I'll explain why. My motion is to postpone finalizing our legislative agenda until our next regular meeting, which is two weeks from tonight. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Discussion. Since I made the motion, I'll go ahead and start. I in no way want to restrict our ability to discuss the legislative agenda today if you wanted to take it up. Otherwise, we can take the full discussion up in two weeks. My reason for the motion is as follows. We have a county lobbyist. I met with him and he has indicated that some of the situation in the laws in Richmond changed last year during the legislative session. So we can't adopt the language in all cases the same as we had it last year. It would be in error or not appropriate for things that have changed. He has not had time to put his revisions into that draft agenda that you all received. His goal is to get this done by Friday. So the problem is that we want to meet with our representatives. The school system is meeting with our two delegates and the senator next week. And we had thought maybe we could get time with them as well on the same day. But it looks like we won't be able to get that meeting with our representatives before our next meeting. So there is time for us to work out the details. Now, that's my reason for the motion. But before we postpone, again, we can all discuss this. And if the board pleases, we can take up some of the items today and maybe make draft changes so that our staff and the lobbyists don't work on refining language on items that we may be about, for example, to reject from the draft. That would be one reason to take it up tonight. Or we can just postpone the whole thing for two weeks. So I'll pass it on to the board for their comments. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments, if any, on the agenda before we vote on postponing it? Supervisor Dunn? So, Mr. Chairman, I don't mind postponing. But if there's a decision made in two weeks, I'd like to have the opportunity to come back in four weeks or six weeks. In other words, you're talking about the first meeting in October. Whatever is determined there, I'd like to be able to come back in the second meeting in October and or the first meeting in November to address any issues that we might want to address. Well, so the problem, I'm interrupting, I apologize, but the problem is that our representatives have to get their bills in pretty soon. So if we wait until November, we may miss the vote on the bills they're writing and queuing up for legislation. I believe that the deadline for legislation is the middle of November. So therefore, doing something at the end of October, our second meeting in October works. On just general comments on this, I think that impact fees are really important. You've said that, you know, the governor doesn't want impact fees. But I would say to you as chairman of Frederick County, if you think and if this board thinks that impact fees are a way to try to address some of the capital costs, then we collectively ought to go to say to the governor, we have a need for impact fees. We have costs that are rising. We have to have revenue sources, and this is one revenue source. So that's one. Number two. Before we go to this, we ought to have a discussion on whether or not a 1% sales tax dedicated solely for debt and or school construction ought to be considered by all of us. Number three, on who can vote. Last year, the legislature turned down a bill that would have required citizenship. I think that's something that in light of this election and others, we need. There are a lot of things that we need to do. There are in other states numerous people that are non-citizens that have been registered to vote, in Texas, Ohio, and Oregon, just to name a few. And so I would think that we ought to have a strong position to say that if you're going to vote and be registered to vote, you should meet the same requirements as getting a U.S. passport. That's not discriminatory. That's so that those that are U.S. citizens determine U.S. law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments on the legislative agenda? So does the Board want to take up some amendments to the draft agenda before we vote to postpone? Because you won't get a chance if we vote to postpone. As written here, I'm okay. I mean, as I made a comment a few minutes ago, if those things are included, which I believe they are in this draft, I'm okay. But I just want to emphasize those issues. I'm okay with moving it. Just moving ahead, coming back. Not doing anything tonight. All right. So if the Board doesn't want to debate any of the items on there now, we can take them all up in two weeks, assuming my motion passes. Is that agreeable or does anyone else want any comments? Very good. Then we'll vote on the motion to postpone for two weeks the legislative agenda as drafted. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lueb? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. So we're postponing that. Next item, nine, appointments to Board committees and commissions. We don't have any on the agenda to vote on today. Ms. Phillips, would you like to identify some of the open seats? We have the Historic Resources Advisory Board, Redbud District Representative, an unexpired term ending July of 2027, and two vacant seats on the East Side. We're trying to be proactive in getting the seats filled. So those vacancies on the Agricultural District, what term are they? Do you know? They are undetermined, indefinite terms, and that Board meets very seldom, usually once a year, but only must meet once every five years. It does not meet very often. Thank you very much. So I think it's a good idea to have those vacancies on the Agricultural District committee to be helpful. And I think we're going to have to have a meeting on the next item. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. And I think that's a good idea. So we're going to have to have a meeting on the East Side of the board. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. And I think it's a good idea. So we're going to have to have a meeting on the East Side of the board, and that Board meets very seldom, usually once a year, but only must meet once every five years. It does not meet very often. They are undetermined, indefinite terms, and that Board meets very seldom, usually once a year, but only must meet once every five years. It does not meet very often. Thank you very much. So if you're interested in agricultural policy but you don't want to have to invest a whole lot of time in advising the county, that might be a good first opportunity to get involved with our citizen involvement process and apply for that advisory committee. Thank you, Ms. Phil. Thank you, Ms. Phil. We'll take the floor. We'll take the floor. in agricultural policy, but you don't want to have to invest a whole lot of time in advising the county, that might be a good first opportunity to get involved with our citizen involvement process and apply for that advisory committee. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. We'll move on to item 10, committee business. And unlike last meeting, we have one item for you to read instead of about 25. Ms. Actually, is someone presenting? Mr. Bishop, will you be presenting this information from the Transportation Committee? Mr. Very good. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Mr. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. As was discussed at the Transportation Committee, the Renaissance Drive project does have an overall funding shortfall of $464,788.65 over the current budget. The total current budget, that's the soup to nuts back to the beginning of the project, is $5,888,220.97. Now at the Transportation Committee, this was considered. We were still gathering information from VDOT regarding a relatively new program they have for revenue sharing projects whereby you can get additional matching funds. We didn't have much information at that time. So at the time of the Transportation Committee, there was a vote taken. However, it failed on a two-to-two tie due to lack of additional information. Since the time of the Transportation Committee, we've been able to have further discussions with VDOT regarding this program. And they have indicated that we would be able to basically, the county needs to finish the project, then the state will look at what the overrun actually ended up being because everything is an estimate at the end of the day. And then they would be, basically there's funds available that they could come back and do 50-50 on the overrun itself. So in this case, while we're asking you today for $464,788.65, assuming we did end up spending all of that to complete the project, we would be expecting to receive back half of that from the state of Virginia and VDOT. Thank you. Yes, sir. So you're recommending for action to be taken? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So should there be an approval today, an approval of the supplemental? Yes, sir. Thank you. So, board, how would you like to handle this? Oh, first of all, any more questions from Mr. Bishop? Just one, Mr. Chairman. Sir? Just for the record, if for some reason, the board did not approve this, then I believe that we have money that we have to give back to the state. Is that correct? Under VDOT policy, you could be in a situation where if the board just decided to scrap this nearly complete project, that would mean, again, a huge fine and that will just take a few weeks. I mean potential clawback from VDOT of $2.7 million. Of $2.7 million? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Bishop? Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Board, how would you like to handle this item? Mr. Chairman, as you know, as a member of the Transportation Committee, I did not originally support this. And when we first looked at Renaissance Road some years ago, this was a revenue-sharing project between Frederick County and the developer. And at the time when this was taken up, and I want to make sure that everybody knows when this project was first taken up, the backstop was on the taxpayer of Frederick County instead of the developer. And I did not support it at that time for that reason. Here we are with an additional $464,000. And we are now in a position where the resources, if we don't fund this $464,000, then Frederick County has the potential to reimburse the state for what's already transpired. So I just want us all to be cognizant of these revenue-sharing projects and backstops and making sure that if a developer, is going to move forward with a project, that they are the ones backstopping it and not the taxpayer. However, given the situation that we're in, I will make a motion for us to approve the general fund supplemental appropriation. And at the same time, because the transportation fund holds its own funds for payment, once VDOT, or we get the final estimate to VDOT, the appropriation will be approved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The appropriation would be $464,788.65 for a general fund supplemental appropriation and the transportation fund number 27. And that is my motion, sir. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I've actually talked to several of the businesses that this is impacting, and they're very anxious to see this completed. This project's been ongoing since 2007. So, 17 years. And they are very anxious to see it completed. So, we appreciate all that Mr. Bishop and Mr. Pearson have done to move this thing, and they have really, really pushed this hard for us. And there's a lot of people in the back Greek district that will be happy to see this completed. Thank you. Any other comments? No, except for I would also thank Mr. Bishop for his work with VDOT in trying to secure at least half of this amount. We had hoped it might be even less, but I am thankful that at least VDOT has identified that this need for this cost overrun is revenue sharing eligible, and they are willing to split the cost with Frederick County to get this project over the finish line. So, I just really appreciate your efforts, Mr. Bishop, to make sure that we were able to at least minimize the impact to our taxpayer. Thank you. Any other comments? I'll just say I wasn't here 17 years ago, so I didn't vote on this the way it was, but neither was the planning director. So, hopefully the board and the county as a whole, as the county grows, we're also growing in staff and expertise, and we're fixing issues with the way bonds are done. We've got legislative ideas to go forward with regard to, in fact, we've got to make sure that made it into the legislative, the legislative agenda, that the idea of pulling the costs at the time of the permits and not at the time of the rezoning. So, we're certainly minimizing problems and risk for the public in the future, but this is one we've inherited from 16, 17 years ago, unfortunately. That's my only comment, and so then we can move to a vote. The motion is to approve the supplement, supplemental appropriation. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. The supplemental is approved. Next item. We jump to item 12, public hearings. We have two public hearings under planning commission business. The first is 12A rezoning number 06, 24 of Fruit Hill. Mr. Bishop, are you presenting? Yes, sir. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. As you have noted, you have before you rezoning 06, 24 Fruit Hill. This particular rezoning had a previous lifetime. At that time, it was 1022. That's the first time we've done that. It's now 1032. Same rezoning, but it never actually made it to board consideration, though it was on your agenda back at that time after a couple visits to the planning commission. This is a request to rezone 220 acres to a mixture of uses, 189 acres of M1 light industrial, 20.64 acres of technology manufacturing, 10.34 of B2 general business. This is located just south of Rush Church, and west of Zachary Ann Lane, basically next to the Flying J truck stop. This will construct approximately five buildings of varying sizes, which would total approximately 2.4 million square feet of space, as well as 5,000 square foot restaurant and a hotel, which would contain up to 100 rooms. A portion of that 2.4 million is to be reserved, specifically 300,000 square feet, for the potential location, of a data center within that TM zoned parcel. The properties are highlighted on the screen to your left in the purple there. Someone corrected me yesterday and said it was fuchsia, so you'll have to forgive me on whether that's purple or fuchsia. But there you have it. Once again, you see it's all south of Rush Church Road, and to the west of Zachary Ann Lane, you have the exit 323 and the Flying J truck stop right there on the upper right of your screen. Okay. Jumping right into comprehensive plan conformance, of course, you somewhat recently have adopted an update to the Northeast Land Use Plan, but it actually didn't change the land use designation for these parcels. They are still identified as mixed use, industrial and office. But specific language here is that the NELIP does identify a number of areas which are calling for that mixed use, industrial and office. These areas are intended to develop with the TARP, targeted growth sectors identified by the county's economic development authority, as well as similar industries that are likely to bring higher wages, professional and or technology jobs. Based on that language, it is the staff determination that the application is not fully compliant due to the fact that the primary applied for use here, which is about 85% warehousing, is not necessarily an EDA targeted industry, and nor do we consider it a, much of a mix with 85% of it being that particular use. And this is just the actual map of your Northeast Land Use Plan. And basically that color configuration means mixed use, industrial office. Specific to transportation site access, the Eastern Road Plan does call for already a north south collector road through this property, as well as improvements befitting a major collector status for rest church, road, and other areas. And this is the north south collector road between that north south collector road and Route 11. More specifically to the traffic impact analysis that is associated with this rezoning, it did call for an additional turn lane on the 81 northbound exit ramp, additional left turn capacity for the turn from rest church road onto northbound 11. You may wonder why that particular movement would be impacted by this industry, but it's really specific to stacking and creating the road, and the room to accommodate the extra trips. It calls for a left turn lane from rest church road onto the north south collector road itself, as well as potential signalization of rest church road at the north south collector road. The once again in terms of determining whether it's fully compliant, it's not fully compliant because it doesn't address that I-81 ramp. However, as I've noted, they have touched a number of things as I jump into the proffers, we'll get into more detail there. But let's start with development use specific to the proffers. Key note, I'm summarizing proffers here. I'm not reading the 12 pages of proffers to you ad nauseum. I'm picking out the highlights. So if you have specific questions on other things, we can dig into those. But the applicant has prohibited within the M1 area that is proposed a number of restricted uses, such as dry cleaning, automotive, other repair services, cesspool cleaning, industrial laundry, launderers, as well as others specific to the TM portion of property. They have restricted that parcel to, to accommodate up to 300,000 square feet of data center only. So they couldn't necessarily because because your TM zoning would still potentially allow 50% warehousing. However, they're proffering that that could only be a data center on that piece. Um, and and finally the B2 allows up to 100 unit hotel. Forgive my typo there. United Hotel. Maybe it's soccer related. Um, and up to 5000 square feet of restaurant only, um, to be particularly, uh, detailed. Uh, those could be two buildings or one. That's why we say approximately five buildings at the beginning. Um, proffers 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 basically cover what I've already touched on a little bit, which is that the warehousing would be up to one or I'm sorry, 2.125, 1,500,000 square feet of warehousing with not more than, um, 300,000 square feet of that being high cube cold storage. Um, other M1 allowed uses not restricted, um, except where otherwise noted in the proffers as I was listening a little bit earlier. Um, and if projected traffic or use exceed what was studied, uh, a new TIA would be required and associate improvements would would have to be done along with that. So while technically you look at the study, you start picking through the uses of what's allowed in the M1, you could probably come up with a combination, uh, that would project more traffic. That has been studied. The proffers protect against that through the requirement of a new study berms and buffering. Uh, the applicant has proffered to build a six foot berm along the boundary of the Carrollton subdivision and Ridgeway estate subdivision, which are noted on the GDP coming up here in a minute, um, where no berm is included. Um, they haven't included berms along where they have a border bordering R a zone parcels. Um, they would preserve the existing vegetation for 75 square feet, or increase building setbacks to 200 ft. I just once again, as shown on the GDP moving into your transportation proffers, um, proper 3.2 talks about the relocation of Zachary and Lane and construction of Fruit Hill Road. Fruit Hill Road is your comp plan. North South South Roadway that I was referring to earlier. I guess if they build it, they get to name it. So Fruit Hill sounds okay, I guess. But Zachary and Lane would be located relocated right now. You may be familiar. It comes out right next to the flying J truck. Stop fairly close to the interchange was is not ideal. So I was encouraged by this particular proffer because it would relocate it to come over this Fruit Hill Road, um, and constructed Fruit Hill Road itself while potentially a future long range future four lane road. They were, they are proffering and constructed as two lanes with a trail associated with it on 104 ft right of way to accommodate that future full section. Um, proffer 3.3 talks about rest church, um, turn lane. That's, specifically would be the westbound turn lane, uh, making a left onto this new roadway to enter into the park. Um, proffers 3.4 and 3.5 talk about Rue Buck Lane. Um, number of things associated with Rue Buck Lane, whereby the applicant is proffering additional 25 ft of right of way along Rue Buck Lane from where it is now. Anybody familiar with Rue Buck Lane will call that needed. I expect that's fairly narrow road. Um, they would also pave it, uh, as well as create a turnaround. At where it ends today. Uh, but also, uh, create a trip restriction for Rue Buck, Rue Buck Lane. Technically, Rue Buck Lane right of way does continue into this property, uh, and by which they would have rights to it. They're proffering away those rights, so you would not have any, um, whether it be vehicles of employees or tractor trailer, that sort of trip taking advantage of Rue Buck Lane. Continuing on with your transportation proffers, um, proffer, 3.3, 4.6 is specific to the Rue Levin, uh, turn lane improvements, which we were talking about a little bit earlier. Uh, this would increase the left turn capacity, um, and receiving on 11 itself from the eastbound rest church road left turns onto Rue Levin northbound. Um, the trigger for this one is designed, uh, basically an approved rezoning upon approval rezoning. They would have six months to get that design going and as soon as the design was approved, um, they would be required to go ahead and begin the work. Um, other other deadlines are are detailed and proffer 3.7 in which we note except for the Rue Levin improvements, uh, themselves, which I've just touched on and the phasing for Fruit Hill Road since that's north south, um, through the development that would be, um, worked out with site plans and phased in as as basically as the site is build out, um, all other road improvements are to be completed prior to the first occupancy permit. Um, they did go, uh, we already talked a little bit about Rue Buck Lane, but it also notes that there is a proffer, uh, 3.8 that Fruit Hill Road is the only access. So it's not as if, um, to the east and west of Fruit Hill Road we could get an additional, um, site site access. Um, and finally there is potential under the T I A long term for a signal being required at the intersection of Fruit Hill Road and rest church road. Uh, if that were to occur, the applicant has proffered a pro rata share toward that signal. Um, a further note about that pro rata share is that, um, it would not include basically our community trips that are there today. Wouldn't. So if, if you're just, you know, Joe Blow living out in that neighborhood who regularly goes through that intersection, your trips do not count toward the signal that is triggered by folks that are entering, uh, the development. However, if there's development to the north prior to that signal, um, being needed, uh, they would count toward a pro rata share. So those type of things would be need to be considered as well. Um, if we get land use requests to the north, uh, as moving to the applicants GDP here, just a general, um, layout. You can see the potential buildings that we discussed earlier and I'm going to see if I can turn on our laser pointer. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, I'm going to. Um, um, um, um, um, um, am going to um, um, you can follow my mouse on the screen to your left. I am currently Kurt Lee outlining the m one portion of the parcel, which as as already obvious is is the majority. Um, that's basically the area with all these biggest buildings you see in it. The Tm facility. And finally this is your B2 parcel right here at the current intersection of Zachary Ann Lane and Resch Church Road although Zachary Ann Lane would be coming along behind it and then Crute Hill would be the actual corner it would be on. Moving on from there, we have a little bit of a more simplified map that focuses on the transportation since there are a number of those proffers. I light it in yellow up here, I'll turn that back on so it's a little easier to see where I'm trying to point for you. Is that intersection improvement that I was referring to the left turn onto Route 11 North. Right here is your intersection with Resch Church Lane. Right here is your piece of Zachary Ann Lane which would be getting demolished and taken out fully while Zachary Ann Lane would be brought over to Crute Hill and of course fully north south through this site you have the two lanes of the, of the future Crute Hill Road that north south collector from your comprehensive plan as well as the 10 foot paved trail. To give you a point of reference for Rubuck Road it is all the way over here on the western side of the development. Basically makes up this boundary here. This is where the applicant would be constructing that future turnaround and as I've already noted there is a right of way, an additional right of way dedication there as well as paving of Rubuck. In summary I've already said the request is to rezone 220 total acres to 189 acres of M1, 20.64 of TM and 10.34 of B2 in order to enable warehousing, potential data center and a hotel restaurant. We've pointed out these are the same as from your, from your staff report in terms of positive and concerns. Positives are you do have a significant commercial industrial development. I'm sorry, industrial development and an area in vision for that type of development. This would potentially be your first TM district since you have completed that zoning district. Of course the upgrades to Rubuck Lane and Route 11 are positives. Implementation of the comp plan north south collector roadway is a positive. Concerns that staff has is that the predominant proposed use 85% of which is warehousing distribution isn't necessarily what we would call a true mix for that mixed use office or I'm sorry industrial and office design. And as a check point the work plan Vietnamese Road you know we will add other material to the Europare we're incredibly excited to have been part of and be part of. This was somewhat of a basket with fantastic pumps, they're available to response. Just to. In my mind every time some staff member would say they're stay with me, we haveyet ague zoning following a public hearing. We do have Mr. John Foote, Mr. Dandalele here on behalf of the applicant, and they have their own presentation as well. Thank you. Before them, any questions for Mr. Bishop? I do have one question. On one of your earlier proffers, you mentioned that if the traffic exceeds that as indicated in the TIA study, that there would be a revisit on improvements that need to be made. Yes, sir. How would we have leverage to get improvements after the project is finished? Is there some formula? We would calculate that before development of whatever phase we're getting into. So when an applicant submits a site plan, each subsequent site plan, since we're talking about multiple units here, there's a traffic calculation that goes along with those, because VDOT reviews site plans as well. So we're able to basically track that and be like, all right, you guys are exceeding, so we need to do X. So it wouldn't be based on the... No, it's not a... It would be the estimated count. Correct. It would be an estimated count based on whatever the next phase. Now, the proffers do allow, let's say, three buildings build out in the next five years, and then they're coming along with a fourth building after that. Assuming those three buildings are up and running at capacity, we would allow the applicant to use the actual trips of what is open, and then we would layer on top of that the projection for the new piece they'd like to add, and that is how we would make the determination. And then those improvements and the cost sharing, that would come to us to approve at that point? If it had to be, typically, that ends up being handled administratively, but if we ended up, frankly, say, at an impasse to where the TIA was saying such and such is needed, and it was more than the applicant might want to do, or that sort of thing, theoretically, you could end up in another, frankly, rezoning decision. Yeah. That's a good decision to make the adjustments to where they could get the permissions they needed. But assuming TIA says you have to do X and the applicant goes out and does X, it would never come before the Board again. Thank you. I think we'd be concerned if a problem did develop, especially with I-81 ramps and expenses and safety issues like that, should they occur, I think we would want to weigh in on it in that case. Yes. I mean, we're assuming this passes and that's down the road some years. Right. So thank you. So no other questions for Mr. Bishop? Sure. Then Supervisor Jewell? I do have one. If this is not an EDA targeted, what is EDA recommending? EDA has not made a specific recommendation. They're actually not even necessarily commenting agency for the rezoning. I might have to defer to Wyatt, who works a little more with Patrick Barker than I do about what is specifically on their list right now as far as targeted industries. On what would eDA do? Yeah. Patrick Barker, Jesse Herz, R vec. Okay. Great. You may have a guy on the room or something. T marked him. Make it sure the people okay. Yeah, I don't know if his name is on here. Yeah, he's coming, kind of, coming, coming. Yeah, I'm OK. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We'll talk about vandaagso factories, things like that that, I guess,çar. And give that to us. borrow Austin's for a moment so yeah thank you John and I think the board may remember a relatively recent presentation from the Economic Development Authority where they had reviewed the list of targeted industries that they they prefer the things that come to mind that we've talked about recently and that they talk about probably the most are the advanced manufacturing uses as it relates to warehousing I think that they prefer there be some form of automation or cold storage component to that bioscience data centers basically things that have high capital investment or high paying jobs or both in some form or fashion so that is your question it does it does well that's what I wanted it's easy just to say EDA it's not a target but what is it EDA is trying to do so thank you no other questions this is a question we can move to the yes sir present bring that up quickly I have one thing to piggyback off of that according to mr. Barker when I spoke with him if this warehousing that is proposed if it was highly recognized then the revenue would that would increase even it being warehousing is that accurate yeah certainly because there'd be a machinery and tools tax component to that as well yeah certainly because there'd be a machinery and tools tax component to that as well the other thing I would note is well mr. Del L and his firm typically does work in the strictly warehousing business in our specific locality nothing about their project is inherently going to require it to be that right so they didn't proffer out other m1 uses that could be potential targeted industries that would meet the EDA intents it's just they've been honest in their transaction with us that that is likely their intent to build warehousing distribution on this site but know that I know Dan's a businessman and he him and John can speak a little bit better to this but I'm sure they wouldn't shy away if there were an opportunity to that effect right so the proffers don't limit it in that in that respect it's just their intention right now okay yeah thank you good mr. chairman members of the board pardon me here Well I'm Well I make myself a mess here as you know my name is John Foote I'm with waltz Colucci Lubala and waltz and I do represent Equus as I have represented I actually have friends on this board, and I'm pleased to say that I have friends on this board. I'm going to do a brief presentation. I'm going to try and not replicate what John has so ably done simply because he does such a good job at it. I would observe about EQIS, and I believe you know Dan Dallella here is a very senior member of the firm, and he has been working in this community for many years now. I can't even tell you it goes back at least 15, if not 20 years, that he's been building facilities in the Frederick community. During that period of time, he has made and met every commitment that he has made to this community. EQIS is a developer of its projects, and as I've been asked before, it does not bank land. It actually develops the land that it acquires and that it uses. In connection with this project, we, we made over the course of the time that we've been working on this project a significant amount of community outreach. We know that there are some people who would prefer that this not be developed, but it is in general conformance with your comprehensive plan. We can't promise at this location that it's going to be everything high tech, that it's going to be data centers and all that Mr. Barker might like to see, but Mr. Dallella can discuss with you things that he has in fact done before. For example, a facility that some of you may have toured, and, and Warren County, which is in fact exactly the sort of thing that Mr. Barker would like to see in this location, which was done for, I believe, Iron Mountain, which is a data center user. It's not a data center itself, but it's one of our clients in Prince William where it does in fact construct data centers. We reached out to the Carrollton subdivision. We reached out to Ridgeway Estates and talked to folks in those jurisdictions and those communities. And of course, we reached out to the, to the, to the federal government and the federal government. And we reached out to Flying J and Flying J is comfortable with the proposal that is being made here with respect to this project. Now, John, we know how I do this, right, and that's poorly. This is an exemplar of the kind of structure that EQAS builds. We are not proffering this. I want you to understand this is an illustrative exhibit. It is not necessarily what we built, but this is what they do. They don't just slop up buildings, This is what kind of work they prepare and do. You've already seen this exhibit. I'm not going to spend any time on it because I've got some other slides I'd like to approach to. This is the first I would like to focus on. This is a conceptual exhibit, which is the same thing but with color. I'm going to move to the next one because this is actually more important. This talks about the transportation. John, could you move your microphone? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. This actually focuses on the transportation improvements that John described. I want to start right here. This is, of course, what we call Fruit Hill. Anything you want to name it is okay with us. That was what we put in our narrative and our proffers. This is your comprehensive plan road. It is proffered to be dedicated all 104 feet of that right-of-way, which would be consistent with your connector road. It would be built to a half section as opposed to a full section. The simple reason for that is that this project itself will not produce the kind of traffic that is necessary to justify a full four-lane divided road through here or even a full four-lane undivided road. It does justify access to the facilities that might be built along it, for example, these two structures. But it is the beginning of a road. It is the beginning of a road. That this county wants to see built as a consequence of its plan. The other thing that was going to happen right here is that there's going to be 200. By the way, you talked about the Zachary Lane. I'm going to show you another example about that. But there's going to be improvements of about 200 feet of storage and a left turn in lane to this position that doesn't exist today. There's a site distance problem down here that will be fixed. It exists today and that will be fixed. You will also go back up here and we'll talk a bit more about this. But this is going to be the fix of Zachary and up here at Route 11. I want to deal with this because it's imperative that we talk about this I-81 issue because we discussed that with the Planning Commission. We discussed that with the staff and we discussed it with VDOT. If there were attempts to fix the I-81 ramp, you have to deal not with just this county, but you have to deal with the Federal Highway Administration. And the length of time associated with that. Is far more than almost any project can by itself accomplish. So we thought, well, how do we deal with this otherwise? The answer was the improvements that are proffered up here, which is to create additional turning lanes north at 11 across the bridge. When we were at the Planning Commission back last year, a gentleman from VDOT spoke to the Commission. And I think somewhat to our surprise because we had not heard it before. But what he said was, what he said to the Planning Commission was that that improvement, the turning lanes right here and a widening of the right of way going up 11 to the north, would actually have a more beneficial effect on traffic movement, particularly at the bridge here, than would an improvement to the ramp. Because it would move vehicles across that bridge more swiftly than the ramp does today or the bridge does today with the lighting signals that are in excess. So he said that was actually a more valuable improvement than the ramp itself, which of course is both extremely expensive and very time consuming to try and obtain approval for. We also mentioned Rubeck Lane down here. And indeed, all of us have been on it. I've been on it. Everybody that lives out there has been on it. And we had talked to neighbors down there about a couple of things, one of which is that it needs to be paved. At one point, we talked about it going into the Rural Road Addition Program. But we had talked to neighbors down there about a couple of things, one of which is that it needs to be paved. At one point, we talked about it going into the Rural Road Addition Program. But we had talked to neighbors down there about a couple of things, one of which is that it needs to be paved. At one point, we talked about it going into the Rural Road Addition Program. They say yes, but two, the next time I come out of this junkyard, I'll be gonna be on this side of a road there on a very great mark, and I'm going to try to be on this side of the road in the way that it would be. When we got there, we heard that almost all people us in Rural Road were taking the signs, and we saw these signs go up to complete the whole post. But, again, it was kind of adaptations. So that of course, showed up to the Trinity universally. And so Bob, after all those times he's been on it, it was, had all these Hop hjälper surfaces and had himself since been on it four times. And so Bob didn't say no. those people to get in and out more easily. Also down here as John said there's going to be a turnaround that's a VDOT standard turnaround so that fire fire trucks buses can come back down that road and be safe getting in and out. It's a safe turnaround both for the neighbors and also for emergency vehicles. All of that is to be done in connection with the development and as John has said this improvement up here if this board were to see fit to approve this rezoning within six months plans have to be before the before you for approval or for the for the staffs approval VDOT's approval and construction has to begin as soon as permits are issued for it. There's no waiting for the development to commence those improvements are independent of the construction commencement of the project itself. The rest of these improvements will have to be constructed before the construction commencement. The first occupancy permit for one of the structures so all of these transportation improvements would occur as a cause of this of this proposal but also before any of the traffic goes on to it. You also heard there's going to be a rather substantial amount of screening and buffering where there is a six-foot berm it's going to be constructed so that it's going to be planted and it's more than just the berm it'll have landscaping on it but also if there's no place you can put the berm then you have to either be 75 feet full of existing vegetation or you have to make sure that every building is set back at least 200 feet from the property boundary. It's also true that the most important area and we were very concerned about this and talk to folks out here this is where most of the folks residences are there are some in this area of course there are residents around but a lot of this is large open land and some of it is actually you know up here it's all industrial or commercial land up here that's where it's located. It's already zoned and developed. This is Rubuck and this is where Rubuck is here is where it's going to be moved to as opposed to where it comes across now in here and that's going to be an 840 foot additional length of rest church to that turn into Fruit Hill. It's also as I said going to be improved where the connection is made to our little Fruit Hill Road. But that additional 840 feet is going to move traffic back from the bridge by that much almost almost 900 feet before anybody can make a turn into to to Rubuck. I'm sorry into Zachary Ann. This is the proffer itself proffer. Well I can see any more at that distance whatever that proffer is 3-6. This is the proffer that you can read on your own time here which I'm sure you just aching to do. Which says that we've got to build route route 11 improvements within six months after the board approves it should you choose to do so. These are the proffers that talk about what you're going to be seeing in there and John is correct to outline all of these if you'll notice up here there's 300,000 square feet in the TM district is in fact preserved exclusively for the potential for data centers. I believe that the staff we've talked to. I think. I think. I think. I think I've talked to the staff I'm sure you have as well about data centers in this county as I've mentioned to some of you perhaps we represented 11 different data center companies. If data centers want to come out here there's a place 300,000 square feet is the size of a good sized data center. I mentioned before that that I have done a data center for another company that's 230,000 square feet on a piece of property that is smaller than this or about the same size as this. this and would permit a very substantial data center and the revenues that you could gain from it is that coming your way right now no one can say I'm never going to predict that it will or won't happen you have the power in this area you know that do you have the fiber I think not yet but fiber is something you can put in the ground who knows when it's coming I can't say but that it cannot be anything else without another reasoning from this board with respect to the b2 that's the one that talks about the hotel and the I can't see that far anymore I have another pair of glasses for that but I'm not wearing them the hotel and the grocery store and the grocery store what grocery store we're talking about the hotel and the restaurant and down here you have a limitation of your your your industrial use and and what what I would think it's safe to say and and Dan can address this more directly what is the value of the B2 that's the one that talks about the hotel and the what equals does probably as well as anybody is logistics facilities logistics industrial light industrial logistics and and it I believe some of you are aware and some of you may have taken a tour of a facility in Warren County that is in fact the NTT facility Iron Mountain facility which is exactly that sort of a facility if those people are available and I think the position was made a moment ago if they come believe me that's a tenant that would be attractive to equals we also have listed any number of uses that can't be there the limitation on the amount of coal storage is what's called high cube warehousing what that means is it's a kind of warehousing that produces the most trip generation of any kind of such a facility and so that obviously affects the quality of the facilities that we're using and so that's what the traffic impact of this would be and so high cube coal storage can be limited only because of how much traffic we can generate and I'm going to address that momentarily so we have a limitation on that but no limitation up to the two million on those other facilities that we'd say and there are a long list of things that you can't do that are taken directly from your ordinance uses that you wouldn't want to see so that we get down to those uses that you would like they're in the proffers themselves and they're in the proffers themselves today when I mention this to you because it is it is something that we showed to the Planning Commission we've showed it to VDOT the staff I want to emphasize at the outset that all traffic modeling that was done for this project was done using the Institute of Transportation engineers ITE manual trip generation numbers that is to say we use exactly what VDOT requires every project to use for the calculation of trip impact but what this demonstrates it's based on numbers at facilities that EQIS actually operates the blue number indicates what ITE suggests would be the trip generation from a three hundred and thirty thousand square foot warehouse the red number indicates the actual weekday a.m. peak hour from a facility of that size that EQIS operates the next one is a two and eighty seven thousand square foot facility. Thank you. ITE says forty nine vehicles per a.m. peak hour. What's the actual count. Eleven. I can take you all the way down. Let's go to the hundred and thirty nine thousand one thirty nine development drive it's called five hundred eighty thousand square foot warehouse right here. That is a facility that the ITE number would tell you is ninety nine vehicle trips in the a.m. peak hour. It's actually producing 17. Now. This is absolutely true across all of these uses but we suggest to you that the traffic impact EQIS predicts will be less than the ITE prediction but we modeled everything on ITE to determine the impact that it would have for purposes of traffic modeling. This is week eight weekday p.m. peak hour and you can see that the same holds true. The blue is ITE numbers. The red. And the red is the actual counts at actual warehouses similar to those that are proposed here. Those numbers show the difference we modeled on the blue not on the red. Now economic impact of this proposal has been a matter of very grave concern both to you and us. One of the reasons that I'm aware of this is because as you know I try to follow what's happening in this fair village and I'm aware that you've recently been having discussions with yourself. You've been having discussions with yourself. You've been having discussions with yourself. You're the vice chairperson of the school board about what to do about your schools and the fact that you need revenue to build schools. Well EQIS project the one I'm this is the one in Warren right Dan? Yeah. That was they had a twenty five million dollars development budget. They built thirteen million dollars fourteen million dollars of tenant improvements. Total project cost was almost thirty nine million dollars. And that did not include what the tenant brought in. There were two hundred new jobs created with that project. And those are not low pay. paying jobs. I believe they pay in the neighborhood of what? Do you remember what the average wage is? $40 to $45 an hour. And that's down the street. Logistics and warehousing employment is projected to grow by 11.4% nationally between 20 and 30, and manufacturing growth is projected to be 2% during that period. The warehousing section versus the manufacturing growth period. And the wages are basically the same. In Hampton Roads, wages are $1,200 a week. Manufacturing wages, $1,300 a week. Roughly the same. Shenandoah Valley industrial development users support local manufacturing. It serves the Virginia Inland Port, which, as you know, is an economic driver in this region. I think I forget what its current budget is. It's putting a lot of money into its project to this day, increasingly so. And as an alternative to Northern Virginia, one of the things that Equus has learned is that prices for warehouse space in Northern Virginia are becoming exorbitant and almost unsustainable for the kind of people to whom they build structures. Cost of land is simply, unsurprisingly, rather high. Well, it's not cheap out here, but it's certainly not what it is in Northern Virginia. So what's happening is that some of these companies are building their facilities out here. Dan can tell you who they are, and you'll recognize the names immediately. And their employees are living and working out here and no longer commuting. So you've got people with jobs out here. You've got people with less traffic on the road. You've got people who are living and spending their resources in your communities because they're not commuting to Northern Virginia because of the need for this warehousing, these facilities. And they're coming out here. You've seen it in this county before. So in Frederick County, for example, Rubbermaid, Home Depot, Trex, Geotis, those are facilities that Equus has serviced. The Port of Virginia, I don't need to tell you this, you just recently, I think, had a tour of the port. And so you know a good deal about it. So I don't need to bore you with this, but it is a remarkable facility. It took me years to figure out what it meant to be an inland port. But there it is on that rail line. The these facilities, in short, produce a substantial amount of revenue both for the people who work there and for the communities in which they exist. I wanted to mention one other thing about this that I won't call it a subtext because it's not really a subtext. And that is we discovered some historic facilities, houses out here. This is the Sullenberger House. And I'll go back up here and you can see one down the way at喝 risk, is probably the kiln Act acontece Ing용 Hữu so I just Did not just name one or two and one two, and one two, one, two and three and one is the The early House around 1800 the hangar house. That's this one. That was slew was built in the 1800s as well. Hold Back. And this is the house at 14, 20 rest church road. Also an 1800s area House era House and twice the land was built the time one half a century of land that was over 200 years ago very is going back blind khair as a whole this is the the overوا bad i guy delust who right across the house. And it has been a promise to make a study of this before anything happens to it going through your historic resources advisory board should that become required based on the studies that are done. Mr. Chairman, this is a project that we believe brings to you a well-proffered, well-tailored project that brings to you logistic and industrial uses that are valuable to your community, produce tax revenues for you. The impact has been mitigated to a substantial degree. There's going to be cars. By the way, I'd like to point out also with respect to traffic modeling, traffic modeling takes into consideration trucks as well as cars. So that all got into the model as well. And this is going to be trucks here to be sure. Our submission to you is that the modeling shows that this can be handled at this location without... There's going to be trucks out there. There's going to be trucks out there. I think it's going to be a problem for this community because you're lucky enough to have Interstate 81 right through the middle of you here. But this is a project that has done all that can possibly be done to mitigate that impact and to provide you with revenue, jobs, and a class-action project by a top-flight developer. And we're happy to answer any of your questions. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Foote? I have one question. I'm a senior at the University of Michigan, and I'm very excited to be a part of this project. I'm a senior at the University of Michigan, and I'm here to help you with your development. And I'm a senior at the University of Michigan, and I'm a senior at the University of Michigan. I have one question. Yes, sir. On slide five, you don't have to show it. You can, if you want. If I remember what it is. You showed the intersection, and you mentioned improvements to the turn onto Route 11. Yes. To keep traffic from moving down the street. That's right. And you have a lot of traffic. We've got a lot of traffic. I think the intersection is a good example of that. But I think it's a good example of how to make sure that the intersection is a good intersection to keep traffic going. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. I think that's what we're going to be doing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And you mentioned improvements to the turn onto Route 11. Yes. To keep traffic from stacking up and gridlocking. And you said that that was a better improvement, according to VDOT, than to improving the northbound ramps. That's what the man from VDOT said. I'm no student of it, but that's what he said to the Planning Commission. So my greater concern than that is the northbound exit ramp from Route 11. Because those trucks have to go to the bridge and make a left turn. And if they stack up, they will back traffic up onto I-81, which is a considerably greater safety risk than traffic stacking up elsewhere. Did you look at... Yes. That was evaluated in the traffic impact model. And it does not show that this project has dramatic impact on that. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. It was modeled both directions. And I'll leave it to Mr. Bishop, whose memory of that would be better than mine, because I look at the traffic. I look at those little circles and my eyes go across. But I'm sure you can help us. Well, I know the Planning Department was concerned about traffic going over the capacity of that bridge. And I don't know if the northbound ramp is part of that concern. Mr. Chairman, John can speak to this with much better technicality than I can. But the traffic impact analysis called for two improvements. They've proffered to make one, which Mr. Foote just detailed. But I don't think that's the case. Which is the... Well, it called for more than two improvements. But the two in question are the Route 11 and Rest Church improvements, which the applicant intends to construct post-haste if the rezoning is approved. And the VDOT representative that he remembers was Adam Campbell from the VDOT District Planning. And in that last public hearing, I think at the Planning Commission, Adam made it clear that if that movement is improved and that storage is added, then it's unlikely that the northbound exit ramp would have the possibility of backing up onto the interstate because the intersection with Rest Church and Route 11 would function efficiently enough to where traffic would move through and you'd be unlikely to have stacking all the way back up. However, the TIA still does call for improvements to be made to the interstate ramp, the northbound exit ramp there. And that is not yet addressed by the applicant in their proffer package due for the reasons they've noted as it relates to timelines and getting things like that approved with federal highways and the cost associated with making improvements to the interchange ramps. And John, if I missed anything... I'm sorry, John Bishop, if I missed anything, please feel free to add to that. Yeah. I agree with everything you said, sir. Thank you. And you have another... Was Dan presenting as well or is this the presentation? If you have questions only, sir. Okay. Any questions for Mr. Foote or Mr. Dallalla? No, then. Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Linda Reed. Good evening. Thank you. Name and magisterial district, just like earlier. I am Linda Reed and I am in the Shawnee District. I would like to express my deep opposition to the development of... The potential development of the data center at Fruit Hill. And I understand the current plan does not specifically... Include the data center because there is no infrastructure in place to support it. Because they need such massive high voltage transmission lines to deliver the huge amounts of electricity that they require. That simply doesn't exist right now. But the current proposal, as has been stated several times tonight, does allow this development any time in the future. These data centers use diesel fuel. They pollute our air. And they are very loud. They are very loud. And they are not desirable in a rural community. You don't have to take my word for this. You can drive down to Leesburg and walk southeast on the bike path where several of these data centers are located. It is like having a leaf blower, a lawn mower, or a motorcycle next door to you at all times. The internet and the news is full of people complaining about the stress of living under this noise. People are speaking up. They are all being unable to focus in their own homes. Their children have no sleep. Their horses and other livestock are suffering ill effects because of the stress of this noise. One diving picture from the Guardian we were we reopened on TV, one mayor stated that the nagging of the noise allowing a data center to be built was by far the worst decision почему this voice is coming from another out of this village. Clearly, thisba man is listening to a story he has shared about something that he looks like he hasn't. not a young person, he had plenty of decisions behind him, I'm sure. Imagine having these all over Frederick County as they are now in Loudoun County. Northern Virginia is considered the data center capital of the world because there are state tax incentives that are offered to these companies. They do not add jobs. The average data center, after it's completed, takes five to 30 jobs to maintain. Many of these jobs can be done remotely, so they don't even have to live in Frederick County. They can live thousands of miles away. These large companies don't seem to care about polluting our air or disrupting our lives. One corporate executive reportedly said that the noise and the pollution of data centers didn't matter because they were being built in the middle of nowhere. But this is not the middle of nowhere. This is the middle of nowhere. This is the middle of nowhere. This is the middle of nowhere. This is our home. If this Fruit Hill plan is approved, it could open the doors to data centers in all of Frederick County. Why would we willingly allow this denigration of our rural peacefulness, which we treasure? Let's not make the same mistake that Loudoun County has. The very least we can do is to reject the suggestion of a data center of Frederick County. That's a big mistake. That's a big mistake. I'm not going to be a leader of Fruit Hill proposal, ban data centers, or the possibility of data centers in all of Frederick County until the big corporations can eliminate the noise and the pollution. After all, God gave us this beautiful valley to live in. Why would we trash it? Thank you. Robert Galilee. He declined. That's the end of the list. That's it. Okay. Is there anyone else present tonight who would like to speak about this? Rezoning? We've got someone on their foot already, and I'll call you next, sir. James Mulder, Back Creek District. I work at Manassas Regional Airport. I pass probably a dozen data centers every day on my way to work, being built, some that's complete. When I first started working out there, I didn't know what it was. I'm like, where's all the people that work here? There's four or five cars. So it's not something that's going to bring a lot of jobs to the community. And then I ask a question. I'm like, what are all these big cylinders going up the building? They're chemicals. And I'm like, well, why does everyone have to have its own power plant? On the proposal here, I don't see anywhere for a power substation. They all have their own power substation because they take so much power. I don't know if you're going to be able to get that. I'm going to ask you a question. What are all these big cylinders doing? Well, I think the biggest thing is to run it. The big thing is to keep the power to run it. And the big thing is to cool it. And that's what all the chemicals are for is to keep it cool. So I'm like the lady before me. I don't want to see this county become a data center capital like Prince William is and everybody drive by them and, oh, there's the data centers. Yes, there's not a lot of people living around them, but the data centers will impact the value of their land. And it's not just the data centers. It's the data centers, the people that live around them. And they're the ones that are living around them. And so, I think, you know, it's a big thing. I think it's important to have a big thing, and I think the big thing, and I think the big thing, but it'll decrease it. I have a friend I work with, and he lives down in Spotsylvania where one's about to go up. And they've shown the plans, and their whole neighborhood, everybody has to look out the window and see a great big data center. And their home values are going to start to go down because people don't want to move and see that eyesight or have that type of chemicals around, and it's not beneficial. All right. Thank you, sir. That's a great question. Let me just try to get the mic on, and I'm going to try to get the mic on. Okay, everybody, I'm going to go ahead. All right. All right. All right, everybody, I'm going to go ahead. All right. All right. fitting anybody around there. Thank you, Board. Thank you. Sir, you wanted to speak also? My name is John Schallenberger. I'm at Stonewall District. I'm sorry. I'll be a little different from my neighbors. We're really not complaining about this at all. I think it's a good thing for the county. If that was a lake or a river, we'd be talking about a marina or townhouses or something going up here. But we've got something to bring some money into our county, and I think we'd be foolish not to use it. I know the tax base on this is going to be a lot more than you're getting off farmland today. I'm glad that you have done some of these in the past. I have two granddaughters that don't go over the mountain to work anymore. They work at McKesson. I think this outfit built that one, too. So there's some good to come from the improvements anyway. I think so. From what I heard, there's like there are, even if without the data center, they were looking at 300 to 400 jobs that are going to be available here. So we don't know for sure what's going in there, but a job is a job. And if you live in the area and you need one, that's a good thing to have. Originally, we did a petition, and I went around and got everybody on our road. Now, I live on Macbeth Lane. It's perpendicular to Rubuck. Right now, there's 13 existing homes and one more lot to be built on. I went around at the time. We talked to the gentleman that was representing them here, and they had offered to even pave our road to get the goodwill from our area. So I went down the line, and we have 13 people there working 13 homes. I got 28 names of voting age people on the district. I turned into the board here. And that's what, out of the 13 homes, I got 12 of them. One of them were on vacation at the time. So I couldn't get those. So there's 13 homes there, and there's four more homes on Rubuck. So that's the amount of traffic you go up, going up, and down. But we've been on the list for Rubuck to be paid for. I know I've been there 20 years, and I know it's been a long time. Now, Rubuck's the one. We only got plan A. We go out Rubuck, that's it. But there is no other plan B. If there's a tree falls down like we had last Sunday, somebody better get a chainsaw and go cut it because there ain't nobody coming to help. So it's plan A for us. So we're really looking. We're looking forward to having that paid. We've always said, you know, we don't get a tax deduction for living on a dirt road, and we don't get one on our personal property. When we drive our cars out there, they're filthy. You know, you can't keep them clean. So we think it's an improvement in the area. I know the data center is something. I don't know anything about it. It might be something to worry. I don't know what you guys can do with that. But as far as warehousing, I worked in warehousing a lot of my life, and I never got that kind of traffic. I mean, I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. I do 32. They're 40 trucks a day out of mine, but, you know, and it wasn't that big of a deal for us. Right now, I don't think the traffic is that bad at Flange. I go out that way three or four times a day. I think what they've done to the ramps on and off 81 have helped a lot, and we need another lane there sooner or later. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Yes? Yes? Tammy Canfield. Tammy Canfield and Stonewall District, and this is actually my neighborhood. I go through this area three to five times a week. So I'd like to address the sound. I thank Linda for sharing the information about the sound of the data centers. So the other day, I stopped along Grace Church Road to take pictures of the yellow flowers because I'm not going to be there much longer because the quarry, and I was okay with the quarry. I'm developing that land. But with that, we have the noise of the quarry. But one thing I noticed when I stopped to take flower pictures was that I could hear the speedway, the racetrack from Summit, the Summit racetrack, very loudly there. Now, I live about two more miles closer to the Opecan, and I can hear it when they're racing. But I was surprised that I was further away, and it was much louder. And I think that is in relation. to the fact that the land is more flat. And so therefore, that noise from the data centers, if they build them, will travel beyond just the Flying J area and will impact more because you don't quite have the mountains, like if you were over on 522 or something like that to absorb the sound and the noise. So that is something really to be considered. And remember, the quarry is going to be expanding. So you're going to have to be careful. And if you're going to have that noise, we can hear that operating at night, too. So that's just something to keep in mind. As far as the rest of the development, I think it's a great idea. We need some more. We actually need more tractor trailer parking up there. And we need more jobs in this area so people don't have to go to D.C. and Loudoun County all the time to make good money. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else? Not seeing anyone, we'll close the public. Oh, there is one more. Hi. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro District. I did place an application. I got an e-mail confirmation back from Ann Phillips for the Agricultural Committee on Monday. Sorry. Just wanted to let you know. So I wanted to good evening. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I stand before you as a proud resident of the Gainesboro District, a mother to four women. We have wonderful children and someone deeply interested, invested in the future of our community and its agricultural heritage. I went out to Rest Church, and I just prayed. And I was reminded of Senator Grassley of Pennsylvania saying that only 2% of Americans are now farmers. And I remember, too, this year the Secretary of Agriculture spoke about a new survey in East Virginia. He said that 142,000 farms were lost and 20 million acres since the last census in 2017. He said that we should be focusing on agritourism because we need many more income streams for farmers. So when I was there, I prayed, and I just felt that maybe there's a possibility that someone, if they had the chance in this county, could open up maybe a new Virginia farm. Or a new Shawnee Springs in a diner. Or even perhaps a Rest Church church that the trucker community could come to and be a part of and embrace. I just thought it was an amazing opportunity as the first exit into Virginia. I take my daughter to ice skating in Hagerstown. When we come through, we see West Virginia welcome. It's green. There's trees. And there's a visitor center. There's a big. There's a big water tower with the apple. And it feels very sweet and wholesome and welcoming. I was just hoping that maybe with some of the few exits we have left to develop, that we could welcome people to Virginia, welcome them to our farming community. That's all. Thank you very much. Thank you. Not seeing anyone else, I will close the public hearing portion. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a discussion first? Can we discuss or no? I believe we have to have a motion on the table to discuss. And this is in Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to deny rezoning 0624 request based on the lack of conformance with Frederick County's comprehensive plan. And also based on the fact that the applicant has failed to address the transportation impact. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. page 51 of our board packet and due to not upgrading the I-81 ramp. And that is my motion. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Lockridge? I do have some discussion just in regards to this. This one I've thought long and hard and just want to point out the two speakers, or actually three I think, that talked about the data centers. Back in 2019, and I researched and found the Winchester Star article on Clorox. It was kitty litter manufacturing. And during that discussion in 2019, there was a petition that was brought forward and the very big push was for data centers in the Stonewall District. And so I believe, I don't know what the vote. I know some of you guys were on this board at the time. But it got denied. And so that Clorox company is now in Berkeley County a few miles down the road. They are receiving the income, the tax, the revenue. So I just want to point out that this is maybe not the mixed use that this county envisioned for this particular place. Although the knee-lap that we did last year is that the intent would be mixed use industrial. As much as I would like to keep it RA, that's not the case. That's not the vision of our knee-lap. So while this may not be the perfect vision, I don't see how we can hold out on business that we can't attract. And back to that 2019 decision, that was tax revenue, business coming. It was manufacturing. We've heard over and over. In fact, I talked to Mr. Barker. I think the push is for data centers. I don't know that our county is ready. So this would be 20 acres in that. I don't know how I specifically feel about data centers. However, that petition in 2019 spoke from the Stonewall residents. I think it was Ms. Fristow started that petition. There were 100 people on there, and her big push was for data centers. So I don't know that that's right or wrong. I do know that with this rezoning, again, it's not maybe the mixed use that we wanted. However, it is income. It's revenue. And we have heard from neighbors that are excited about the jobs. They're excited about the paving of the road to improve that. And I just want to say, again, I don't know how we can hold out on creating revenue for our county when just last Wednesday at a board work session, the public schools requested almost $200 million. MS. Yes. MS. So at some point, we're going to have to pay for whatever the requests come down the line. And this board is all in favor of spending, but where is that money coming from? In 2001 or 2000 maybe, I was in high school and a petition for we didn't want industry, and we got Snowden Bridge. So we got a residential development, and now we are fighting for that school right now needs $15 million. MS. I might be wrong on that. $13 million in expansion. That school was built in 2020. My point is that we can continue to deny industry, but that's what's paying our taxes, or that's what's preventing the rest of us from increasing in taxes. So we have to have business. Thank you. CHAIRMAN CLARE DUDA. Thank you. Any other comments? Supervisor Jewell. SUPERVISOR JEWELL. MR. Mr. Chairman, I toured the facility in Warren County. And that is a technology. It actually has a classified section in that facility and it is high paying jobs. Also we all, several of us, attended the Inland Port. And one of the companies that stood out that does a lot of work with the Inland Port is Equus. That was very apparent. So I heard a lot of comments about the data center part, which is 300,000 square feet, but I didn't hear a lot of comments about the 2.5 million warehousing and the potential there. So I just wanted to point that out. So thank you. MS. I do have one more comment in regards to warehousing. Mr. Jewell, I was there, and that's a really big economic part of Virginia because of proximity right there to 81 that we have. But just in our meeting with Frederick Wetter, they talked about the supply chain. Warehousing helps our supply chain. In 2020, we saw that supply chain was completely backed up. And so warehousing is a big part of the supply chain. So warehousing isn't necessarily bad, and we have to have all sorts of industry. That's all. Thank you. MR. Thank you. Any further comments? Supervisor Dunn? MR. I'll just make one comment, and that is there are other areas in this county that have already been zoned for warehousing. So it's not the only place to do warehousing. This particular area is unique in some other areas as well, though, so just recognize that warehousing is available. It's available elsewhere. MS. Thank you. MR. Vice Chair? MS. In looking at this request, one of the things I did survey was the fact that the comment that Mr. Dunn just made, Supervisor Dunn just made, and that was the amount of warehousing that's already been approved in Frederick County. And we have upwards of 4 to 5 million square feet of warehousing that's already zoned for warehousing. So that's already zoned and ready to go. In fact, this developer, Equus, has 800,000 square feet that, to my knowledge, was approved in 2019 and at this point has not been developed. 2.7 million has been approved and could be used in the one logistics park. Greystone has 800,000 square feet that is available and rezoned. At Renaissance, we have 2 million square feet that the Peterson Company would have the option to put in warehousing. So we are already looking at, in this community, available today and rezoned, 4 to 500 million square feet. So how much is enough with using our farmland and such and maybe not using it for the highest and best use? We did go through the Northeast Land Use Plan update 2021. This Board approved in November of 2021, I believe. And this land is still in the same use that it was prior to us updating the Land Use Plan in 2021. And what was looked at at that time was the end-use plan. And what was looked at at that time was the end-use plan. And what was looked at at that time was the end-use plan. So we were looking at the infrastructure that was available, the high power transmission lines, how they could be used for certain things like high-end manufacturing and create a much stronger tax base for Frederick County. What we do know, though, is that if this land is used up or we rezone this, this evening, for warehousing, we won't have those opportunities. And as I just stated, we have already 4 to 5 million square feet already available. So one of the things, every time we evaluate a land use plan, is making sure that we're looking at all the resources we have available and are we carefully looking at the highest and best use for these resources. So I just want to share that. Thank you. Supervisor Lockridge? Just want to make a comment to that. Manufacturing would have been that's kitty litter that was denied. And that would have been rezoning, I think, from RA. So I understand. I would love to keep all of this land in agriculture. However, that would have been a huge income, I think $500,000 per year of revenue coming, and that was denied. Do you have any insight as to why this board then denied that? I'm glad to answer that. When Clorox was going and talking about their operation, initially, Carmoose said that they had a lot of stone. And I don't remember the numbers exactly, so don't hold me excited. Basically, it was like we had 50 years of stone. Then they had 20 years of stone. Then they had 10 years of stone. Then they had less than five years of stone. In the state that you're sitting on right now, about 3 or 4 o'clock in the afternoon, they said, you know, we have less than five years. At about 7 o'clock or 6.59, the state you're sitting on right now, you know, they revised their figure downward. Clorox was a good operation. I was prepared to vote yes for that. But the expectation was that there was going to be a long extended supply of rock from Carmoose. And when Carmoose kept changing their names and changing their numbers, they said afterwards, well, it's the quality of rock that's proprietary. But if they shared that with us, my vote would have been, yes, in a minute. But when they continued to change their numbers, literally, as we were talking, that was the reason I ended up going from a yes vote to a no vote, because I didn't want to see a Clorox operation built, and then three or four years later, have no rock, and then we're back to the truck situation. So if Carmoose had laid out accurate information, at least privately to us, that would have been helpful. Carmoose said they made a mistake, and I understand that. We all make mistakes. But that was the reason for that vote. I think that vote was 5 to 2, if you can check. But I think that was the vote. And that was because, partly because of the change that Carmoose said, available rock, was what Clorox expected to have, a 20-plus, 30-year plant. If the rock ran out in three, four, five years, then we were stuck. So that was the thought process behind it. But wouldn't that have been on, I can't imagine Clorox would even consider doing business with that. You would think they would have pulled the plug if they couldn't have that, if they had that consistency. And it is currently being railed, that product, from Carmoose into Berkeley County. They're receiving the revenue. True? We were working on the data that we had at the time. Clorox never came back and said, hey, you know what? They have supply. They never came back to us and said, hey, we're good. Don't worry about it. So we were just going with data, what we had, and we made the decisions based upon that data. That data changed, and that's unfortunate. But we're still going to be able to get the data back. Thank you. Any more discussion before we go to a vote? All right. So we're going to vote. The motion on the table is to deny the rezoning. So a yes vote is to deny. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. No. The Chair votes aye. So we move on now to, so the rezoning is not approved. We move on to 12B, the Conditional Use Permit 0424 for Marlboro Springs LLC. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Chair. We appreciate your time. So we are on the 12B, the Conditional Use Permit 0424 for Marlboro Springs LLC. All right. Anything else you want to add? I'll go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This conditional use permit application is for a special event facility. The 102-acre property is located at 1147 North Piper Road in the Bat Creek Magisterial District, and it is zoned RA. This map shows in the red square where the property is in relation to the county. It's on the southwestern portion near the line with Shenandoah County. And this map shows the property itself outlined in purple. And as previously stated, it's 102 acres and zoned. The applicant has proposed a special event facility using an existing barn. They propose hours of Sunday through Thursday from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. and Fridays, Saturdays, and holidays from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. And that's for music at the end, and one hour after the music is off would be allowed for guests and vendors to clean up and exit the property. They have proposed no more than a year of zoned RA. And this is a proposal for a special event facility using an existing barn. There are already 250 guests per event, and I would like to add two pavilions to the property in the future. I would note that the CUP was previously considered in 2020 by the board, and it was denied. They're under slightly different circumstances and conditions, but just for the record. And so it is being reconsidered this evening. The zoning ordinance includes additional regulations for specific uses for special event facilities. It primarily... It primarily... It primarily... It primarily... It primarily... It primarily... addresses that all parking spaces and travel aisles must be graveled, that portable restrooms must be screened from adjoining properties and roadways, and that all structures must be approved by the building official. And finally, the ordinance requires an illustrative sketch plan to be approved prior to the establishment of the use. Should the Board of Supervisors find the use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommended the following conditions. Number one, all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Two, events shall begin no earlier than 8 a.m. on any day. Outdoor music shall end by 9 o'clock p.m. on Sundays through Thursdays and end by 10 o'clock p.m. on Fridays, Saturdays, and holidays. One hour after the music is turned off will be allowed for cleanup and for guests and vendors to exit the property. Number three. No more than 250 guests would be allowed on the property at any one time. Number four. An illustrative sketch plan addressing those additional regulations that I mentioned earlier would have to be approved by Frederick County and the improvements shown on that plan implemented prior to the establishment of the use. And finally, any expansion or change of use would require a new CUP. So this item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 4th and they recommended approval. And tonight staff is seeking a decision from the board on this CUP. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant, Mr. Smith, is here as well and would be happy to address any questions. Thank you very much. Any questions? Is the applicant going to go and present or answer questions directly? Yeah. They don't have a presentation but they're available to answer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the present presenter? So far. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And are there any questions? Mr. Dunn, did you have questions for the applicant? If you could come forward, sir. Good evening. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Smith. I appreciate the fact that you're trying to take a barn and use it for a profitable use, so I have no problems with that. But our decision today is going to be based upon what occurs with the land. So we talked earlier today, and I appreciate that conversation. But if you sell your land, this farm, in your 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 years, the new buyer is going to be, has the same parameters that the law says. So I appreciate that. Thank you. I appreciate that. If you are going to be selling your land or if you have any other questions, please feel free to ask them. But I do have some questions on the subject of, on the subject of your interest and your interest and your interest in the land. I just want to put a couple of things on the record, as thoughts and considerations. And where I'm coming from is that I was adjacent to an area that was developed. And it began at 6 o'clock in the morning. Holidays, weekends, Sundays, everything else. Not Sundays. It was everything. Sunday was the only day of rest. And I had a mother that was dying. Could not get any sleep, and so I didn't appreciate it. And I went to this board, not these members that I was working with. And I said, I don't know what's going on. members and said, can you adjust? And they said, no, this is what was agreed to. So that's what my concerns are. First, I understand that the adjacent neighbors to you are all in support of this. Is that correct? To my knowledge, yes. Okay, that's fine. Secondly, the music that you're going to have on the weekends ending at 10 o'clock, when we talked, you thought that you would primarily end around 9 o'clock. For example, if it were a wedding, most people that are going to get married are not going to hang around. They're going to leave, and when they leave, you usually get to leave behind. Are you open to having that 10 o'clock time frame drop to 9 o'clock? Yes, I can do that. Okay. Thirdly, we talked about the fact that in the morning, you might have some event events. And I think that's good. Do you anticipate having music or loud noises at that as opposed to, you know, do you anticipate amplified music in those morning meetings, or is that just going to be a chance to meet, talk, et cetera, the way we all would do in this room? I wouldn't anticipate that. The music is primarily going to be for weddings, which we hope. It's primarily a wedding venue is what we're looking at. It's farm first, but primarily weddings. But, you know, if I see things in the morning, it may be brunch or something. Maybe there's a corporate meeting, picnics. Maybe it's a wedding rehearsal, something like that in the morning. So I need that flexibility. But I don't see music. It's going to be an afternoon, you know, primarily weekends and primarily, what, six or seven months a year because it's an unconditioned space. It's a barn. It's an open barn. It's not conditioned space. Okay. So. Lastly. If you have a neighbor that has a legitimate medical reason, I'm not talking about somebody that just, you know, doesn't like your facility, but has a legitimate medical reason, will you try to address that? If the person says to you, you know, for whatever reason, can you cut an hour or two out of this for a period of time? Are you open to that? Yes, as long as I, one, know of the issue. And secondly, you kind of need to know in advance. It's hard to tell somebody they have to end their wedding at six o'clock, because they have an issue, you know, so. I'm not talking about the day. I'm flexible, but only to a point. There's some things I can't do. I'm not talking about the day of. But for example, if I said, hey, Mr. Smith, I live next door. For these reasons, for medical reasons, you know, I can't do it. So you would know in advance. Sure. And if I said to you, you know, instead of having this seven days a week, can you give me a break and, you know, for one day, do it earlier, you know. Absolutely. That's the type of item I'm doing. I'm doing this because I know we're on camera. We're having this conversation. But if this comes back in, you know, a few years after you've gone, I want to make certain that for the record that we had this conversation, that the applicant who owned the land said yes, he was going to work with people that had a medical issue adjacent to that. And I would expect the future board to respect that and to work with all parties so that that issue is addressed. Thank you, Mr. Smith. Well, I would love to have seven days a week. So I would gladly give one back if they need a day of rest, if I could book it seven days a week. I would love to do that. I appreciate your thoughtfulness. I appreciate you trying to be sensitive to, you know, my comments and your neighbors' comments. And so if you're amenable to a 9 p.m. as opposed to 10 p.m. just for the music, you could still continue to operate. Right. I'm going to probably make an amendment to this CUP when we get finished. Sure. Thank you. Unless you have anything else you want to say or address to the board? No, just any other questions. Supervisor Jewell? Yes. I know you, Sam. Sam, what about subwoofers? We talked about them. No subwoofers. So I wanted to make sure everybody understood. That's that low bass. Yeah. And the reason I wanted to bring that up is one of the issues we've had with other event centers is that boom, boom, boom noise that comes from subwoofers. So we had this conversation. I want to make sure everybody understands that. So that makes a big difference with the acoustical music. I feel it a lot. Trust me. With regard to what you just said, Supervisor Dunn, is that going to be a condition of this CUP? You're talking about me? Yes. Sam, would you subwoofer? Oh, yeah, absolutely. That's fine. That will be a condition. Yes. And I have one question for the applicant. It appears that the music is not confined to the inside of the barn, that it would be in the middle of the barn. Is that a condition? Yes. That it would be outside on a patio. Is that correct? Correct. For the most part, that's what seems to be the area that would work. Yes. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Supervisor Blackridge? I have one question. Supervisor Dunn, you had mentioned asking him if Friday, Saturday, and holidays, decreasing it to nine or no. Are you making that a condition? I'm asking if he would. Yes. Okay. And I only ask, is that going to deter wedding people from coming? Because normally, you get married at six. I don't know. It's normally cleaned up by 10, but nine to me, it seems like that may hurt his business. Quick comment. Because it's only Friday, Saturday, and holiday. Quick comment. In a conversation we had earlier, I know he asked you at nine o'clock, and we had a discussion. So I'm open to 915. The reason the comment was 915 is in the summertime, you know, sun sets 850 or so. And his comment to me was, you know, nine o'clock, you still have light. So 915. That's not to abuse it, but I'm just trying to provide some flexibility for him and also meet some of the concerns I have. Okay. Because restaurants, I mean, I get it. It's very different. And you're trying to make sure the neighbors are okay with it. I just worry. I just think that 10 o'clock is very reasonable. It's not midnight. It's 10. Maybe I'm just a little too young. I understand that. 10 o'clock seems so pretty. I'm sorry. I don't want to take that away. I don't know how the rest of the board feels, but 10 o'clock seems reasonable to me. Then we can have a vote up and down and go from there. That'd be perfectly fine. But Mrs. Lockridge, I've been on the receiving end of that, and so I am sensitive to that. I'm probably more sensitive than anybody else. Okay. I don't know if anybody here on this board because of it, but when I sat there for a previous one, they said no. It's like, you know what? You work on 23 hours of sleep. You go to bed at 4, 3, or 5 and start waking up to heavy equipment at 6 o'clock, and I did not appreciate it. So thank you. I understand that. And that does not reflect Mr. Smith. Yes. I do understand where you're coming from. I do also understand that when you are trying to promote a wedding facility, normally a late wedding, I mean, I think, but that's just my view. If it's not something he's worried about, then that's okay, too. I don't know what I don't know at this point until I start having weddings. Is this strictly a wedding facility, or is it going to be an event facility where you host various groups throughout the year? I mean, throughout the I would host various groups. Actually, I was asked by the homesteaders, and I'm not sure if I was asked by the homesteaders, you know, for the spring to have a, where they have their showcase, right, where they show all the local farms and things like that. I would hope I could get family reunions, those type of things. But primarily family-type functions. It's a farm first. So I'm not going to have live bands and charge admission, those kind of things. That's what I'm asking. Yeah. It's not, you know, I didn't want to call it a wedding venue because then people think, well, you know, we can't do our family reunion there. So, but I know events probably provoke, you know, images of Woodstock, and that's not what I want either, so. So is there language that we could include in this that, I guess I'm going to direct this to Mr. Pearson. Is there language maybe that we could include in this so that it's not an, you know, CUPs go with the property. So you may not be the only person who's going to have this right if you decided ever to sell this property. So is there a way that we can keep this from being a weekend? I think, are you seeking to, I guess, limit the types of events conducted at the facility? Well, we've had issues with other facilities. And I guess I want to be mindful of the other landowners living nearby. I'm just wondering, is there a way to look at this verbiage, you know, to make sure we don't run into another issue like we've had in the past? And I'm not saying you would do that, sir, of course, but. And I think it, and if I'm remembering correctly, what you might be referring to, namely, it would be outdoor amplified music late into the night. Yes. I think if that's the specific concern, a limitation on the time for which the music can run to is probably the most direct means to address it and how we've handled it in the past. I would say if we wanted to talk about types of events that can be conducted out there, that gets a little dicey from like an enforcement perspective. I mean, seeing a bride in a wedding dress is, you know, indicative of the event being conducted there. But when you get into other types of events, sometimes it's hard to discern exactly what's happening other than people are enjoying themselves. So I would shy away from limitations on the types of events. But the time is what you're suggesting might give us. That's how we've handled it in the past. We've done nine and ten most recently on special event conditional use permits as it relates to outdoor amplified music. Okay. Mr. Chairman, that's also, Sam and I talked, that's one reason why we brought up the subwoofer because that is actually what's caused a lot of issues. Okay. I just want to be sure we don't end up where we've been in the past. And I also believe the people who live in the subwoofer, they're not going to be able to get to thearam Molumb from here . All right. Let me just add... we will be posting a poll and doing a survey on the National Board for how many people are using ciao and ela various ways of doing対 evening and leaving downtown and Sioux Falls for extending more owners or rounding out western street. So if you pull me a certain agenda, especially with the idea of abilities available through voterkach that are pensa members and apparel sales or only entering downtown with actual świavierz mail, thesevenidos to go out and get official visauks, I can be sure there are no transfers or there is no trazerเด reawha tor7 speech you may have done. Thank you. All right. Thanks. Students, any particular로거сятhere Гоу Wallа unfortunately Se just treating Mr. Napoleonre tinha looking at this Dr. Raphael N. Hello. I'm from Back Creek, and I'm one of Sam's neighbors. You're talking about the noise. When Sam first got there, and he was trying for the CUP before, he took decibel readers, went all around his property, took readings, adjust sounds, adjust volumes, worked very diligently, and lowered the issue with the neighbors. He's also very oriented with the people in the area. If somebody would say, look, I got something going on seriously wrong, I know he'd turn the music down or end an hour early. I mean, he's very considerate. He has put a lot of time and money into the property. It looks amazing. It would make a great venue. It's on the far end of the county where we are all forgotten, and it would give us the option of somewhere for us to have a wedding locally or a birthday party for our kids or any number of things you could have there, and it's local. It's in our area. We don't have to come to Winchester. We need to. Expand and grow. We've got houses now. Population is growing in our area. We've got a bar. We've got a little rinky-dink store. You know, this venue could actually be something and cause a little bit of growth in our area going to a good side of not just houses and having a productive growth in it. And, you know, I'm for letting him have it. His. He's worked really hard. He's worked with the sound. He's worked with the neighbors. He had a meeting with all of us four years ago. We hashed everything out. It was all good. It just, the ball got dropped when it got here that year, and I'm just requesting to go ahead, let him do it. I think it would be good for our community. Thank you. Louise Gannett. Thank you. Good evening. Louise Gannett, and I'm from the Back Creek District, and I flank Sam on the north side. Our boundaries meet, and actually the driveway where his guests will enter is about 50 feet parallel to my driveway. Like Ms. Heltzel said four years ago, Sam had, when he had, I believe, he had a festival permit, which you no longer have, but it was a festival permit. So he had, I think it was four to six months to have events, and a lot of these issues were really hashed out. Like Debbie said, he also had a meeting at his facility, invited the neighborhood. We went there, and we sit down, and we talked quite frankly about any of our concerns or issues, regarding noise, regarding traffic, a number of things. Mr. Smith was very amenable and pliable to address those issues. No woofer, keeping the decimal down to the requirements, I think it was 70, I don't know much about decimals. But I feel very confident that he totally worked with the community and provided us, with the answers and the confidence that we needed, that this is good for our community. I would also, and unfortunately, none of us came to that meeting. We thought we had that all resolved. Our supervisor was there, assured us that he would support it, but unfortunately that did not occur. So we decided to come tonight to present ourselves and let you know that we feel that this is a good opportunity. So we decided to come tonight to present ourselves and let you know that we feel that this is a good opportunity. We are here to provide a good use of agricultural lands and to be able to keep our agricultural lands. This provides those of us with farms out there, provides a source of income, because you don't make a lot of money as a farmer. And we need to provide our farmers with some revenue source avenues. And I can tell you, others on North Piper feel the same way that I do. It's good for our community. And I would implore you all to finally pass this CUP 04-24 for Mr. Smith. And I would implore you all to finally pass this CUP 04-24 for Mr. Smith. We do not want a sub development out there. And this man has waited four years. And if this doesn't happen, I fear that he will have no other choice. He's made a huge investment and he's had to sit on it for four years. And I humbly ask that you all, as a community, and as a community, humbly implore you to pass this. I think it's good. And I think it's good for our community and its apportment. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here tonight who would like to speak about this? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item, the CUP. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion to approve CUP. I'd like to make the motion to approve CUP. Yes, please. The motion passes. Thank you. Comments? Yes, sit many more a motion่ Chooses aye for the motion of oval переж in favour. Senatorio stand fo далее threat if there are any Mommy and prawn directorial degrees. It does. Music at 915. But you can stay open. Right. Just music. Okay. Because I really. I agree with you. I don't think the 915 closing time is where we should be on that. Absolutely. I don't even think the music can stop them, but that's all. I agree with you, Supervisor Wells. So is this restriction on amplified music, but they could have quieter music continuing to play? Yeah, amplified music. What is it? Absolutely. So it's just. It's amplified music. So no amplified music after 915 is your amendment to the proposed CUP. My motion. Okay. So we. So who seconded that? So do you. It's been clarified slightly. Do you still second it? If he's fine with that, which it sounded like he was, then that's fine. Okay. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion or amendments? I guess if we. There should be. There was some discussion about maybe wanting to let him to continue to 10 o'clock. I don't know if anybody wants to amend before we vote. I don't want to be like that, but. Mrs. Lockridge, you're welcome to make an amendment and let the votes fall where they may. Okay. So I will make that. I will make a motion to amend to leave it till 10 p.m. as presented to us. So you're amending the motion to return it to where it was before. Even though I second. Well, so I want to be clear for staff. So before we ask for before I ask for a second. So if we leave it the way it was before, have we still modified something about subwoofers or where are we at with this amendment? So we're leaving him to 10 o'clock with amplified music, but he can continue with unamplified after 10. Is that how you understand where we're at? My understanding of the motion. You always get into something with these amendments. But. The original motion was, you know, eliminating the bass speakers or the subwoofers and 915. Mrs. Lockridge amended that motion to change 915 to 10. So the limitation on bass speakers would remain if a vote would pass. Correct. So it's a limitation as of 10 o'clock for the bass speakers. Yeah. No amplified music after 10 p.m. No bass speakers at all. And then the rest of the conditions as written would be the same. Is that your intent? Yes. Very good. So we have an amendment. The original motion. Do we have a second? Sorry. So we have a motion and a second. I believe we need to vote on this amendment before we would consider any other or a final vote. So this is a vote on. Do I need to restate it? It's. So this is a vote to. On an amendment. To. To the motion. So we would be back. If it. If it passes. If this. If the supervisor Lockridge's amendment passes, then we will be back to a motion as written. He can stay open till 10 p.m. No amplified music after 10 p.m. He can be open after 10 but no amplified music after 10 and I believe no sub woofers at all during as as part of the event center. That's supervisor Lockridge's motion. Amendment. Amendment. Correct. So we. We had that. And we had a second. So any more discussion or should we vote on that amendment for I'm good either way. I just want to see Mr. Smith get his C. U. P. This has been long overdue and I want to see we've got a chance for a small business again. We got a chance to support farming and diversification here. So that's what I don't care what we do. Let's just get this thing going. OK. So if everyone is clear we're voting on not the final motion but on this amendment. One quick comment. Mr. Smith. I like what you're doing. The time is an issue to me but we'll see what happens. All right. So on the amendment supervisor jewel I'm supervisor done. Nay. Supervisor Wells vice chair. Supervisor Lockridge. Hi. Supervisor Leero. Hi. The chair votes aye. So the amendment to the original motion passes. So now we're back to the original motion unless someone wants to amend that again you can try again for something. But the original motion if not. Would be to approve the C K P as written. And again. As I just said he can amplify music ends at 10 no subwoofers at any point. Those are the changes. Any other motions are we ready to vote so that is the motion now on the table supervisor Leero I supervisor Lockridge I bathroom at home. Vice chair supervisor Wells supervisor done. Nay. Supervisor jewel high chair votes aye. And you've got your CUP after four years. Sorry it ended up being so long. We move on to other planning business. These are information items. I think we have a presentation on both. This first one is to see whether this board, as I understand it, has a consensus that wants you to do the work to proceed to a public hearing on an issue. This board has heard before. That's right, Mr. Chairman. We have discussed chickens three times in the past six years and brought forth draft ordinances to attempt to adopt an allowance for chickens in the RP, residential performance, R4, planned residential, and R5, recreational residential communities. Because this has been difficult in the past, we'd like to begin by just asking the board to try to develop some consensus on six common topics that we end up, debating when we work on these ordinance amendments. Stop me at any time as I walk through those six items. And I'd like to clarify the draft ordinance that was in your packet was just the last version that we brought before this board, I think in 2022. It's not our proposal this time. We're going to start fresh based on any guidance we can discern from you all tonight as to how to craft this thing. So most communities end up dealing in some form or fashion with the following six items when drafting. But often are called backyard chicken ordinances. So I'll review some of the elements of these items. But again, stop me and give me some feedback or ask me questions throughout about these. So the question of whether or not you're going to require an administrative permit. For those of you familiar with our home occupation process, we do administrative permits for that, where the individual simply checks a certain number of boxes that say they're going to comply with the conditions of operating a home, occupations, and home occupations. So we do administrative permits for that, and they sign it, and they go along and can get their business license and conduct their business at their home with no other further administrative review. We would view, if we did do an administrative permit, it being something similar to that in scope and scale, make it as easy as possible. But it is an additional bureaucratic step. The reason it's a consideration for most communities is enforcement of any sort of ancillary restrictions on the quantity of chickens, minimum lot size, coop locations, or anything could be listed on the administrative permit, and it would be abundantly clear to the resident getting it what they need to comply with, rather than them having to go into the ordinance to find it. So administrative permit or not. And I'll keep going, and then I can come back. Yes, sir. Mr. Wallace. Yeah. And then we'll talk about it at a certain time. So administrative permit is so the county knows where these chickens are. That's right, where they are, yeah. And on the- There's no charge for that. It would be up to the discretion of the board. There's no reason to charge for that. No, no. On CUPs, we have a fee that's intended to recoup some of the staff time. But yeah, this is going to be relatively easy and quick, so we would certainly support there not being a fee associated with it. And on the enforcement side, when our zoning inspector goes out to a property, right now it's restricted in these districts. So if they see chickens, there's a violation. If we don't do an administrative permit, and there are restrictions within these districts about how you can keep chickens, it's a little bit more challenging for them to then document a violation that they've got to complain about, whereas does the person have a permit? Are they in compliance with the permit conditions? All right, I can kind of walk away from it. So it's a choice. Probably the biggest choice about the ordinance is, whether you're going to do a permit or not. Minimum lot size, which is what we got into a lot of debate about last time you all considered this, is also a key factor. Most communities, when they discuss this, talk about the possibility of animal welfare issues on small lot sizes. It also does compel basically how many you're going to, how much of these districts you're going to allow to have them. So to give you some rough numbers, if you were to set a one acre minimum lot size, that would only allow for 1,300 lots, and that's what we're talking about. So if you're talking about a half acre, you're talking about 1,500 lots. If you're talking about a third of an acre, you're talking about 1,500 lots. So if you're talking about a half acre, you're talking about 1,500 lots. If you get down to a third of an acre, you're talking about 8,200 lots. So to clarify, you're just looking at the total lot count. Any HOA restriction would still apply. So all those homes with HOAs, if they don't allow it, you'd have to subtract that from the numbers you're giving. And they would be impossible from our perspective to discern what that is. So we just offer the blanket statement that anybody would be able to get a home with a HOA. So we're not going to have to do that. But if they don't allow it, you'd have to subtract that from the numbers you're giving. Correct. Those would be limited. And they would be impossible from our perspective to discern what that is. So we just offer the blanket statement that anybody would be subject to any deeds, covenants, restrictions, or HOA rules that might be imposed on their property that we're unaware of. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So minimum lot size, a consideration as well. In the previous versions of this ordinance we've drafted, there has been restrictions on the total quantity of chickens, and that's largely had some effect. Okay. So that's some relationship to the minimum lot size. We've also in past drafting had restrictions against roosters, guinea fowl, ducks, or any, basically anything other than laying hens. Considerations as it relates to roosters and guinea fowl in particular are noise related. I can't, you know, as far as I'm concerned, ducks are very similar as it relates to chickens, except they're a lot messier in my opinion than chickens are. And then chicken coops and screening locations is relevant because in your suburban residential district, there's a lot of, you know, there's a lot of noise in the coops. So, you know, in the suburban districts, the side yard accessory setback is only five feet, whereas in the RA it's 15. And the source of a lot of noise and potential odors is typically at the coops. We have never dealt in the run concepts, right? So a coop would likely qualify as a structure. Frederick County doesn't regulate fences. Runs are typically only fenced, sometimes covered with netting to, you know, ensure there's not predators or anything like that. We have not delved into that and would advise probably not doing so. Chicken coops, as it relates to one of the citizen comments, certainly can be mobile and would be still covered under the zoning ordinance if they were. Chicken tractors are really popular these days and they get moved like every couple of days. And you could, we could still reasonably enforce a setback off the property line on a mobile chicken coop under the current zoning ordinance if you were to adopt it. And then structure type limitations. So previous versions we've drafted have always been, limited to single family. But if you wanted to consider allowing it in townhouses that have yards or the possibility of apartments, that's certainly a consideration that could be added in as well. So again, seeking any direction you all might have to help us get off on the right foot and getting a draft together that might work for this board. I would offer two. If there's adamant opposition to considering a chicken ordinance, please tell us now if there's a majority of board members who feel that way. So, we can do that. And so that we don't go down this road fruitlessly again. So Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you. Any questions first? And Mr. Pearson. So in the items here, it talks about RP, our four and our five. You just wanted to explain the difference or what's an RP, what's in our four and our five. So you can explain that. Sure. Relationship to that, to that. In RP, for example, can you have a five acre, you know, lot meeting a, meeting a by right house. So is that still qualifies as RP? So if you can go through that, the differences between RP, our four and our five, and then for example, do five acre lots, you know, by right, how does it, how does that qualify? Yeah. So the five acre by right lots are only for RA. I think that there might've been some confusion there in that. RP would be what you know on your zoning map is the yellow area and is predominantly less than an acre, mostly quarter acre, smaller townhouses, apartments, really a suburban district. The R4 example that you all have, that's actually constructed and under way is Snowden bridge. So it's a planned community that has a variety of housing types. That's not typically available in our RP districts, which could include carriage houses, multiplexes and different types of housing. Then we're typically used to seeing in the community. And then our five, which I think is probably the most important as it relates to consideration of this ordinance includes the communities of Shawnee land, mountain forest, and the community of the city of West Virginia. So that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a, that's a you're important one. I totally agree. We go. We never used that as aroundижable as the old levels of housing and services, um, tracks are different. The lot sizes vary greatly. The last five with fact short I did, they come up when I was asked last time. It was as close as that<|bs|> There you have houses that are next to each other. I mean, similar to what I have. So how does that differ from RP? In other words, if you said, like Frederick as well, R5, and you have some houses that are 15 feet apart and other houses are significantly different, so. Yeah, R5 dimensional standards for housing are typically pulled directly from RP, so they match. It's just the choices that that developer made of the housing types they wanted to develop there. There's a lot of single family smalls in Lake Frederick, which I think is probably what you're remembering. So it's a single family structure with very small side yard setbacks between the two, and it seems like they're largely very close to each other. I wouldn't be terribly concerned about Lake Frederick as it relates to the implementation of this because they have a strong HOA and deeds and covenants in Lake Frederick and Lake Holiday. I'm not positive, I haven't reviewed them, but I would suspect that this activity is likely prohibited in Lake Frederick. The reason, because up in where North Mountain is, I mean, there you have R5 too, but you basically have a mountainous area. That's a different R5 than you'd have for like Frederick and Lake Holiday, so I'm trying to figure out what's the difference between the two as opposed to a blanket R5. Yeah, so like Shawnee Land and Mountain Falls, and they also have older deeds and covenants, but less established HOAs for the enforcement of them, and also they're not, the deeds and covenants weren't drafted similarly to the Lake Frederick ones where there was a developer still involved. The developer had largely gone bankrupt soon after the lots were subdivided for those communities. So Shawnee Land, Mountain Falls, not comparable as it relates to Lake Frederick or Lake Holiday in that respect regarding those matters. Thank you. Yeah. Any other questions for Mr. Pearson? I have a question or two. Sure. When we looked at this a couple years ago, I think we were the only county in the area that were as restrictive as we are, that all the other counties had an allowance for chickens, though they weren't all the same. So I would encourage us to look at what the other counties have and frame it in that sense. I know we had someone speak back then very powerfully about living literally across the street from our A, and so across the street from our house, they could have virtually any animal possible, and yet they faced, it was a severe change in restriction. And she felt that it made no sense for her. She would have been happy to have some animals, like chickens, even if she couldn't have cattle, for example, when she's driving past cattle every day. So I'm certainly, I'll put my two cents out there right now, I'm certainly in favor of looking at freeing up some people's use of their land. And do it at least consistent, not overly restrictive compared to the neighboring counties. Was this, I don't remember the neighboring counties, is this only egg layers, or is this chickens for meat as well? I'd have to go back to some of the code comparison that we did with them. Yeah, I don't remember exactly how they had structured theirs as well, but we did look at Shenandoah and Warren, which are certainly not the best comparative examples to Frederick. I think they had a much nicer kind of mix of the suburbanation that we have in comparison to those communities, but they are joining localities in their space. We'll do the same again in drafting this. Get some code comparison done and try to give you an idea, and try to find some comparable communities that are suburbanized in the way we are as well elsewhere in the Commonwealth to share as examples, yeah. Thank you. And a question about runs. So we raised chickens in our family when I was growing up. And you get healthier chickens and better products, but you would have to look at what the market is. So I was wondering, what kind of future is this? in eggs or whatever you're doing then you can get at the store if they free range I believe we were going to restrict that I don't know what the neighboring counties do about letting them you know run around and of course they can potentially cross and do neighbors property but runs were the happy medium where you can have a mobile run even if your chicken coop is fixed and you can move it around because they tend to eat up a lot of the grass but you can give them a fresh space to run those runs would be restricted by the distance or you said leave that alone so the coop can't be within so many feet of your boundary but the run could be just like a fence would be is that yeah I mean I guess depending upon how the runs constructed you can see how we could treat it any yeah and I don't see how we could treat it any differently than fencing essentially which is allowed on the the extent of the property because that's at its heart what it is is to corral them into a specific location whereas the coop is for where they go in the evening so yeah that's a good point. yeah that would be likely how we would craft it is to focus on the structure element of the coop and that being offset and I've never seen my two cents to anyone who doesn't know I've never seen people leave them and runs overnight they put them in the coop the chickens want to go in and it's safe from predators so yeah they do a couple times and then they don't chickens very long after that depending on how well the runs constructed but yeah all right thank you any other questions and then we can take consensus of whether we want staff to do the work to bring this forward and if you're against please say now we don't want staff to do the work. or or any individual guidance on on these elements anything that comes to mind that you want us to explore in addition to code comparison research things you want to have answers to as we come forward with this that would be very helpful. so when you were growing up as a kid was your house in a RP like you know your house in quarter acre lots okay from my perspective we've been through this three times I'm probably not inclined to open it up again if you have something like Shawnee land which is R5 I believe but basically it's rural and I think there's some people here if they're am I open to that when that's on that type of situation yes am I open it onto the streets that I live on where every house has chickens that attracts you know animals and rodents etc probably not so it's a balancing act and I think in a relatively dense area I don't think that it's conducive anymore. I think it's a balancing act. I don't think that it's conducive anymore. I don't think it's conducive anymore. I think it's a balancing act. I don't think it's conducive anymore. I think it's conducive anymore. Areas more open that's fine the other question I had on the lot size I mean the larger lot yes quarter acre lot third of acre lot I'm probably not comfortable with it. So last time around we did have it by acreage and there are some counties they know that it's a number right if you have a third of an acre lot you can have three four five six small number of chickens and the bigger land you have them the more you could have so some of the neighboring counties were that way. counties were that way. For mods itござ mails the I would go back to you. It all stands up to threat so we're going to be careful there but my thoughts are I枠 that Richard I wrote in the mail. And I sent out letters that I had. So it's occupying the record path for any other thing that I think. i We for arrows maybe three. draw so I don't think we have enough resources I don't think we have any more we're all wrong and I could project a blanket. It's that this moment a bullet is too similar as me. It only means that we are buying a unit that you have already taken the buck so I'm part of the room now that's the way that we move on. Lockridge and I, we appreciate you bringing this up for consideration. Thank you, Supervisor Lockridge. You wanted to say something? Yeah, I appreciate you guys bringing this up too. I think that people need to have some property rights and be able to raise their own. I know you've heard it many times, but my daughter raises chickens on our, she harvests the eggs, sells the eggs, has fun with, it's our little business venture. But would it be fair to say that a neighborhood like the residential plan community, they would have their HOA that would override? So when you're worried about some of these neighborhoods, it wouldn't even be an option? More than likely. Okay. And the only, I mean, R5, you mentioned four, but Shawnee Land and Mountain Falls, I mean, would it come down to, should we set a number in acres? Because other than that, the HOA would already override. Lake Holiday, you could not have chickens is my assumption. I don't know their HOA. Yeah. I assume. I assume the same as well. But that would give it over to them even at that point, then they could come to their HOA and maybe make that change. Because some of those lots are bigger than others. They are. Yeah. A lot of people have assembled lots in Shawnee Land too over the years. Okay. So they own multiples that could. Yep. Okay. Thank you. Did you have a question? Mr. Chairman, I would say, I've been here, chickens, like you said, has come up at least three or four times. I personally don't have any problems with chickens. I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here. I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, I've been here, and I have no problem with it, but I live, I represent people in the Opec District. And over those many, many times, they have wished me that they'd prefer not to do that because they're more in an urban situation with townhouses and so forth and so forth. So I wouldn't be in favor of moving it forward, not personally, but I represent a group of . Would you object if it had restrictions where the more urbanized areas, we had a rule that they wouldn't apply there? there like there are five which is almost indistinguishable from our a okay and I would think Stonewall is virtually the same primarily urban development area so you know I I've had the same from from the constituents from Stonewall that they wouldn't be interested in it however if you are in an RA zone it's perfectly allowed right and the r5 zone I'm I'm not certain that that's the case but I think that's the case I think that's the case I'm not so sure about that one I mean it it sounds like that in a more agrarian area that that perhaps it could be allowed and maybe an r5 but I think an RP or an r4 and I I just I just don't see that so mr. chairman and I'm sorry to put you on the spot mr. Leroux but I've got a tally here that's three and three just for my sanity just love to know if when you're willing to consider it I'll just tell you that my general knowledge of chickens is pretty much limited to the chick-fil-a drive-through Lane but I just looked up my property in shiny its point four six of an acre and I have a good idea what that actually looks like I would be concerned at lower than 1 1⁄2 an acre and I concur with what we heard about in and Stonewall and Opec, and there's a lot of neighborhoods like that where I think the neighbors might have problems with. The other question I would have would be is there, do any of the other counties do visual barriers to coops or something like that? Because I don't think it's just a matter of how big the lot is, but what I can see if I'm trying to have a gathering in my backyard or on my deck or something like that. So I'd ask you to look that up if there's anything having to do with visual barriers. Thank you. Yeah, and Mr. Leroux, but you are willing to consider an ordinance at this time? Okay, yep. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have anything else for you. This isn't like your next item. We're not seeking authorization for a public hearing. We're gonna work on a draft and come back and talk to you again about it, so thank you, sir. All right. Thank you, it was pretty close, so I hope you're not wasting your afternoon. I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. No, we'll see. But it sounds like with some restrictions it might go through. So that was 13A. 13B is another information and discussion item. An ordinance amendment. Yes, and as Mr. Pearson stated, this is a little bit different. We are seeking your discussion and your authorization to go to public hearing on this item and would be happy to answer all of your questions. This is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to regulate data centers. This amendment was initiated by staff at the request of the Board of Supervisors. You all had a discussion just this evening about data centers in our community and we understand that there is some interest in our community and we presently don't necessarily regulate them in a manner that provides a lot of assurance of what they're gonna look like. Data centers are allowed by right in our business and industrial districts. They've been allowed in our community for a number of years. We only have one data center down in Middletown presently, but in our B3, our industrial transition, our TM, technology manufacturing, our M1 and M2, which are our light industrial and general industrial districts, data centers are permitted. They've always been permitted as a use, but what our ordinance lacks is a definition of data centers and any other supplemental regulations or performance standards to regulate how those uses are implemented. So we are proposing a definition and additional regulations for data centers. We've defined a data center as a premises in which the majority of the use is occupied by computers and or telecommunications and related equipment for processing. Storing or transferring information, infrastructure such as utility substations, power generators and other supporting equipment may also be included. You all have heard a lot this evening about data centers and you've driven around Northern Virginia. I'm sure you understand exactly what these facilities look like. It's a big box and a lot of mechanical equipment associated with it. So we've also provided a number of additional regulations specific to the data center use. We have stated a requirement to connect to public utilities and to the public service. We have included a requirement that generator testing and cycling hours be limited to Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. We've specified the locations of where mechanical equipment may be mounted, whether that be on the ground or on the roof, and that that mechanical equipment needed to be screened from adjoining properties and roadways. We've provided a perimeter screening requirement around the entire property where a data center would be located, which includes not only separation of physical distance, of 175 feet but up to 200 feet, but also requirements for landscaping and other types of screening elements, including earthen berms, which can help with noise attenuation and also that visual screen. And we've provided requirements for noise and noise monitoring, specifically requiring that they perform a noise standard and tell the county at the time that they're seeking occupancy what the noise level is gonna be so that over time, if the noise changes, it becomes louder, we receive complaints. Or the equipment starts to break down and generate more noise, we have a baseline to go back and say, hey, you're not meeting the noise standard that you were granted occupancy under. So we think those requirements, those additional regulations, will address a number of the concerns that have been raised by the community about data centers, the water use, the noise, the visual impact, and really noise being the biggest issue that people have with data centers. So this item is presented to you all this evening as an information discussion item. We're seeking any feedback. We're looking at any feedback you have at this time. And should you all deem this to be appropriate, we'll take it forward to our Development Review and Regulations Committee, which is composed of members of our community that are in the industrial and kind of business development sectors and includes planning commissioners. And they'll take a fine tooth comb to the proposed ordinance, make any recommended changes, and then we would go forward with any public hearings to the planning commission, the Board of Supervisors. So this would come back to you all at some later date for further consideration and ultimately approval or denial. So I'm happy to answer any questions you have about this. And thank you for your time. Thank you. Any questions? Yeah, Mr. Chair, just a question on noise. That seems to be one of the recurring issues of a data center. Is that typically like a two-story type building? It's usually our industrial zoning districts allow for buildings up to 60 feet in height. So you're looking at potentially a two-story building. We do have a noise ordinance, which limits industrial noise, which data centers would fall under to 70 decibels, which is, quite low in fact, if you're, you know, road noise from Route 37 is louder than 70 decibels. So we would enforce the noise based on that baseline that they would provide to us and also our noise ordinance standard and enforcement where the zoning administrator would go out there and read the noise at various points on the property and try to make a determination if the noise is being generated by the equipment on the property or some other outside use. Yeah, my input would be that the staff would just look at the details in terms of how high that berm has to be to mitigate that noise. The noise problems. Certainly. That's all I have. So, Supervisor Lear, I'm around data centers multiple hours a week in Loudoun County, and I've never seen one, although maybe I didn't notice it, that wasn't fairly tall. They're high bay, you know, at least in the ones I've seen. And I certainly think we have prescribed a significant setback for the mechanical equipment to be a minimum of 175 feet from property lines or 200 feet from property lines that's shared with our residents. So, certainly that distance will play a factor in limiting the noise that is heard offsite. So, do we have any restrictions or controls on water use? People have brought up that as a concern. That is certainly a concern. Data centers are big water users. Obviously, water is a key component of the cooling and cycling of the data center. We did provide a requirement that they be connected to a public utility. Some of that is generated out of just the sheer volume of water that they will need, but also a component of the cooling and cycling of the data center. So, we have a lot of concerns about that. And we're also concerned that if they were to use some kind of a private system, a well, for example, that they could have a negative impact on the aquifer and the surrounding properties that are pulling from that same aquifer. So, what we see typical of data centers in other areas of the state is that they are required to connect to public utilities. Certainly we could go a step further and say they would not be allowed to use any kind of private system, but I think the requirement to connect to public utilities kind of deals with that issue. And a lot of them now use coolers. Yeah. And they use a cooling pond so they recycle the water rather than to reduce. Certainly there would be a lot, there's a number of technologies that are part of the data center industry for them to reclaim some of that water that they're using and discharging. And that would certainly be something that you all would see, you know, if there was a rezoning or something, you could ask those questions as well. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Chau. Supervisor Chau. So, the statement that they use a lot of water, Tyler, I was in a data center last week and they use 35,000 gallons a day. Which is the size of a large pool. It depends, you just hit around the head. Your data centers are based on how they cool. And there are multiple ways of doing this. The data center I was in was a large data center and it's an 8 megawatt, it's going to go up to 10 megawatts. And then I was in another data center which uses 44 megawatts a day. So power is an issue. The structures, we can, we can tell a data center you need to have broadband. You need to have berms. You need to have, but the fencing they use a lot of times, and the chairman will know this, it's, it's securities involved here. Like the data center I was in last week, they're, they're set up specifically to prevent a truck coming through and being able to go through the fence. So we've got to be careful about how we define this. What I would like to see, I'd like to see what Fauquier County and what the county, what the county is doing. Okay. What Culpeper County has done with their ordinances so that we can align our ordinances the same way. We, we, Loudoun County is just looking to get their act together. It's been by right over there in Loudoun County. But Fauquier County has had this experience lately, especially down there in Warrington and Culpeper County with, with several data centers. I'm down there as well. So I, I do this for a living and I think that it would behoove us, you know, I think what you've got is a beautiful start. But I just want to make sure that we're making sure we cross our T's and dot our I's because you heard tonight that the, the public is concerned about data centers. So and then the two also, speaking of the two I was in this week, their generators were contained within the data center. They were contained in the building. They were not outside. One was up on the roof and one was down on the backside in the building. So it, it does depend on how these data centers are being built too. Okay. So the one that I built, our generators were outside. So I, you know, so there is a concern. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. Quick comment to Mr. Jewell. And when you talk about, and Mr. Klein, you talk about connection to public water. So in Mr. Jewell's case, he was talking about a pond, which would not be public water. So when you're talking about requirement for public water, is that a mandatory requirement? Is it something we can consider? Because if somebody has a pond, either natural or man, man made. So how does that change the equation? And you can make some comments, Mr. Jewell, you can make some comments. But if that provides an out, then I'm open for that out. Certainly we require business and industrial district zone property and structures to be on public utilities. That's a requirement, whether we state it in the ordinance or not. We're setting the expectation with data center that they would be connected to public water. We will certainly need to dig into the comments that were raised by Mr. Klein. Chairman Ludwig and Supervisor Jewell about the pond and the recycling, you need to do a little bit more digging, to be honest with you. This is an emerging industry. It's new. It's rapidly changing in the technology. So we want to provide that flexibility, certainly, that we're not boxing someone into a particular setup. But we also want to provide adequate regulation so that we don't create an unintended consequence of allowing these type of uses. As I stated earlier, data centers are presently allowed. So nothing prohibits any use. It's anyone from starting one tomorrow and us not having any regulations. So we're trying to, again, set a stage and an expectation for what these facilities will look like in the future. So we will certainly look into the issues that were raised here this evening and come back to you all after it goes through the committee with any additional changes. And I do have the Fock Year regulations actually sitting on my desk. Looked at them. And they have a very robust set of regulations, which is a little bit more than we typically include, but certainly not. There are things in that that are good. And we can share those with the committee and get them to provide some input as industry professionals on these type of developments. OK. And then just one other comment. We've had some people that have said we have concerns. But I believe that data centers have significantly changed over the last 5, 10, 15 years. So if you're looking at a data center from 10, 15 years ago, it may be significantly different than a potentially new data center built today. Just when you come back, you can build in those parameters saying, this is what the parameters were 10 years ago, 15 years ago. Here's what they are today. Here's how they changed. And I think that should address some concerns. So I don't want to add to your homework list, but I know one county, either Loudoun or Fairfax, I want to say Fairfax turned against them. They seem to be very much in opposition to any more data centers. And I don't know if the public just got tired of them or if there were some lessons to be learned where there were certain aspects of some of the data centers that bothered them. And so there might be a lesson learned there. Certainly. I don't know. They seem to be fine with them as long as they fall within certain parameters, but these are the ones that caused us trouble. And then we could head it off before we go the wrong direction if we're able to. Well, this is a great start. Appreciate all the stuff that's done. It really is. Thank you. Any other guidance? So you're looking for a consensus? Consensus, yes, sir. That it could go forward to committee, and then we would also seek your authorization to advertise for public hearings. So I believe you would need to do a roll call. I think I have a roll call, but I'll look to Wyatt. He's nodding his head. Yes, sir. Okay. And that's to revise the ordinance that we already have, the buy-write ordinance. Mr. Chairman, there is a, I believe there's a resolution in your package that you're actually voting on to move that forward. Yep. I believe you were ready to read that one. Is that right? Supervisor Slaughter, is that the one you said you were? That was something earlier. Oh, sorry. I'm happy to do that. If you would like me to do that. I can go ahead and do that. No. I can go ahead with that. If we need it. So you are looking for a motion to move forward with the ordinance amendment for data centers. Is that all you need, Mr. Pearson? And to authorize the public hearing. And I think if Ann is correct, then you can just reference the resolution in the packet, which covers those. You're adopting the resolution that's in the package? Yeah. Okay. So I'll make a motion to adopt the resolution in our package regarding data centers. We have a motion. Do we have a motion? We have a second. Second. We have a motion to second. Any further discussion? Hearing none, we'll go to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. Thank you very much. So then we move forward. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Planning Commission met last Wednesday. The A&M Board of Trustees met last Wednesday. They have a motion to approve the ordinance amendment. Any other questions? No. Okay. Thank you. Any other responses? Thank you. Any other questions? There was a motion to approve the ordinance. I'll give a second. Second? Okay. Thank you. It's a motion to approve the ordinance. Second? Aye. Second? Aye. Second? Aye. All in favor? Aye. Thank you. So moved. Second? Aye. Thank you. Second? Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Second? Aye. by the Planning Commission and I think that's on our agenda for the October the 9th and that's all I have mr. chair thank you any other board liaison reports I'll just note one that I was asked to make I'm liaison to the Frederick water board and they made this clear at their last meeting I'm always watching the data they present on our water levels it's been raining a lot and they wanted everyone to be cautious and they reiterated that at our work session today so while there's been a lot of rain things are greening up and above ground ponds etc are refilling nicely this has not been the case for groundwater what's half our residents depend on wells it is still almost at the emergency drought level from last December so they would ask that people refrain from unnecessary use of water you know if you're not doing the right thing you're not doing the right thing we're almost out of the season for automatic sprinklers anyway but keep in mind that if you're on city water supply even you know you still affect the groundwater with water usage your water gets flushed out and processed and sent down the streams so they would like us to keep it that in mind and keep being careful with our water use and that's all I've got moving on citizen comments miss Philips do we have anyone signed up Allen Holland Thank you, Mr. Holland. Please start with your name and magisterial district. Alan Holland. So we've heard a lot about Frederick. We haven't heard what the board intends to do. Could you hold that a little closer? Yeah, we've heard a lot about Frederick Water tonight, but we've not heard what the board intends to do with it. Now, I think by now you've heard enough to convince you that the Frederick Water ICSA surcharge is unfair to the Lake Frederick constituents, but mostly seniors like me. So you have the authority to take whatever action is required to stop this unjust and illegal... Make no mistake. It actually is illegal. Frederick Water, when they took on the grants from the feds, they come with strings. No strings is no age discrimination. And I'm sure that the Lake Frederick team will go ahead and move to the chapter in first. But I would hope that you would take this action. Because you don't want to be seen as proving what they're doing. Late night. And I'll be done. Thank you. Ms. Phillips, is there anyone else? No, sir. Is there anyone here who did not sign up who'd like to speak? I see a couple hands. If you could come and cue forward, whoever would like to speak. So one can speak and one be ready to go next, since we're almost at 10 o'clock. That would be great. Thank you much. Name and magisterial district, please. Although we heard from you already. Yeah. It's Tammy Canfield, Stonewall District. This is an issue that is close to my heart. And this is something that has bothered me for years. The more I find out about the subjects. And then last spring or fall, I was driving by on Grace Church Road and one of the farmers was spraying his fully mature crop and the next day it was harvested. And so that is that is so bad for our food supply. And the more I find out about glyphosate, the more I've realized we need to do something to protect our environment. Um. Okay, let me see if I can follow my notes. Okay. It seems that so many people are concerned about climate change, which may or may not have gone up a degree or two in the last 100 years, depending on how things are figured. Yet the true danger to our planet and humanity is the use of glyphosate and other chemical farming. Glyphosate particularly is patented as an antibiotic and it is repatented as an anti parasitic. It is not an herbicide. We all know how antibiotics affect our gut biomes. It also has a toxic effect on plants, bacteria and fungi. It attacks the pathways for the plants to make amino acids, which our body needs to digest protein. So amino acids are very important to us. So without these amino acids, it affects the nutrition of our food. Um, it definitely provides a lot more profit for the farmer. But it provides poorer health for those who eat their food. Less than one tenth. Um, and some of the information I have is from Dr. Zach. Um, I guess I lost his name. I'll give it to you later. Um, he has done studies. He is a cancer doctor and, um, anyways, he says that less than one tenth of 1% of glyphosate actually kills weeds. The rest of it runs off into our water supply and according to his studies from rainwater. And from air, it actually evaporates and it also comes down in rain. So it's raining glyphosate. Isn't that wonderful? Um, I know, I know some people dispute that, but he's done the studies. Our physical and mental health depends on a healthy gut biome. Diseases have risen exponentially since the heavy use of glyphosate um, included some of the diseases. They started using it heavily in 1974 and increased to every year. Um, the Midwest is awful. Um, the use of glyphosate. So then the rates hitting around 96, 1996, the diseases that rose exponentially were Alzheimer's and dementia in women, Parkinson's in men, um, autoimmune diseases, which I have, um, I was diagnosed with Hashimoto's. I think I'm done with that though. Um, anxiety. Oh my goodness. That was very short. Can I just make my request? If you could wrap up quickly. Okay. Um, so what I am asking, um, um, is that you would all consider, um, encouraging our farmers, incentivizing them to switch over to organic farming. Um, yes, there's less profit in organic farming, but you need less food because your food is more healthy. It takes three to seven years to transition from conventional to organic farming. But we would have a healthier humanity, less autism, um, because that's the biggest concern right now. One in 50, one in two kids by 2050 will be autistic and that will break our country. And how can we have a country if 50% of our residents are autistic? So please consider that. Thank you. Next, you can come forward. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? I'd have you queue up as well. My name is Rodney Wine. I'm from the Shawnee District here in Frederick County. There's a couple problems. One is just a housekeeping with when you're looking at the review of the videos from your Board of Supervisors meetings. It's very hard to tell what is being said. Not only is the speaker here at the podium not be able to be heard, you guys are not able to be heard as well. You mentioned earlier issues with the elections here in the country. We have a lot of a lot of issues there. Part of the problem is apathy on our part because most of this BS and our election started with Clinton in 1993 with NDRA being passed. While we are
