Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=266
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I'm sorry. I'm not. You've been to York. You're in Chicago. All the way in Baltimore. All the way in Baltimore. That's so great. That's what happened to my wife. It was. It was. Get your cup in. Get your cup in. So it's a beautiful day. I don't even know. I haven't been liking it down long enough. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is the pleasure of the board? We have an agenda. Mr. Chair, I move that we approve the agenda before us. Second. We have an agenda and it has approval. Motion has been made. For approval and has been properly seconded. Is there any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Let the board members introduce themselves. Way down there on the end. Linda Martin. I'm from Stonewall District. Gainesboro District. There you go. Thank you. Miles Aganshawnee. Darryl Bell Opecan. No. Reiner Skin Redbud. Diana Klein at large. Scott Sturtevant, Chairman, Back Creek District. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And if we may, Josh Ludwig, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors. Judy McCann Slaughter, Stonewall District. Bob Wells, Opecan District Supervisor. Wayne Dunn, Redbud District. Redbud. Heather Lockridge, Gainesboro District. John Jewell, Back Creek District Supervisor. Bob. Robert. And Bob Liero is Supervisor. He's representing the Shawnee District remotely. And we've got to speak up for him, too, so he can hear us. And then we have staff, but maybe folks can introduce themselves as they speak up. Or do you want to finish around the table? As you prefer. Mike Boehoper, County Administrator. Dr. George Hummer, Superintendent, Frederick County Public Schools. Kristen Anderson, Frederick County Public Schools Finance. Shane Goodwin, Assistant Superintendent for Administration. Hi. Good evening. Shantay Knight, the Assistant Superintendent. I'm attended for instruction. Hi. Cheryl Schiffler, Frederick County Finance. Good. All right. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. And I guess we will turn it over to Dr. Hummer to do his thing. All right. Good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening, everybody. Good evening, both the chairs, Board of Supervisors, School Board. It's so great to see you all. And thank you again so much for this opportunity to work through this budget process before School Board adopts my needs-based budget. We'll go through that process. We'll talk about it here in a second. I did want to ask both of the chairs, and we usually ask this question at the beginning, do you want me to just get through the presentation? Do you want me to stop throughout? Do we want to stop for pressing questions? And then all the questions at the end, I work for you all, so you tell me how you'd like to proceed. Yeah. Drive on. I mean, if someone has a pressing question, but I'd say drive on. I think the Board should be able to ask as we go. If you're fine with that, however, keep it to a minimum and for any lengthy discussion, we should wait until the presentation finishes would be my recommendation. Supervisor Dunn? I have one question. How long, Dr. Hummer, do you think you, I mean, I've read your whole, I've gone through your presentation, so how long do you think you're going to take? I mean, I can get through this in 25, 30 minutes, but if you have questions along the way, it'll probably be a little bit longer. No, I just want some time that we can also talk. That's all. Yes, sir. And as you know, as you send me questions now, even in the future, please send those along and we will answer them. So that's, of course, always on the table as well. Okay? All right. So for an agenda, we're going to discuss our overview. We have a lot of aspects of the budget that we get a lot of questions on every year. We want to get ahead of those questions and answer any questions in regards to the development as well as the current budget that we have in place. And then we'll dive into our needs-based budget for FY26 as well as timeline and next steps. So this is just a reminder that we are the largest employer in Frederick County. Everybody says, well, what about the hospital? Well, the hospital is located in Winchester, so they are larger than us in regards to employees. We do have 2,500. We have 562 full-time employees. But if you count all of our substitutes, we are closer to 3,000 employees. And if you've paid attention last year, we are now the 18th largest in Virginia. Last year, we were the 19th. And we continue to climb. As a matter of fact, I have our updated numbers because we update these regularly. And we just went up. We've gone up every week, but we've gone up 18 students, and we are at 14,569. And we continue to grow, and we continue to climb. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have over 12 funds that we oversee, and we have a third of a billion dollars that we manage on a day-to-day. So here is a breakdown of our operating dollars. And we do get a lot of questions in regards to where our money comes from to make sure that we are operating efficiently. And as you can see, a large portion of our money we receive is from the state. We get 50 percent of our dollars from the state, 46 percent from the county, which we are very thankful for. We get a very small portion from federal dollars, which a majority of that does get funneled through the state. And there is that 0% up there, and I'll share this with you in a little bit. We do get some additional dollars for when we rent our facilities or for any sort of insurance claims. That's a very small portion, but it is money that we factor into our operating dollars. Here's a breakdown of those operating dollars. And as you can see, a large portion of that goes towards instruction. We have many different aspects of our school division from transportation to facilities to technology and to transportation. And 75% of that operating is instruction. And then the whole budget, 83% of that is staff. Now, one of the questions that we always get is where does that money go for our staff? And we hear the term top-heavy. Well, I'm here to share with you that a very, very small percentage of our staff is administrators. As a matter of fact, the majority of our administrators are at the building level. And I have a breakdown. I have a breakdown of those percentages if anyone would wish to see them. But overall, for all of our administrators, we are at 7% of our total staff. And then the rest of our staff is classified, teachers, and other administrators. And again, I can share that entire breakdown with anybody if they wish to see that. So that was a question that we did receive, and I want to make sure that we review that. As well as our administrators are important for the operations of our school division to oversee the administration at the building. And that's what I'm on the same level of, and I have a breakdown of that for the other two. So I want to make sure that we review that. I'm going to break this down a little bit more, but the reason that I inserted this topic in here is because there's a lot of work that goes into the development of this budget. This isn't something where we turn the lights off, we throw a bunch of darts at the board, and then turn the lights back on and say, all right, this is what we're going to ask for this year. We have a lot of different aspects as to how we build out this budget. And one of the things that I promised to you this morning is that we are going to be working on this budget. do is number one is being good stewards of our dollar and secondly to think long term there are a lot of aspects of this budget that we started two years ago to build upon itself because there are aspects of this budget that we want to fix in regards to our pay scales how we're staffing our schools how we are compensating staff and we want to make sure that we are continuously doing that and sustaining that for future developments of our budget and that's one of the things that we want to continue to work on but we gather a lot of information as well as this meeting as well if you saw that this is a work session this isn't the final budget presentation and we look forward to the feedback from you all because this budget is not finalized yet so we want to get feedback from everybody as we continue to build out this budget here's another important aspect this gets updated every year and you can see there this is the total dollar figure on average of how we much spend how much we spend per student the state average is close to seventeen thousand dollars the regional average is a little over eighteen thousand dollars and then for frederick county we are a little over fifteen thousand this is a very important slide because we get about seven thousand dollars through adm from the state and as you can see to educate a student it costs us about fifteen thousand dollars on average and that is a wide range that is going to be for our gifted students who are are accessing dual enrollment courses or other opportunities for advancement we also have students with disabilities and english language learners that might have unique needs that we are required by law to educate them so the average is fifteen thousand which we are below the state and we are below that regional average yes sir yes i wanted to look into this a bit you provide a link at the bottom of the page for the vdoe website however that link is non-functional as of today at least oh okay we can fix that so that might have made some changes if you could send us the updated link absolutely yes mr okay mr chairman okay um one other thing in your um the 416 page document 2016 i'm sorry 2026 estimated is 17 06 19 is that accurate versus this 2023 data say that again based on the proposal yes okay yeah thank you so that number is the same as the data that we have in the document also the dating is different as we alsosh out the dating on that on the we are continuing to their pre- 생각이 your university sonic to significant benefits was we added a $5,000 salary bump to teachers for 25 years or more. The reason we did that is because we received data that we were losing teachers 25 years or more experience to get that average to the end of their career for the VRS. And they were going to Loudoun and Prince William and school divisions where they were making more money. So this shows that average. Here are the school divisions within Virginia that are our 30 mile average. And here is this in chart form. So as you can see, we are a little bit below the Virginia average. And we are more comparable when you look at West Virginia and Maryland. The reason we typically do not include West Virginia, Maryland, it's a good piece of data. But as you can see over to the right, we typically do not lose teachers to each of those states. So Dr. Hummer. Yes, sir. We don't lose, but we gain, right? We have a number of teachers in our system, quite a few that come here from West Virginia. We do. I mean, I don't know what the number would be, but we do have a lot of teachers that come here in the state. But we are going to use those to make sure that we are providing you with the right information. We do have a lot of teachers, I'm sure, that are from our state and we can get that information for you. We do. We track that. So what I really like is to see that in tabular forms for each of the counties you're comparing. Say that one more time. I want to make sure I'm getting it right. I'd like to see the numbers for each county. Loudoun is such an outlier on the high side. I'd like to be able to do my own math on averages. So for the numbers on some of these charts, the teachers pay. So, Mr. Chairman, he did send us late today a spreadsheet which has all of the West Virginia and Maryland. We have that. We shared that. I'll make sure. From zero to 40 years. I shared that yesterday. I didn't see that. So, does that include the three or four charts here? Yep. So, it's in a spreadsheet form, and it has every school division with their whole entire salary scale. Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. Yep, I'll get that to you. But for 30 seconds, Mr. Chairman? Sure. For 30 seconds, if you take loud and out of this equation, the numbers change significantly. So, you take loud and out, which, Mr. Chairman, is an outlier. Then it becomes a different equation. The flip side of that is how do you still fund teachers? So, that's a conversation I'll have when you get done. Yes, sir. Absolutely. And we do have that built in here in a second as well. Yes. Twelve percent of our staff went to West Virginia. Twelve percent of our staff went to West Virginia or live in West Virginia. Yes. So, that's a question. Yes. Okay. So, here is the starting salaries for FY24 and then for FY25. We always try to get ahead of this to attract more teachers, and this is where we lose teachers as well. So, we want to make sure that we focus on the salaries for our zero to five-year teacher group. And then we also broke it out by West Virginia and Maryland. So, we're about the middle of the road when you factor in all of those school divisions with Washington County and Loudoun at the top, and then with West Virginia schools down there at the bottom. But as you can see here, we are sixth out of the eight school divisions from a 30-mile radius. So, again, information that we factor in. And then along the lines of what you were just mentioning, Mr. Dunn, is that here is the comparison from us to Loudoun County, because you're right, we are not going to catch Loudoun County, but that is where we lose a lot of our teachers. So, that's why we're trying to incentivize in other ways. But just to show you that this is what we are up against when our teachers are leaving us, because there is a significant gap, especially when you get into the 20 to 30-year range, which is what we have, what we're up against. One of the other areas that we are really focused on is our classified staff. Not only, as you can see, with these three groups here, are we competing with other school divisions, but we are also competing with retail. We have staff that are telling us they're leaving to work for Chick-fil-A or Sheetz and Target, which is honorable professions, but we are competing with them because we're losing them to those workforces. But as you can see, this is an area that we definitely want to improve upon so we at least compete against other school divisions within our 30-mile radius group. So, our bus drivers, our school security officers, not SROs, these are school security officers, which we'll get to in a second. These are additional staff at the building level at high school right now that help with safety and security at the school, as well as our instructional assistants. And our instructional assistants are an extension of our teachers that work exclusively with the teacher, with students in the classroom to support the large class sizes, as well as to work with our special education population, kindergarten classes, as well as other classes as that support is needed. Mr. Rappaport. If you could go back two slides. Yes, sir. I just want to say thank you to Mr. Jewell for driving buses for us. That's funny. I do appreciate that. Thanks for helping out. Yes, Mr. Wells. The minimum rate up to the maximum rate is at a yearly, how many years? You've been driving, is that how that's placed? Yes, sir. Yes, that is correct. That is correct. Okay, now let's jump into the LCI. And I know there were a lot of questions the last two years we presented this. One of the areas that I would like to mention with the LCI that we are excited about is that the state is looking at adjusting this. And we've talked about this many times. And Mr. Ludwig, I know you've had some choice opinions about how they calculated these numbers. And we would agree that it is definitely a system that needs to be adjusted. Right now we are one of very few states that still uses this antiquated system because they do not provide us funding for the needs of our students. They only provide us funding for the total number of students, which definitely needs to change because that is where we're seeing that gap continue to grow with meeting the needs of our kids. So this is how the LCI number is determined. And for everyone in this room who I know knows, but for those listening and those here, we do not determine the LCI. This is a number that the state determines based on these factors here. And it is a number that determines how much the county or locality is required to pay for education of our students. So as you can see, our number grows. It's every two years, comes out when the biennium for the governor's budget comes out. And we have increased since 2016, which means the county continues to get richer because it says that that is what the county should be able to provide. Again, we do not make that number. We do not make that basis. That is how it is determined at the state level. And so the state pays the number. The number on the right, we pay the number on the left. Well, the county does. Dr. Hummer. Yes, ma'am. Can you expound upon a little bit of the needs of the students? Talk to us about that ELL, SPED, the increase. Absolutely. Absolutely. So we have a spectrum of students that participate in our school system. We have students who are gifted that might require additional services from a gifted teacher or additional instructional materials through the gifted program. We have students with English language learner needs where they might not speak English or they might not be as proficient. So there's services that is required through an ELL teacher or provider or support or tutoring. And then we also have students with disabilities that require additional services from specialists and other support staff in order for them to access their education. So there's a lot of services that we provide for a wide range of students. And then we have students that might be not identified in any of those areas, but they might be economically disadvantaged. So there might be some additional services that they might require from a counselor or from an instructional coach or somebody to help support them with getting food or access to information. So there's a lot of different services we provide for all 14,569 of our students. And they are all different. And that is where we have to make sure that we are providing those services. Because for all those students I mentioned, we are required by law to educate them. Does that help, Ms. Fine, when we expand on that at all? We've seen an uptick in English language learners and special ed, is that correct? Correct. So there's more of those students. They need more supports, which in turn equals more money required. Correct. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Yeah, absolutely. Here's just, oh, sorry, Ms. Ludley, go ahead. If I may, so since the subject was brought up, for the English language learners, I believe there was an increase requested in staff related to that in the budget. I believe so. We're getting to that. So can we request, if we don't already have the data, the enrollment? 14%. So we are at 14% for English language learners. We're roughly 13 and a half, 14% for students with disabilities. But if you're looking for a specific number, we can calculate that and get that to you. Yeah. If I could get a number over the last few years, so we could see if there's a trend there. COVID, as well as other factors going on, might be driving that trend so we can think about whether, so we understand your staffing request as it's gone over time. Sure. So you're looking for ELL numbers? Anything else? ELL is the old ESL, English as Second Language. Yes, sir. English Language Learners. Yes, sir. Yeah, over a period of time. Yeah. I'll give you the last five years. Is that OK? That'd be great. Perfect. And maybe staff, too, dedicated staff. So you don't have separate classes, right? You have teachers that do pull out sessions to assist. Well, both. Yeah. So we have, they push in, so they work in the classroom, and then they also pull students out for individualized support. So we have both. OK. So I'm looking at the enrollment and the staff. Sure. Those five years. OK. They're dedicated to that. For ELL. We got it. Absolutely. Yep. Mr. Chairman, if I may, Dr. Hummer, along with that past data, don't we have data that is indicative of what we can expect in the future for the ELL and special ed needs? So we, if I'm understanding your question correctly, one of the things that we are working on is making sure that we're projecting better of the students that come into our school division, right? Oh. Right now, we're basing this off of a number percentage of where we are with developments in the area, where we're at with our current population. And we can't project, have a crystal ball, the exact number of ELL students we have next year, the exact number of special ed. We don't add an additional cushion, but we do a really good job. So if we know 14% is ELL, 14% is special students with disabilities, and 2% is gifted, we say for every 10 kids, we're going to need two per students with disabilities, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 20 students with English language learners. So that's how we make our projections to add the staff on. One of the things I would like to add, though, for English language learners, though, is the state, for the longest time, had a very general ratio, which was 1 to 50. And they have recently updated that to be more specific to each of the levels of each of those English language learners. Because you have some students who have no exposure to the English language, and you have some students that might have three years exposure, and they're still learning. So we have a lot of students who are taking the WIDA test that they take every year, and they have different levels. So for a student who doesn't know English, you're going to need more resources and supports for that student, as opposed to a student that's on level four, who is more proficient in the English language. So the state has broken that out, which is why we've added more additional ELL teachers on here, because the state is giving us more money for those teachers. So before, we did not have a lot of English language learner teachers, because that's what the ratio, we were working through the ratio of what we had, but now the state is giving us more money for that. So you will see an increase there, which we're very thankful for from the state. Can I ask something? Yes, absolutely. Thank you, Dr. Hummer. Thank you, Mr. Bell. The students that come in that say, basically don't know any English, are the majority of them coming in at kindergarten, or is it spread out? It's spread out, but we can break that number down. Mrs. Knight, I think Emily has that. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, we can break that down for you, if you'd like to see that. Yeah, absolutely. Dr. Hummer, I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Dr. Hummer, I'd be curious to see those numbers as well, just over the five-year period, as well as kind of what Mr. Ludwig brought up. That's correct. And the reason is, obviously, over the past few years, we've seen an uptick in people coming across the border that need that second language or native language to somewhere else, let's say. And, you know, we've seen a lot of people coming across the border that don't know how to speak English. And maybe that pumped the numbers up of what we needed. I'm not saying that we still don't need that, because we still have a requirement to educate those children in our schools per every law, federal laws, state laws, what have you. But I would like to see how those numbers increased over time, what happened within the federal government and our open border policy that we had, and see how it affected public education here at a local level. Yeah. And then also, too, to be clear, any information that I share with questions, everybody's going to get access to it. I'm not just going to give it to the ones that asked. I'm going to give it to all of you. Also, is it just Spanish we're talking about, or are there also other languages? Across the board. Any language. Of course, Hispanic is the largest, but it's across the board. We have a lot of different languages that are represented here in Frederick County. Yes, ma'am. And we can break that down for you. There's more coming. Here's just a breakdown of a very generic example of the distribution of the share per the LCI. So if you have a teacher that is on a $50,000 a year contract, you can see the local share, which is the 41%, is $20,000, and then the state share would be the $29,000. Just a generic breakdown there. The reason I showed this, I wanted to share these next two charts with you, is a little bit further breakdown of the LCI. So the LCI is the number of, it shares the minimum dollar that a locality needs to pay. So right here shows where Frederick County went above the 100%. And you might say, well, it looks like the county gave less money. Well, don't look at it that way. The reason that you see it high and going to the right is because, if you remember, in the recession of 2010, the state was not giving as much money. And as the state continued to give more money, we requested less from the locality. Same thing happened last year. Remember, we had a budget request of about $6 million. We got additional dollars from the state, and then we reduced that money and actually gave some of that money back. So that's just being good stewards of our dollars. So the money that we don't get from the state, we requested from the locality. And as you can see here, here's just a better breakdown since FY20. As you can see, that line there that's going up and then over, that's our LCI. And then each of these bar graphs, as you can see, that the state continued to climb. The county did not climb proportionately, but they did climb as well. But now the state is definitely catching up with where they need to be. On another note, and I'll dive into this a little bit later, it is looking very favorable at the state level to get additional dollars. As a matter of fact, during our legislative priorities meeting back in October, we made a recommendation to change the support cap. So we're going to be asking for additional money to take that away because there was a limit with how much they were giving us for our staff and our buildings. And they're talking about taking that away, which will then give us more money to fund our staff, which means it will be less money we have from the locality. So we're very excited about that because then there'll be more money we can give and then less money that we'll be requesting from the county. So we're still working through that. As we know, the state has a different timeline than we do. So hopefully we'll have a better idea within the next month or so. But of course, we'll come back to you and talk about that like we did last year where we talked about spending that money and giving money back. The staffing standards is also another way for us to do a better job of keeping track of the staff in our buildings. This is a very, very important task because we want to make sure that we have a standard that we are working by with every school and that the staff we are adding is based on a ratio. If we go above that ratio for any reason, we are going to make sure that there is a justifiable reason to go above that staffing standard. So we're going to make sure that we have a standard that is based on a standard requirement. For example, if we have a student with a disability that requires additional support and we need to add an additional instructional assistant per the IEP, then of course that would be a reason to go above that ratio. So we factor that in. This is going to take us about three to five years to get it to where it needs to be. Across the board, though, we are understaffed in a lot of our schools and we want to make sure we get up to that rate of where we need to be because we continue to grow as well as we get in preparation for the fourth high school or two elementary schools. Lastly, before I dump into our needs-based budget presentation for this year, we are still 24th nationally in teacher pay and we also rank 10th as the richest state in the country. And we are also, and this is a comparison to other neighboring states in regards to pay growth, so we are comparable with North Carolina, and we're also definitely higher than Tennessee, but then we are below West Virginia, Kentucky, and North Carolina. We are lower than Tennessee and Maryland. Yes, sir. Well, you take a look at that as percentages, and I'm making up numbers here. But if a person in Frederick County makes $100,000, your person in West Virginia makes $50,000, 3% of 100 is a lot more than the, you know, 5.4% of 50. So percentages say one thing, but the dollar amounts are something else. So I'm not, I understand what you're saying, but there's another component to that. That's all. Sure. but you also have to consider the standard of living in those places versus what it is here. So while it may be a lower dollar amount, their dollar may go further than it does here. Valid point. And one other comment. That's all Virginia. Northern Virginia is a whole lot different than Frederick County. So I understand that. So I'm just taking that as a comment. Thank you all. Absolutely. Absolutely. And then the last thing to mention on this, and as I mentioned earlier, there is light at the end of the tunnel. The state, there was a JLARC study, as I mentioned to you all, that we are behind when it comes to funding public education, and the state is making those changes to increase those dollar figures. So we are very thankful for that as we continue to work on with them in regards to adjusting the LCI process, as well as how we are funding our schools so we can support our students and their needs. All right. So our needs-based budget presentation, you know I always love to show off our kids, and we have a lot of great things happening in our schools, and I encourage all of you, school board and board of supervisors, to reach out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As a matter of fact, once this is approved in April, we start working on the next step of the process for FY27, because there's a lot of work that goes into this, and as I mentioned to you earlier, we want to be able to sustain our budgets, and we want to be good fiscally responsible when it comes to taking a look at how we're currently spending, as well as responding to the needs of our students. These are our school board budget priorities. These were established back in we had a budget retreat in October. Our board voted on these in November, and these are my directions of what to put in there. Thank you. Thank you. build out for the budget for every upcoming year which our school board adopts every year one of the other things which is a very exciting aspect of this year is we're building out our new strategic plan i know we sent you all the survey so hopefully you all had a chance to fill it out because your feedback and input is very important to us if you did not have a chance to fill it out please send me feedback because we're still in the process of building out this new strategic plan and so this is our current strategic plan now we we will vary from this but for the most part we're still going to focus on kids we're still going to focus on culture and strategic partnerships and staff so it won't vary from this but because this is our current strategic plan this is how we built out our budget but we did factor in what we are going to have to prepare for because we had a really good idea based on feedback from our board and feedback from the community and the direction we're going in with the new strategic plan as i mentioned we have a lot of items to be happy about for frederick county public schools there's a lot of that we that we've done every day we have a lot that we've accomplished we have a lot of things that we've accomplished we have a lot of things that we've accomplished we have a lot of things that we've accomplished we have a lot of pathways and opportunities that we're adding for our students we always share this number and i always get somebody that feels like we're making it up but we travel 2.4 million miles a year for our buses 2.4 million miles and and that's a lot and we serve lunches we serve breakfast there's a lot of work that goes into the operations of supporting our students and providing them access in order for them to receive the best education in the commonwealth we also have a lot of successes one of the things that again we cannot thank you all enough is we have a lot of resources that we can use to support our students and we have a lot of resources that we can use to support our students is for the approval of our fourth high school and the expansion of our two elementary schools that's a big deal it's a big deal for this community it's a big deal for our students and that's one of the things we really want to continue to celebrate as we continue to grow and respond to that growth so that we can continue to provide these amazing opportunities for all of our students however as you know if you've had conversations with me there's a lot of great things but there's also a lot of work we have to do and we've identified those areas of aspects of our school division we need to continue to work on and i never want to sugarcoat anything because we have work to do and there are areas and aspects that we need to improve upon and we need to invest in making those changes and adjustments first is we're going to continue to focus on attendance behavior and performance of our students we have continuous school improvement plan committees at each of our schools those plans are located on each of the school's websites to see their progress as they are working through the many different aspects of the specific needs of those schools so please take a look at those and let me know if you have any questions the other aspect of those plans is that we have a lot of work to do and we need to continue to work on and we are also working on a lot of the other aspects of our school district and staff plans as they must involve the community so every quarter they review their results and then they have a meeting with their community to seek feedback from constituents from parents from students from staff to see how we are working towards our goals and meeting the needs of all of our students and we continue to work on each of those areas as i mentioned we are still in the initial stages of gathering information for our new strategic plan we will have that finalized in april no later than may with a full implementation next year and we are very excited to be able to follow up on that i know that there are a lot of things that need to be done to make this about this new strategic plan and your feedback as well as those listening at home and those participating here is necessary. We had over 5,000 individuals in this community fill out the survey. That is huge. That is a big deal and that shows that we have a lot of folks that are invested in our school system here in Frederick County and that is something that we need to continue to build off on. And we got a lot of positive feedback. We got a lot of constructive feedback and we have a lot to start with in regards to the direction we need to go in. The other aspect is, which is out of our control, is the state is moving forward with what's called a new school performance and support framework. And this is a way for us to focus on the many different aspects of a student because there are a lot of aspects of this that we like. Of course, with anything that comes out from the state, we have some probably some opinions about how it should look. But overall, we are responsible for making sure that our students are progressing and that our students are able to access education and make the gains that is appropriate for their age level as well as their performance. So, what this new framework is moving towards is going to be a four-tiered approach. Each school, not county, each school is going to be labeled as either distinguished, on-track, off-track, or needs intensive support. The state went ahead and put together a pseudo score for each school across the Commonwealth and you can find that on BDOE's website. It has every school on there, including ours. If you want to see those, I'm more than happy to share it with you. And across the board, we have some schools that are on track, we have some schools that are off track, and we have some schools that need to be on track. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're going to get intensive support. My goal is to get all of our schools to distinguish. That is my goal. And we are going to work towards that and we are going to get to that goal and we're going to get as close as we can to that goal. There's also different aspects of how we're planning for post grad for our students. So, there's going to be an enlistment and employment and enrollment aspect and we're going to be providing more support for students in the early grades, which is something we've already been starting and working on, so that we can provide students exposure to post grad opportunities, so they can start to get on that track a little bit sooner. So, those are the other challenges that we're going to have to deal with. So, we're going to be working on that. So, we're areas that we're very excited about with this new performance framework, and there's going to be funding that's going to be needed for this because there is going to be some changes in regards to courses that are offered at the middle school level, as well as opportunities at the high school level that are going to be required according to this framework. So the state's currently working through that of what that's going to look like, but that is another area that we're going to have to work on as well as prepare for. As I've mentioned to you, one of the areas that I want to continuously work through with all of our budget cycles is we need to make sure that we are thinking ahead. We need to make sure that we are looking five and ten years down the road so that we're able to sustain our budgets, sustain our staff so we can sustain opportunities for our students. So we look at each of these areas because, as I mentioned earlier, we are a system of people. We are not a system of things, and those are the people that are going to meet the needs of our students, and we want to make sure that we are providing for them. We want to make sure that we are adding appropriate staff to meet the needs of our students because from our custodians to our bus drivers to our bus drivers, we want to make sure that we are adding appropriate staff to meet the needs of our students. So from our custodians to our bus drivers to our bus drivers to our administrators, everybody plays a part in meeting the unique needs of our students. So now I'm going to break down each of these budgets, excuse me, each of these funds as part of this budget proposal. First is, as I talked about last year, and this is something we're going to continuously do, is in order to be good stewards of our dollar, we're going to be taking a look at every single budget line in our budget to see where we didn't spend a specific budget line, where we maybe have spent but didn't spend as much, and we were able to find $650,000 to reallocate in this budget so that's $650,000 less than we were requesting from you. Now, this is good budget practice because we don't want to continue to keep the same line items and continue to just request more money from the locality and the state when we have money within our budget that we can utilize. It doesn't mean that we add an extra cushion in our budget, doesn't mean that every year we have this additional money. This number fluctuates. Last year it was about $350,000. This year it's $650,000 and it could be we didn't purchase a particular product or whatever the reason is, but we were able to find that money so it's less money they were asking for from the locality and we will continue to do that every year. Thank you. You are very welcome. Very, very important. As I mentioned, this is a work session, so if you saw our Finance Committee meetings the last two times, we are in the process of looking at adjusting that teacher salary increase where that has potentially gone up to 5.6% which I'll get to in a second as to why that is. All the others are the same, so the classified staff is 5.6, other professionals which is our athletic trainers, school psychologists, diagnosticians, that's our other professionals, and then our administrator supervisors is 3.4. So every year we always start with a 2.5% COLA built into the budget second year of his biennium budget. There's a 3% average increase we're getting from the state and then we're also looking at unclustering our years of experience. We're looking at unclustering our years of experience as well as going to 24 years or more to that $5,000. We wanted to go to 20, but again, we're trying to be fiscally responsible and there were other aspects of this budget that we wanted to request. We only stopped at 24. And as I mentioned earlier, the reason that it went from 4.9 to 5.6 is because we need to uncluster our pay scales. And as we talked about last year, our pay scales are clustered because of the many years since 2010 from the Great Recession, we had to cluster our scales. So we're trying to uncluster that, to break out those steps, and we're getting closer to that. So thank you to our school board. They wanted us to focus on years 3, 4, 5, and 6, correct? Instead of the higher years because there's less staff in the higher years than the lower years. So the lower years, that's why it's going to be a little bit more. So we're still currently working through that to see where we're going to land, but that's why there is that potential increase there. Increase. We also have our classified staff. That's our bus drivers, instructional aides, cafeteria workers started at 2.5%. Then we increased those additional areas there. And the reason we wanted to focus on this group is, as I mentioned earlier, we are losing these folks to our, unfortunately, our retail as well as others neighboring school divisions. We also have our other professionals started at the 2.5, increased those other areas, and then for our administrators down at the 3.4%. We also wanted to focus on some other groups that we've recognized need some additional compensation based on staff that we are losing in each of these groups as well as different logistics. So for example, instructional and bus assistants, we've recognized that these individuals we are losing to other school divisions, but there's also a lot of required work from these folks and they're hard positions to fill at times. So we wanted to make sure that we provided additional compensation for these folks. Safety is number one, as I mentioned to you. This is something that we've worked very hard on. We've added the weapons detection. We're continuous adding additional layers. Right now, we have one school security officer at each high school. We're going to be working with them to see if they'reenable . We're going to be extending that several times around the districtaf ONE E Tú is an owner . That's it. Waiting for the superior, really, after being promoted materialized according on to a school logbook for that daggers reading conditions so to day week leading and employment percent is multi-act scout for the evaluation period criteria across all housing and sports students, while working from other single homes over with as well as looking at their current job responsibilities. So still on the teacher scale. This is also a need, this is a need across the Commonwealth is special education. So we've noticed that this is the position that these are the positions that are very very hard to fill as well as the requirements in regards to additional training. These are the staff that work with students who bite and kick and have communication needs and medical needs. So we are looking at adding an additional pay bump to them, not a stipend, so we'll go towards their VRS for our level 2 teachers and our instructional assistants. Here is now our instructional initiatives. The first is our staffing standards and these are positions that we've identified per our staffing standards, so it's based on a standard that we want or we are requesting to increase. And these are based on the needs of our school divisions per the staffing standard. Now we had 50 positions that initially we were requesting, but again to be good stewards of our guidance, we wanted to increase the number of students that we had in the different positions. So the faculty and staff that were in the student department are now at the same level as we are. So we are only looking at a request of 40 positions. Now the question that we always get and we thought about this is, well what are your current vacancies? And I know that question came forward. Well last year we requested 25 and of those 25 we filled 23. And every year we are always going to have vacancies that fluctuate and every year based on the different aspects and variables we are going to have vacancies, but we are going to have specific needs in regards to each of the aspects of our school division, and we do take a look at those positions, and that is where we did find some reduction in some of these positions. So every year, we're going to have a vacancy that we will be looking at and working through. Our HR department does a great job of putting together recruitment and retention efforts so we don't lose teachers, but also to recruit the teachers to fill these positions. And then as Mr. Ludwig mentioned earlier, of these positions, eight of them are for compliance. So that is for the additional funding we're getting from the state. So if we go back to our school board based on the amount of money that might potentially be cut or we don't get the amount of money we thought from the state and we have to cut some of these positions, we would not be permitted to cut those eight positions for ELL because those are linked to compliance for money we're getting from the state. Yes, sir. Are you able to show us where those 45 vacancies are? Yes. Compared to these categories? Yes, we can share that with you. Okay, thank you. Sure. Okay. Great question. All right. The next part of our instructional initiative is NREP. NREP is our regional program for students with disabilities and our students who are in the school system. And we're going to be working with the school system to figure out how to get them to the school system. And we're going to be working with the school system to figure out how to get them to the school system. And we're going to be working with the school system to figure out early childhood who also have disabilities. And that is a regional program with Clark, Winchester, and Frederick County. If you paid attention to the newspaper, Winchester pulled out their early childhood program. And back to what I was saying in regards to making sure we're being good stewards of our dollars. So since they pulled out, we didn't need that many ECSE teachers. We could have left those teachers there, but we didn't. Now, the unfortunate part is there were individuals in those positions. So of course, we're working with Winchester, we're working with our current vacancies. So those actual people go into positions. But with that, we're going to make sure we're being good stewards of our dollar. And that is why there was a cut of positions at NREP. Now, in the future, those positions might be added on based on our increase of ECSE. But that is why there was a cut there. So just based on the salary initiatives and everything else we discussed, there's a $700,000 increase. And also Clark County and Winchester also has an increase as part of their budget because it is a regional budget to fund that program. As well as each of those areas I mentioned, another instructional initiative is to really dive into our instructional practices. One of those areas, which is going to be a big shift for us, is looking into a data management system because we currently don't have one. And that is a lot of work that goes into that, which wastes a lot of time from our administrators to our principals, to our teachers. We need a data management system because that is what's going to drive our instruction. And that is what's going to drive us to move the needle for kids. We're also looking at curriculum development and developing more rigorous curriculum for our students, as well as really focusing on the curriculum development. So we're going to be focusing on professional learning because that is what our teachers need. And that is what every professional needs. And stay on top of your trade in order to make sure you're developing your skills. And one of the questions that we always get about that is, well, teachers went to college. Some of them have master's degrees. Some of them have doctoral degrees. And I'm sure in each of you and your professions as well, everybody needs professional learning. Everybody needs a refresher of what we're doing, as well as when instructional practices change, needs of our students change. We always need that. And that is a requirement per our license every 10 years, that we do get professional learning a certain amount of points every 10 years. But of course, there's always more that we get because it's important we stay on top of our skills. Now for operations, for our assets. So because we have definitely, have hopefully moved towards addressing the space needs at our schools, and we'll continue to work towards that, we are still at an issue now where we have overcrowding in our schools. And we want to make sure that we are putting this into our operational budget in regards to how we're funding our modulars, because typically we scramble to try to find that money. But Middletown is going to need modulars because of the expansion and because they are at a point right now where they are overcrowded. We are also looking at other two schools in regards to adding modulars, which we're still in conversations about, which is James Wood and Bass Hoover. So this number potentially could change as well because of the space issues we're dealing with in the county. And we want to get ahead of those requests. As I mentioned, safety and security is important. So we do have an increase there to look at our intruder locks as well as cameras, as well as building up that safety and security office. It's hard to believe that just two years ago we did not have a safety and security office. And a lot of school divisions our size do because safety is important, and there's a lot of oversight to that. And Mr. Conlon has done a great job of overseeing that for us for our school division. As a reminder, we have buses that are built into our operating budget. We have nine buses in our budget based on working with Middletown. We have a lot of buses that are built into our operating budget based on working with Middletown. We have a lot of buses that are built into our operating office. We've determined that 13 buses is where we need to be as a healthy rotation of buses. We're at nine right now. We proposed two, but this is another area that we are very thankful for our school board that they want to get us to two more, which would get us to 13 so that we would not have to continue to ask for additional buses built into our operating budget. Quick question. Yes. So you're nine now, you're 13. That's a four-point differential. But like I said, so this was initially, so we got to 11, and then through our finance committee meetings, our school board asked to add two more. So we're getting to, so we're asking for four. So in the, so this year, FY25, you have nine. You're asking for four for FY26? Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Yep. And again, that hasn't been finalized yet. That's currently, we're in discussions of that. Thank you. Yes, sir. And actually, Dr. Hummer, go back. Yes, sir. Just so you know, for numbers sakes, you would just add another 300,000. It would be 600,000 asked. Thank you, Mr. Bell. The other area that we reduced was technology. We went back and looked at how many more devices we need, and we reduced that to 75,000. So there was a little bit of reduction there. We're looking at the student, excuse me, school nutrition transfer for our lunch meal balances at 100,000. And then here's another area that, again, is something that we are hopeful for, because this is a need in regards to a human capital management system. Again, because we currently do not have one. We are one of, I'm not aware of any other school division that does our evaluations paper pencil. We do not have a system to track data in regards to. So every time we ask about teachers that left or went to different school divisions or how many are in Maryland or West Virginia, we have to go through and count that number. And that's pulling our administrators away from the day-to-day of what they need to do. When there's a button you can hit to do that, and it will also give us better comparison of that data so that we're being more efficient and that we're also making sure that we are. Working towards meeting the needs of our students by really looking at the development of our staff and making sure we're staying ahead of retention and recruitment. So this is a system that we do not have, and this will be a very big jump for us here in Frederick County for Frederick County Public Schools. So here is the breakdown. So the state is the $8.5 million. That's where we're at right now. As I mentioned to you, that number will more than likely go up. We're hopeful that we will get a new CalP tool. I know they usually send us updated CalP tools, which they haven't this year, but based on the updates we get from the General Assembly, it's looking very favorable unless something happens. We are getting a reduction in our federal dollars, and that is because the COVID dollars are continuously going away there. As I mentioned to you, the fees and the other receipts, that's for building use, insurance claims, and then the county transfer is $8.6. As I mentioned, there was three additional items that we, two we added, one that we reduced, so that number is now closer to $9.6 for that request as of right now. So $9.6 was not included in our first debt service. Last two requests are the first is our debt service, and if you recall last year we did have a request for additional debt service for our two projects that we're still paying off. And when we made that request, there was, that money was taken out of capital. So we just wanted to make sure that we made that mention to you, so that is why there still is that $1.52 million because that was not taken out of operating from the county. received a lot of questions in regards to our capital asset planning. So with this number of $14.798 million, first and foremost, we are very thankful for the money that you've given us over the last couple of years, not only through the budget, but through when we had our unobligated dollars through our cost savings, as well as additional money we got from the state, we put it towards our capital projects. And if you recall, this number was closer to $19 million last year. So we have chiseled away at this. So yes, we are looking for $14 million, but of course, we will be happy with whatever you give us because this chart now is not in alphabetical order, it's in order of need. So we want to make sure that we get ahead of these assets because if these assets do break, we might have a bigger issue. So this is based on a schedule, this is based on a formula that we use, and this is something that we're more than happy to explain further if you have specific questions about each of these needs. So yes, I know the number is $14.7, but we will make it work with whatever you give us. But we cannot lose track of these items because these are projects that need to be fixed. So we can't lose sight of them. All right. And then lastly, just want to talk through timeline. We had our public hearing on February 4th. Again, very thankful for this opportunity. And then our school board will then adopt the budget on February 18th. We do have a work session that was moved from today to Tuesday. So we'll again work through based on feedback we get from you, feedback from our board members. And then I'm looking forward to hopefully we'll continue this tradition where we will then present to you a final budget presentation in March and go over any questions that you might have. I always appreciate this opportunity to speak with you all with hopes that the Board of Supervisors will approve the budget in April and that our board will approve it thereafter. Calendar is located on our website if you want to take a look at that with all those dates and times. And then I also have my budget town halls. Now, I did get a little ahead of myself because this is before the big snowstorm. I thought I would have had the town hall on February 11th, but of course I got canceled because of the snow. But that was rescheduled to February 20th. So if you want to put that time down. Now, I heard that there's snow coming next week, which I don't know whoever started that rumor, who's flushing ice cubes down the toilet, but let me know if you know who that is. But we are done with the snow days. Okay. So we are on track for February 20th. And then the first one is February 19th. And this is a good way for me and you all. You guys are invited to to engage with the public and constituents and staff. I really look forward to this opportunity to engage with the community on our budget. 30 to 70 inches. Don't even. Don't even. I like it. And again, I can't thank you all enough for this time and for this opportunity. I wrote down your questions as we went throughout. I know we have five minutes, but if you have any questions after this, please send questions along. I'm more than happy to answer any of them. And I will share it with you all accordingly. Thank you both, Mr. Chair and Board for letting me present. Thank you, Board. Anyone would like to ask questions? Supervisor Dunn? So in the interest of time, I'll just hit a couple points. One on pre-K. You're spending about $3.3 million on pre-K. I've seen two small sample studies of 120 students or less, neither of which showed any significant improvement by 12th grade. Between, you know, third and fourth grade dissipated. The state of Oklahoma, the state of Georgia had universal pre-K. There's no difference in the 12th grade between them. There's a study by MIT which shows a cultural difference. It's a small sample. So my comment to you on money is. Eliminate pre-K. I know there could be people who say bad deal, but there's other options in the private sector to do that. And that money can be used elsewhere. You're looking for money. And so that's a suggestion. You, the Board, can make that comment, but I'm just throwing that out. I need to say something really quick, because you are correct. It's a total of 3.2. But remember, that's broken out. It's broken out by early childhood special education, which we are required to educate those students. The ones that we are in favor of educating, but we're not required is BPI, which is the $3.3 million. So we cannot send our students with disabilities to other localities. We are responsible for that. So that 2.9 goes to our students with disabilities. And I know we've gone back and forth in regards to the value of early childhood. I don't want to get into that. I want to get into that we're required to educate our students with disabilities. I just wanted to throw that out there, because there is a difference. I appreciate that. Respect that. Change the law. And I'm not saying that to you personally, but that's where I'm coming from. Number two on meals. I don't think the job of the school is to provide meals. I think it's the job of parents to provide meals. If you are really, really poor, there's the WIC program and the SNAP program. I've been there, okay? So my parents were as poor as poor can be. I took my food to lunch, came back, and that's it. For kids that are really, really poor, there's other options to deal with, but I don't think it's the job of the school to provide that funding. I understand that you've handed out free meals, which I don't appreciate, not to you personally. So I'll just make that as a potential cost. I'll just make that as a potential cost. So I'll just make that as a potential cost. So I'll just make that as a potential cost. Number three, I do appreciate your capital for your outlay. I think that we as a board have to figure out how to fund that. You're asking for $14 million this year, and you're laying out here's what we need and when. So I think that we as a board need to build into our operating budget those type of capital needs to meet their needs. And if you, the school board, say, well, we don't need the $14 because A, B, and C, then we adjust that. But I think we have to work together. We have to work together to address that issue. And then teachers. I saw your presentation. You have a number of long-term substitutes. If I had a kid that was in a history class and had a long-term substitute, didn't know what was going on, I was like, what am I paying for? So I think collectively we have to figure out how to do that. Now, I don't know if it's making teachers pay higher. I don't know if it's making it so a teacher comes in and says, you know what? You know, when I tell Johnny to please leave or shut up, he does, as opposed to having no mention of a teacher I'm not going to do . So, you know, that's behavior issues. But something needs to be done along that line so you have more teachers and less subしまLCiósobs. And finally, to all of you and to us who've lost 30%, 31% of your teachers to Latimer County, I'm going to encourage you, probably not this year but for next year, to make a request that the legislature change the funding millions and millions and millions, not million. 20% if they take a bite. 3B program, which you can do for schools, and end this top three. If you're a teacher, I fully understand that you're going to oppose what I'm about to say. But if you work for 30 years, why should you be funded for the top three? And the thought process behind that was teachers were basically paid a lower salary, but their pension would be so high that it was the encouragement. Instead, you're coming to say, we want more money as a teacher, which is perfectly fine. But in that case, make the pension over 30 years, not the top three. And I think that would then drive, that would eliminate some of the encouragement to go to Loudoun County. So I'm making those comments. It's an interest of time. Others have comments to make, but thank you. I believe, just put a note, thank you for meeting with me and having this conversation that we had a few weeks ago. It's my understanding, Dr. Hummer, our teachers already have a 403B. Is that correct? Yeah, so they can invest in that on their own. So the VRS is required, and then they can get their own 403B, correct? My comment simply would be to eliminate the pension, which gets an advantage for the top three. You're paying me in Frederick County, and now I'm being paid $80,000. I go to Frederick County for the last three years, I make $110,000. I'm going to do that all day long because it's a short time frame. But if you said, Mr. Dunn, it's going to be the average for your 30 years, the economic incentive to leave then goes down significantly. So that's the change that I would encourage you as a board to go to the legislature if you're trying to stem teacher outflow to do that. Thank you. And Mr. Dunn, I appreciate that. That kind of thinking, because one of the other things that I know Ms. Klein and myself have been talking about with legislation is moving the coal line. Because Frederick County is losing out. We're losing out to Loudoun County, Arlington, Fairfax, all these other counties that are neighboring D.C. And we go in to the reasons why that was set up. For the interest of time, we can have a sidebar conversation. But yes, you're right, because it isn't just a local problem. Just because the legislature set up this coal line years and years ago, we're paying the consequences for it now. So I agree with you. And I'd appreciate if our board of supervisors went down there with us. I think we're all hopping on a bus together. We'll make it a public meeting. But I think that legislatively, seriously, this is something that you need to put out. And I think we have to go back to the last point that you said, which is, you know, you're right in June, July, and August, you know, February, to say this is something that we want to consider. And then you go to the committees, the committees, and say this is what we're looking to do and why. And yes, I'll be glad to go with anybody and lay out the case on why. You, the state, are giving us more money. Well, instead of giving us more money, why don't you go so we can keep the good teachers we have here, that are in year 25, 26, 27, 28, and they just don't leave. And if you can eliminate the economic incentive by doing that, then, you know, you've gained. Any other questions for Dr. Hummer? Supervisor, we are you're breaking up a bit, but please, you have the floor. Okay, thank you on February. The federal school personnel committee met, I believe that you probably need once a month and they showed 2 of their standard slides. That I. This is the 1st time I saw that committee operate, but I'm assuming that's a regular slide. 1 was on professional vacancies as of. January 23rd, and 1, the other 1 was on support vacancies as of the same date, January 23rd. I know Dr. Hummers talked about staff vacancies before, but I just wanted to. Hit this topic again on the professional vacancies as of 12325. There were 59. Total that's 30 regular ed teachers, 18 special ed teachers. 5, or I'm sorry, 6 other professionals. And 5 administrators for a total of 59, and on the support vacancies, there were a total of 4615. Instructional assistance 9 bus drivers, 8, 6 custodians, 6 nutrition, 4 behavior assistance. 2, full time flex subs and 1 school nurse. And then we had a couple of staff vacancies that were. I know. I'm in a organization with 2500 employees. That's not necessarily a terrible number. But it is 1 out of every 25 staff right now that are that are vacant. Roughly 4%. So, what I'm, what I'm, what I'm trying to urge you to do is to look at the. Difference between adding 40. Additional staff for this next year. When we have when we have 105 that we can't fill. Versus maybe bumping up that teacher salary a little bit. So that we can keep people because if we can't, we can't attract if we can't retain people and can't attract people. It doesn't matter how many positions we ask for. They're going to be unfilled and we're still going to have the same issues. And I'm also concerned about. You know, having to open up new buildings through. So. The cutoff of staff vacancies. And that's something that we've been looking at for, you know, for the last three or four years down the line with. With that number of staff vacancies. I just ask you to look at that. One more time, please thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lero. Thank you. So we'd like to wrap up in the next 10 minutes. Both supervisor lockerage. Yeah. Just a few questions and I can email them as well. Please. 172 percent is that behavioral specialists within all the school I mean what what is the reason for that huge increase it's just a reclassification of their wages from one line to another well the state sometimes tells us how how to classify them in our ledger so this was a change okay so they're not actually new positions or okay good question thank you yeah and then the security officer salaries and I heard you say that those are just at the high schools as of right now yes we would like to get them to the middle school as well but right now we just have one per high school and then one at Dal Jay and one at NRAP just wondering because those at those schools same schools we also have SROs just wondering if it would be more to more beneficial to have or ask our sheriff if we would want school resource officers that are actually have the ability to respond to different threats versus I don't imagine the security officer is armed no no they're not no so yeah that's actually a really good question miss Lockridge so first and foremost we'll take as many staff as possible for safety and security that is one of the things that keeps me up at night is safety and security because you're accelerate all of our civilーprivate aspect of that syntax like it shouldn't you stop angling and文 Indian was seeking out people who were student at the time you'll be doing the thing you needed for you to sit back and read the plan because it is a way that school is going to start playing a big role around the big picture which will probablyou bet us that you might think of double stop a few other taxes that 140 of the time if not us and what we could do to drop that out there's a study that a meeting was conducts especially for community groups for one is also student activity we the schedule is good for are running up the hallway or skipping class in the bathroom or engaging in some behavior in the hallway, this SSO, the ones that we want to add on, will be able to intervene and they'll be able to interact with those particular students. Or if there needs to be some referral, they can get it to the school administrator and they can work through that. That's what our current SSOs do. Or to make sure kids aren't skipping, like there's a plethora of things, as I'm sure you know. For a school resource officer, they are the officer of the law. So if they intervene on some of these things, even though they do a lot of proactive things, but if they intervene on these things, then they have to get the law involved where they might not have initially had to have done that. And we work with our administrators of when to get the SROs involved and when not to, because if we do, it's going to additionally add additional layers to a situation when it could have just been an administrator to make sure that they're able to intervene. Our schools are growing. Our high schools are over capacity. I know we got the fourth high school, which we're thankful for, but there is a lot on a day-to-day. And we talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our regular school. We talked about it in regards to our high schools. They are overcrowded. So there's just a lot that the schools need help on, and this is a way to do that. A lot of the larger divisions do have a lot of SSOs in their schools to help with these day-to-day. We only have one, and we do have large, as I've said, large enrollments at our high schools. Okay, thank you for that clarification. Dr. Hummer and Supervisor Longridge, if I could just add on to that. I'm with you. I would have 10 SROs from the Sheriff's Department at every single one of our schools if I could. Can you tell us dr. Hummer how those are funded because my understanding that it's partly from us and then partly from the county as well right correct so yes so there are it's not free to ask for that request I was wondering the difference in the abilities of the two one versus the other I would prefer this board member would prefer to have SR additional s arrows however it's we're asking that from another jurisdiction will not say no to that yes yes please and another question is trade salaries are we increasing our and I know you admit there was a slide about that but are we increasing at Dal J the different trades that we're offering because there was a huge increase in that and when that line item yeah so where and when where where would these courses be yeah absolutely so we're actually adding we're very excited about adding a bunch of different courses so first we're adding a data data sciences lab school and I don't know what line you're talking about and miss Anderson if you can chime in but we could take a look at that miss Lockridge but overall we're adding a data sciences program at Dal J so we're going on some construction air it's a lab school funding that we got from the state but we're it's a consortium that we have with George Mason University for data sciences it's an up-and-coming profession we have a lot of students that are interested so that's one that we're doing there we have another one which is going to be what's called a future educators of America and it is a lab school through the state that's going to be offered through Laurel Ridge and we're very excited about that program we already have ten students signed up from Frederick County and what it happens is is students go to this program for free for two years junior and senior year and then we pay for them through this grant opportunity to go to James Madison and then they commit to coming back to Frederick County and teach for us amazing right there are other programs that we want to add on we're currently looking at a diesel program we're just looking at space in regards to what that's going to look like as well as other opportunities that we're looking at we're looking at a lot of space issues right now and we want to continue to expand that and grow that and expand the 90 CT opportunities and expand and grow that even more so I don't know which line you're specifically talking about there but we can look at that and I'll answer any question yeah I'm looking at the 416 page document it's it's a 20 page number 21 and it's okay no that's fine it's executive summary expenditures we could answer that for you yep very good thank you and lastly I just wanted to say thank you to the board for this wonderful bias prescription They come from Frederick County schools. What? Things wasteful and pricey. Well, and I don't even know the price. It's a magnet. But, you know, every day counts. And the school year is we only have three and a half months left or so. Yeah. So, yeah, absolutely. I can explain that. So we are required to get students to school. And we have to get them excited to come to school. And we work with a wide range of families. And we work with a wide range of students. So we were working through how can we get students to school? And how can we remind them of the days they need to come to school? Because it's important. Not only are you missing out on social opportunities, you're missing out for content, and you're also missing out on the succession of instruction that is taught. So we wanted to make sure that our parents saw that these were the days that you're required to come to school. Because some families, they don't know that. We got this idea from another school division, and it reaped very good benefits. As a matter of fact, this is the first negative I'm hearing about it. I've heard from a lot of families and a lot of them that were very excited about this. And it was a good reminder of why it's important. It's important to come to school. We also received additional all-in dollars from the state in order to pay for efforts in regards to get kids to come to school. And that is what we're responsible for doing. We're responsible for making sure our kids come to school and provide them the education. I agree. It's absolutely important. I just don't know the impact of the kids that aren't coming. I just don't. It was minimal. And so for next year, what we're going to do is we're going to look at a sponsor to pay for those. Because we did receive a lot of positive feedback on that. And we're looking to continue to grow those kids. And we're going to continue to grow those efforts to make sure our kids are excited about coming to school. So thank you for the feedback. It's the first negative we heard. But thank you for that, Mrs. Lockridge. And we'll definitely work on the funding for that for next year. And it was a minimal cost. I think it was like $4,000, if that. And I echo Supervisor Lockridge's concerns. It's late in the year. I think next year, if we can work on the timing of that, that needs to be at the beginning. Yeah, August would have been okay. But coming in February, it seems very wasteful. And I'm hoping, as I walk through this budget, that we're just getting rid of the waste. This is waste to me. So just my personal opinion. Thank you. Thank you. So we need to wrap up soon. Any other questions that can't be from the board, from our board, that can't be answered or asked by email? No questions. I just want to compliment the school system. I've been in several schools. Thank you for the tours. And next week's National FFA Week, we talked about this, 15th through 22nd. Millbrook was over there today. We talked about what your FFA groups are doing. And I just want to just compliment you on the different aspects of the schools and what you're doing, especially for the kids. When it comes not only to education, but the extracurricular, more than just sports, right? And I just think it's just appreciated. My district is agriculture, and I can tell you they appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. Thank you, all. And I'll just say I had a few questions. I won't ask them now. We can chat about them, or I'll email them to you. Just running through as far as I have, they involve some of the more significant increases in positions. I want to be educated on what those positions will, you know, what they're for and what they'll bring to us. Trade salaries were up quite a bit. I mean, you know, I'm in support in general, but I want to understand that. Parent liaisons are up. I'm not even sure what those positions. I'm not sure what those positions are for. I think your guidance counselor request is to add one. The SSO budget, if I read it correctly, more than doubled. So I don't think we have time here to go into subjects like that. I'll answer any questions. Yes, sir. But I wanted to make a note of them, and I'll send you an email with those questions. Thank you. One question, Mr. Chairman. So your comments, I would like to hear some answers, too. So if we have another meeting in March or whatever, can we just have an additional half hour? I mean, that gives you the time for all of us to interact. Just as a thought. I would try to do it by email, and then if necessary. Okay. Any questions you send along, I will send to Mr. Bohoffer, who will share with you, and I share with my board. And then hopefully we'll get that meeting in March as well. And a lot of the questions you all are asking, we cover in the Finance Committee meetings. So shameless plug for the Finance Committee meetings. But a lot of those questions have been answered before. And I know you all have absolutely nothing else to do but watch our meetings on YouTube. But those have been answered. But again, we're happy to answer. We're happy to answer them again. So if you do happen to tune into the Finance Committee meeting, we do cover a lot of those questions. Thank you. Thank you. So if there's nothing else from anyone, I'll ask both boards if you're ready to adjourn. I've got one thing. Please. All right. So five guys break into your house, right? They're there to steal your stuff. Are you going to address all of them, or are you going to let the biggest one walk around your house and take your stuff? Right? We keep going back and forth about, oh, we'd like to see the numbers without Loudon. Well, Loudon's the biggest man in the room, and we've got to address that threat. We are losing 31% of our staff over there when they leave. I agree. I'd love to see it broken down by every district and everything else. But to go ahead and say that, you know, Loudon's not a threat. It is a threat. Are we going to compete with Loudon? No. I mean, personally, I'd like to get rid of all this step system anyway. I'd like to have a merit-based system for all of our teachers. But that's not on the horizon just yet. So, Mike, the reason for my query on that is not that we're going to compete with Loudon. It's if we see an average and you present an average where we're below, but it's skewed by Loudon, then it looks like we're not competing with the other counties in the valley. When we may be. Well, competing with them. At the very least, we shouldn't lose. As you said, if we can't compete with Loudon, then let's take that out of the equation and make sure that we're doing at least as well as the counties around us. 100%. You know, I think we should see the numbers every which way. But, you know, when you look at teacher starting pay, you know, I know that we were, what, number five compared to the surrounding... Number six. Compared to the surrounding counties. Without Loudon in the equation. And that was without Loudon in the equation. And, yeah, we'll never be able, until that quote line gets adjusted, we're not going to be able to compete. I mean, they've got data center money. We don't have data center money, you know. So, you know, we have to still keep that threat addressed, you know. So that's all I have to say about it. All right. Who wants to, which board should do the adjournment? Should we, any other questions? Or should we jointly put them? Motion and second on the floor. Sure. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
