Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-06-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=286
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you How are you guys? Sitting up behind an eye. Hey, stranger. Hey, kiddo. How are you? I'm good. How are you? Hey, Pam. How are you? So are you. Help department. Okay. All right. Ask me for money. Yep. Thanks. I'll be fine. Yep. I'll be fine. Yep. I'll be fine. See you, because they're going to chase me. Take me out of here. I'm going to stay. Let it stay. currency in квıl지 Recour And all March at our Hall of burial process. Oh yeah. It was. How many days do we contract to work in two weeks? IDnumber while this gets to materializing because cesiumeration, hopefully the스가ziumeration, and then negotiate with them. And then the tourism program that we deal with in the city. Yes. Right, right. Okay. Is there anything, should we go ahead and start then? Just note if there's anything new that he wouldn't have had received. I think I'm ready. We're ready to go. Okay. With no objection, we can start. All right, we're here to review outside agency requests. I guess it's the final phase other than some perhaps rollover of funds, requests that are yet to come for our fiscal year session. Thank you. All right. And I was going to start up here just to give a quick overview. We looked at this at the very beginning of the budget. And if you remember in our very first or early workshops, we had an all-day workshop that the health department did come to that workshop and make a presentation. You have in your notebooks for the budget a lot of information regarding these outside agencies. And I've sent out further information trying to answer any questions or anticipate any questions. And what we were going to do is probably just start down the list and work through the list. So will there be individual presentations or you're just going to discuss them? I do not believe so. I sent out an email requesting if anyone wanted anyone to come here and do presentations. I did request that Laurel Rich come here because every year it seems that seems to be the outside agency with the most questions. There are some representatives. There are some representatives of the agencies who have come to the meeting who are sitting in the audience. I was going to start out, if you would, with the health department. As you know, they actually made a large presentation, and they're requesting a 34% increase. A large chunk of that is their extra inspector for milk operations, of which if they were to hire, the county would be paying $50,000 of that salary. The state, I believe, would be paying the rest. When you subtract that $50,000 out, then their increased request is actually 24%. And the primary reason for that increase, when you look at it, is one, in the past there were costs that they did not allocate to Frederick County. On the top of my head, the one I remember is the medical center on Baker Street. They used to charge the city of Winchester for that 100%. They used to charge the city of Winchester for that 100%. And they used to charge the city of Winchester for that 100%. So they had a couple situations where they did an allocation to spread the costs more fairly. The other large part of that cost increase is just an increase in the cost of providing services. For the health department, for every dollar you reduce their spending, there's a proportional reduction through the state. I think that ratio is 55-45. So if you reduce the health department's contribution by $1,000, that would equal approximately a $1,200 reduction in the state funding. And we have someone here, Leanne, to hear if you have any questions. So, any questions? I have a question. So the request, part of the salary is the . Correct. And the other part is . . . The funding of Frederick County for the usage we're using, a percentage of what we do with the health department, we're just paying our share, am I correct when I say that? I see a head nodding. Yes. Okay. And then the other part is just the general increase in cost of providing services. Okay. All right. Thank you. I just wanted to be sure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. years in Yani cook department. I was. Thank you. My goal is to specifically make the credit union правильно report our services and make certain that anybody that we co-�PM that their homeless taxoms performing at the hospitalized are not affected by the high vaccination rate improved by the 19th agreed level loanito Hey, you just said at the very beginning that you were through with . . . jumping to the point where we call it the hundred-zil. . That's that . . . Gdes. Tekkin прекрасo . . . I, as I speak, I'm . . . good-looking. Any others? In favor. In favor. So that's a consensus. I'll move on to the next one then and that was Northwestern Works. They provide assistance and help, guidance to people that are difficult to hire. They actually do some training. They do some work on site. They actually go out to job sites and look for employers to find employment to help people who have disabilities to enable them to work. They've been around for quite a while. They're asking for a $5,000 increase which is 9%. If you read through their information, the primary reason they're asking for a significant increase this year is for HVAC systems and I think they're replacing three if I remember the data in the book. Okay. Thank you. Any questions from the board on this one? Mr. Chairman, I'll speak up on this one. I'm very familiar with NW Works. Microphone. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm very familiar with NW Works and what they're doing and I would be in favor of their request, full request. So I have a couple of concerns I guess. It's unfortunate we're starting the charitable organizations with this one. Because I've heard so many great things about what they do and I've run across as we all do the people that gain employment through their assistance. But I guess I have two comments. One is for those that are really charitable operations, is it the proper use of taxpayer money to require citizens, some of whom may be struggling, to pay for a contribution to a charity? Okay. I've raised this as a philosophical concern every year. But if we run into financial difficulties and we're spending down our capital fund, I want to raise it again. I'm not sure our citizens would all be in favor of being required on the point of having their home foreclosed on or a lien put against it for not being able to pay their property taxes because we want them to contribute to what's essentially a forced charitable contribution. That some people can't afford. The other way to look at this would be if we're mixed, and I have gotten some feedback from board members in the past that they understand that point of view, that tension there, that maybe we shouldn't increase while we're running a deficit, maybe we shouldn't increase what amounts to charitable giving and just at most leave them flat to what they got last year. So I'm just going to put those two thoughts in the table. Okay. Thank you. I would love to get a vote on that. I would love to hear from the people on the table and say for the sake of the people who are struggling in our county today, I wouldn't be in favor of an increase. As great a work as they do, and I hope people who can will contribute to them. So that's my position. Any other, we need to reach a consensus one way or another? I'm sorry. No. I'm sorry. I appreciate that thought because I'm thinking the same too. This puts a lot of pressure on us as they are outside agencies to pick and choose. Okay. Thank you. All right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. ones that we like one over another. And so very valid point as we're spending out of the capital fund to continue funding, but maybe not do an increase would be fair. And that's where I believe that I'm at. So not an increase on this one. Leave it at the same we did last year. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'll counter that because this organization particularly, it's the citizens of this county that they're helping. And they're the ones that are out in the community. And I think it's worth the additional $5,000. But that's where I am on that. Well, most of these organizations, I would just say, are aimed at the citizens of our county. I guess the other wrinkle that comes in, last year we had, I see some of these names again, we had new requests. And some of the new requests from outside, outside agencies sounded like great organizations, you know, representing the people who can't legally represent themselves due to economic concerns. That was a great one. And I know they were disappointed not to be added to our list. I think the reason we didn't add any new requests last year was exactly that. We were wondering why we are giving taxpayer money to outside agencies and how much we would be, you know, further increasing that burden on the taxpayer. So I just ask you all to remember what we were thinking. Last year. But of course, we continue for a consensus. So we've heard from three. We have one absent. How do the other three feel? My comment on this would be, you know, we have other government agencies such as DSS and others that assist our citizens that have more of a robust budget that comes from the county. If we're investing in the Northwest Works, that's going to lower our costs. And that's likely in other areas. So I am in support of the $5,000 difference. So a $5,000 increase. So the full $60,000. Just clarifying. Okay. So we have two and two, two more to vote and one absent. Based on Mr. Lerio and Mr. Jewell's comments, I'm not as familiar with that as they are. But it sounds... It sounds like they know this organization and feel like they need this money. I do know what... I have a base idea of what Northwestern Works does. So I would go ahead and agree that we give them the $5,000, a lot of the $5,000. Vice Chair, spotlight comes to you for now. Or you can table that until Blaine arrives. But I don't know if he's going to cast a deciding vote. Well, I think I... You know what? I looked at all of these and they're all worthy, worthy organizations. I thought that my position would be present level on everything except for our MOUs because of all the reasons that have been stated. And we have so many organizations. We have three new ones. And again, how do we pick and choose who is and who isn't worthy? So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... Right. So... So... Right. So... Right. So... This is very difficult. But I think I'm at present level on this one as well. So we're at three at present level and three for the increase? If there's no further discussion, we can move on and maybe Supervisor Dunn will break the tie. Unless someone wants to suggest a different level. Okay, let's go on. The next three, I'm going to go to the next three on this. It's Howard Nelson, 4th grade, NSD, 7th and 6th Coalition, and the Lord Fairfax EMS Council. These are asking for stable funding, not asking for an increase of the four. We want to consider those all three together at their request. Mr. Chairman, I would be good with doing that. All three are at present level, and I certainly support their mission as well. Mr. Chairman, I would support that. That's two. I would support it. They didn't increase at all. Thank you. Support. Okay, we have a consensus on those three. The next one on the list is the Northwestern Community Services. I'm not sure how much you're familiar with these. In your book, it's on page 44. They provide numerous services throughout the county, and the best ways to list through that, I can read a few, housing programs, peer recovery center for people struggling with mental health, office-based addiction treatment services for adults, and their list goes on and on, if you're familiar with them. And they are asking for a 5% increase in primary. It was straightforward. So they said to cover their income. They're asking for a 5% increase in primary. And they're asking for a 5% increase in primary. And they're asking for a 5% increase in primary. And to expand or create new services. Thank you. Again, to the board. Again, spinning out of our capital fund, I'm going to say just a flat line, the same appropriation as last year is my motion, or what I would approve. I'd agree with that. So we have two. Mr. Bullhofer, is this? I know. We contribute to Northwestern. Clark County, Winchester, are they making contributions also? Yes. When you look at the contributions, you have Clark, Page, Shenandoah, Warren counties, I think. Excuse me? City of Winchester. City of Winchester. For the counties I said previously, they were requesting 842. They did 802 last year. They're requesting 202. They're receiving 290,000 from City of Winchester this year. And they received 276 from Winchester last year. They're receiving approximately 12 million from the state government and 1.4 million. Excuse me, 12 million from the state, yes, and 1.4 from federal. And if I may, just to interject, because I should have stated this in the beginning, all of this has actually been fully appropriated. If you remember, we appropriated this early on the budget and said we would come back to this meeting to determine disbursements. So I'm going to go ahead and do that. Disbursements. Correct. I.e., that if you do a lower disbursement, that money will just roll back into the fund balance or capital fund. Mr. Bolhoffer, does that include the three new requests, Blue Ridge Legal Services, Surcap, and Northern Virginia? Okay, gotcha. Mr. Bolhoffer, with the Northwestern Community Services, were there calculations based on, you know, the percentage use based on the number of residents that use their services? I'm going to look up the form that they use. And I'm guessing it is based on the other contributors and localities, but I just want to make sure. Yeah, I do believe, I know they use a form. I'm going to see if I can determine what type. Okay. Thank you. While you're looking, I'll cover some time for you. I've always wondered about the impact that that has on the community services. Okay, so if you're a resident of the Northwestern community services, you're in a community service. about these formulas when it's a joint contribution. For example, with the library, it's by usage. And we're the biggest user of the three jurisdiction partners. And so we have the largest percentage that we contribute. But I've always wondered how that worked. If one jurisdiction wants to give more one year or less, how does that decision get made? If someone wanted to go up, does everyone else have to follow because they must keep the percentage? Or vice versa, if some county can't afford it and decides otherwise, is that percentage binding? Or can the other counties? I was never sure how that worked. I look at those formulas as a goal of a proper cost sharing, but that the counties or city might not always agree. And all of them do it differently. Some tend to be more fair and realistic and others not so. They actually determined that they're a better investment for foarte like a city預備 to have to offer this to principal services. And so when the city leaves it to the dbt, they're looking to get points again, but it's not as though we are ready to give them to agencies have other funding as well whether it's like nw works for instance i remember and i am familiar with them but um they have donation i mean they have this is not their sole funding for for any of these true i don't believe there's that we're the sole funding for any of them some have uh many sources and some have a few sources i don't remember when i went through all this any that had just frederick county right and so i look at back to what the chairman said earlier i look at all of these as um i don't like i don't like the government being the one that gets the pat on the back because reality is we can increase taxes so much that we can give many more services to people but um people can take their own money with cheaper taxes and and do charity and feel good about it so that's where i have a hard time increasing taking mandatory you know giving um so i think this is they can ask for anything and that's great but we also can you you, you know push back a little bit and the amount that we are forcing our taxpayers to come up with that's just kind of how i feel with most of these yeah for discussion purposes i was visiting people this last week and i went to one home that uh by rather coincidence they were had taken upon themselves they were learning how to build they had some nice equipment in the garage building uh wheelchair ramps and sometimes for fee i think and sometimes for donation to people who needed it and i thought that was great that the person was spending their time doing that so you know when we we've got this tension between organizations which will have an overhead of some sort and people's individual charity and i don't it's another factor i've read about you know squeezing out true person-to-person charity with organizations even with great organizations that that's a another factor um i guess i'd still be in favor of level funding from last year and then uh if we miss something we could always reconsider it at a later time if there's some need or some cut in other funding that they got that wasn't brought to our attention this board always has the opportunity to take up and make corrections mr chairman mr ball for in this particular case northwest community services actually is one organization that does help those with housing needs and services like that am i correct it does work in the housing helping people find housing yes and establish housing i mean this goes right along with what mr chairman what you were saying earlier about the folks that are hurting and that's that's exactly what they do do so in this case should the community services board has like the delay of the in the in the year and they're doing is yeah and if i may if i can yeah anne is filled in the one thing they do is they fill a hole that no one does when it comes to mental health uh help assistance they actually provide help to our department of social services into our sheriff's department so when we're dealing with people that's one of their primary functions and and that's one of the things they do that others don't do and so many of the other services there are there is redundancy and and their formula is based on usage by the locality. So I'm in support of that. I think you clarified that. So I would support that. You're supporting the 5% increase? When we look at these agencies, I always think you can pay me now or pay me later. So if you don't fund them, we're going to end up more than likely, some department in Frederick County is going to end up spending the money to take care of the business that they can't handle without funding. So it's kind of darned if you do and darned if you don't. But I like to make sure that we're spending our money wisely. I'm familiar with this group. I would be in favor for this group. I think they do a good job in Frederick County and take a lot of the money. They're not burning off of us in our departments if they didn't have them doing it. I'd be in favor of it. Mr. Chairman, I had the opportunity of chairing their facility last year, and I would be in favor as well. I think that they're hitting the need that we've been talking about. I think we need one more. We have two, I believe, are level funding, and three are... I think we have three that are in favor of the 5% increase. Correct me if I've got that wrong. That's correct. So we need someone else to weigh in. I'll support that, Mr. Chairman. Well, so I should catch you up briefly, Supervisor Dunn. So we started down from the top of the page. We approved the health department's 34% increase. We held Northwest... We held Northwest Health as an kostner, as a set of program, as part of the new program. Median stack, we run Roya where our rooms hang and we're ourselves doing our tax water. And we asked our hospital to do that, so we had 100 millions that don't fit in the hpains and we had a discussion there about how we should do our test site and the way we should guide our?... But no. And then it become, when we had that first interview about this, it both... and a couple arguments were put on the table. One is that while we're running a deficit and drawing out of our capital fund, maybe we shouldn't be increasing contributions to outside agencies. I also reminded us of something we've discussed in previous years, and that is taxpayers don't have an option when we raise money from them. And so collecting required funds from taxpayers to give to a charitable enterprise seems like a bit in a contradiction, especially the whole idea of charity, is that it's something you give out of your heart, which would argue maybe against the whole thesis of us contributing to charitable organizations. So if I capture that wrong, please, anyone on the board, add in. But that was the discussion up to that point. We were deadlocked on Northwest Works because the next three, I'd only request, we requested flat funding. That was easy for us. And then it seems like with your vote, we've just approved the first increase on a charitable organization, not thinking of the health department as a charitable organization. So if you want to revisit that and if you want to cast the deciding vote for Northwest Works, please do so. So, Mr. Chairman, I heard Mr. Wells' comment on... Pay me now or pay me later type thing. And that was my thought process behind that. You know, this is dealing with mental health issues. And if we have that, where do we go with this? That was the thought process behind this. I had walked through these with the administrator on pros and cons of these items earlier. And if it's a yes or no on that, I'll vote yes. If it's a, can we reduce it? Because further on down here, I'm going to make a suggestion that we go and increase, another item. So... So which one are you commenting on now? Northwest Community Services? The one that was in discussion when you arrived? Yes. So that's a $24,000 increase, correct? They've requested a $24,000 increase, correct? We have two votes to just leave them at level and three to grant them the increase. And one hasn't voted yet and you haven't voted yet. Then let me come back to this because I might want to, if money becomes... I might want to come back to that just to say, fine, I might want to use $10,000 of that for something else. But I think there ought to be at least some increase on that. So who hadn't weighed in besides Supervisor? I'd say yes on this increase. So we've approved them all, except we still need a seventh vote on Northwest Works. If you want to think about it further, we can come back to it later. We don't have to catch that item. Fine. Go ahead. Okay. Access Independence is next. The next item on there is Access Independence. And they are asking for a 6% increase, which is $1,000. Their primary purpose is they provide assistance with people with disabilities to enable them to stay in their own homes so they don't have to go into group homes and such. They do shower chairs, hearing aids. They do ramps and all different services to enable those people with disabilities to live at home. And that is their request. Board, how would you like to handle this? I'm in favor of this because it's going to have to come from a social service agency if it doesn't come from here. And these people are very specialized in how they handle it. So I support it. I sympathize with that, except I've run into people who do this out of their own garage. And make many of these same implements for people and deliver them when they're contacted. Mr. Chairman, I personally reached out to Charles Harbaugh, who's the director there, multiple times this year for elderly folks. And they really do serve a wonderful purpose in our community. So I fully support this. We have two in support. I'm going to stick with my philosophy of level funding, especially why we're drawing out of our capital funds. Level funding. I'm in support of the increase. So we have three. I would be in support of it. It's a $1,000 raise. We'll get our money's worth out of that. Mr. Chairman, I just want to clarify one thing. We're not taking the money out of capital. We're not taking the money out of capital funding. We've already approved the funding for this. Am I correct, Mr. Bolhoffer? The money has been appropriated. It hasn't been dispersed. Any money you don't use here would just, in effect, roll back into your fund balance. Okay. I just wanted to make sure. I wanted to clarify that. So, okay. That is against the balance of the capital fund, whether it's being returned or subtracted now. It's the same difference, if you will, the way I look at it. The next one, then. The next one. The next one is Seniors First, which is in some ways similar to the prior one. But Seniors First works with elderly people. I think it's 60 and older. And it does the same sorts of things to enable people of that age to stay in their homes when they have any types of issues. And the whole purpose of their group is to not have people end up in homes or centers for their care. And they are asking for a zero increase. So, David? So, is this going to overlap in functions, then, with access independence? It's possible, but generally not. Because I think they focus on elderly, 60 and older, whereas the other focus is on specifically disabilities. Thank you. How would you like to handle this board? I'm in support with Mr. Chairman's present model. That was a vote for present level funding. Which is what they're asking for. Right. I would be in support. Support. I'm in support. So, we have a consensus. And the next on the list is the Hanley Library. They are asking for a 5% increase. As you know, this formula is based on, it's in your book here. We've looked at this. This formula is based on how many books are checked out by which jurisdiction. That's how they allocate their costs. So, one question is, do we have their, and I might ask Mr. Huddy a question, too, if I may. Okay. Yeah. I guess you better. Come forward. We record all these. So, I don't look at the Hanley Library as a charitable organization in the same way as the others. We have, well, libraries have been around for a long time. And they're a common community resource. But I did want to ask, I appreciate a 5% increase is basically cost of living for your employees. Plus, maybe some other normal expenses. It's close to that anyway. But we have had it bump around in recent years for projects like the Bowman Library was recarpeted and other. So, are there projects like that incorporated here? Refurbishments that are out of cycle that are, you know, not usual? Carpet's been an ongoing. We've done it in small chunks. I know you've been in there. You've seen the latest projects. Yep. So, there's still a good 10,000 square feet that aren't done. So, we are looking at doing more of that over the next couple of years. So, that is in there. But we just break it down in little bits. So, we don't, A, inconvenience customers, or B, have to come in here with a. And are there any others? I didn't mean to restrict it to that one facility. Not this one. That's the one. The teen center thing? That's not for a while. And we're going to be looking and trying to get a lot of funds from the outside. Private funding. Private funding for that. I just want to be aware if we jump in one year or have a decrement for some reason. That we don't capture that as a new normal if, you know, it's just a repair project. It's like our percentage of use is actually what we're asking for is slightly lower than the number. Because we just ask for what we need. We don't ask for like, oh, well, there's going to be extra. Let's go and buy a direct or a car, for instance. Which would be nice, but no. I've got enough of them. How much longer for the refurbishment at Bowman? How many more years do you think? It's weirdly. Two more large projects. And then we're not. We're not doing one side where the team center is going because we're going to do that when that happens. But like you said, we're looking for private funding for the team center. So two more years in this effort. Let's hope because it is huge. And then you have another effort on the horizon at one of your other facilities. Is there any concerns? Yeah, that's at the Hanley branch. But that's all privately funded. I know your door got destroyed a year or two ago. That historic. We're fortunate in that. That. We do have a fund that helps pay for the Hanley branch. That's from the Bird Foundation. More so forth. But yeah. Yeah. Somebody broke it. I was there. Oh, yeah, you were. The day I think that happened. And that's always exciting. And then we learned it was hand tooled from, you know. Yeah. Historic door. And we have. That's you know, that's the joy of that building is we have to make sure it stays that way because it is a jewel of a library. It is one of the top 100 most beautiful libraries in the nation. According to somebody who actually did it. So I will not mess it up. Okay. Well, I appreciate all the community's use of the library and I'm a regular. You have seen me at both facilities often. So I'm going to defer. You know, I still have this principle where I'm trying to hold the line while we're running a deficit. So I'm going to go to the board and not express my opinion and vote right away. Mr. Chairman, I question the next three are MOUs, right? The the library. The. Um, Regional Commission. And then the tourism is a calculation which we don't really have a part in because it comes from it's it's legislated from the state. So I'm I would support the library, the Regional Commission and the tourism one. I think we could go ahead and dispense of those three. Well, I would like to ask, for example, since we're in the library first, it's a request of 5% more. Are. Is the city and Clark County the other partners? Are they also increasing by 5%? Unfortunately, they are not using it at anywhere near the level of Frederick County. So your percentage of use went up and there's not. So that's. So is their contribution going to be level or are they dropping? Yeah, it's going to be. Okay. It is based on usage and MOU states as such. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I have the privilege to be the liaison and seeing these reports have been in the meetings and I'm fully. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. I'm in support. Absolutely. So we have two. I preserve myself for now. I have a question for Mr. Hardy. Mr. Hardy, when I was on the board last year, I think Frederick County was the Frederick County share was below the Frederick County usage. And that's still the case with this request. That would still be the case with this request. Is it? Is the gap closed any? Yes, it is. But again, we're just we have basic needs. Right. I mean, I would support just because we were below our funding use our usage last year and trying to improve that a little bit. I agree with Supervisor Lerio that this will bring us up on the level where we should be getting close to it. It brings it up 1%. So you're. You would be point nine five percent below your usage with this change. And then you're going to have to re-pick it up. So that's the other thing that I would say. I think it's a little bit more of a I think it's a little bit more of a I think it's a little bit more of a I think it's a little bit more of a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a an ability a a a a a a an a a a a awful awful awful awful awful awful those numbers and percents they're just not in my head i'm an idea guy thank you guys and as the vice chair stated uh both the uh northern shenandoah valley regional commission and the tourism program are both done by a straight formula i've looked at the formulas and we do this by formula every year and i believe those are the two with ms ms yes yet they have mous and are the other are the end members of the commission going up by three percent as well yes they are so this is an annual percentage is that what you just said correct they uh for instance for the uh northern chanadova valley they look at the certain cost and then they allocate it based on population all right i would be in favor of that also having been on there i'll support that i know what they do and it's population-based so i think you've been you've been on that committee mr chairman so we have three in support and on this side you're in sport as well so we have we have a consensus for the request i do want to ask one question though about them even though it's after the consensus and that is the state has required that the different regions do a water study and we have a number of years to complete it have you gotten any update they did the state didn't grant what the nsvrc thought was enough to conduct that study so i was wondering if they had made plans on how to do it with the funds the state had made available that's that's a i call it a carrying capacity because i have no hydrology background i don't know what the right term is but they required all the regions determine what their water usage what their water capacity is and how they are controlling the water in the water you're their water situations are as best can be done and i think we need that study but i don't know if they figured out how to do it with the funds available if they're going to come requesting within their region for more more money to to complete that study do you know it's they've got like four years to get it done i will get you the information on that my assumption is they probably don't have the money at this time they're still determining how they're going to do it but i'll find out and then email that information to everyone i just wanted to mention to the board despite all the rain we've had lately i think as we grow rapidly we better be darn sure that we have we're not abusing the aquifers and taking out more water than we can afford to especially as we permit development that uses water but i'm not objecting to the consensus we have and next is the tourism program yeah the tourism is a formula i think uh is that a mandated number because i know certain taxes that are raised i would tell you taxes such has to go to them to pay for that but it's based i believe on a mou for the tourism board that we have with all the other jurisdictions and it's also but our our share of that is based on the lodging tax uh per state code i think it's the first three percent goes to the locality um if you were to go above three percent anything between two to five would go toward tourism so we raised our lodging tax back in 2016 processing the whole life<|es|> now you can smells like that at a concept stage so you didn't you you you we raised it in taxes and that's that right so I certainly don't for myself want to be contrary to state law I'm fine with this request anyone else want to weigh in I mean we do need for to prove it I'm good with it mr. chairman I'm good as well okay we have for the next item is the Lord Fairfax soil and water conservation district I did send you some information where their request they requested an increase in Clark County if memory serves me Clark County reduced their request by a thousand dollars but I think it did add up to about a thousand more in the previous year Warren County actually reduced their donation to 600 less than what they paid them last year and their request is a 13% increase they're asking for one thousand seven hundred and seventeen dollars you and they received five percent increase last year and if I may ask answer a question before it's asked I know the question is is how much they have in fund balance and it's very difficult to tell we were looking at they they don't really have real balance sheets so we know the what was the number they had in there seven point seven million dollars that's in a fit fund called for future projects how it's committed what's available is very difficult to say that hopefully this new idea southeast's last year for survey and ability and then involved more qualitative policy for how much you might need to save and I know the vice-chair asked that question I guess the other thing I'm would be curious about and I know it's hard to determine with their fund balance because they do receive like CREP funds and that type of thing that go into their fund balance and then they just you know dispense the there an overlap in some of the services that are being provided because i think our public works department you know they we do a lot of this work as well so i think that's quite possible there is have not investigated but i would not be surprised to find that to be the case thank you um i would be going back to what you were saying regulations were regulated with through public work so i would think there would be some overlap but i would um just recommend the flat the same as last year i think i would do that too given that one county is reduced and one county is increased it's not quite a wash but they're getting about flat from from the other jurisdiction so i'm going to stick with my philosophy of voting for flat level funding mr chairman uh mr bullhofer winchester city did not contribute anything they have pulled out they uh pulled out once and they got back and i actually spoke to their city manager and this year they decided not to contribute anything i think part of that's the fact that they're more urban they would be using less but this year their funding was zero so that's a decrease of twelve thousand five hundred dollars from what they had last year all right are you thank no hey i'm thanking you it's in there okay good i mean that's what the you know what you have here is that they was twelve thousand five hundred and the winchester city um they they were close to twelve thousand five hundred however they the city decided not to provide any funding whatsoever correct so mr administrator um when you made the comment that their balance sheet is unclear etc how can how can that be i mean don't all organizations have to say you know here's our income here's our expenses here's our balance sheet etc so how could it be unclear because i don't think they actually have a real balance sheet it's called a different name and i think jennifer may be able to elaborate you look at it and it's not your standard income statement or statement of cash receipts and just yes what we get and what they have audited is just a simple statement of cash receipts and disbursements okay so i have a question for mrs slaughter or mrs lockridge both of your farmers um for my and i'll just for my for my understanding soil and water is designed so you don't have cows into streams polluting water um putting up fences um etc what are your thoughts on how effective what i've seen there are effective but i have concerns on a balance sheet's not a balance sheet and without being able to clearly state this is our assets here's our liabilities etc so that's that's that's my item um if you the two of you have additional comments to make i'd appreciate them i've participated in one of those and it's called a crep fund and that is to fence your streams off so that your livestock isn't in the stream so that the sediment and such there's the erosion is a big part of this i think there's there's an important erosion has decreased. So it's a very worthwhile program. I'm not disputing that. The receipts and disbursements that Mr. Bolhoffer referred to as far as the title of their accounting, a lot of those funds come from the state and are held in perhaps what they call a fund balance, if you will. And once there's completion of those projects, and you can't tell from this receipt and disbursement, how much of those funds are committed already. So there lies part of it. I guess the real question here is, for me, is there an overlap in the service? And is our Public Works Department providing some of those services? So for me, I think before I would support an increase, I would want to know if we do have an overlap in the service. And just to educate me, when you say public works, I mean, you have a farm. I'm not sure. Runoff. I mean, our Public Works is very much responsible for our runoffs and making sure that we have retention ponds and all of those sorts of things. So how much of what this organization does is our Public Works Department already addressing in the codes and such? So I don't have that answer. Okay. Thank you. I think we have a public works meeting coming up, I think. Was that canceled, the next one? Nope. It's Tuesday. I know a lot are over the summer. So we can bring the topic up there and have that discussion. I mean, we can always e-mail them and ask, but we could also in person follow up. I don't know what that does to our timeline needed here, though, for approval. I don't think we have to make a decision today. We could do present level and then you could report back. We can do present level. The funds have already been appropriate. If at such time in the future, the board wanted to provide that information, we could do that. If we didn't provide further funds, they would have to make a decision and say so. Yeah, I'd be comfortable with present level, but going to starting with Public Works and then we could circle back to the soil and water conservation people as well in that discussion. They're all worthwhile. And I'm certainly not disputing that. I just want to make sure we're not paying double for something. Supervisor Lockridge is the other farmer here. Are you fine with the increase or are you like with the plan to do it? I'm fine with the increase. I'm fine with the increase. You're not going to do it present level until we pursue it? No, present level. Yep, that'd be great. Okay, so we have, I think, three with that. Other comments? Mr. Chairman, I'm good with that, especially if you go to the Public Works meeting. And I think you're going to find that there is a separation there, knowing the farmers I know and how this works with them. So I'm good with present level. And then if we can, we do it. So we have a consensus, I guess? I guess I'll just make a note to myself here that if we're talking about cows disturbing the erosion on creeks, I wonder why Winchester City was in the program at all. There must be more to it than that, but that's something we can discuss. I'm not that knowledgeable. That's one program. There's many others, I'm sure, they offer beyond that. That's just one I happen to know. I'm sure there are. I know they have a problem of runoff from their pavement, from all the, you know, the high percentage of paved. So, that was a little ingest, but I understand that Winchester City would be a different entity from the counties involved. So we'll add that to the agenda. Supervisor Lockridge for Public Works for discussion. I've written it down. Thank you. Thank you. The next item is the Laurel Center. They provide services to victims of domestic and sexual abuse. They have not requested an increase in funding this year. I would like to add to that. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that would be in favor of, we've supported the Laurel Center for years and they're not asking for an increase from last year. I would support the $12,600. Mr. Chairman, on this one, I think that they did make a request for additional funding last year or the year before because we were back there and had a discussion on that. This is one where I think that there ought to be actually an increase. And the reason I'm making the comment that there ought to be an increase. is they raised private money to deal with services. Our social services, if you have abused women or abused women with children, they are told by our social services to go to the Laurel Center. So we have a government agency that's basically saying to people, go to this private entity to have their needs met. For that reason, I think that some type of additional funding would be appropriate. I can come down to sources of that. But I'm not sure if that's the case. That's my thought process on this. I certainly. Simply because it is, they're being asked to do a government function with private money and the people that are being referred to them are coming from our social services, which is a government entity. So I appreciate their mission. I thought my recollection is correct there. Increase request. They might have been one of the entities that had a decrease in other contributions like state. I think they were asking for grants. I know we had several last year and the year before that were asking us to pick up for decreases that they faced elsewhere. Does anyone know what that past increase that. Yeah, last year was quite unusual. Last year they asked for a 280% increase in asset flow from $12,000 to $45,000 is what it was last year. And I don't remember. Okay. I'm not certain what the reason for that. I think it was state cuts. Whether they were trying to expand or state cuts. I believe so, yeah. So can I presume the state was level at least from last year to this year since they didn't ask for an increase? The financial information they've submitted, it's about level from current year to 2016. Did they get restored or they're just living under the new lower environment since the state cut them? I'm not sure. It just shows what they have for FY25, 1.4 and then 1.6. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, thank you. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chairman, so depending on what other Board members want to do or not do, but if there's an interest in providing additional funding I don't mind saying let's just defer this to give the conversation with Faith Powers at their request or see what needs are there or not needs there. So you have at least the data you need to do that. to do that, but I just think there should be some type of additional support because social services is providing, you know, tell people to go there. Well, I would suggest we consider approving present level funding so they know we're doing at least that. And then you could take the discussion there, but I would also take it to social services. Ask the director and the others for their thoughts on that partnership. So I'm voting for present now, and then we take it to them, and we need to hear other opinions. I'm present. Present level. Present. Yep. Oh, that's fine. Okay, and please do take it up with them. Appreciate it. The next item is the board's item on here is the Laurel Ridge Community College. Corey is here. I believe he's the vice president in charge of finance. Is that correct? I have sent you, I think, a fairly amount of good information regarding Laurel Ridge. If I may real quick. Last year, we funded them at $68,750 with a debt of $55,000 to the nation, $55,000 in scholarships, and $13,750 allocation to college support, which equaled about an 80-20 split. Their board has requested that they go, that the county goes to a 60-40 split. And their request this year is for $91,983, and they have submitted to an MOU tonight. That's not to discuss the MOU. This is really just an issue of the amount of which the MOU could be addressed at a later date. And Corey is here if you have any questions. Mr. Chairman, I've spent a lot of time down at Laurel Ridge with their CTE program and what they're doing, how they're expanding it. And we, you know, several of us were able to attend several of these graduations here, and we watched a lot. A lot of kids actually graduate from Laurel Ridge while they were also graduating from high school. I think Laurel Ridge provides a fantastic community service for Frederick County, so I'm in favor of this increase. And if I may, we'll need a determination of what the amount is and the split. Mr. Chair, I have a question for, I guess, Mr. Bolhover. So last year we funded them at $68,600. I think we did $68,750. But were we not higher funding in years previous to that? Correct. Do you have those figures in front of you anywhere? I have. Because it seems like what they're asking for this year, 91, 983 is roughly and maybe even a little bit below what we gave them several years ago. And I don't have the data with me, but I know in 23, 24, we went to an outside agency, so we gave zero. And I think we're going to have to do something about that. I think we're going to have to do something about that. And last year, what they requested was $95,669. And Jennifer? I have FY23. They received $55,000. Yes. For last year's requests, an amount for the probate to calculated formula based on enrollment by county, the request for the budget overall for our college board did not increase. The Frederick County portion last year was $95,669. The portion this year is $91,983. So it is a smaller portion just because of the fluctuation in enrollment. Fiscal year 24, there was no funding request. And in fiscal year 23, only a portion of the request was actually paid and allocated to the college. But the formula has not changed, and the enrollment fluctuates marginally per year. But this year, it is slightly less than last year's prorated portion for enrollment. Do we have older data than 23? Because it seems to me like, I don't know why I'm thinking it was in the 90s before that. Yeah, it would always, it's been in the 90s every year. But in 23 is when funding was limited per the request. And if I may, from memory, I know at that point in time, it was going up. So it could have been in the high 80s to 90s. So over time, you saw it going up year by year. May I ask a question? Certainly. Mr. O'Brien? Yes. Mr. O'Brien? Mr. Bolhoffer sent out today fiscal year 2025 financials. And it was through March 31 of 2025. When I look at that, it looks like you had a budget surplus of almost $160,000. And then at the bottom of that financial, it had scholarship carry forward of $132,780. Correct. And it was $132,780. So I want to make sure I understand, with the monies that were allocated to Lower Fairfax or Lower Ridge, excuse me, it doesn't appear that you utilized all the funds that we already donated. So I'm. There's always a timing issue in the way that the funds are allocated versus when they're expensed. And we're. It's. The. The. The scholarships are awarded, right, the year based on the funding allocation. So for instance, this fiscal year, we are awarding last year's funds. So this fiscal year, we awarded $55,000 in scholarships that will get spent next year at the earliest. Students could extend that beyond one academic year if they so choose. So there is always one year delay. And since we implemented a cap on the reserve, there's been an excess in scholarship. It's going to take a full year for that to catch up. So expenses to sort of catch up with the allocation of scholarships. That's why you see that excess funding right now. And then your reserve funds, you currently have a half a million dollars just sitting there. And what is the purpose for that? Yes, this was discussed last year in detail because when I came on board, we reviewed the reserve fund. One of the topics in conversation with Frederick County was what is the purpose of this fund. It was in the range of $650,000 at the time. We capped it at $500,000 and put pretty strict regulations on how that's used. It must be a student engagement project approved by our college board. And anything in excess of $500,000 for future fiscal years would automatically be reallocated to student scholarships. Thank you. Of course. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. If scholarships are distributed and a student decides not to go, I mean, does that go back in? Obviously, that's where the fund you're just talking about, right? How many, what percentage of students in Frederick County, for instance, last year, what percentage of scholarships did you actually give out and were received? In other words, they didn't pick a different path. So two things. I have the full list of awardees for the fiscal year 25, the $55,000 plus every other jurisdiction. And I think we did receive that, right? Yeah, probably the one with the green. Yes. That should indicate on comments, you know, what's been offered and then if they've accepted. If they do not accept that award, we identify another candidate from that high school to award the scholarship. It doesn't go away. It has to go back to our financial aid office, which then manages the process of re-awarding that scholarship. Okay, thank you for that. And one additional question. Based on the new MOU, which we've not gone into the agreement and we're not talking about that right now, but the increased request of you'll be doing 60% scholarship versus last year doing 80% is roughly the same $55,000, right? And that was the driver for the scholarship. And that was the driver for the scholarship. And that was the driver for the scholarship. And that was the driver for the scholarship. We wanted to increase the amount of funding for that ratio. We wanted to maintain $55,000. I believe the chairman last year that was what was allocated to through Frederick County's foundation. And at this year at 24, we wanted to maintain that level so there was not a decrease in funding for Frederick County students. So we made changes to college support to eliminate some programs, change funding sources so we could make that a $55,000 allocation approximately for Frederick County, which led to that 60% ratio. Okay. So that's the overall budget. Thank you. I have one last question. When the split that you're asking for, the change in the split from last year, do the other localities, what is their allocation? Is it the 60-40 or do some of them choose the 80-20? Up until last year, the allocation was always consistent for all the counties and it was arranged by the 50-53% went to scholarships. Last year, given Frederick County's specific allocation of $55,000, that was the only time the ratio was different for one county. So traditionally, and what we're asking for is that 60% is applied and that gets applied to all jurisdictions that contribute. So all the other MOUs that you have, they're based on a 60-40 split? Yes. Is that correct? Thank you, sir. Ms. Chair, just a question real quick. Can you give us a little bit of a couple, an example or two of what type of programs that college support money goes into? Yes. The college support, the two primary, but one thing is it supports our college board operations. So we have members from each jurisdiction on our college board that supports our local operations as well as serves as an advisory board for the college. So there's $10,000 that goes towards their operation, travel and housing. Okay. And then we have the staff that supports our college board and having the meetings on site. Additionally, we have professional development. $50,000 of professional development goes towards our faculty and staff for them to go forth and get credentials or attend industry conferences in the region and continue their own personal growth within the college. For instance, 35% of our employees live in Frederick County, right? So those employees would tap into that source of funding for their professional development. We also have student support. We pay for a mental health application for our students out of this fund, so a student wellness app that they can go in and get free counseling, you know, at their, on their app and request support that's funded from this source. Thank you. I, if I may, I asked our members who are on the call, who are on that board, for their opinions and they were generally favorable to the request. However, they raised some points I thought were interesting. One of them was that last year there was an anomaly that allowed for a one-time significant increase in scholarships because the college had to reduce their reserves below a maximum cap that was set. Correct. They're now at that cap, so they don't have extra funds they need to spend. What is that cap and is that, the total reserves of the community college? That's the $500,000 reserve in local funds for our college board budget. So that request going for FY26, right, is the baseline budget. If there is, because of the timing of the fiscal year, you know, our fiscal year will end for fiscal year 25, the end of this month. If by chance there is any excess funding beyond $500,000, that would then get reallocated to the college's scholarship budget. It would not increase the funding request to the counties, it would come from that reserve source, the excess reserve. So that was, that's the source last year for that additional budget. So you're at, your reserve fund is at its maximum. The reserve fund, we set it, it was in excess of $500,000 when it started, so it's been at its cap since it was initiated. The only time we've used that reserve was last fiscal year when we had to fund the gap between Frederick County's contribution and the overall college budget. How would the board like to handle this? A quick question. Yes, sir. This is $90,000 give or take. So the $90,000 and the 40%, basically $36,000 to $40,000 is going to be used for operations, the rest for scholarship, correct? Sure, yes. The difference of $55,000 to $91,000. This money here is basically for your operational budget, right? This supports the college board operating budget. Excluding the scholarship, just excluding the scholarship money, the rest of it is used for your operational budget? Yes. And ballpark, how large is your operational budget? The college's operating budget, excluding personnel, is approximately $8,000. Okay. Thank you. Chair, I would be in favor of moving forward with this request. Mr. Chairman, I already started off, so you know I'm in favor. Yeah, I'm not in favor. I always champion the idea that the county give all its funds directly to students so that 100% of whatever we can. And use of taxpayer money can reach our own constituents. Furthermore, this is a 34% increase when I'm trying to hold the line. And it seems like from the breakout, scholarships will be basically flat. They only go up by like $100. All the rest will go into the fund we're talking about for that the college has freedom to spend. I can't agree with spending more taxpayer dollars, none of that going to scholarships. I can't support it either. And the reason being we are nickeling and diming the rest of these, which are wonderful agencies. This is a wonderful, you know, for the future. However, I can't support that 34% increase. They're getting less. The kids are getting the exact same amount. And I'm not in favor of that. And I can't support that when we are taking it from the capital fund. Mr. Chair, I support the request. I support the request. I'm not sure what our count is now. Three for the increase, two for I believe flat level funding. And we have two more to weigh in. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I wrestle with, and this is a great conversation with you. I'm a taxpayer. The policy, so just for all of us, let's just have some background. So Mr. Tibbs and I had a long conversation earlier today. In 1969, I think Laurel Ridge first had a conversation with surrounding communities, Frederick County, not Frederick County. Frederick County, Fauquier County, Pace County. And that was the first conversation I had with the surrounding communities. I think that's a good point. Frederick was the rep tools. Frederick County was this very large community, but fube one very large and big friend. And we're not even close to that with the Core County comunidad. And they're not even in that small piece of dirt. Philip特 is just one of the key gateway words catcher for the county communities. He said that's how it should be. And I hope people listen to this. He said the Staples community is the greatest community. The first thing is the most radical thing about Frederick County. którą we want to have something that we, these counties everyone has a community they love. Yeah, we think you ought to go and build a community college to provide some needs. The thing that I wrestle with is that the tax dollars that come from my dollars or my neighbor's dollars, et cetera, are going to a specific college for a specific item. If they said, fine, I want to go to Shenandoah University, I want to go to Liberty, I want to go to a trade school, then those dollars aren't there. I appreciate the fact that you have an $8 million budget and it's a small component of that. I'm just wrestling with the item that I would say to you, what if you just raised the money all on your own? And then you can come back to me and say, Blaine, the community said we want this. And so that's the tension that's occurring here. I'm probably going to support flat funding, but I would think that this board, either this year or next, ought to have a longer conversation and say, what's our budget? What's our budget? What's our commitment to Laurel Ridge? And for Laurel Ridge to come back and say, this is what we do, this is what we not do. And so we could have a discussion, not at an outside agency situation, but a much more in-depth look on the county's commitment there. That's just my thought process. Well, Supervisor Dunn, thinking along those lines, it's hard to make a comparison. They're not a charity. They're not the library. But they are. They are more of an educational resource in that direction. I struggle with the fact that their reserve fund is at a maximum, and we are drawing down. We have an issue. We're going to have some serious discussions at 7 o'clock today about data centers and other enterprises that want to move into the county. Much of the public is against, but the pressure is we need to raise funds. We need to balance our budget. And the only way to do that is either to have more businesses here for revenue or to control, raise taxes, which I don't want to do. We don't want to be hostage and have to take every business that wants to come if our public is against it. So the only way I see to square all that is to control our spending. And I would just argue we need to control our spending. We don't want to be put in a... We don't want to be put in a box on other important decisions we have to make as a county. If you're in favor of present-level funding for now, we'd be 3 to 3. And that's where I am. Okay. Who has not voted yet? You're getting put on the spot tonight once or twice, Vice Chair. I guess... I will support it this year, but I would say we need to go back. Next year and look at this financial. And if there is money that hasn't been used for the scholarship, I mean, this financial goes through March 31st. So I think we need to be really careful that if we are going to support $55,000 in scholarships, that it truly is getting used for scholarships. I think we had a narrow consensus. Excuse me? I think we had a narrow consensus. 4 to 3. To support it. To support it. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to go over the next three items and then deal with them one at a time. The next three items they call new requests, but they're actually not new requests. They're requests that have not been funded in the past. You have the Blue Ridge Legal Services. This is a charitable organization that provides legal services to people that can't afford it for civil type suits, not criminal. Yeah. Next item. There's a Southeast Rural Community Assistance Program. And I have my cheat notes. They provide training, technical and financial assistance in the form of grants to communities to assist with water, wastewater, housing and community development needs. And the last item is the Northern Virginia 4H. And they provide programming to youth and families of Frederick County. They also provide camps, corporate retreats, festivals, team building programs and outdoor activities. They offer recreation opportunities. Although I've listed them all three, it may probably make more sense to deal with them individually. I assume in that order. Board, any questions or opinions on these new requests? Please. I would just offer that I wouldn't add any additional request. You know, I did ask Mrs. Place before our meeting on the Northern Virginia 4H. We do fund them under the extension budget. And Mrs. Place said it was $4,000. And I know there's a lot of camps that, you know, happen in our community. So other than that, I'm not in support of adding new. I think we've tried to whittle this list down so that we're not making contributions. And don't. And I think that's the only way that we can get the money to fund the new ones. But I think that's the only way that we can get the money to fund the new ones. And I think that's the only way that we can get the money to fund the new ones. Because I don't frankly feel like that is my job. So. Yeah, I would agree with adding no new. I question the whole philosophy of requiring taxpayers to contribute to organizations. Even though I remember at least one of these, maybe all of them from last year, being very noble missions. But I don't think it's the mission of the taxpayer to fund them. I would agree with those statements, both of yours. Thank you. So we have a consensus there. Consensus on no new. And then the last item is to circle back. If I'm not mistaken, we were doing the Northwest Works. It was three in favor and three in favor of the increase. Three in favor of keeping that stable funding. Supervisor Dunn, I'm sure you're familiar. What they do is they provide services for employment for people that are. Difficult to employ or have difficulty maintaining jobs. They also provide jobs on sites. I think in a factory like setting for people to work to provide goods. And so it was at three, three. So I'll support this. Basically, it's for an HVAC system. Just for the record, next year. For me, this is a capital expense. I'd support that. But next year, if they come back for the same level, then I'd say. I'd suggest that they come back next year. With a level that's $5,000 less. But this is a capital expense issue. Not enough. Operational expense. So when we have a proposal that comes to us for an unusual reason. Like a cut in outside funding or a capital request. Can we always note the next year that that happened the year before. So we're not creating a new zero baseline when we don't intend to. I think what we'll do is we'll put some like a little paragraph. I have one item in there that says funding increase last year was approved specifically for such and such. And put it as the last little category when you look at their application. So you'll see that. And then I would simply say. And therefore, the baseline is X versus X plus five. And I have one more comment to make. It's sort of a go back. And that is with regard to Laurel Ridge Community College or Lower Fairfax. As I wish the name had remained. I just want to remind us that four or five years ago, they embarked on a change of name. And this board, I wasn't on it then. This board, I think it was unanimous, maybe six to one was upset because they knew that would cost a lot of money. They felt like if the community college had that much money to spend on a name change, which this board wasn't supportive of at all. That we promised at the time that we would reduce or eliminate funding. And that hasn't really happened. In fact, the cost of the name change was over $400,000, I'm told. Nearly half a million. So I wish I had remembered that point. I wasn't on the board then. But again, since we're going back to history, I understand their mission. But if they have half a million dollars to spend simply to change a name, I'm not sure we would have, you know, we don't want to be over time recompensing for that. I don't think we have half a million dollars to spend on such things. So I wish I had brought that up before. And I think we're done with our outside agencies. Then there are two. We have two action items to follow up with afterward. Thank you. Thank you. Really quick. The Lord Fairfax Water, we're present level until it goes to public works and then we might come back and give them. Thank you. Yes, we're adjourned. Thank you.
