Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-03-02
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=122
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we discuss the following ordinance amendments, R4 and R5 conditional uses, off-street parking requirements for residential dwellings, and protection of environmental feature waivers. These items will come before the Planning Commission for discussion at a later date. And that concludes my report. Thank you, Ms. Cazale. Winchester Planning Commission. Mr. Robson. Is this on? Sorry, I screwed that up last time. There we go. Sorry about that. Good to see you all again. Just one item to report from two weeks ago, and that's that our Planning Commission has now begun reviewing PUD rezoning that may be, if it goes through, one of the larger ones that we've seen in several years. It's out on Valley, the old Elms Motel. It's 17 acres back there. They have a pretty comprehensive package that we are starting. But it's very early on. The community is certainly going to weigh in. But they've been working. They've been working on that for a while. And that's it. So thanks for having me. Thanks, sir. At this portion will be the citizens' comments. The citizens' comments are open for any items that are not before the Commission or on the agenda. Not seeing anybody, I'll close the citizens' comments portion. All right. Next up is a public hearing on CUP number 0222, Redbud Run Solar. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a request for a conditional use permit to enable the construction of a 263-acre utility-scale solar power generating facility in the Stonewall Magisterial District. The properties encompassing this application are presently zoned RA rural areas, and the current land use of those properties is agricultural, vacant, and forestal. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties are... The subject properties are outlined in blue for your orientation. Bisecting the site and forming the western property boundary is Woods Mill Road with Pine Road forming the boundary of the south. This is about a half mile north of Route 7. And bisecting the site from west to east is what is planned to be future Route 37 bypass. Of the project area, 150 acres is slated to be developed for the installation of road. The ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, commonly known as solar panels, and other necessary equipment including inverters, vehicle access paths, security fencing, and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be combined, converted, and increased to allow delivery to the adjoining Redbud-Gaylor overhead transmission lines, which are just north of the site. This is the concept plan included with the application. For reference, this is page 3. And zoom in for additional detail. We have moved slightly to the south. These parcels to the north here, shown in orange, are actually interconnection parcels. They're only gonna be used for underground interconnection from the solar facility to the transmission lines. The main body of the project is these three tracks here, known as the Wilkins properties. Again, free orientation. Woods Mill Road forms that kind of western property boundary, and Pine Road forms the southern property boundary. Again, free orientation. This yellow line, which is faint on the screen, but is shown, is the future Route 37 bypass. The applicant has laid out the facility into three land bays, this land bay here to the north, a central land bay, and a southern land bay. The reason for this is the applicant is conserving a significant portion of the property is conservation areas. This is where there are riparian areas, existing forestal lands, and those areas are being maintained as the site currently stands. Within the site, they are proposing three points of access when the facility's in operation, each one from Woods Mill Road, a point of access here, where you see this black line, a point of access generally in this area, and a point of access down here in the southern land bay. So one point of access for each of those solar land bays. They're also proposing a temporary point of access here for construction from Pine Road, where they'll have their lay down yard. Again, that point of access, is noted to be temporary. In evaluating conditional use permits for solar facilities, staff does a first check of the zoning ordinance conformance and those requirements are demonstrated by the concept plan and will be subsequently addressed in the site plan submission if this application is approved. Additionally, the application includes a decommissioning plan, which is one of our zoning ordinance requirements, and the decommissioning plan provides for the removal of all the equipment and the restoration of the site to its pre-development condition. It's noted that the decommissioning plan is updated every five years to ensure that that financial security and that monetary guarantee that's included as part of the plan and it has enough sufficient value to cover the cost of the removal and the decommissioning. Again, the decommissioning plan would take effect when the facilities seem to be no longer in operation and the equipment needs to be removed. For the planning commission, you all evaluate this through the lens of the comprehensive plan. And the plan envisions this area of the county to remain primarily rural in nature for agricultural land to be preserved for future generations. There's also a number of solar siting policies that were recently added to the adopted comprehensive plan in chapter four. And those, again, are agricultural preservation, enabling this use to generate revenue and taxes and ensuring that the use has low impact. As you know, solar, very low impact on the environment and the adjoining properties, no glare, no odor, no noise, things like that. In addition to the permitting required by Frederick County through the conditional use permit process, solar facilities under the Commonwealth also require what's known as a permit by rule or PBR application through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality. This is a state level administrative review and approval process which includes an extensive environmental and cultural study. One checkbox in that PBR application is the local jurisdictional approval which would otherwise be satisfied if this additional use permit is approved, enabling the applicant to continue with their state permitting. One thing that's new to the solar facilities that we've seen this year, pertains to a change in the code of Virginia, which is solar facility siting agreements. This is a voluntary agreement between the solar developer and the locality to mitigate impacts and such. This applicant proposes as part of their siting agreement to make a $10,000 payment to the county, and allow for the permit to be approved by the county. County in a lump sum at the start of construction, plus they would pay 500 per megawatt contribution each year with a 1.5% escalator, and I will let the applicant touch on what that valuation looks like over the life of the project. The solar siting agreement is memorialized in the conditions of approval, obviously considered by the Planning Commission, but ultimately the approval of the siting agreement is an action of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, but again, it's provided to you all as context for the application. So, should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions of approval, and please bear with me, these are a little bit lengthy. Number one, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineered site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted to and subject to approval by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan shall address the additional regulations. The site plan shall address the additional regulations for specific uses contained in Part 204 of the Zoning Ordinance and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the application prepared by Greenway and dated January 18, 2022. Number three, that person to the Code of Virginia, the owner, shall comply with the decommissioning plan included with the application prepared by Ordin and shall update the decommissioning plan every five years. Number four, that at the time the project achieves commercial operation, the owner will make a $10,000 lump sum payment to the county. And further, at the time that the project achieves commercial operation, the owner shall make a payment of $500 per megawatt per year with an annual escalator of 1.5% to the county. These conditions shall be memorialized in the siting agreement with Frederick County in a form acceptable to the Board of Supervisors, person to the Code of Virginia. Number five, that batteries for the purposes of mass storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid shall not be used on the property subject to the CUP. Number six, that access to the grid shall not be used on the property subject to the CUP. Number seven, that access to the site shall be limited to three entrances from Woods Mill Road, so to provide one entrance to each solar array land bay and one entrance from Pine Road to be used only during periods of construction shall also be permitted. Approval of the final site entrance locations from Woods Mill Road is subject to review and approval by the Virginia Department of Transportation at the time of site plan. Number seven, that the pile driving up poles for solar arrays shall be limited to 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and all other construction activities are limited to 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and all other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturdays. No construction activities are permitted on Sundays or federal holidays. And number eight, that any expansion or modification of this land use would require the approval of a new conditional use permit. This item is presented to the Planning Commission this evening as a public hearing item, and following a public hearing, it would be appropriate for the Planning Commission to offer a recommendation concerning this application to the Board of Supervisors. Staff would note that any recommendation for approval would affirm that the proposed facility is in accordance with the county's comprehensive plan policies. I'm happy to answer any questions. Mr. Moan is here representing Ordon along with their team, and I believe they have a few remarks as well. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Tripp. Will there be a substation there? They will have some equipment for conversion, but it will be, they will go directly. To the line. Not that I'm aware of, no. Ms. Braylon. I'm not sure if this is the right time to ask a question or not. I'm concerned about 37. Did anybody consider getting a right-of-way? We're not allowed, we're not allowed to, we're not, in this position, in this type of application, we're not able to request. We're not allowed to request a right-of-way dedication. As you're aware, Route 37 is a planned roadway, a planned future roadway, but it is not funded. It is not designed in such a manner that we're in that position with this application. Staff would note that on the application, the applicant does include several notes as it pertains to Route 37. They've cited the facility, designed their location of their entrances, other equipment, and the solar arrays that at such time that Route 37 project does move forward, they would be able to remove the panels. And not prohibit the construction of that roadway, but we're not, they're not dedicating any right-of-ways as part of this application. That's not something that's typically a part of a conditional use permit. That's something that would be typical in a rezoning application. But it couldn't be part of, what's this called, the site? The new thing that Virginia passed? The siting agreement? Yeah. The siting agreement is between the applicant and the County. Uh-huh. And the applicant is not leasing the property. They're not the landowners. They're not in a position to give away or dedicate right-of-way. And if 37 were built, have they looked at how that would affect their bottom line? I will let the applicant answer that question after they make their presentation. Anybody else have a question for Mr. Pines? Mr. Mullen. I'd love to have you on the call. Thank you. I'll let you come up. Nice to see everyone. Good to see you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. For the record, my name is Chris Mone. I'm with Greenway Engineering, representing the applicant, Redbud Run Solar LLC, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ord and Power. I think Mr. Klein, as always, provided a very thorough overview of this application. And I would just like to take a moment to briefly reiterate that. I think you've made a few points for your consideration this evening. As outlined in the application materials, the proposed solar facility is a small-scale distribution-level project. And it is unique locally in that it will deliver power to a medium-voltage distribution line operated by the local electric cooperative. As a result, the project does not require a new substation or other fenced interconnection facility. And the power will, for the most part, be used locally. Because of this and the relatively small size of the project, land requirements and construction costs are lower. And so, too, is the economic scale of the ultimate operation, which is an important thing to keep in mind. As indicated by the comprehensive plan, a utility-scale solar energy generating facility is appropriate in the rural areas district with approval of a conditional use permit. And the CUP, of course, is intended to ensure that any site-specific impacts of the use are effectively mitigated through applicant commitments and conditions of approval. The proposed solar facility is fundamentally a passive use. It will not generate any measurable impacts. Specifically, the facility will not produce any noise, light, odors, vibrations, or any other type of impact that would be discernible to adjoining properties. And further, will generate negligible traffic. Additionally, the facility will not place any demands on public services, but will instead generate tax revenue. This will result in a positive fiscal impact for the community. The facility's potential visual impacts will be addressed through the combination of preserved mature vegetation, potential protected natural corridors, supplemental screening, and the site's existing topography. Together, these elements will minimize disturbance of view sheds and ensure that glare impacts, as well, are avoided. The bottom line is that Ordon's intent from the outset in selecting the facility is to maintain the character of the area and not overwhelm the landscape. As presented to you this evening, Ordon has stayed true to this objective and designed a facility that will integrate favorably with the surrounding community. As such, we would respectfully request your favorable recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. We would be happy to answer any questions that you may have. As Roger has already pointed out, I am not the expert on the facility itself. Those folks are here with me. And I would be happy to answer any questions that you may have. But we'll do our best to answer your questions. Questions? I have a couple questions for you, Chris. Okay. Where will the inverters be located on the site? Is that set yet? I think that is part of the design that's been done to date. I think that from what I understand, they are located more internally to the site, the way they're positioned. You know, I could defer. I don't know if there's a more specific answer to that. Okay. Answer that. Gary will handle that. Hi. Good evening. It's Gary Verklaren with Ordon, Director of Development. And with regards to the question on the inverters, so we have two types of inverters that are being considered for the project. Both of them are internal to the basic development area you see in the three land bays as we describe them here. So they will not be external to the land bays. So they'll be inside the land bays. And of the two types, there are string inverters, which are smaller inverters, which would require a higher number of inverters. And then there are more centralized inverters. They're larger. They sit on concrete pads, say, still within the land bays. So nothing external. And then if I could, just with regards to the substation, no substation. Chris was correct. It's basically a lined tap with no pad-mounted transformers. It's basically pole-mounted interconnect. Are the inverters mechanical? There's no – is there any liquid in the inverters, or are they all mechanical? Let me hand that over to our engineering. My background is civil engineering. This is our resident electrical engineer, Cadanzi. We're going to ask a couple of questions. So I'm going to start with the electrical engineering, if you could answer that. Hi. I'm Drew Cates. The inverters are electrical. They are not mechanical. There's no liquid involved in their design. It's – So there's no coolant? There's no coolant. No. The IR system. Why that doesn't work at that power station. Thebed being a power station is like a canyon pass. There is a river. It's pretty close there. I mean, it's under the river here. If there's a power station, power station that would develop a dam on it? Right. Yeah, there's no power station there. And then I'm curious, though, if you don't mind opening up – I know we didn't look at the data on the soil in the survey, but we will take a look at that later – Okay. So, the interesting thing about building such a framework isquent your uh, right, one of the boreholeizations. And it's interesting, you know, because of yours, you. What is there ? You said it's not a model, but it's bail out Wilson. A model? very small batteries that would be used to back up the equipment which monitors the performance of the system so like small scale which would be enclosed system I'm sorry with your UPS system yes a UPS system that's correct would you please tell everyone what the function is of the inverter yes the inverter is what takes the DC power that is created by the solar panels and it it inverts it into AC power which is what our our grids use the inverters the reason I asked for the location there's a number of residents on the north looks like northwest side the inverters will be located central on the site so they won't be close to those homes just in case there's noise sometimes there's a low frequency hum comes out of inverters and yes it would be hundreds of feet away from those homes also have a question mr. moment I've a Chris I've got a question so that an inverter okay I'm 100 for our is there going to be consistent hundred foot setback but what we show of course on the the concept plan is what the ordinance requires you know based on the RA district standards the design of the facility to date is resulting in the panels themselves being located in most cases further than a hundred feet from the property boundaries so in effect through the design process that is being achieved and we've released Plichtbeign's DIY Lego there's that's just for underground connections so there will be nothing built nothing built nothing so that that whole area will stay pretty much an RA rural preservation type exactly the the uses today you know will ostensibly remain so several of those are our residential properties some are a mix you know have agricultural use and some are vacant and so you know the line will extend and it'll be within a an easement but it will be completely underground so there'd be no change thank you statement you made there the the other 200 acres of that on the north whatever the acreage is that's in a rural preservation no no those are okay yeah preservation she said it okay but no that's not in a rural preservation I mean those are existing parcels of record is that already something that you would have to do to maintain that that's something that you would have to do to know Matt next fall 100 foot around the perimeter. That is the way the design is shaping up. That's correct. Okay. All right. Because that was a sticker for some people that we had some phone calls with. That's understood. We definitely received a lot of inquiries about that as well. Yep. Anybody else? Thank you, sir. Yes. This is a public hearing. So at this time, I open up this public hearing. For anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item, please come forward. State your name and magisterial district, please. Hi. Hi. Good evening. My name is Susan Adamkowitz, and I think I'm in the Stonewall District. I live on Pine Road at 319 Pine Road. I could point that out on the map if you'd like. Go ahead. It's right, I live right here. What I would like to request if this applicant in this process goes forward is that evergreen trees, preferably native, which have environmental benefits, be planted along my property line to shield the view. About two weeks ago, I attended the meeting at Jordan Springs, and I saw that there was proposed tree areas that were planned in other areas. So I think it would be fair to request that some native tree, evergreen in particular, be planted along that area. Because we can see all through there. It's not that far away. That's all I had. Thank you, ma'am. I would like to make a気 is supports UK lands and the 34AR management project was discussed at a previous event by the되bsrk, I think it was. App Kampf? Oh. some supplemental trees in that area. We'll take a look at that and work with staff to ensure that we have any gaps taken care of because the goal has been to ensure that adjoining properties have a preserved view shed and have those impacts mitigated. So we will look into that for sure. The one thing I think I didn't circle back on potentially was the Route 37 crossing. And just to circle back on that, the applicant has designed the facility so that the removal of the panels of 37 were to go through could be accommodated without interrupting the viability of the project. So it is something that can be accommodated, and they're doing that kind of as a front-end exercise, recognizing that this is a possibility from a comp planning perspective. Any other questions? All right. Commissars, any discussion? Mr. Thomas. We've already set the precedent that this is allowable in RA areas with conditional use permits. I just wish we would get past the fantasy that we're preserving rural areas. What we're doing with this application is we're preventing the construction of 45 or 55-acre lots with houses, which that's good or bad. That's up to your personal opinion. I don't think that anyone, anyone's ever going to say, oh, I'm going to take a Sunday drive to go out and look at the beautiful solar fields, the solar panels on the fields out here. We're probably not going to win any awards for scenic right-of-ways with solar fields on both sides of the road. But, you know, we are preventing the construction of 55-acre lots and houses. Anyone else? Shoot, that's why I go over to Dumbarton. To look at the solar panels? Ms. Bram? Is someone else? I don't know if this is appropriate or not. I don't think it affects the property owners or the business, but, and since this is going to affect, I know that the 37 isn't, we don't have it really funded yet or anything, but it is going to make it less likely, and it's going to make it more expensive to get the right-of-way. So, would it be appropriate, I know it's up to the Board of Supervisors what they do with the income from this property, but can we recommend some go into roads and we actually have a plan rather than have this drawn on a comprehensive plan with no work at all to get it in place? You hit it on the head. That'll be up to the Board of Supervisors. So we can't recommend it to them? For us, it's about the comprehensive plan. If it meets the comprehensive plan, so. Well, the only stickler point I see to the comprehensive plan is 37, because that is on the comprehensive plan. But I don't think it's their problem. No, and actually, they've actually stepped up and put together a game plan if they ever did have, so. So it would be much easier to move than houses. Absolutely. That's exactly right, so. Anything else? Anyone else? Oh, Mr. Oates. Yeah, I've made hay on this place a few times over the years for helping other people. I thought you were going to say you made money on it. You said you made hay on it. No, just hay. No, I never surveyed this one. But we have lost a lot of property around there because this is where I live and where we farm, and everything we've lost so far has either been to, like, Snowden Bridge. We used to make hay over every single square foot of that place. That's gone. Everything we've lost is due, due to houses. I know these particular tracks here have come in for comp plan amendments in the past. They've gotten shot down. They've been asking for UDA inclusion, sewer and water inclusion. They've been turned down. At some point, they're going to do something with it, and it's 54 houses. I'd rather take a Sunday drive and see some solar panels out there and the streams than 54 houses myself. I'm hoping for the gas to go for rides. I'm still doing pretty good. I can do that. Although that's close enough we can hook up the horse and buggy. So I'm in favor of this. I'm going to stop short of requesting a condition that no solar panels be within 100 feet and that the evergreens be put in there. But I will ask Mr. Moan to update his concept plan to show that before it gets to the board. And with that, I think this plan meets the comprehensive plan, and I recommend approval. Second. Okay, so we have a motion. We have a second. We're going to start with Mr. Molden. Molden, yes. Akins, yes. Brennan, yes. Dawson, yes. Triplett, yes. Thomas, yes. Ots, yes. Grumbach, yes. Orndorff, yes. Kozel, yes. Markert, yes. Chairman votes yes. So this will be... Go before the Board of Supervisors on April 13th, 2022. Thank you very much. All right. Under other, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The only current planning application that I would note for you is that the Jameswood High School and Indian Hollow Elementary School renovation site plans have been submitted and are under review. Otherwise, we do have a plan March 16th meeting for one application, a rezoning or proffer revision for Snowden Bridge. Otherwise, I'm happy to answer any questions that you all might have. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? All right. Do I hear a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We're adjourned. Thank you, everyone. I'm done. First as I talked about certainly AAC way of renewing Potato Island on 28th December, the witnesses are adjourned. I're adjourned. Please all rise. The hearing is adjourned.ilo.com . Toby Bailiff,� 혼manuel, y ho. Thank you.
