Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-05-17
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=188
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commission, it's just a reminder, with the mics, we can only have four or five on at a time, so after you use it, please turn it off. And we want to welcome the newest addition to the Planning Commission, Tim Stowe. Welcome. Thanks for coming up, and well-worn to serve. So, thank you. Adoption of the agenda. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? Second. Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. All right. The agenda's adopted. All right. Meeting minutes. Do we have, do I have a motion to approve the minutes? So moved. Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Okay. Minutes are approved. Committee reports. DRRC. Mrs. Cousel. Yes, Mr. Chairman. We met on Thursday, April 27th, and discussed. We're continuing to discuss the NICS conversion. Last meeting we discussed the commercial and industrial districts, and this will be brought before everybody in the coming months. And then the second item we discussed was allowing storage containers, or shipping containers as storage in the RA districts, and that will be presented to the Planning Commission this evening. So, that concludes my report. Thank you, Mrs. Cousel. Yes, sir. All right. Thank you, Dr. Porter. Frederick Water Board held their annual elections. Gary Oates was reelected as chairman. Marty Dilge was elected as vice chairman, and Tom Simon was elected as secretary and treasurer. The Board was updated on various capital projects that are being advanced to strengthen water and sewer services. The accounts customers, they're over 18,000 now, and monthly water production is 6.84 million gallons per day. The quarries are in excellent shape for the hot summer months. So, that takes care of Frederick Water. Winchester City Planning. Hello again, everyone. The only new item I think that I haven't discussed is the City is pursuing a potential change to the green space requirements and how it works. It's a pretty complex proposal from what I've seen so far. The main piece is that it would involve a bank of funds, which is the intended goal, I suspect. But, from what I've seen, which isn't much of the details yet, it's still in flux, but it's something we'll be talking about a lot moving forward. So thanks much for having me. Thank you. Thank you for coming out. And we have a new liaison from the Board of Supervisors, Mrs. Lockridge. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. The May 10th meeting for the Board of Supervisors, we did pass your sign ordinance that you guys sent to us. We are continuing the discussion of the capital improvement plan. And we have sent forward to a public hearing with amendments. And the last thing is the Middletown boundary line adjustment has been moved forward. It was passed and it's scheduled for a public hearing. And that's all I have to report. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Yes. Okay. Next thing up is citizen comments, which is open for any items not before the Commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. I want to take this moment. For anyone who wanted to speak regarding rezoning of Fruit Hill, this would be your time. We've already had the public hearing for Fruit Hill. So if you would like to speak, come up, please state your name, Magisterial District, and please keep your comments to three minutes. Okay. Then I'm going to close the citizen comments. All right. Next thing up is public hearing. This is going to be a draft update. This is the draft update of 2023-2024 of Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement. Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission, and good evening. Many of you are familiar with this plan. It is an annual update of all three of these documents. If I can just hit the wave tops a bit, we are not currently recommending changes to the Interstate or Primary. So I'll go over those rather quickly. Not that questions are not welcome. They are very welcome as they come up, but just to save from belaboring items as I can. The Interstate and Primary plans, as you have before you, they are advisory documents that we share with VDOT, the Commonwealth Transportation Board, to keep them abreast of county priorities. The Secondary plan is a little different. That's actually a programming document, which is code required. You'll see our version of it, which we consider the more appropriate. I'm going to go ahead and get started. We are going to go ahead and get started. The Secondary plan is a little different. It is a more user-friendly version, but also in your packet is VDOT's formal version, which mirrors the same information and a tougher way to read, which will get signed at the end of this process and returned to them. From there, we're going to start by turning on. It is on. We're going to... Okay. Okay. We're going to click the mouse in the old-fashioned way. Wake it up. Rather than have you waiting on me. And now I went too far. I apologize. As I've already noted, this is the update of your Interstate, Primary, and Secondary road plans. Secondary being the only one that is code required. That's the one that actually requires your public hearing. We do hold the public hearing on all three for consistency and to save any confusion for residents who are trying to see what's on your agenda. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So the program has a big agenda. It's a long agenda. And there's a lot of things that we don't know, but we're not sure where we can reach your agenda. Beginning with the Interstate Road Improvement Plan. As I've already noted, there are not any recommended changes to this from last year. To put it extremely simply, your plan does call for a widening of I-81 throughout the county, all the way from Warren County to West Virginia, with the current highest priority for that widening being Exit 313 to 317, which is actually a funded project through the I-81 fund. However, I feel like I say this every year as we manage to get projects actually into VDOT's programs, we don't actually take them off of here until they become real. So we've got people out there with moving dirt and all those fun things because we've had the rug pulled out of us from under us before, so we keep those things on there. As you can also see, virtually every interchange through the county does call for upgrade. I'll note Exit 317 is about to receive an additional infusion of cash. You may recall that the northbound exit ramp is already funded to be realigned to the location where Redbud Road currently is, and that would align it then with the northbound ramp. However, this current round of smart scale projects, which we expect to be approved in June by the Commonwealth Transportation Board, includes a further upgrade. We're excited that that is going to be an upgrade of that interchange to what's known as a diverging diamond interchange. For anyone who has been through the Haymarket interchange off of 66, that is also a diverging diamond. And since I wasn't planning to show examples tonight, but if this is piquing anyone's curiosity, a very quick YouTube search will show you some very good examples of what a diverging diamond is and how that actually operates. So we're excited that that is going to be an upgrade. We're excited that that is going to be an upgrade. We're excited that that is going to be an upgrade. That will actually end up between those two projects. We've been able to garner approaching $40 million in state funds toward that interchange over now two rounds of smart scale, so we're excited by that. From there, I've already noted the widening of 313 to 317. There is an effort afoot to try and expand on that, but there's really not much more to say about that. That's at the state level, although we'll support it any way we can. Moving on to your primary road improvement. The plan also, while you've got a lot of lines on the map, it's not terribly momentous. It continues to have Route 37 as the top priority. A key thing I would mention about Route 37 is that we are underway in the Route 37 phasing and feasibility study, which was funded by the board in this past year. The consultant has begun work and is currently doing a lot of data gathering and preparing for public outreach and that sort of thing. We sent them another tranche of data just this week as they put together items for modeling and background research. As this moves forward, by this time next year, we'll either be potentially very near or already at the point where some changes are coming out of that study as we update this plan next year. Beyond that, probably as no surprise to anyone, virtually all of your primary homes will be in the plan. A very large number of classrooms, one larger after disrupting our short-term commission tuition logs. We should indicate performed training resources. So the feasibility for the plan should pretty well be 60 last weeks. Now, when you see that different barriers, weight, bounds, and gaps, the filing environment should be reasonable. If they are to be returned, once again, it's important that we have a system where when these old blockages are recаботed that we maintain the liability of shipments waiting forièrement. Doug Anniklen. Hi. is what remains of a program that is being phased out. It won't be long before we're not really seeing this portion of the secondary plan. As projects are funded through SmartScale, you'll still see them like these two that are on here through revenue sharing that are on the secondary system, and those are the two you see on here. You see the Red Boat Road realignment, which is currently under design, which the board has put forward about $2 million for the matching funds. The rest is funded through previous secondary dollars as well as VDOT state revenue sharing dollars. And number two is Renaissance Drive extension from where it currently ends all the way out to Shady Elm Road. So you'll now be able to complete that trip between Shady Elm Road and Route 11 South just across from the Volvo dealer for those that are looking for a landmark, if you will, and why that project's important. It is with... The significant industrial development that has happened back along Apple Valley Road and up and down Shady Elm Road, currently all the particularly tractor-trailer trips that come out of those various uses basically have to come out Apple Valley Road to 11 in order to come then south to access the interchange at Route 37 and eventually 81. This additional connection now to the south of the interchange will allow better balancing of those trips as opposed to overloading that one certain point. Doesn't mean we're still not going to need some improvements. Up and away. Up and away. But it's definitely a very nice improvement. And we're in the contracting phase for that project. We have an approved bid. We're enforcing... Not enforcing. We're enacting the contracts that we've had on draft for some time with CSX and writing them some very large checks because the railroad gets their piece, that's for sure. But that's all moving forward. So we're excited to see dirt start to move on that project. From there, I'm going to move to probably the one that gets the most attention, even though it's one of the lower budget items in your transportation program. And that's the non-hard surface road improvement projects, or basically the paving of dirt roads in the county. And what you have this time around, the first four on the list, East Parkins Mill Road, Fletcher Road, Fishel Road, and Canterburg Road have moved up from last year as the projects ahead of them were completed. And we have been able to add four new projects from the unscheduled, which I'll be showing you next. And those are in order, Clark Road, South Timber Ridge Road, Heishman Lane, and Glaze Orchard Road. So remembering that this is still a six-year program. By the time you get to Glaze Orchard, you're talking 2028 or thereabouts. So it's not as if they're getting paved tomorrow, but they are on the programmed now side of the table, as opposed to the unscheduled list, which you have before you now. All right. The intro... This list is actually shorter than it was just a few years ago. I believe we maxed out at 23 projects at one point. So it has been ratcheting down. One thing that's interesting this year is that no new projects were added. I actually went back and double-checked this, so I hope I didn't forget about any. But no, we actually didn't have any to add. We did have some interactions with some communities through the course of the year and advised them on the way to get on the list and everything, but we haven't yet received those petitions, so they're not being added yet at this time. I will note that... Current number one on the unscheduled, Rubuck Lane. A little typo in my copy. I think it's actually already been corrected on there. Rubuck Lane is the next one that would have made it off of the unscheduled list to be paved at some point in the future once it made it onto the scheduled list. However, depending on what happens with the next item I'll be presenting on tonight, that could possibly end up dropping off. With that, I can take any questions you may have, and as we have already noted, this is a public hearing item this evening. Sorry. Do we have any questions? Look to the right. Look to the left. This is Brumbaugh. It's not really related to the... Well, it's sort of related. The Renaissance Drive, when that gets completed, is that when Springdale will cul-de-sac? Yes. That's actually a component of that project. The cul-de-sac. Okay. The cul-de-sac is the main of Springdale Road on the east side of the road tracks. Right. Okay. Thank you. That'll be a welcome for a lot of residents in that area. And it was a key negotiation point with CSX. We actually would not be able to get this crossing without having gone there. There was, frankly, it's a lot longer story than that, all the things we had to do for CSX to get this crossing approved. But, yeah, that was a key component. It's greatly appreciated. Anybody to the right? Okay. All right. Thank you. And also, no, because I failed to mention, the Transportation Committee has also reviewed and recommended approval for this. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you. All right. I'm going to open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward, speak for or against this. Please come forward, state your name, at your district, and three minutes, please. All right. It's going to be short and sweet. I'm going to close this public hearing. Discussion among commissioners. Anybody have anything they want to add to this? I think it, good? I just appreciate the time you put in. I know, sitting in the transportation meetings, and there's a lot of work that goes into this. This is, you know, and it's greatly appreciated. It really is. So, thank you so much for what you do. With that, I'm going to look for us to vote on it. I'll start with Mr. Triplett. Do you want a motion? Oh, yeah. I need a motion. That's right. Sorry. Thank you very much. Who wants to motion this one? Move that we recommend approval of the Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement Plan. Second. All right. We've got a motion and a second. Now, Mr. Triplett. Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. Coteau, yes. Manuel, yes. Horniff, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Stowe, yes. Brumback, yes. Brannon, yes. And the chair votes yes. So, this will go before the draft, update Interstate will go before the Board of Supervisors on June 14th. So, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. All right. Next item up is an action item. And this is for regarding rezoning of number 1022 of Fruit Hill. Mr. Bishop. Thanks. Wyatt jumped in there and fixed it for me. There you go. I wasn't going to play with it. As you have noted, we do have before you rezoning 1022 for Fruit Hill, Equus Capital Partners. This is a public meeting this evening since you have already held the public hearing similar to the last item. Since you have recently heard this in detail, I'm going to focus on the updates to the proffers. But to begin with, sort of the overarching, as we have previously discussed, this rezoning does provide... So, the first thing is that we have proposed to construct five buildings of various sizes, approximately, or frankly, proffered up to 2,425,500 square feet of space, 300,000 of which is set aside to potentially be a data center and also one hotel and one restaurant. The five buildings are your warehousing type uses. So, you potentially would have two more buildings once you include your hotel and your restaurant. Those could end up within... So, you could have a total of six or seven buildings in the same building. So, six to seven total at the end of the day. And on the screen to your left, you do see right here, right in the upper right-hand corner, that is exit 323. And right there in red, you have everyone's favorite dinner destination, the Flying J truck stop with the Denny's restaurant, I believe it has in it. And Zachary Ann Lane right there bordering that. So, that's the exit 323. And then, you have the other two buildings. So, that's the exit 323. And then, you have the other two buildings. So, that's the exit 323. And then, you have the other two buildings. So, that's the exit 323. So, that's the exit 323. And then, you have the property on the east. And this big triangle here is one of the parcels. And immediately below that, you have the second parcel. From there, you have your long-range land use plan, which does have these properties designated as mixed-use industrial and office. Now, we have the generalized development plan for the applicant. And once again, you see your five. Warehouse type use is right here where my highlighted area is with the pointer here. That is the area that is looked at for a TM use or technology manufacturing use. And that is where they've set aside potentially 300,000 square feet for a data center. And immediately even though I'm moving from right to left, I'm actually moving to the north toward West Church Road. Right there where my pointer is now, that is your B2 parcel. And that's something that I've been working on as far as a data center and as a location. And it's a very unique local area. under the proposed rezoning. That is where you would see the hotel and restaurant uses. Right down through the center, actually I'm going to go ahead and skip to the next slide to make it even easier to tell. Right down through the center is where the applicant is proffering to build two lanes of the COT plan roadway that goes across those parcels, which they're proposing to go ahead and call Fruit Hill Road. And right here you have the realignment of Zachary Ann Lane that helps us out in terms of moving that rather busy intersection a little further away from the interchange and to where it would intersect with Fruit Hill Road. At the previous discussion of this rezoning, there were a number of items that the Planning Commission brought forward and had a good discussion with the applicant's representatives on what they may be willing to do. So, we're going to go ahead and resolve. So the key proffer changes that you have before you, and you do have the updated proffers as well as a red line version in your packet. The applicant has updated the proffer for the Retz Church Road and Route 11 intersection to cover the full cost for construction and right of way. You may recall that was previously a bit of a two-phase proffer where the applicant was willing to do the improvement. However, if they had difficulty obtaining the right of way, that proffer could switch to a 650-acre roadway. The next step is to call the applicant and request that the applicant provide a positive development, as any other improvement would. This is a very common mistake we have when we're talking about a property that is in the area of repair or construction. And so, this is one of the common mistakes we have, is that we don't want to have a 50,000-dollar cash proffer to where the county had to take care of it. The Planning Commission and the applicant had a good discussion, the resulting proffer has removed the cash proffer, and gone ahead and committed to take care of the improvement. So that's, I call that a positive development. Moving on from there, the applicant has updated the proffer for cash toward the upgrade of Roebuck Lane, to the paving specifically. In the previous set of proffers, they were giving some right of way. and constructing a turnaround as well as abandoning Rubuck Lane where it continued into their property they're still abandoning the lane into the property but they have gone and previously they were giving cash so the county could go in and pave it they've removed that cash option they're gonna go ahead and pave it in addition to not continuing it be not continuing Rubuck Lane they're still going to construct the turnaround they're still going to do the right-of-way needed to allow them to make the improvements and I know they've been having good discontinued good discussions with the neighbor I will note that I believe it was mr. Schallenberger stood up at the last meeting and talked about a site distance issue the applicant has actually also included in the proffer language to note that they'll tell me VDOT standards for a rural rustic on that issue as well finally I would or not finally there's a couple more points here next point I would note the applicant has removed rest church road through traffic from the possibility from the pro rata calculation if there should end up being a signal needed at the intersection of rest church road and fruit Hill Road you may recall there was some concern about the potential need for a signal at that intersection with the applicant did proffer to however staff had some concern with the pro rata language because we didn't really believe that through traffic on rest church road should be part of that calculation the applicant has taken care of that and they have excluded the actual latent damage as part of non vert on that B2 parcel which is one area that has been required for you to yesterday and theектор report through trips from the pro rata calculation and finally I would note the applicant has made a number of other clarifications to proffer language in coordination with staff a couple of examples I would note were that we had some concerns that it wasn't quite clear enough that they would only build a are quite limited there. Couple other smaller things such as changing special use permit to conditional use permit to better match Frederick County language and items like that. Items I will point out, still the land use does not technically conform with the currently adopted comprehensive plan. The applicant also is not proffering anything toward the I-81 northbound exit ramp. You'll recall the TIA does call for an additional turn lane on that ramp. We had a lot of discussions with the applicant about this. At the end of the day, the concerns, it was a bit of a blank check, if you will, both in terms of time it might take and potential cost due to the need for extensive VDOT and federal highways studies and how long those could take. And the longer those things take, the bigger the question. The question mark comes on the cost side of things and my interpretation is the applicant just didn't feel like they could go that far. So that's why that is how it is. But I'll let them speak better to that. At this point, as I've already noted, you're in public meeting mode since you've already held the public hearing. We are seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors should the Planning Commission feel that it's ready to give one. The applicant has a large team here led by Mr. Foote, who I believe is their primary presenter. And if you're ready to hear from them, I can answer questions now, or I can also go ahead and pull up their presentation. We'll start off with you. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Nothing, right? I want to, Ms. Bambach. So the outline we've shown of the five buildings, how likely is that, and you probably can't answer that, can that change much? I mean, can it be end up being four larger buildings, or I know the square footage can't change. It is a generalized development plan. So they're fairly, and I'll let the applicant speak more to this in terms of their intentions and plans. They're fairly limited in what they can do on the B2 or the TM zone properties, as have been outlined in the proffers. My interpretation such as it is would be that they do have some flexibility, but it does, it is, you know, it's, you know, it's a little tough to do it different than this, but it wouldn't shock me to see, you know, one building right here between them and Roebuck Road instead of two. But once again, and the proffers would not keep them from doing that, but I will let them speak to that. I know there was some wetlands that they'd have to avoid. They're working around quite a bit. The collector or the proposed Fruit Hill Road likely would go all the way through the property like that? That is the proffer, but, you know, as land development, you know, it's a little bit of a challenge. But, you know, as land development, you know, you're going to have to do a lot of work. And, you know, as you're talking about, you know, as the construction develops, as different clients come on board, it won't change that Fruit Hill Road will go through the property, but there can be adjustments to the alignment. Thank you. Anybody else? All right, Mr. Foote. You bet. Thank you. Mr. Foote, you're the first. Thank you. Mr. Foote. Oh, that's yours. I almost stole yours. He's going to get that switched. Mr. Foote. That's the right one. Mr. Foote. Yeah, it's showing your notes on the screen. Mr. Foote. Oh, don't do that. That would be interesting. Mr. Foote. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. Ms. Lockridge, you gave your report from the board like a seasoned professional, may I say? Mr. Lockridge, you gave your report from the board like a seasoned professional, may I say? of course I'm here to hopefully see if we can take this thing to conclusion we have a very brief presentation you've heard all about this before I'm not gonna take a lot of your time but I do want to do a couple of things here one of which is wait a minute glasses on here we go through this every time how do I move it forward that way boy I'm using this what you are familiar with because I'm gonna focus on transportation initially and point out that right up here it rest church in route 11 you remember what VDOT said to you the last time is that the that improvement will show immediate results with respect to the interstate and the ability to move traffic through there you also know we talked extensively about the use of eminent domain to acquire right-of-way if it couldn't be obtained well what we've discovered is that the possible exception of one small temporary construction easement there is sufficient right-of-way in that location that we don't need eminent domain and so one of the great reliefs of everybody here take a deep breath is that we don't have to ask the county do something it's never done before which is to use power in a domain so equally if we have a lot of people who are using the right-of-way in the right-of-way we can do a lot of things that are a little bit more complicated. so equally if we have a lot of people who are using the right-of-way in the right-of-way we can do a lot of things that are a little bit more complicated. so equally if we have a lot of people who are using the right-of-way in the right-of-way we can do a lot of things that are a little bit more complicated. committed to doing that improvement and I'm going to get to a second and a second we get to the exact language because that is a rapid improvement upon rezoning it will be start the design starts within six months and once those are approved then it goes on to construct that improvement so that improvement will be quickly done in the relative terms of doing road improvements because VDOT's got to approve the plans and you've got to take a look at them as well. Rubuck I'll get to that down here. Rubuck is... Rubuck is... Rubuck is... Rubuck is... lost my track on Rubuck. Yeah, Rubuck. That is as you know VDOT has the rural roads rustic rural roads program that is not yet in the rustic rural roads program but the plan is to so improvement that it becomes a part of the rural rustic roads program and you recall the gentleman Mr. Schellenberger came and asked about the problem at Macbeth that will be fixed as well the site distance up at Christchurch Road those will both be fixed. And of course the improvements here will be done. John's right we've talked extensively about the improvements to the ramp but as you know we discussed last time whether it even makes any sense to do those using the money that's available for it when it makes so much more sense to do the 11 improvements which are committed to now. In effect what we did was we went back after we heard your comments heard from the folks that spoke we said we know we'll do that but it turns out EQAS has agreed to do everything we can to make sure that we're doing the right thing. So we got here at 3 Jim's si calmer things ever. We talked extensively about the improvements and as you know the cooled tunnel progress but we don't know to what extent they're meant to be auto help try okay go withdrawals just about that bit I get my ridiculous height from you know for these improvements to the Ribbon water system was not left out of our case. And of course these custard their utilities that that were than the number of Akbar iPhone is up and the retail electric motor vehicles but I would argue that they are more than we discussed at the last meeting by taking on the ability to do the route eleven improvements in fact. There are limited I want to show or. mentioned to you that we had the three that I showed you but there were others that were under study at that time by Kittleson. And one, two, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight locations. Weekday a.m. peak hour. The blue is the IT count for that period of time. The red is what's actually happening. And these are all local, and these are all equivalent in terms of percentages. That's with respect to the weekday a.m. peak. This is the weekday p.m. peak. You'll see this is even more egregious in terms of what ITE says. And I repeat what I said then. We use the ITE numbers for the TIA. We model it the way VDOT wants it to be done. We are showing you that based on EQAS's own experience, that this is what actually happens at these facilities. And this is your weekday total daily. Same thing is true if you just go on a daily basis. So while we've modeled it for the larger number of vehicles, what empirical research shows you, granted this is only a series of examples, it's not a huge database, but it's enough database locally to say you're not likely to see what's been modeled. That said, the improvement will be made. Let's go back to Rubik, and I just wanted to make sure you were aware that this is what we're going to widen Rubik. Additional right-of-way. There's the cul-de-sac that would be added at the end of it, so emergency vehicles can make turnaround if they've got to go back down Rubik. And then, with a hammerhead, and then the applicant shall pave it, improve the sight distance at Macbeth, and that's the problem you heard about from Mr. Schellenberger, and then also back up at Rest Church Road as well. And we're going to make the dedication when we get the plans for that improvement, such as the additional dedication. It is, as you know, a public road today. This is the Route 11 provision. We're going to construct Route 11 at Rest Church and at Courts of the Proverbs. Now, this is what I wanted to point out. Upon the approval, the applicant shall, within six months, prepare plans for those improvements. For review by VDOT, and we threw in anybody else he gets to look at, like FAA, Federal Howe, FHWA, don't know if they do. And upon approval of those plans and the issuance of the construction permits, proceed forthwith to construct it. Plans start in six months, go to VDOT, go to the county, get approval, we build. Once again, as I've often said, the royal we. I won't be building anything. Thank you. These are things that were asked to be corrected, with respect to what John pointed out as to clarifications, making sure that what we say we're going to do in each of the districts is exactly what can be done and nothing else. In answer to your question, Ms. Rumbach, the Prophers say that we will be in substantial conformance with the GDP. So that means that while John's kind of saying we can probably just mix and match out there, as a practical matter, he's right. This has been laid out by Denny fairly clearly on what he's got available to him, but we have to be in substantial conformance with the GDP. And the public is going to be in substantial conformance, not general conformance with the GDP when it's constructed. And the same one with the B2, saying you can have the two, the hotel and the restaurant, and that's all you can have there, unless there were an amendment to the fishery zoning at some point in time. On the M1, the 2,125,000 of the buildings you've seen, Warehouse 150, that's the use group ITE, and then we talked about no more than 300,000 square feet of housing. That's the use group ITE. And then we talked about no more than 300,000 square feet of housing. And then we talked about no more than 300,000 square feet of housing. That's the use group ITE. of high cube uh coal storage warehouse that's all you can put out there the other uses that are otherwise permitted in the district can't be done unless you go through that process we told you about doing doing further traffic studies if we need to do further traffic studies that are still in the proffers mr chairman we also made all the corrections the staff asked in the language of the proffers and all the changes that mr williams asked us to make to clarify the proffers and there were even a couple of changes made to the to the gdp for example with respect to making clear what was going to be a public road with that mr chairman unless you have questions for me we we respectfully request your recommendation of approval thank you mr foot appreciate your presentation and we'll now have a discussion among the commissioners i do want to say thank you for listening to the commission with the requests that we did make we did thank you all right wait a minute we we we, mr foot don't go anywhere thomas mr foot does equus have a uh construction schedule for the warehouse for the buildings yet so because we don't have any known tenants but uh do we have a construction schedule for anything are we looking at a year two years thing miss Kurta and you know we're we're looking at 10 you know in June we're going to start to millimeter and then we're going to go through you know 10 and 11 to see what that impacts and maybe if we bubble that patching you know what we mean is that we're not going to have any issues within the community you know again last week and then the construction includes a number construction of the facilities will be when you have a demand or you can see a reason to build correct so theoretically I hate to even bring this up theoretically if a data center would want to locate out there in two years it would be possible that there could still be facilities you'd have to come back in and you know revise it but the county would probably approve that so we're not looking at something that's gonna happen in the next year or so correct yeah you mean from a building development standpoint right yeah I mean you know given my experience and on civil engineering especially at the site of that size I think that being in the ground within the next 12 months is highly unlikely and even though for the four warehouses or the four big buildings you know we're not looking at something that's going to happen in the next year or so correct yeah you mean from a building development standpoint right yeah you mean from a building development you're not gonna are you gonna build them all for at the same time or you're gonna build them as you need them in on other sites that we've had multiple buildings it's been typically one at a time there have been examples of a situation where if you can can you bring the plan back up yeah so for example if you had the if we were to land a build to suit a tenant for one of these two given the fact that they could be sharing the same stormwater management and sharing the same access road depending on the market conditions at that time we could say you know what it might make sense to do two at the same time one spec on one build to suit but typically in situations like this it's been you know one at a time thank you mr. Stowe mr. foot I'm curious the numbers you showed for the traffic of the actual versus the ITE estimates were the was your traffic engineer anticipating submitting his data to ITE to try to get those adjusted yes sir mr. Stowe and by the way welcome to the Commission we're happy to in fact we've asked mr. Butzik and mr. Callow if they'd be so kind as to consider wrapping that thing up into packages a little more than just those numbers I don't know your background sir you may be a traffic engineer for all I know but it takes a while to get that together you can't just send those numbers and you got put a little package together but they have talked to mr. Delisle about doing that okay look to my left look to my right I do have one question the Fruit Hill Road that will be done in sections is that correct yes sir and those sections will be discussed during the final site plan and phased in accordance with agreement with the county as to how that's going to be done you're welcome and it's going to be fairly expensive piece of work to do and as mr. Delisle just said he won't necessarily be building all those buildings at one time however as was said earlier it'll all be built from one end to the other the property thank you mr. foot yes sir thank you okay commissioners do we have any discussion here look to my right look to my left I think it's time to go to the board I think it is I do do I okay has everybody given their opinion yeah how about you do you want to give your opinion well you know my opinion's been quite consistent all along it's it's not consistent with the comprehensive plan they've made great inroads on the TIA since we've sent it back so I'm quite happy about what they've come back however we still are looking at it not being a hundred percent handling everything on TIA so what I'd like to do mr. chairman is this I'd like to move to recommend approval of this redoning 1022 and I would like to also follow with a comment to be transmitted to the board for their consideration and this application is not proposing like I said to fully offset the TIA so I would like for the as a Stonewall district planning commissioner I'd like to request that they take the necessary actions and the war supervisors to direct the staff to evaluate the potential mitigation as soon as feasible so but I moved to for approval based on that contingency based on that approval I'm going to re-apply to it. Thank you Mr. Chairman I'm not going to re-apply to it. comment we've got a motion to approve do I have a second I got a second down there Thank You mr. Higgins all right I will I will start with this span I don't like the addition but I vote to approve okay I'm back yes marker yes yes yes Thomas yes I think we probably ought to at some point outline what we think those additions should be that the staff needs to do but yes on the so the applicant knows what what's the point of yes yes yes yes the chairman votes yes this will go before the Board of Supervisors on June 14th and again I want to thank the applicant for working with us on this it's been this been a project that's been the works for a long time and it's been well well well done so thank you I thank you Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission as you mentioned this is an urban development area request for exception to allow for service for residential uses outside of your development area there's two properties in question totaling about 0.9 acres in size located in the Stonewall Magisterial District on the south side of Bruce Town Road and the area of the City of St. Louis. I would clarify one element from my memorandum I think incorrectly identified both as residential uses currently but one is the post office as you all well know your development area policy restricts residential uses occurring and connecting to public water and sewer when they're outside of that boundary it was established in 1987 and has been a long-held policy to that effect these are the properties in question Bruce Town Road here it's a post office in the existing single-family home being used for residential purposes. I still think it is prudent to include the post office, even though they are technically qualified as a commercial use in this request, because I think a likely reuse of that property, if it ever were to come out of post office use, could be for residential uses, and it would provide that clarity necessary in the future. So greater extent and more recent aerial image to get you oriented. Bruce Town Road as it connects with Route 11, Hopewell, and exit 321 is off your screen to the left over here. So property currently does have well and septic service. The owner has expressed concerns about the age of the existing systems and the likelihood of failure. Your comprehensive plan and the Northeast Frederick Land Use Plan in particular designates these properties as sensitive natural areas as their future land use. I think that is a reflection of their adjoining nature to Clearbrook Park. Additionally, they are part of the Clearbrook Bruce Town Rural Community Center. And I would note that part of your comprehensive plan does indicate that the rural community centers are intended to eventually have access to public water and sewer, given the nature of the small, non-conforming lot sizes that make it difficult for PERC tests for septic systems. To that end, it may be an appropriate consideration from the planning perspective. Frederick Water is capable of serving the property and is willing to work with the property owner if authorized. It is a request for exception, and I'm happy to answer any questions on this item, but I would not be able to answer any of the questions that are requested in the Planning Commission Provider Recommendation to the Board. Okay, thank you, Mr. Pearson. I'll look to my left. Mr. Thomas. Once we set the precedent of providing water and sewer to these properties, can Frederick Water provide water and sewer to the rest of the neighbors? No, they're only, as designed, they're only authorized for the specific parcel numbers that are making the request. I understand that. But do they have the capacity, I guess is what I'm asking, if the rest of the neighbors come in and say, hey, our systems are failing, can we get access to water and sewer, public water and sewer, what would, can Frederick Water accommodate that? Because, I mean, we're setting the precedent now of, you know, we're kind of spot providing public water and sewer there. I can't speak to plant and line capacities, but knowing the design for this intended system, all they are doing is pulling off an existing line and having a really short stretch of easement across parkland. So there's no major infrastructure associated with this. It's really just what I would refer to as a tiny main line with laterals coming off of it to serve the residences. But I cannot speak to existing plant or line capacities in that area with any level of detail. I know there's a lot of water. Sewer has always been a concern in that portion of the county. I mean, I think we ought to provide it for these homes, but I think we're also opening Pandora's box at how do we shut it in the future. I think one of the prohibiting factors in the past has been the infrastructure work themselves is borne by those requesting it. These properties are very close to that existing infrastructure system and have a really minor expense comparatively to other properties in the Bruce Town area to make that connection. Right. And to some extent that will prohibit other requests because upon contacting Frederick Water, they'll tell them how far the lines are away from their existing residences and that might serve the need that you're describing there. Okay. Ms. Broombaugh? Yeah. These properties are owned by the same person, is that correct? Yes, ma'am. And then in doing this, they don't have to be retained by the same person in the future, right? No, right. Right. They're not going to be retained by the same person in the future. Okay. But they would carry with the property. Mr. Stow? Are the existing septic systems failing? Not to my knowledge. In the applicant's letter, they indicated that the age was of concern but did not indicate that the systems themselves had failed. Okay. Thank you. All right. Good on the left. Then I'll go to the right. Q, covers the cost? It would be borne entirely by the applicant unless they work out some sort of cost-sharing agreement with Frederick Water. Mr. Manuel? I think I was headed that way, too. Will they have to pay the connection fees to Frederick Water? Yes, sir. All right. Anybody else? It just seems to me that, I mean, this is an exception. I mean, it's five feet to the main line, you know, is an easement for two houses. Well, one's a post office, you know. And it's just a, in the event, which I'm not much of an exception to the rule, but in the event there would be, this is one. I mean, and it's like, it's just such a minimal thing, and they cover the cost, and it is right there. So, yeah, I think, Tim, you bring up a really good point, I believe, but it would be the one exception for me. All right. So, anybody else? Oh, Mr. Akins. I mean, this is Development 101. The individual, the user's got to pay for everything. The TAP fees are designed by the Water Authority to cover the burden for any future need. I almost see this as a no-brainer. Okay. All right. We good? Do I have a motion? Yep. I move to recommend approval of this urban development extension. Okay. Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. For Robert and Julie Owens. Okay. We got a motion to accept. Do we have a second? Second. Second. But you said urban development extension. It's the exception, right? Exception. I'm sorry. Yeah. Yes. I thought. Maybe I misunderstood what you said, but. It's hard to tell. Okay. This time I'm going to the right. Mr. Triplett. Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. Cozell, yes. Medford, yes. Horndorf, yes. Thomas, yes. Okay. All right. So, we're going to move to the next item. Stowe, yes. Molden, yes. Stowe, yes. Markert, yes. Rumbach, yes. Brennan, yes. Chairman votes yes. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on May 24. Thank you. All right. Now we've got an information discussion, ordinance amendment, shipping containers. Mr. Klein, how are you? Good. Well, sir, how are you this evening? This is an ordinance amendment to allow shipping containers, which you all know is prefabricated durable steel. The R4 is residential grocery production. Actually, it was권 Another one of those requirements. for accessory structures that would be 15 feet from the rear and the side property line and either 60 feet or 45 feet from the road depending on the road classification this item many of you will be familiar with it was presented back in 2018 it went back and forth between the board the Planning Commission the committee and no consensus was reached what you are seeing what you were presented this evening is that amendment that was left in 2018 without any resolution no changes have been made it has been debated by the committee but no changes have been made to the text so the current standard our zoning ordinance does not expressly prohibit or permit shipping containers as accessory storages storage or structures in any of our zoning districts in practice the zoning administrator has allowed steel shipping containers as an accessory to distribution warehousing other intermodal freight type activities those those is what you'll see in our IndyCar industrial districts the lack of a codified requirement has created enforcement challenges for staff we do get complaints about containers in various districts being used for various things and given the number of complaints that we've received and the challenges we've had over the years we felt it was appropriate to bring this item back to get some additional clarification see we can't come to some kind of resolution of this issue so the Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item again the new the 2023 version of the zoning ordinance is still in the process of being adopted and we're going to continue to work with the development committee to make further decisions regarding this and the design of the zoning ordinance that we've put in place on the re-registering the zoning ordinance the plan was approved by the city council in January 2015 and it was approved by the City Council on March 23rd and April 27th and the committee was generally supportive of the proposed changes they had a very good discussion they agreed that limiting it and the other districts was appropriate and there were concerns with allowing it kind of just wide open in the RA district without additional considerations some of those considerations that were debated by the committee members many of which you're on or property acreage that would be appropriate for the use and potentially requiring that they be screened from view but again no other kind of detail so staff is seeking any additional comments from the Planning Commission on this item and specifically if there are limitations that you all would like to see sending those forward to the board and giving them an opportunity to discuss the issue and either send it back to the committee or send it to public hearing or whatever they like to do so that is what we're looking for this evening and I'm happy to answer any questions you have about this issue sure many of you are familiar and have your own personal thoughts so we'll take all that feedback and convey that to the Board of Supervisors all right Thank You mr. Klein I'll start to my right mr. Akins my only comment would be there's a lot of discussion at the DRC meeting about this and where they should be allowed where they shouldn't be allowed and I would just make a recommendation that they would not be allowed on on lots of less than five acres that way there's no need to do that I think that's a good point I think that's a good point there's there's lots of subdivisions that are five acres or less and that way you don't have a structure or someone's home with a shipping caner to container potentially right in front of it right you do we're talking RA here all right all right cuz I want to make sure that's clear yep okay five acres or less no anybody on the right by us okay how about on the left here yes ma'am is Sprannon I will say I was the consent I didn't agree with this ordinance at all I don't agree with the practice that if we don't disallow something in the ordinance that we don't allow it I mean if the law doesn't say you can't do it I don't understand why the practice is don't allow it so I don't like doing this practice and then passing an ordinance to make what you did more legal I don't see a problem well send us an Hernán if you have a Speaker I don't have this I can do it I don't want you to ask any more questions on industrial a kilometer with watertime units cleaning this water are you a搞 n� remuneration C aquela do you allow it there or not so good point you brought up but other business areas what about in b1 if it's if it's storage behind a business the the zoning ministry would allow it in the in the industrial and zoning the industrial and business zoning districts when you look at the proposed text the shipping containers are allowed in all other zoning districts as an accessory use or storage and should meet the applicable setback requirements for accessory uses so if they were using it for seasonal storage if they were using it for construction purposes it would all be be permissible it's a good place for security we've codified what was otherwise just practice so that's part of this as well mr. Stowe in the accessory use setback requirements is there any limitation on height that someone stack these one on top of the other two high alì zoning district does provide a height limitation 35 feet for the district so that's it's not part of the accessory structure accessory uses section of the ordinance it's contained within the individual zoning district and there's set there's height limitations for the structures within those districts okay is there any consideration on the as to aesthetics as to what can be painted on the side of these or what they'd like to be done I'm sorry I'm sorry there you go thank you all that it doesn't mean I can't even look like not part of this most recent discussion back in 2018 there was discussions about not allowing them to be stacked and there was discussions about ensuring that they were screened from view other we don't typically regulate aesthetics that certainly could be something you all could send as a comment if that's that's a concern to the consensus that's that's where I am I if it's gonna be and I'll talk to several farmers about this and the fact that it can be 15 feet off a property line you know I like the idea of five acres or more but I think that there should be some kind of foliage or something if you're talking something that close to a property line you know that that would be my only recommendation I think that that has to be taken in consideration of that that's you know that's where I am yeah I think this screening you know it's it's yes sir offer a consideration for the Commission as it relates to the acreage limitation in other portions of the zoning ordinance to ensure that you're capturing both two acre by right lots and five acre by right lots there are limitations that start at six acres and that might be prudent to achieve the intention of what mr. Aikens has offered I think they're bringing agreement sounds good Thank You mr. Pearson so I'm one of the no yes mr. Johnson suggested discussions we probably ought to comment on the stacking of them because if we have somebody who just decides to stack two of them they do turn over easily when they're stacked on top of each other we had situation in Kuwait at our if John where we were using it was barracks and they stacked them for tall unfortunately they didn't stay for tall they ended up on their side so if they do stack them I'd almost have to have an engineered site plan or something or an engineered foundation to make sure that they were structurally stable that's a good point take that comment down okay any more comments yeah one more yes miss Brandon I agree with the comment on safety because I think we are charged with the safety and well-being but the comments on safety and well-being are what are the things that are important to the community and I would like to hear from you about those. on not liking what they look like that's a homeowners associations role not a Planning Commission role okay Thank You mrs. Brandon yes sir Mulder I am I disagree with this entirely I just think that a structure like that can catch wind it is not fastened to the ground in any way shape or form has no footer underneath of it and being an empty container and that's a good point. on not liking what they look like that's a good point. you get a crosswind it could upset it could blow on to a neighboring property only being 15 feet away I think they're an eyesore to a neighboring property and I think this is a bad idea that they were allowing this in our a zone anybody else you mr. Klein you got some good feedback there I appreciate the feedback thank you all we appreciate you thanks so much all right I'm going to go ahead and get started. next item mr. Pearson you have anything under other yes mr. chairman as an update for your current planning applications the Jordan Springs modular classroom has a site plan pending with our office Pine Creek camp in back Creek has the addition of cabins and RV parking the sheets car wash on route 50 site plan has been approved and that's in the vicinity of botanical and echo Lane area if you're familiar with that side of town. That's a very good point and I would like to just clarify one comment from the fruit hill application and how that concluded my understanding of the planning commissioners motion was to just advise the board to maybe direct staff to explore mitigation options for the unmitigated issue at the ramp that that I hear that right mr. Orndorff that's exactly how I said you know what I meant. thank you thank you. I appreciate that. beyond that. on but I'm happy to answer any questions okay I think that we've any questions all right folks I hope everybody has a great Memorial weekend coming up here soon do I have a motion to adjourn all right we are adjourned
