Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-12-03
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=306
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Payne. Next item on our agenda is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor indicate by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. Let me pause here and welcome our two new members. To my right, we have Mr. Joe Crane, representing the Gainesboro District. He's filling the seat that was vacated by Mr. Akins when he was promoted to the Board of Supervisors after his sufficient training he received here. So, Mr. Crane, welcome. We're glad to have you with us, sir. Thank you for being here this evening, and we look forward to working with you. On my left flank, we have Dr. John LaManna, who's filling the at-large seat. And, sir, welcome to the Planning Commission. We're glad you're here, and we look forward to working with you as well. Thank you. We will take it easy on the new guys tonight. That leads us to committee reports. Do we have any committee reports? To my right. No committee reports to my right. To my left. Frederick Water had a meeting on November 18th. We are in continued drought conditions, and they're asking for voluntary conservation. The Lake Frederick Well will hopefully come online. The Lake Frederick Well will be open on December 15th. The deal project is complete. The advanced metering system is starting to progress. They're starting to install antennas across the county, and that will allow for the radio read of all water meters. And the East Pit design process is about 30 percent complete. That's it. I have one to present, and that is the Historic Resources Advisory Committee. The Historic Resources Advisory Committee met on Friday, November 21st, to discuss the Virginia Technology Park rezoning. What was decided on that project is that, in addition to the cultural resource work that was already proposed, the recommendation was for a phase one archaeological study be performed on the property prior to the work beginning. And there was also a motion to move forward. With historic preservation funding that was available to the to the board. And that will be distributed through grants that will be awarded by the HRAB. And that will be in the first quarter of 2026. And a discussion about participation in the Conservation Easement Authority by the HRAB membership. Mr. Lairo could not be with us tonight. He did send a written report. And I've asked Mr. Thomas if he would be kind enough to review that report for us. I don't think I can substitute for Mr. Lairo, but I will read his report. Joe Crane was unanimously appointed to the Gainesboro seat on the Frederick County Planning Commission to a vacant four-year term ending January 25th, 2028. Dr. John Lemple. A mono was unanimously appointed to the at-large seat under Frederick County Planning Commission for a four-year term. Rezoning 0825 Eastgate Commercial Center proffer amendment. This is a request for a minor proffer amendment to amend proffers associated with rezoning 2297 Eastgate Commercial Center. The amendment proposed increasing the allowed number of street connections along Tasker Road from 5 to 6 and removing the proffer requiring a 30-foot wide efficiency buffer along Tasker Road that was approved 5 to 0. One vacancy because a remote connection for Mr. Akins was inaudible, so they couldn't count that vote. There was an information discussion on an ordinance amendment. RPI. The RPI district dimensional requirements. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 165 zoning ordinance to amend the dimensions requirements for housing types contained in the RPI residential performance zoning district to allow for a new housing type, rear-loaded townhouses. That was sent forward to a public hearing with a unanimous vote. Information discussion on an ordinance amendment for public utilities, transmission and distribution. Transmission and distribution. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 165 zoning ordinance to further evaluate modifying the use permissions for public utilities, transmission and distribution facilities in the RA rural area zoning district to a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit and or consider adding additional regulations for specific uses such as performance standards for public utilities. This was sent forward to a public hearing with a unanimous vote. This was sent forward to a public hearing again with a unanimous vote. And that concludes Mr. Liero's report. And our representative from Winchester this evening. Good evening, sir. Good evening. So we had our meeting last month and we had a recommendation of revocation of the CEP from a lot of sports bar, which pertained to live music. We determined that the operator operator did not comply with the CV conditions that were set forth. We did a favorable recommendation for an automobile and truck sales establishment on the corner of Valley and Hope and the neighborhood design district. We went over the active site plans within the city. Discuss the 2026 planning commission calendar and they get a status update on the closure of Bosque Island Street. And we're told the council still is in the process of reviewing all the options. That's a lot. Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome. I believe that commits completes our committee reports. Is that correct? Okay, then we shall move forward. That leads us to item six on our agenda, which is citizen comments. This is an opportunity for citizens who wish to address planning commission to do so on any item that is not a public hearing item on our agenda. So I know a number of you are here to talk to the Madison development this evening. This would not be the time to do that. If you have anything other than Madison development, you'd like to speak to us about asking. If you come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the planning commission? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comments section and we will move forward to our public hearings. Public hearing 0725 of Madison 277. And this is submitted to rezone 149.02 acres from R8 to R4 in the zoning district with proffered. And to develop residential and commercial uses. And Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the planning commission. This is rezoning 0725 for Madison 277. And this is a request to rezone 149 acres from your R8 rural area zoning district to your R4 residential planned community district. The property is located in White Post in the Opec and Magisterial District. And following your work session in November, the applicant did submit a revised proffer statement. So any changes to the proffers are reflected this evening in red. Just for clarity. So again, those changes from your work session encompassed in that revised proffer statement includes a decrease in the total number of units for the development. That's a decrease from 866 units to 830 units. They've decreased the number of units to be developed prior to the minimum commercial square footage being delivered. They've made a commitment to fully implement those signal justification request recommendations for improvements at the site entrance in Route 277. And they've included design proffers and a design exhibit for commercial and residential structures, speaking to the quality of design elements contained in your comprehensive plan. And we'll get to all the details as the presentation goes on. This is our countywide locator map showing the general location of the property in relation to the county at large. It's in the southeast quadrant of the county, again, in that Opec and Magisterial District south and east of the town of Stephen City. This is your zoning location map showing the subject property outlined in purple. It is immediately south of Fairfax Pike, and it is west and north of the existing Lake Frederick community. It's just west of the intersection of Route 522, 340, and 277 Fairfax Pike. A little bit of site history for our new planning commissioners and others here in the audience this evening. The applicant that is seeking the rezoning previously sought an amendment to our comprehensive plan back in 2023 and 2024, and that was ultimately approved by the Board of Supervisors. That, comprehensive policy plan amendment, or CPPA, created a new non-contiguous urban development area to encompass the subject property, Madison Farms, and the Lake Frederick community. And it designated the subject property with a mixed-use commercial office designation and a neighborhood village land use designation. Within the plan update, we also amended our southern Frederick area plan, which is our small area plan for this part of the county, and we added the Lake Frederick urban development area subplanning area, which is the area that we're currently working on. And we added the lake Frederick urban development area subplanning area, which is the area that we're currently working on. And this subplanning area to that plan within that area plan are specific policies that speak to the nature of development on this property. And this subplanning area to that plan within that area plan are specific policies that speak to the nature of development on this property. Again, those were developed in conjunction with the applicant seeking the rezoning this evening. Again, those were developed in conjunction with the applicant seeking the rezoning this evening. It states that residential land uses would be permitted only as an accessory component of the neighborhood village commercial land uses, it also notes that in It states that residential land uses would be permitted only as an accessory component of the neighborhood village commercial land uses, it also notes that in It states that residential land uses would be permitted only as an accessory component of the neighborhood village commercial land uses, it also notes that in the needs of the growing residential community in and around the Lake Frederick UDA medical uses should be considered within the core commercial systems, revenue from the numbers are correct. within the core commercial areas around the Route 277 corridor. Further, the plan notes that the existing Lake Frederick community is included to serve as the core area of this new UDA and to demonstrate the quality of construction and type of land use patterns desired in this area of the county. Now, this is our future long-range land use plan, again showing that subject property outlined in purple and the designation of the mixed-use office commercial along Fairfax Pike and then the neighborhood village designation to the rear of the property adjoining the Lake Frederick community. The Lake Frederick community, again, is south and east of the subject property shown in that bright pink color. And this is a zoomed-out version of that map showing the broader Lake Frederick urban development area, again, encompassing that subject property and the Lake Frederick community. So that was done only 18 months ago at this point. So in regard to comprehensive plan conformance, the proposed rezoning is not fully consistent with UDA's plan. The proposed rezoning is not fully consistent with your adopted plan policy. The proposal does not commit to the envisioned mix of uses, specifically commercial uses and residential units, and otherwise does not specifically address the need for medical office or medical uses in this area of the county or the quality of construction for residential structures. Your comprehensive plan also includes policy regarding future transportation need in this area of the county. Route 277 or Fairfax Pike is identified on your comprehensive plan as an improved minor residential unit. The proposed plan is designed to be a new minor arterial roadway. Further, the plan envisions a new minor arterial roadway across the subject property. This has been on our plans for a number of the years, and many of you are familiar with what is known as the South Frederick Parkway, which is an alternative parallel route to 277 that runs essentially from the intersection with 522 all the way to the west and ultimately crosses Interstate 81. The proposal generally implements plan policy specific to those transportation improvements, which I'll speak to in subsequent slides. And access to the site, as shown on the proffer generalized development plan, or GDP, is proposed from Fairfax Pike through two entrances, and they've included a future interparcel connection with the Lake Frederick community to the east. This is our adopted eastern road plan, which again shows the subject property outlined in purple, that bright pink dotted line moving south and west from existing Fairfax Pike is that South Frederick Parkway, and it goes all the way to the west across the Double Church Road, and then it basically crosses Interstate 81 on our plans. It's been on our, again, on our long-range planning for a number of years. This is a zoomed-in version of the generalized development plan included with the application. I show this to you now as an op- as to call attention to the plans that they have made for the kind of future South Frederick Parkway. Again, that alignment that is shown in our comprehensive plan is conceptual. It doesn't really take into account any actual engineering. So what they've done is they've proposed a modification where South Frederick Parkway actually starts on their property, and then they're going to be able to move it to the west. It continues to a roundabout and then continues to the west here, and they've agreed to construct a portion of that, which is shown in the dark black lines, and then they also have identified that kind of future inter-parcel connection with Lake Frederick to the east there. And this is Fairfax Pike at the right-hand side of the screen, which is actually the northern boundary of the property. And this is a modified parkway design, again, taken into account. It does keep in line with the planned vision, but it doesn't exactly match the alignment, but that is more than acceptable in this instance. When considering residential rezonings and evaluating capital impacts to county services, the county has an adopted capital impact model that is updated annually and it's readopted by the Board of Supervisors. It was last updated in October of 2024. And that proprietary model projects the fiscal impact of land use actions on county services. As you all are quite familiar, while the model shows all of the impacts to the county, state code limits us to only a certain number of categories that we can accept voluntary proffers, and those would be limited to public safety, schools, and parks and recreation. Fortunately, schools is the one, probably the greatest impact on those capital impacts, so that's the largest category. And again, our proffer model, which is shown a snippet of on the screen, you get the two kind of impacts. You get the full capital impact, which is the true cost of the county, and you get the capacity triggered amount, which is what we're able to collect under state code. And they are slightly different numbers. It's not a significant number, but it is a number that is important to call your attention to. So this is a breakdown of the housing types, the capital impact model, and the proffer statement. What you can see on the left-hand side of the table are the housing types that are proposed in the Madison development, which includes single-family detached, single-family attached, or townhome or duplex units, multi-family and age-restricted units. And you can see the capital impact model projects, with a valuation from $17,000 down to about $1,300. And their proffer statement aligns with the capital impact model, so we're happy to report that they're fully compliant with your adopted model. Looking a little bit further into the background information in the model, it does provide a level of service analysis where we're able to dig into specifics, and we call attention to the public schools level of service. So on the screen now are the schools that will serve the proposed development in the future. That is Armel Elementary School, Aylor Middle School, and Sharando High School. And going across the table, you have your existing program capacity, which is what the schools can handle or start with the schools are designed for, the current enrollment, which in some cases for the elementary school and the middle school or the high school exceeds what the current capacity of those schools are, and then the final column on the far right is those capacities with the development factored in. This level of service analysis is important to show that our schools are overcrowded, but it does only take into account a point in time, which is right now. It doesn't take into account the fact that a fourth high school is currently under development. There may be other capital projects that expand capacity at Armill or Aylor that may alleviate future capacity concerns, and it also doesn't take into account existing development that are in the pipeline in the vicinity of this project that also feed into these schools. That would be the remaining units that are unbuilt in Lake Frederick, Fairfax Downs, and other developments in the Stevens City area of the county. So what's next? Okay. Moving into the proffer statement that was included with the application. Again, this was last revised in November to reflect your discussions on the 5th at your work session. Proffer A deals with the generalized development plan or GDP, and they proffer to be in conformance with the GDP that's included. Proffer B is their design modifications, and they agree to conformance with their design modification documents. In the R4 zoning district, it does enable a developer to modify certain zoning standards. They have chosen to put forward four design modifications for your consideration. Modification number one deals with rezoning procedure and what they are proposing that a master development plan would be provided to the county prior to the construction documentation phase of the project. Design modification two amends the residential density enabled in the R4 zoning district, and they are requesting that the maximum allowed gross density for residences in Madison 277, planned community development, shall be 5.8 units per acre. That is above the four units, which is typically permitted by right in the R4 district. Modification number three deals with buffers and screening, and they are modifying to provide buffers and screening along the perimeter boundary of the residential planned community district where the commercial, retail, medical, and office uses adjoin existing residential land uses or where multifamily residential uses adjoin single-family detached residential uses. Design modification number four, which is the one we dug into at our work session, pertains to the age-restricted multifamily buildings, and they are modifying to go up to 60 feet in height from 45 feet for age-restricted multifamily buildings. I would note that in regard to modification number four, other multifamily buildings that are non-age-restricted are already permitted to go up to 60 feet in height, so this would just allow all their multifamily buildings to be of the same height. Profile. Design modification number four. Design modification number four. Design modification number four. Design modification number four. Oh, sorry. So policy number five. Design modification number five. Design modification number five. Cloud runs. Design modification number five. Design modification number five. This is the study I'm going to recommend here. So what you're seeing in this, and so again, 광dec is the parabola of skylines. And as I said above, it does provideztevery wide area to be made available around a single site with absolute electronic usuality in combination with 60 feet of up time or 1- express 40 minutes on each site.隙e, and draining infrastructure for Boyle's Balance Lives and outdoor throughoutering streams. This is the demo of WebAct and Nottingham's clay, deep- Cube prisons in chief removal systems that provide 100 compete forテo stormwater projects and tours and tear doulas the Prestra Lori materials. A land use table showing the breakdown of each land bay, the uses allowed, the uses excluded, and the approximate acreage and the anticipated number of residential units. The change in the units, the maximum units, comes out of Land Bay 1 and those age-restricted units, so they reduced the amount of age-restricted units that they would provide. So the non-age-restricted units remain unchanged from the last version that you saw. And again, I call attention to the far right column. Those are anticipated. They're not capped within those land bays. They're only capped at a maximum of 830 units across the entire development. They may develop a mix of uses within each of those land bays as they see fit. This is their generalized development plan, and it's provided here to call attention to those land bays. Land Bay 1, which is the land bay along Fairfax Pike 277, is your mixed district that would include your commercial uses and those age-restricted units. Land Bay 2 is a single-family detached townhouse that is restricted to any of the residential housing types. That would be single-family detached townhomes, duplexes, or multifamily buildings. Then Land Bay 3, which immediately adjoins the Lake Frederick community and is the largest land bay, would contain single-family detached townhomes or duplexes but restricts multifamily development out of Land Bay 3. So there would be no multifamily in Land Bay 3 immediately. So that's the plan. Thank you. Is there any other gains that people have peaiel straight forward? Lake Frederick community that they've never seen. Actually produce land that's not connected to something so you can only access a big deal from yourself. We talk about these properties. One of the monologues in Big Bay, are the 북kaecommunity of Oakland. The Audio Description Daid air pur雪 sound part U dc bas tai sich maineep sekon ge Irwin. Daid power with Torres-عة offers cover depth andorama of the larger One of the many subsurface any non-Florida Highlands vì minnowsi geçen by Bay Lake Frederick Community. sorry, excluding any age-restricted multifamily units. And then this is another change from your previous version, but development is limited to 375 residential units until at least 20,000 square feet of commercial is constructed in Land Bay 1. This is a change where they were previously proffered to do about 50% of their development. Now they're down to about 43% of their development prior to developing 20,000 square feet of commercial. Proffer E pertains to those monetary contributions that we covered earlier, and they are making those monetary contributions by housing type consistent with the capital impact model. And then they've included an annual escalator clause, which assumes, using the Consumer Price Index, inflation, and every year the proffers keep pace with what inflation is, so we get more of the true cost when the unit is built to the extent that we can capture. Proffer F deals with recreation facilities. They've agreed to provide a natural surface trail. Within that, open space Land Bay 4 prior to the 201st residential unit, and they've made a commitment to one large community building or two smaller community buildings prior to the issuance of the 415th residential unit. That aligns with our zoning ordinance, which requires the recreational amenities to be provided prior to 50% completion of the project. Proffer G deals with transportation. They have made a commitment to provide public roads serving single-family or duplex lots or private or public roads. Meeting VDOT standards for those roads serving townhomes or multifamily units. Site access is limited to those locations shown on the generalized development plan from 277. This is the change they made from the work session. They state that if warranted by the signal justification report, construction of intersection improvements at the development entrance intersection in Route 277. So they will fully implement those SJR recommendations at such time that they complete the SJR. They've made a commitment to construct a road system that is in the development plan, and they've made a commitment to complete the SJR. They've made a commitment to build a road system that will support the portion of that four lane collector roadway, i.e. South Frederick Parkway, and they would dedicate the right away to support future extension of the roadway by others to the west, which was shown earlier on the GDP. They've also made a right away dedication along Route 277 for future widening by others, consistent with your comprehensive plan, and they've agreed to provide a $2 million cash contribution for off-site transportation improvements. Those would be at key intersections, which I'll cover on the next slide, and they've also made a commitment to provide an inter-parcel connection with the Lake Frederick community to the east. Speaking to those off-site transportation improvements, they've again probability to provide $2 million cash contribution, those would be for left turn lanes in both directions at Hudson Hollow Road, White Oak Road, and 277, and left turn lanes onto Fairfax Pike, westbound turn lane onto 340, and dual Northbound left turn lanes on the 522, at the 522, 277, and 340 intersection. Again those are cash contributions we discussed previously have on our website. These are not those that are served and passed. Just for this site, You go down to C leftover chlorine 400 and you go directly up. You know you get 12 million dollars, you go to yourї I.e. which related to your land<|en|>电 decibel эта list. Transport volume Azure yeah, which was at ما ax yes just make room for transportation for that month. Physical improvements are typically preferred there, and VDOT expressed concerns that that $2 million cash contribution was inadequate to cover those improvements at those intersections so that someone would be left holding a bill for an incomplete project potentially. And then finally, proffer H deals with quality of construction. This is a new proffer that was added to speak to some of the concerns raised at the work session. They have made a commitment to provide for commercial building facades to be constructed of one or a combination of the following materials, cast stone, stone, brick, architectural block, glass, wood, drive it, or stucco. And they've also said that residential building materials shall be similar to those that were included with Exhibit A. And this is a snapshot of images included with Exhibit A. This actually are existing units within the Madison Village development north on 522, which is the same developer. And you can see there. Multi-family single-family attached or townhome units and their single-family detached units. So in summary, this is a request to rezone approximately 149 acres from the R.A. Zoning District to the R4 residential planned community district with proffers. As is customary with our staff report, we have provided positives and concerns regarding this application. The proposed zoning district R4 could be associated with that mixed use commercial office and neighborhood village land use. The proposed design modification. Tariff is of five years excesichenc of civil and residential property, which is represented by housing I would say Off means A price seven is You're the revised proffer statement includes quality of design elements speaking to the plan policy for high quality commercial building materials. In regards to concern, the proposal does not fully implement plan policy specific to those mixing of uses specifically that residential uses would be accessory to commercial development, medical uses, and does not speak to the quality of building materials for residential uses in the way that the plan policy envisions. The proffer statement would allow for the development of up to 830 residential units, up to 375 of which may be constructed prior to any commercial square footage being development. The residential building materials included in the proffer statement do not fully commit to the high quality materials that they've committed to with the commercial uses, and this does not speak to the quality of construction to match the existing lake federal community which was stated in the plan. Building height and overall development densities were raised as concerns by the planning commission at your work session on November 5th. And those concerns remain unaddressed in that revised proffer statement. And finally, the off-site proffer for $2 million for those off-site improvements at key intersections is a cash contribution, not the physical improvements which we typically like to see the developers do, and as noted in the VDOT comment letter would otherwise be inadequate to cover the cost of those improvements. So the planning commission held a work session on November 5th. At that meeting, you all took no action. This item is presented this evening as a public hearing. And following the public hearing, staff would be seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors on this rezoning request. If it were to move forward this evening, it would go to the board of supervisors on January 14th of 2026. Craig George is here representing the Madison developer, and he has some remarks in a presentation for you, and we're happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Klein? To my right. To my left. I have one for you, sir. The connection to Lake Frederick, did I understand, is there a route that's being preserved for that, a right-of-way, or is that actually going to be constructed to the Lake Frederick property line? They would make the improvement to the property line on the Lake Frederick side. They recently updated their master development plan, and we ensured that that alignment kind of matches up with this. We set the stage for if this were to be approved, that it would line up with what they're doing on the Lake Frederick side of the development. Is there anybody who is planning to build the portion on the Lake Frederick side that you're aware of? The developer would build it if this development is approved. Okay. Very good. Okay, thank you very much, sir, Mr. Craig. Mr. George. Craig George. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, Board. Thank you for the opportunity to present. I'm not bringing anything up here. I don't have a speech. I obviously want to be respectful of your time. But at the same time, you know, we've listened. We heard your concerns. We've heard the concerns of the community. So what I'd like to do tonight is really just go down through a list of discussion topics to dive a little deeper. And to the concerns that we've heard, you know, lift the hood, look inside, see how we came to the decisions that we made, and then answer any questions you have. So once again, this is going to be very informal. Feel free at any point to stop me if you want. Or we can ask questions at the end. I didn't see Tyler's presentation prior to this, so there are some slides that are exact duplicates pretty much. I'm just going to skip over those. I don't see the need to go through those twice. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to go over the first one, the overview of revisions he's already gone through. We wanted to speak to the comprehensive plan and then the density. I know that's been debated back and forth. And I mentioned this at the previous meeting. We've had a great relationship with staff. You're all lucky to have them. I will say that. Now, that being said, we haven't agreed on all points. I mean, but it's been a good back and forth. I just wanted to kind of go over where we differ in opinion on the comp plan. I think we're going to go over a couple of points. I think we're going to go over the first one, the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the format of the the the the process the the and residential units from our last meeting. From the comp plan, I feel like, to a certain regard, we're looking at this 150-acre site. You're not able to hear me? Sorry about that. That we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems or meet all the requirements of the comp plan, and specifically the Lake Frederick Neighborhood Village. We just want to point out that this is not the only property in the Lake Frederick Neighborhood Village. There is a neighborhood village to the southeast. There's more commercial across the street. There's more commercial on 277. And as you can see on this map, the blue is industrial. So if you take everything into consideration, with the amount of residential that we're proposing and the amount of commercial we're proposing, if you look at it as a whole, residential is a smaller part of that overall village because a vast majority of it is planned to be industrial. We like to think that this property is going to become more of a transition from the existing Lake Frederick community towards that higher intensity use of industrial and commercial along time. So we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems or meet all the requirements of the comp plan, and specifically the Lake Frederick Neighborhood Village. So we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems or meet all the requirements of the comp plan, and specifically the residential to commercial and then in the future along 277. So we'll use that neighborhood village to step down our intensity of our residential into commercial, and then in the future along 277. This is that same comp plan just kind of turned and oriented to the same orientation that you've seen our plan sit. The big dashed line in the middle is the Southern Frederick Parkway. That's the one that we're looking at. The one that we're looking at is the Southern Frederick Parkway. As Tyler mentioned, we had to address how to deal with that because as you can see, where it goes now through the Lake Frederick, existing Lake Frederick community in this area doesn't work with the current plan that's been approved and is currently being constructed down there. So we had the challenge of how to basically terminate or tie that road into 277 while at the same time meeting the goals of the project. So that's the challenge. So we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems that we've seen along 277. We're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems that we've seen along 277. So we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems that we've seen along 277. So we're looking at this 150-acre site to solve all the problems that we've seen along 277. 30 acres on the comp plan mixed-use commercial office up front, 89 acres neighborhood village in the back. The area in red at the top I want to draw your attention to. I'll get back to it shortly. But it's about 15 acres of area that was outlined as also residential in the comp plan amendment from last year. The area in red, as Tyler mentioned, is how we determined to address terminating the Southern, something like 20 or 30 acres from the field. So we're looking at a complex area. southern Frederick Parkway in a way that still met the intent of that road but also didn't dead end at the Lake Frederick property line where it would never be extended. So we've taken that on to actually build part of it. Back a year and a half ago when we were working on the comp plan it was sort of just a reserve right away that cut our site in half and we were kind of staying away from it. But we have stepped up and like I said jointly with staff tried to resolve the issue of how that road works. On the bottom right you'll see an arrow here that's about 1350 feet during our preliminary conversations with VDOT. We did take into account the existing Lake Frederick driveway our new road connection to 277. Initially we actually had two entrance points to our project. That was an attempt to split our traffic and have two different entrances. After talking to VDOT we understood that those would be within the required separation distances for those driveways so we went back to one driveway and offset it to a distance that would meet VDOT requirements. As part of the zoning plan looking forward to the next year we're going to be working on a new road extension and we found that around 30 server were only off charts with a lord. Tyler was correct in stating that we can to some regard switch some of the density around but one thing that that's required as part of the development is that we cannot we have to have a mix of land uses and residential types and no single residential unit type can be more than forty percent of the land area. Not necessarily density but the land area um and that goes along with with the comp plan and the uh a lot of the language in the comp plan requiring a mix of using a mix of housing types and serving different parts of the community. One thing that I'd like to highlight as well is we, and this has been this way pretty much from the beginning, the area highlighted in green is one of the main drainages, drainage patterns to Lake Frederick. There was 15 acres on the other side that we could technically get to. It would be a pretty big impact to that drainage pattern, be a significant crossing of a creek and a lot of grading to do that. We've decided that we would rather preserve that area and leave it as a contiguous open space and then pull it into the center of the development. The dashed red trail would be a connection up into the development and eventually out to 277. Some pictures of the development would be on the right. Some pictures of the development would be on the left. Some pictures of the development would be on the right. Some pictures of some other trails we've done. This is what we would call a nature trail, very similar to what exists around the lake currently as part of the state system. The area up in the upper left corner is the one acre dedication that Tyler mentioned. Right now the existing trail comes around the head of that lake and it's a low area. It probably from based on our survey flags it basically is on on Mr. Madison's property, but we wanted to go ahead and take care of that, dedicate the land to the state so it can become part of the trail system. If you look over at the comp plan it's really hard to see. That trail is on the comp plan running the length of the site and kind of shooting up one of the other drainage patterns off site so that that one acre would allow that that system to continue. A little bit more about how we've treated. This is labeled wrong on the left. That is land bay one. This is land bay one on the comp plan, 30 acres. The red outline on the left side is our plan. It is actually measured at 29 acres. That excludes the right-of-way that we've dedicated for the southern for the road connection. The reason the difference between 29 and 30 acres, if you see the blue line along the road, we did dedicate a significant amount of right-of-way along 277 for future widening as long as well as a shared-use trail construction of a shared-use trail along 277. So this is a little bit a deeper dive as to what that looks like. The area on the bottom of the page is about 14 acres. We've reserved this in our internal plans for medical uses. Why that spot? One is it's big enough to if hopefully if developed the way we envision it would be sort of a campus. Multiple buildings, different things happening on that site. It's also directly adjacent to Lake Frederick and the road connection and it also has frontage on 277. The area to the top of the page is another five acres of commercial. That would be really what we'd envision to be neighborhood commercial uses that would be used by the residents of the community and travelers on 277. So the big question is why is it not 30 acres? We have reserved the right in the orange area. Oh well I wanted to let me step back one time. There is an existing pond on the site and it's about two acres so we're not counting that. We're not telling you that's going to be I could call that 21 acres of commercial and count the pond and it's not going to do anybody any good. So when we say 19 acres, we mean 19 acres of developable commercial property. So that leaves about eight acres in the orange. So why do we leave that out? One reason and I'll have some slides here next that I'll go over to you about the amount of commercial for this area and why we feel it won't support 30 acres. The other points I want to make is market flexibility. We're not saying that that won't be 30 acres of commercial. It can be 30 acres commercial. If we would have put that into a residential bay and then come to you two, three, four, or five years from now and ask for it to be commercial, we wouldn't be able to do that. We're not saying that that won't be commercial. We're not there's no guarantee that that could happen. So what that's going to allow us to do in that orange area is have a potential for what I would call a transitional use between medical commercial and residential. That could be assisted living, nursing homes, skilled nursing, kind of a range of uses there. We would have to, I believe in the RP, we'd have to come back and get a special use permit or a conditional use permit for assisted living, but that'd be something we would deal with at a later time. But as far as our density goes, we are holding 196 units of specifically age-restricted multi-family, or actually age-restricted units in general on that lot. That's the most we could build and it can only be age-restricted units. So what I'd like to do now is to kind of paint the picture of what we're going to be doing. We're going to be making sure that about 63% of people live in this area so we're still kind of keeping that mass kraut beautiful with that non-medical changeover in the way of trucks and buses and housing, but to go into basic terms, we're approaching a 3-car boat and 7-car Hund 일단 truck. And then 5-car trucks, relatively small. We probably have to take them another spiritually inaudible per sit. By 6-7, I think, over our rate care. That would greatly think more dementia. can trip a 5,000 trip per day VDOT requirement just by themselves. To give you an idea of what that means, we're at that 9,000 trip per day is our whole entire development. One gas station, national brand, could be half of that easily. So looking at this as a 21-acre site, a couple more acres than what we're proposing, I mean, am I wrong to say that's a pretty big, pretty significant chunk of commercial right there? If you took the trips generated, we just did a quick daily trip calculation. It's in roughly 11,000 trips per day at 21 acres. If you project that out to what it would be at 30 acres, it's over 16,000 trips a day. So we're talking about our project as it stands now impacting the whole of the state. We're impacting the traffic system as it is now at 9,000. So if we implemented 30 acres of commercial, and I'll tell you about how we've restricted that down to actually reduce that number, but if we had 30 acres of open, unrestricted commercial on our project, we could be multiplying our traffic impact by two, three times. At that point, the project doesn't become viable because of the... the ramifications of that on the traffic system. Also want to look at Schrander Town Center. This one's even more relevant. It's right up the road towards Stephen City. It's 11 acres. It serves the surrounding neighborhood. It has a strip center, a medical office building, a bank, drug store, a hardware store. So very similar to what we see happening in that five acres, in addition. So we're not really going to have a lot of traffic to the medical uses. That one calculates that out as it stands today at about 6,000 trips. Once again, if you take that same unit mix and you multiply it up to 30 acres, once again, 16,000 trips a day. So I just feel like we need to have a better perspective of what it means to have 19 acres of commercial, what it means to have 30 acres of commercial. Also, what it means when we talk about a mix between residential and commercial. Because the commercial properties are more intense, there's more trips, there's more activity, the scale of how that weighs to single family development land is a little bit different. So, and we've even heard, you know, to fully meet the comp plan, you'd have to have 75 acres of commercial. I can tell you that this project wouldn't happen if we had to have 75 acres of commercial. Just, it won't work. So looking at our site and the 19 acres, and I've gone over some of these points, I want to go back to the traffic study and talk a little bit about that right now and how that works. So after the comp plan was amended, we initiated a traffic study. What we do during that traffic study is we give a best case scenario of what our uses are going to be. That all adds up and it's actually done by A&P Kim hours. We're showing you daily trips just because it's a little easier to compare. But in general, we had to provide what we felt like was the mix of commercial uses within 19 acres that we're putting before you tonight. It's hard to see, but it's actually in the traffic study. It's in the thick, it's in the thick package. It's in the thick package. It's in the thick package. It's in the thick package. It's in the thick package. So we have a lot of different services that we're providing. We have a lot of different services that we're providing. We have a lot of different services that we're providing. This is the first one that was provided. Almost impossible to read, but this is our medical uses listed here. We have 80,000 square feet of medical uses projected in that 14-acre pod, and then we have about another 20,000 in the five acres in that area. We feel like that is a good number. It provides the medical services that we all want. It also provides an opportunity for neighborhood commercial uses as well. Another point I feel like that we need to make about why not 30 acres. Another point I feel like that we need to make about why not 30 acres. This is the new frontier as far as commercial development. Yes, there's some commercial development at 340-277. Yes, there's commercial development in Stephen City. We're right in the middle of that. There's shell space in some of those shopping centers towards Stephen City. It's empty. So, part of the comp plan states, you know, compact urban development, viable, walkable. I don't personally feel like having this 30 acres of empty commercial space, undevelopable, for the next 20, 30 years will help this community. It will help the Lake Frederick community. We want to focus on getting the uses on this property that actually people want, and we'll make it a walkable, livable, viable commercial center. Mr. Sell, you asked about the connection point. This is where the hatched area connects to. This is direct access to the Lake Frederick. We have proffered to build that to the property line. This letter from Valley Health was in your packet. We do have a Valley Health representative here tonight that will speak in a bit. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But hopefully that gives you a little bit more of a background of where we came up with that. Switching gears. I'm sure we'll get back to that. Switching gears to building height. I think the biggest misconception about building height is that we're asking for 60 feet because we need it for X, Y. We're only asking that to happen in Land Bay 1. So 60 feet is allowed by right in Land Bay 2. And I'll show you some architectural examples of Madison Village here in a bit. But those, Land Bay 2 can already have a building that's 60 feet. The only thing we're asking for is for the age-restricted units also to be 60 feet. And technically, they'd actually be about 54. That's what it is at Madison Village if you don't count the cupola. But those buildings are the same. So when you're talking about the age-restricted units that we've envisioned for this site, you wouldn't be able to tell the difference. They're elevator buildings. The age-restricted and what is across the street would look exactly the same. So the red dimension line is the closest point to the existing Lake Frederick single-family homes. Now, obviously, there is development happening. There will be new landowners, new homeowners in this townhome section and single-family section in the future. But for existing development, that's 3,200 feet, so 0.6 miles. It's also downhill. And I have an example to show you from a drone footage that we took that kind of shows you how Lake Frederick sits below the site. And then we all know that the water tower exists here. I don't know the exact. It's somewhere between 160, 180 foot. It's hard to see if at all. Maybe in the winter at the right spot. I don't think that tower is visible from a mile away. So it's a little bit of a challenge. But it's a little bit of a challenge. But it's a little bit of a challenge. But it's a little bit of a challenge. It's on the other side of the hill with all the trees and everything blocking. Now, will some of that be visible from some of the new townhomes developed in Lake Frederick? Sure. Yeah, we're not saying it won't be visible from even though we do not directly abut that property. There is the wedge of the county water tower site there. So this is the aerial view. This is taken above land bay two. So this is looking in the foreground would be where our single-family and townhome development would be. be. This is not in that field, not where the taller buildings would be, but that's the closest Lake Frederick neighborhood right there on the map. You can see the lake, finger come up, this point here would be the closest existing homes. Mr. George, are you close to the end of your question? I am. I want to talk about traffic, but believe me, I want to get that over with. I don't want to talk about that long. Unfortunately, as I mentioned, traffic consultant could not be here tonight. I'm going to do the best I can to give you the overview. I wanted to orient our site and show you what was required by the traffic study at both intersections. The first one is Hudson Hollow, White Oak, which is basically dual turn lanes on 277. The second one is Turnp, three different turn lanes at 522, 340. The blue line is important. As you can tell, that is in Clark County, not in Frederick County. As I mentioned earlier, in Clark County, 5,000 trips a day is kind of the threshold for having to do a TIA. I'm not sure if everybody's been reading the paper. There was a local rezoning on 522 at that intersection that was a significant traffic generator. Didn't even have to do a traffic study because they didn't trip the 5,000 trips per day. Any gas station, anything that happens along this corridor that doesn't trip that 5,000 per day doesn't even have to do the traffic study. There's a lot of traffic generation happening that's not even adding to the problem of that intersection. Our study basically projects out to the 2035 and the 2042 design years. What this chart shows is that red dot is about 100% capacity. This intersection, some of the movements at this intersection are already out of capacity. So that scale of going up, any traffic added to that exponentially lengthens the queue time. So that means if you're stacking up into a left turn lane and you don't get through that cycle and you've got to sit there, that's what we're trying to avoid. We're just a part of the problem. We did. We had a traffic consultant look at what percentage of proportion our traffic is on those intersections — it ranges between 13 and 16%. This shows the three the three turn lanes highlighted in the traffic impact study, and as well as a tur two lane, two turn lanes here. The $2,000,000, a lot of questions about how we got to the $2,000,000. Um, the $2 million, we wanted, the reason we're offering as a cash proffer versus building it is we wanted the flexibility of putting the money where the county felt like it needed to go. Um, we feel like this intersection needs to be fully constructed. We estimate, um, and keep in mind, we don't have design plans. We don't know, have plans to bid. We don't know how much it's going to cost, but we estimated about $1.5 million to do that intersection. Um, so we see that one being fully built. The Clark County intersection, um, we don't feel like we should be left holding the bag on that one. Um, we're, as, as I mentioned earlier, even if we don't happen, that, that intersection needs improvement. Um, so we're going back to the traffic analysis of the, of the 13 to 16%. We took 16%, 16% of the projected cost of those improvements. It's about $400,000, which we feel like is our share. We rounded that up to $500,000, added that to the million and a half of the Northern intersection. There's your $2 million. I'm sure there'll be questions on that. Um, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this one, um, on the cap. I am, um, if you project out and we, and this is a minimum here. If, if, if we project out and not, if we project out, we're going to have to spend a lot of time on the cap. Um, and we're going to have to spend a lot of time on the cap. Um, if you project out and we, and this is a minimum of $400,000, we're going to have to spend a lot of time on the cap. Um, and we're going to have to spend a lot of time on the cap. including inflation. Cause if, if these uses go down the road and inflation adds on this number, it gets higher. But as it sits today, um, we're above eight and a half million dollars of, of impact fees. Um, as far as schools go, uh, the product that Mr. Bateson, um, builds is a little bit different. Um, the multifamily product, um, it's primarily one, actually it's all one and two bedroom units. And how that comes into play is we just don't see a lot of school age children. Um, and so we're going to have to spend a lot of time on that. Um, and we're going to have to spend a lot of time on that. Um, and so we're going to have to spend a lot of time on those units. Um, we did get some numbers from Frederick County school system, um, about Madison Village. Um, that property, and that is hard to believe. I had to double check. That property, um, generates 12 students, 10 of which drive the bus. Now there is age restricted units in those buildings. So they're, they're kind of mixed, but it's just not a high generating, um, type of building. And that's the majority of what we're going to have to spend on. So, um, we're going to only be generating 26 units of that because we've also got a lot of children going to our ком stays home already, which means, um, we can poder operate almost 100 walls of unちゃん to on measures each floor. Um, a lot of those can be those we've really got a lot of amount of um, um, the other thing we probably won't be able to about at the end of it, but somebody that's on the artists you know just needed, but this is the proffers that we added as far as architectural details. This is once again Madison Village. It's what we're proposing. Quick rundown of the highlights. Number one, that's why we're here, providing the opportunity for medical services to be established, inter-partial connectivity, vehicular and pedestrian connections. We check all those boxes. We want to keep potential users of the medical facilities off of trips on our main artillery road, so the inter-partial connectivity is important. We're providing housing that will meet the needs of first-time home buyers, retirees, move-up residents, and seniors. That's straight out of the comp plan. Offer a few more highlights. Offer flexibility of residential housing types to accommodate evolving demographic trends and ensure that housing choices are maximized. Once again, straight out of your comp plan. We're preserving open space and key drainage in Lake Frederick, extending trail systems, providing meaningful open space to residences. We're not just plugging in odds and ends of open space and saying, hey, we meet your 30% requirement. We are making a statement that open space is important to this community. We're helping the federal government. We're over Planning 8. We're visiting slum areas. We'll get Alex McGinn, Council of Continuing gotta add me to this meeting as soon as I finish talking to Alex McGinn. We have some clear goals to meet. We're balancing goal points with the город Ms. awesome windows. We've agreed to extend all athletic symptoms . We're going to continue the grade of натural health at this EyeCenter," going back to where it was 29 совершенно Oregon so our cause and step I will say, we're taken to show folks that we live under a somewhat extraordinary environment and spending a significant amount of resources and resources and time inside their homes. We're also looking to increase primary homes. The schools demolished, higher ed education needs in northern mountain Georgia. Congratulations to you. The numbers, I get it. I understand. It's a hard issue to deal with when things pause. Mr. Madison's been here. He's local. He's proven to you. He's proven to this community that he does what he says. Madison Village thus far, and it's not built out, has provided a little under $3.5 million in impact fees and almost $3 million in connection fees from utilities. He owns the property. This isn't speculation. He's here to stay, and he wants to help do his part, provide the medical services that are needed, and develop a good community. And that's it. Thank you. Any questions for the applicant to my left? I just have one question. Sorry about that. I had a question, a couple questions for you. As you said, the traffic impact study talks about 9,000 units a day. Yeah, it's a little bit over, but when we did the traffic impact study, we were still at that 900 units. We've actually decreased the units. We generally don't go back and edit the TIA if we reduce. So it's probably a little bit below 2,000 trips a day. But I think VDOT is saying... 9,000, sorry. VDOT is already saying there's 8,700 trips a day. On average, there's 8,000 trips a day on 277. On average. So this project will be 100% increase on traffic to 277? So it's kind of apples and oranges. Traffic studies, when we analyze the impact to the roadway system, is all AM peak M hours. Because that's when the queues get long at all these intersections. So really, the traffic study focuses on AM peak M hours and that impact. So it's really not a comparison about how many trips. They're added to the road total. I'll defer to my traffic person to ask a question any further on that. Well, if they get too hard, I'm just going to push it on to my co-worker here, Carl. Also, your study talks about 9,000 square foot of commercial space, 90,000 square foot of commercial space. But yet, you're only, in your proposals, you're only talking about 20,000 square feet. Do you have a firm number you're going to build to? You've never said anything above 20, but yet... Yeah, I mean, so in our traffic study, we have 80,000 square feet of medical uses kind of on hold. And then plus another, I think, 15 plus of neighborhood commercial. I think it was up to 20. Okay, but you're only, in the proffer, you're only saying you're going to start at 20. And there's been no comment past that. Yeah, so that is just a starting point. There's a significant amount of infrastructure that would need to happen before anything can be developed. So what Mr. Madison is saying... What he's saying is we need a little bit of residential to be able to offset the infrastructure cost, whether it's roadway improvements, impact fees, off-site utilities. So that's where that comes from. I mean, that is what we would see as a first big chunk of commercial use to happen. Hopefully, it's more than that. Yeah, unfortunately, the only place the 90,000 shows up is in your impact study. There's nothing in your proffers or even in your application referencing 80,000 or 90,000 square feet. Well, it's in the traffic. It's kind of buried in the traffic. It's just buried in the traffic. But that is public record. It's part of the submission. Okay. You know, just to follow up on that point, once again, this is not in an established commercial center. So we didn't want to promise so much commercial right away that we can't even start the project. Okay. I guess I can ask you another question. I have concerns. That in your proffer, you talk about prior to issuance of the 195th occupancy permit, that you'll start work on an entrance and exit at the facility. That's the primary site entrance, correct? Yes. So what that's allowing, I mean, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. Well, I'm just saying, okay, at 195, that's a two-year build-out. You could potentially have 194 residential units occupied. So the way that's worded is? Is prior to CO. So we wouldn't want to go and build those units and then say, oh, by the way, we can't sell them or rent them because we have to build it. We would be building it at the same time. So in a perfect world, it would all come together. The road construction entrance is being constructed. The buildings are being constructed. But prior to the CO, the road's got to be finished. I'm just expressing, I have concern because as a resident of Lake Frederick, I'm fully aware of what happens when you have an entrance that isn't operational. And there's a person from Warren County that isn't with us right now because of that. There was a decline to turn a light on on 522. And so you're going to have quite a few homeowners exiting 277 with an incomplete exit. So I hope you guys can take a look at that and see what you can do. I can defer other things to later. I don't know if it's fortunate or unfortunate. I'm one of the few people that are still on a planning commission that was here when that original parcel was looked at and discussed what would be there. And back at that time, we were extremely trusting. We probably should have had more intentions or perceptions written down and committed to. But this area, that whole section between 277. And 522 was intended to be developed into a village type concept and not, you know, things happen. Economies aren't as good as they used to be, maybe or whatever. But the area that we're talking about now was where all the commercial, the fire station, all of that stuff was supposed to go to support Lake Frederick. Without that part, the people in Lake Frederick, however many residents are there. Plus whatever new residential facilities are built there are forced to go to Front Royal, Winchester, Stephen City. So without some nucleus there to support those people, they end up driving, which exasperates our transportation problem, exasperates the safety problem, a whole lot of problems. And I don't see that any of our original intent for this area or very little of our original intent for this area. Now. That might be our fault. We should have had things written down and made sure things were committed to better back at the time. But, you know, 30 years ago, things were a lot different than they are now. And I don't see that intent being fulfilled by your development. I see a lot of talking tonight. And, you know, you're a good presenter. You've been able to conflute the facts or conflute the details to the point where it's pretty difficult for people to understand. Transportation. You've got a lot of data. I disagree with most of the assumptions that were used to come up with that data. You're talking about a commercial, you know, a gas station causing 16,000 trips a day. If you put a gas station in that area, it would not cause 16,000 trips a day on 277 or 522. Because you've assumed everything that it would be a destination trip generator. These are not going to be destination trip generators. Most of the people that use that. Commercial area there. And anything that's in that commercial area, the medical area, are going to be residents of Lake Frederick and at the new development. So they're not going to be coming on 277 and 522 to get to a gas station. There's not going to be this huge influx of traffic. So I disagree with most of your transportation generation numbers. I think you've way overinflated. I'm trying to show that, well, we don't want to have more commercial because it would cause a transportation problem. No, one, it would solve a transportation problem. So instead of the people in Lake Frederick having to drive from Lake Frederick to Stephen City or up 522 to Walmart, if there was someplace there where they could get some minor groceries or whatever, it would reduce the amount of traffic coming out of there going to other locations. So I think you really need to look at your transportation analysis and what you want to present to the Planning Commission and to the Board of Supervisors. Because right now, it's a fabrication. It's a great, it's a textbook study, I will say that. It's great, you know, but it's not real. And your trip generation numbers, when you look at where the people are going, they're not real. You've come up with something out of a textbook that may look great and may show a lot of tables and have a lot of numbers, but they're not real because your basic assumptions are that everybody's going to come to that location from somewhere else. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. There needs to be more commercial. I mean, even in that 19 areas, the orange area, I think that you showed on the map, when you're talking about commercial, you're really only committing to five acres of commercial. That other 14 acres, you said you could have age-restricted housing or something in it. Well, as soon as you don't, as soon as you build a little of that commercial and you don't have a tenant to go in there, the rest of that 14 acres is going to go to age-restricted or assisted living. That's not commercial. That's not the case. Well, that's essentially what you said. That's what I heard. I'm sorry. Maybe I heard it wrong. It's 19 acres of commercial. That's what we're saying. Well, that would be good. The other thing is I'd like to see a phasing study where you come up with we're going to build 100 houses. We're not going to do any more occupancy permits until we have X square foot of commercial area. Right now, building the houses and thinking that commercial is going to come in, it might come in later. There's a huge amount of demand down there now for commercial area from Lake Frederick. So it's not like you have to wait till after the houses are built to be able to have a commercial demand. The demand's there already. The people are probably tired of driving to Steven City or to Walmart or to Front Royal or to Winchester to go to doctor's appointments, get all their commercial items they have to get. I think we're missing an opportunity. That area has a fantastic. Potential for development. But I hate to say this, but I think we're going on the cheap and going in and trying to just put as many houses in as we can and get on to the next development. And you know, it's my perception of this development at this point. Yes, it has the potential to be fantastic, but it's not there. Okay. Well, thank you for your comments. Just a couple of clarifications. When I was mentioning 16,000 trips a day, that was just the two case studies at 30 acres. Okay. So I think that's a good point. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that's a good point. We've actually proffered out gas stations. So we don't feel like that's a conducive use to what we're trying to achieve. And we don't want the extra traffic generated by a gas station. So there will be no gas stations on this property. But even the other commercial areas, you're not going to pull people in from outside of that area. Majority of the people using those commercial areas are going to be residents here. Yeah. And there's a specific component of that traffic study. It's called basically pass-by users. So like if you have a coffee shop. And you're driving down 277 already to go to work. And you pull in and you pull out. That's not counted because you were already on 277. You're already still going to the same intersection as on 277. So there is that accounted for. But the other thing to mention about a traffic study, above my pay grade and my expertise, our traffic consultants prepared that. That is heavily, heavily. It took us, I want to say, six or seven months of review with VDOT. VDOT. VDOT. VDOT is the review agency for that study. And it is looked at with a fine scope. So I realize you feel like some of the numbers may be skewed in the wrong way. It's VDOT reviewed and approved. And they don't live here. Let me try to help a little bit. Bring clarity to some of these, if I may. Your traffic study says you're going to generate 9,321 trips a day. That's your average daily traffic. I understand the difference between peak hours and average daily. Yep. VDOT says right now 277 in 2024. On an average day, carried 8,700 vehicles a day. Your traffic study also included a study by Bowman Consulting that talked about trips being diverted from Lake Frederick through this entrance. And they said that was going to be 4,960 trips. So the total of those is almost 23,000. So that's the average daily traffic on 277. And to compare that to something we're all familiar with, 522 at Costco here is a six-lane road that carries 20,000 vehicles a day now. And it's a nightmare. So we're concerned about traffic. And I can't overstate that enough. But I will leave it at that because I think it's been addressed fairly well. And I want to move on to others' questions. Are there any other questions to my right? Mr. Whitaker. Yes, sir. Would you have a topo of that area you could pull up? We do, but it's really hard. I mean, there actually is a topo on that master plan. But it's really hard to see, but I can pull it back. I don't know. Maybe that's a good one. Can you speak to that? I'm looking at one here. I'm assuming it looks like everything. It runs toward Lake Frederick? That's correct. All the stormwater. I've been out at Lake Frederick, and with the water table being as low as it is, and, of course, you have habitat all around it and ball fields and such, there's already an algae bloom created in that lake hurting the water quality there. Something like this would just devastate that lake. Plus, I'm always bringing to light the water situation we have. And I can't see where that's being addressed. It's a health and safety issue, along with what the others have spoken to, their health and safety issues. And we're required to protect the public. So I believe there's a lot more work to be done on this whole project. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay. Mr. George, was your representative from Valley Health going to speak next? Yeah, they can speak. If you'd like to, they can speak. They're in the public hearing, however you want to do it. If they want to speak now, as part of your presentation, that'll be fine. Okay. Hello. My name is Vicki Lord, and I'm the Director of Project Development and Real Estate for Valley Health. I want to thank you for allowing me a few minutes to speak on behalf of Valley Health. I am here to speak in support of the rezoning. As you know, our Valley Health is committed to serving communities by improving their health. And our vision is to have healthier communities. And for that aspect, we need to have access to the care. We are committed to Southern Frederick County and the Stephen City area. And we are. Looking at hoping that this rezoning will happen so that we can expand upon our services that we currently have in Stephen City. In the Southern Frederick County area, which at this point is just our quick care. Thank you. Okay. Would you mind a question? Sure. Tom, Kevin, did you have a question? Let me not ask a question. So would you be interested in the full 14 acres? I think that the devil's in the details. I think that's a good question. I would like to know what the planning is for the area. So I'm going to ask you about the planning. So the planning is what I'm going to ask you about. So I'm going to ask you about the planning. And then I'm going to ask you about the planning. And then I'm going to ask you about the planning. So I'm going to ask you about the planning. I do know we recently have developed some buildings in Strasburg and over in Greenwood in the county. That model is something that we would probably start with, which would be a full urgent care, family medicine and lab services. And then see how the area grows and what services are needed for the county residents. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? Thank you, Ms. Lloyd. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. This is a public hearing. And I will open the public hearing. I would ask that anyone who would like to speak to this rezoning come to the podium, state your name, your magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes or less. If you did not sign up to speak, I'll give you an opportunity at the end after everybody who has signed up to speak can do so. And we will help you with the timer in case you can't keep track of your three minutes. Okay. So. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Pearson? Absolutely. Marv Davis, followed by Steve Prater. Good evening. I'm Marv Davis, a resident of the Opecan District living in Lake Frederick. I'm also the chair of our community Madison Working Group, which we formed 14 months ago. We've been tracking this very carefully, working with Mr. Pearson's staff, as well as. Mr. Pearson, the head of the Opecan District. Mr. Madison at times. So we've been updating our assessment each step of the way. And last week we convened our fourth communitywide meeting regarding the proposed development, where our community very strongly endorsed our assessment and the recommendation we're going to be making to you tonight. So as to our assessment. And this being the largest rezoning in 15 years. I would like to say thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'm going to ask the public for a comment. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the two of you. This is the first time we've been doing this for a while. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. in 15 years. We believe the Lake Frederick UDA is not ready for a new development at this point in time. We also believe the county infrastructure isn't ready, and we're extremely concerned, as some of you have already expressed, that VDOT has no plan to deal with the major increase in 277 traffic. A couple of examples. We believe the application is missing some details, as well as the non-conforming areas. A couple of examples are the environmental impacts to the lake itself, buffers being another one. And then Mr. Thomas has already mentioned what was originally envisioned in 2023 by Mr. Madison himself in terms of the commercial development being the nucleus of this development, with residential being ancillary, well, as I think we know, the application has totally flipped that. And we currently, as residents, have no insight into what might be constructed commercially, not even an artist's sketch. We appreciate that Valley Health is here tonight, but we're hearing their thoughts for the first time. We haven't heard this before, so as a result, we haven't even been able to make an assumption. We haven't even been able to make an assumption. We haven't even been able to make an assumption. We haven't even been able to make an assumption. We haven't even been able to make an assessment of what was said here tonight. It's also very important to understand that we've been It's also very important to understand that we've been developed for 20 years now with multiple developers, and we don't even have a basic service, a service like a second entrance and exit. This situation is now extremely critical for public safety and access to emergency care. This is a glaring deficiency we experienced last week. It's simple and追求 lowered DLC support, and we during the sheriff's action to have a shelter in place. So the bottom line is we are not opposed to development per se, but we believe more preparation is needed. We believe the commission should delay its vote until January, until we understand currently what additional work could be, compromises could be sought between Mr. Pearson's staff and Madison. And we believe, secondly, that the county and VDOT should examine potential improvements to 277. So thank you for your consideration. Thank you, Mr. Davis. Steve Prater, followed by Bill Moore. Sorry. Hello, Steve Prater, Lake Frederick, Opecan District. We've already talked a great deal about traffic, specifically to this property and to our northern entrance, but there's a lot of traffic that we're not able to get through. So we're not able to get through. The larger issue is you can't consider a single rezoning as a single case. You have to consider the entire impact in all of the 277 corridor. We haven't talked about what's going on at Warrior, which is Sharando Green and Fairfax Down. Sharando Green is going to be a large commercial shopping center with a Publix and other ancillary businesses. I believe there's about 100 homes going into Fairfax Down. When you add that in to the traffic of this, you're going to quickly overwhelm 277. At the corners of where White Oak and Hudson Hollow meet, 277, there already is commercial property. There are signs up saying development on that. That would be the western side. There's a plan later on for the eastern side. And then, by the way, Clark County has talked openly about wanting to develop Tollgate. All of that is going to just make 277 an absolute disaster. We already have it. We have a mess up at the I-81 interchange that needs to be addressed. And I just don't see how all this is going to be able to be handled. I personally lived through something like this where I lived before I came here, where development continued over a number of years on a two-lane rural road, never any improvements, and regularly had half-mile backups waiting through multiple signal cycles to get through an intersection or to get on and off the interstate. You just can't look at each of these things. All of 277 needs to be widened. We need to look at the speed. Right now, it's 55 miles per hour. You cannot support that if you're going to have this much stuff on the road. You're going to have to have traffic lights in multiple locations, including our northern entrance and Madison. And you just have to look beyond a single case and look at the entire corridor of 277 all the way from 81 all the way into, you know, Lord Fairfax Highway. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Bill Moore, followed by Scott McGeary. Good evening. My name is Bill Moore, and I am an Opecan District resident, a Virginia Master Naturalist, and also the leader of a 556-member Lake Frederick Conservation Club. Please defer your recommendation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Clearing, construction phases, the areas will be severely impacted and those impacts will be irreversible. The Madison project will include many structures, parking lots, roads, sidewalks, all made of impermeable materials. Each will contribute to significant runoff that will flow directly into Lake Frederick. Lake Frederick is a clean lake, vibrant with diverse collection of wildlife. Bald eagles, hawks, owls, turkeys are all commonly seen at the lake. Painted turtles, beaver, mink, raccoon also call the lake its home. During construction of Lake Frederick as it stands now, the lake has been protected by silt fences, doubled in many cases. Presently a collection of several dozen bio detention areas. Protect the lake. The Frederick County Comprehensive Plan refers to Lake Frederick as a residential recreation community. Without a healthy lake, the whole premise of our community goes down the drain. In Mr. Mattis' impact analysis, he failed to recognize the significant work required to keep the lake healthy. Where and how many bio detention areas will be built? Will guidelines be established to ensure that salt? Salt? Is titanium sil房ly notaimeable BCE? Is carbon dioxide in the bay? Are water tanks onshore? Is character rivers supported in upstream water? Whether tanks, river Salutations or ocean currents are<|ru|> dieselrica flows underwater. will the Department of Wildlife Resources, the Department of Environmental Quality, and the Department of Conservation and Recreation be involved in the development of this area? Lake Shenandoah, down in Rockingham County, near Harrisonburg, is nearly a dead lake, being killed by excessive nutrients, fertilizers, pesticides, and sediment from surrounding development. I once asked representatives from DWR, if we started protecting that lake now, how long would it take for it to come back to life? Three years? Five? The response was, Bill, you're thinking about it in the wrong time frame. Think generations instead of years. Closing now. We have time to get this right. Please consider the potential environmental impacts of the lake. Please consider the potential environmental impacts of the lake. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Madison and I, and I appreciate that. We've worked together to look at how that would happen, and it could happen very easily. I'm going to speak for the lake, much like Bill did a little bit ago, and I'm going to talk about what you talked about. Essentially, the lake is a beautiful state, regional, and I speak regional, recreational, man-made natural resource needed to the state. In 1981, by the developer of Lake Frederick, the initial developer, Lake Frederick is the bathtub of the Crooked Run watershed. And I mean that literally. Crooked Run watershed runs from Hudson Hollow, White Oak, 277 intersection to the lake east across 277 all the way to Dinosaurland, this is a nice thing. That's across the north, Madison property. And then cuts across on a diagonal all the way down to the Clark County Warren Lodge, the corner of that whole development that showed on that map right there. In my mind, the lake itself is the critical feature that you should be looking at any time you do any kind of development, any kind of zone in that area period, because that's where the water flows. That's the development of the lake. That's the development of the lake. That's the development of the lake. And so I'm going to close that out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. because all watershed goes into that lake in that entire triangle. The initial planning zone committee zoned that as rural, the Madison property. That was the right thing to do because both forks of that lake, of the Lake Frederick, are fed by everything north of there. And very little of what is in that lake now came from the construction of Lake Frederick. I'm talking about the silting in, for example, Crooked Run comes into the northwest section and comes down into the lake and the silt that is there now in the lake is coming in from Crooked Run itself. That part of the lake and Beaufort's lake are very, very shallow to begin with right now. In fact, if you were to go there right now and I would show you a picture of it, you could probably walk across it and just be walking in mud in most cases. The clearing of such a large area of land itself will basically put more silt as the development goes and it will continue even after. So essentially, that, that will in my mind, basically fill in both arms of that lake and it will render it useless. There is a small one acre buffer zone. That will not help with this situation. All of the watershed off of both the Madison property and our developing property to the east all come dead into the lake. So essentially, it's a beautiful lake, it's a regional resource, lake, and it's a beautiful lake. So there's only a little bit of subs aprender and a building gap in çust이� almighty lake for major in the project the mix of residential providing multiple different housing types also agree with mr george's statement about adding or maybe over commercializing this area because we do have empty commercial sitting not very far away just a few miles away in stevens city you've also somebody mentioned we've got additional commercial with the public's coming online so you know unless you're going to build another major grocery store in this area people are still going to go to stevens city or walmart or down to to front royal to do their major grocery shopping so but consider maybe thinking about not wanting to over commercialize this area one thing that i do have concerns with is the south rhetoric parkway where it comes into the project and just appears to dead end in that roundabout i think mr george addressed that but i do have concerns about bringing an arterial road that's shown on your comp plan just kind of dead ending it and then having a bunch of lefts and rights that are going to require additional signals that's where your backups are going to occur also shown on that that comp plan map you have a lot of additional industrial land coming into the west if that industrial land is logistics or transportation type related related facilities you've got that much more traffic coming through that kind of dead-end roundabout so uh again just in general kind of support the the proposed uses um i do have some concerns about the traffic thank you thank you mr lilly mr martz hey good evening i'm jay martz i live in the gainesboro district and first off i'd like to welcome my new commissioner Joe Crane and the at-large gentleman over here, John LaManna, two people I've known a long time and great community advocates, and they'll be a great addition to this planning commission. I encourage you to vote as opposed to the zoning of this Madison 277. I would like to see substantial improvements in our county infrastructure, transportation, energy, and water before we add almost 830 residential units. I believe the current inventory of residential units that are available for development across the county right now are 7,000. Why do we need to rezone any additional RA areas for residential development? We don't need more houses. Do not rezone any residential areas for housing development. I just was at the Board of Supervisors meeting this evening as they gathered with our State General Assembly representatives. The number one item that they discussed was transportation. And I garnered nothing but doom and gloom for any large-scale transportation projects in Frederick County over the next six to nine years. 277 is already a mess, and it will continue to be a mess. There's no need to dump additional vehicular traffic onto this road. We should not allow these new homes to fall out on Fairfax Pike. In our overstressed transportation network, turn lanes are not a substitute for additional. lanes. What is offered here is wholly inadequate. So I would again encourage you to tell the Board of Supervisors that you do not approve of this rezoning. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Martz. That was the end of the list, sir. Would anybody else like to speak concerning this rezoning? Good evening, Liz. I am Elizabeth Peldunis from the Opec and District and a Lake Frederick resident. The issue before you this evening, your recommendation to the Board of Supervisors to either support or deny Madison's rezoning request is a legacy issue that will impact the southeast corner of Frederick County for decades to come. A rezoning of this size has not been sought for 15 years, and you're willing to make your own decision. for 15 years and your decision should not be made in haste or without complete information. The residents who have spoken tonight have done their due diligence to understand the consequences of this rezoning. Some have spent many hours over the course of months accumulating data to assess the proposal's merits, shortcomings, and missing pieces. The community has shared its concerns tonight and they are not insignificant. We trust that you will deliberate over every aspect of this application just as we have before making your recommendation. If you can't accomplish a thorough review tonight, you are not obligated to act and you shouldn't. You can legally defer your recommendation to the BOS until February 3, 90 days from the Commission's first hearing of this project. Okay. If, however, you believe this proposal is so inconsistent with the comprehensive plan, you can simply recommend the BOS deny this request. Already, the applicant has received a great deal of planning department and community feedback that can be incorporated into a new and improved plan that better matches the requirements of the comprehensive plan and a thriving Lake Frederick UDA. My question, in the simplest terms. I'm going to respond to that. Why are we considering rezoning 149 acres at the southeastern gateway to our county for an 800 plus units residential development among high voltage electric lines that has only one way in and out? A real planning no-no by the way. We've discussed this at other planning commission meetings. On to a two-lane, rural, 55 mile an hour road. That will tax our already overcrowded schools. crowded schools, has unknown environmental impacts, and has a skinny-down, undefined commercial component of unknown use to the residents already living here. What benefit does the proposed project provide to the Lake Frederick UDA, the 277 corridor, and the county as a whole, and at what cost? Please approve a project that adheres to the comprehensive plan and enhances the Lake Frederick area's uniquely beautiful location in Frederick County. I thank you for your time, and I'm looking forward to your thorough and robust discussion. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, I'm sorry. Ms. Spencer? My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I left an e-comment. I hope you all had time to read it. I just wanted to echo Mr. Vice Chair Thomas's, that we could do so much better creatively, and it's a beautiful area, and also the naturalists that came tonight. I love all their ideas. Thank you, Mr. Whitaker, for your concerns, too. We could do so much better. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr.lotterer. Would anybody else like to speak? Go on once. Twice. And I shall close the public hearing. Mr. Jorge Geisff, would you like to respond to any of these comments? Please keep it brief, sir. MR. This is the first step in the development of a pontificate. I am Accepting Mr. I that I do believe in this project. of a large project. It is a GDP and it admittedly is effectively a bubble diagram. There is a next step with the master plan and there's a next step with construction documents. So a lot of the issues that were brought up specifically related to stormwater are valid and I actually share concerns on any project that we develop. And Mr. Chairman as you know during your daily business storm storm water is a major component of any project in the state. So we will be held to the state requirements if this project were to move forward. What that means is any drainage from our site would need to be collected in a storm water measure. Whether it's a wet pond a dry pond filter. It could take many shapes and sizes prior to being put into any drainage pattern that leads to a storm. So I don't know. I'm not sure. I don't see any other questions. to the lake. This will be the same standard that's held to the current addition to Lake Frederick, which is actually happening between this project and the lake. So yeah, it's a concern and it's something that we would be definitely considering as we move forward. As far as the impact of residential versus commercial on that stormwater, and generally commercial is a higher pervious area. So I mean, anywhere, range anywhere from 80 to 90 percent pervious on commercial areas, residential significantly less. So that's something to keep in mind as well. And Mr. Chairman, I mentioned this before the meeting, we've been at this for over a year, I mean, over two years at this point. I don't believe at this point we would like to rush into a decision tonight when there are, you know, outstanding issues and concerns. So I would like to preemptively ask for a table to your next available meeting so that we can, you know, talk to more people, address as many concerns as we want, as we can, sorry, and come back to the board with some more revisions. I don't want to rush into a decision. It's a big decision. It's a complicated decision. And that's where we stand. Mr. Klein, you want to summarize for us, please? Yes. So before you, again, this evening is a request to rezone approximately 149 acres from the RA to the R4 zoning district to develop up to 830 residential units and commercial. There are a number of concerns that were expressed this evening related to transportation impacts, quality of design, environmental impacts. And I think you all, your 90-day clock started on November the 5th. So you do have until February 3rd, the meeting that would precede that deadline would be the January 21st planning commission meeting for your information. And we will continue to work with the applicant at your direction. Tyler. Mr. Klein. Since the applicant asked this to be tabled, does that restart the 90-day clock? I think that the county ordinance contemplates, doesn't contemplate the applicant's ability to extend the planning commission's 90-day clock. It's actually a requirement that you provide something to the board as far as a recommendation. We can explore in the meantime in advance of when your next meeting is, if the willingness of the applicant would allow for that to be exempted. But in my recent reading of it, the planning commission is supposed to, to forward the board something within 90 days of first hearing it. It doesn't contemplate what the applicant's considerations are. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, since the applicant asked for a tabling, do we need to take action? Yeah, the only way we allow the applicants to remove things from the agenda is if they do in advance of the meeting beginning. So I would recommend the commission take action on tabling and if they are so inclined. Okay. Very good. Thank you, sir. Okay, that leads us to discussion among planning commissioners. And if we can discuss any of this, any aspect of this we'd like to... I'll start to my right this time. Any discussion? Mr. Kerns. Mr. Thank you. There is two questions for staff, just for consideration for when we look at this again. We just went through some land use, specific land use plans. Is there one on the books? Mr. Are you making the document? Yes. Yes. in the plans for the southeast area of the county that will affect potentially, because there's a lot of industrial, there's a lot of action in this area right around this. Is anything coming up soon? The southeast Frederick urban area plan is the applicable small area plan for this area. It's not actively being revised. It will be looked at as part of your comprehensive plan update that we're kicking off soon. But other than that, there's nothing in the works. The most recent amendment to that was when the Madison properties processed an amendment a year or two ago. Right. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to check. And second question, you might not have this right in front of you, but are there any homes in the development, the plan development? Is basically Lake Frederick already completely built out or are there any more that are in the works that are coming still? Yeah. I think there's tech. Technically, three remaining phases with one or two of them under construction. There's a Shea phase left and then a Van Meter phase left. Off the top of my head, I don't have an estimate for the number of units, but it's a couple hundred units remaining to be built in those remaining phases. Okay. So there's still more. I think it's about 600. I think Shea has about 200 and Van Meter has 400 townhouses. Still to come. Still to come. Okay. Thank you. Any other? Okay. Mr. Thomas? I would like to see, and the phasing that my fellow planning commissioner brought up is a very important part of this. I'd like to see a phasing plan for this development. I think the only phasing plan I see, and again, I could have missed it, is that after the 350th or 400th residential permit is pulled, they'll start doing commercial or they'll commit to so much commercial. I think that's woefully inadequate. I'd like to see something broken down, much more detail. I don't see any reason why the medical part of this can't be built when the first house is built. Because most of the people using those facilities there, the medical, the commercial, are going to be residents that are already there. It's not the new residents coming in. It's the residents of Lake Frederick that are going to be using it. And I think it would be a very good gesture on the developer's part and show goodwill to the community. Lake Frederick community to build those medical facilities so that they can start, instead of having to go to Stephen City or to Winchester, they have a place to stop in the interim. And yes, there's a lot of empty commercial. I don't say a lot. There's some empty commercial up 277 toward Stephen City. But, you know, if you want $10 worth of groceries, do you want to have to go out to 277 and drive to Publix or to Food Line? If you had a small commercial. Area there that that would stop a lot of that traffic for the ones, twos and three things they forgot. I think that would go a long way. So I think if we looked at bringing the commercial and the medical facilities much further toward the front of the development instead of, you know, kind of after you build so many houses, I think that would make it a lot more palatable. I think there is so much in this. I mean, this is a large development. Like it's been said, it's the largest we've had here in 15 plus years. There's so much that needs to be looked at. And I would like to see the developer or, you know, I hate to say the planning staff, but I'd like to see the developer come up with a table that would address questions similar to what we do for our comments from agencies that, you know, would address how is the siltation going to be handled. How's the transportation? You know, what are we going to do with all those houses on 277 that have driveways that go out on 277 that now all of a sudden there's going to be twice the amount of traffic zipping up and down 277? How do we get VDOT or how do we notify VDOT? I'm sure they're looking at it already to lower the speed limit on 277 because with that much traffic, a 50 mile an hour speed limit on 277 is too fast. So there are a lot of these unanswered items. Yeah. Yeah. I think need to be identified instead of just hanging out there as questions. And in 45 days, I don't know how we're going to do that, quite honestly, from the planning commission standpoint. I think the developer is going to have to do a lot of it. And unfortunately, I didn't see a whole lot done from the November work session until today. So I'm a little disappointed. I think this has a lot of potential, but I'll stop there. Any other comments to my right? Seeing none, to my left. I agree with Roger. Lake Frank, we live in that part of the county is pretty much a rural area. And this proposal is asking for a variance on the number of residential units per acre. We all know as a by right issue that they could put about 25 to 30 homes on that property. And they're asking for 830. We would really like I would really like to see this stay of residential. We're a rural area. And get their residential units somewhere in the. In a similar amount to what we have at Lake Frederick. I have concerns about building height. I also have concerns about timing. I agree with Roger. I would love to hear a little bit more about Valley Health. Of the couple positive comments we had from Lake Frederick folks when we told them that Valley Health was considering it. That was the one that swung the needle that way. But there are so many negatives. I don't know that we can get that needle to where we can say yes, this is moving forward. And so I hope in the next 50 some days that we can get. If there if you can come up with a better commitment, a bigger commitment, maybe some drawings work with Mr. Madison. We I think that would really help the community. And so I I also am in favor of postponing and I'll wait to the end of the comments before I make a motion. Any other comments to my life? Mr. Singh. So I mean, I think there are a lot of positive. I mean, I really like the 42 acres that you're setting to the side to preserve the environment. But but I do agree with everyone else here. You know, Valley Health. I think that would be a great improvement. You know, adding that to the site and adding that first. So I think, you know, what these kind of. Modifications and like I said, switching the cash proper to the physical improvement. I think that would help as well. I just think it needs to be cleaned up. I think it has potential. But, you know, we just definitely need to think through everything very closely and cover every base. Thank you. Anything else? Yes. Mr. Marker. Yeah. Yes. I agree with most everything that's been said. I think it needs a significant amount of work to make this palatable. I don't think it's just a little bit of tweaking. I think there needs to be some large steps taken. Thank you. Sorry. One last thing. I'd like to encourage the applicant to work with staff and really think about. What complements with medical uses, the residential units, the ages of the types of units. So we're not just throw in random commercial in with, you know, a nice medical office building. So just encourage you to really work with staff and think through that process. Anyone else? Okay. I would just say. We've heard a lot of good comments tonight. I received about 40 emails from people. Thank you, Marv. I understand the concerns I've read and I attempt to respond to your emails. So, you know that I've seen them and read them. And I will also say that there are a number of concerns here that I have that have been voiced tonight. And I don't want to repeat those. But I want to go back to Miss Spencer. We can do better. This is a community resource. That's been that's been made clear. Those of us that have been here a long time understand what Lake Frederick was like before all the houses were built down there. What it was like to go fishing down there and and have to paddle your way around because you couldn't use a motor. And, you know, it's fine. It's relaxing. And I don't think any of us who live here want to see that destroyed. I do know there are requirements that the Department of Environmental Affairs has to meet. But I don't think that's the case. I think the Department of Environmental Quality has for stormwater runoff. I understand that. But they might they may not be sufficient for what we're what we're going to be dealing with here. And I think that's got to be looked at a little bit closer. A lot of the things we've talked about tonight and that the applicant has presented are sound good. But quite honestly, if it's not in a proper document with teeth and it's for us, it's just words. And they're not. And that's not to say the applicant isn't willing to work with us. We hope he is. We have work sessions with applicants to help them understand what our concerns are early on. So when we get to this point, hopefully those can can get worked on. We have the opportunity now to delay this so that we can work with the applicant a little bit further. And I will tell you, our staff is top notch. Mr. Pearson, Mr. Mr. Bishop. Our top notch. And working on these types of things. And they would be willing to work with Mr. Madison and Mr. George and the whole team to to help move this along so that it is a win win for everybody. We understand Mr. Madison's in business and wants to make money. We're not opposed to that. We like money, too. But the commercial component of that helps fund activities in the county that are going to go to support that. Just to give you an example. The school proffer. The school proffer that you have shown that you're willing to pay for your units. That doesn't cover but about 40% of the cost the county incurs with capital costs when a unit when a residential unit is built. And the rest of it has to be covered somehow. So the commercial component is very important to us. We were elated back when we did the comprehensive plan amendment. And I was there. And we saw a proposal from Mr. Madison. That listed many of the things and proposed many of the things that are in your traffic study. With a much a medical campus type of setting. With a small emergency room. With a dental clinic. With all the things that are listed in your traffic study. And that quite honestly was very enticing to us. That led to the comprehensive plan being adopted I think. I think it was a key factor. So we like that. I think the people in Lake Frederick. Would like that. An emergency there. Is a very, very long timeline for Stevens City Rescue Squad to get to Lake Frederick. And then to get to the hospital. If they go to Winchester they could always go to Front Royal which might be closer. And you know it's the kind of thing where we have an opportunity to improve on what we offer. And I'm elated that Ms. Lord is here tonight to talk about that. And Valley Health's commitment to that. So I think there's more we can do. We can make this better. We can do a whole lot better. And get to a win-win. And I would just encourage you to work with the staff. And I'm sure they'll be more than willing to do that. But at this point I do not think we're ready to go forward. And I will defer to my commissioners from the Opecan District to make a motion. I'll move to table consideration of rezoning 0725 for Madison 277. And I'll move to table consideration of rezoning 0725 for Madison 277. And I'll move to table consideration of rezoning 0725 for Madison 277. So theちら. Then I want to say that�� will continue to question today and then we willot any amateur urgency to pass a motion. Time and enough time to be able to place the motion yet. There is no add or delete benefit from the motion so it's not a максимum right to throw it under the recommendation table. It's a direct paper. revised to be more in compliance with the surrounding area and to provide a clearer reasoning for the profits related to mitigating transportation impacts. We have a motion is there a second? Second. And we have multiple seconds. Okay is there any further discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Whittaker, a yes vote is to table this until our second meeting in January, sir. Whittaker yes. Crane yes. DeHaven yes. Kern yes. Kozo yes. Thomas yes. Margaret yes. Sneddon yes. Botthorpe yes. McKay yes. Brumbach yes. LaMagna yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. So this will be tabled, this will be taken up by the Planning Commission again at our second meeting in January which is 21st of January. So in the meantime, we encourage the staff and the applicant to work together. And Mr. Pearson, you're gonna do some research to see if we might push that out further should the applicant choose to do so. Sure, I'll send an email to the Planning Commission with the results of what I find. Okay very good. Thank you. Thank you to everybody who came out tonight. I know it's very important to you. Thank you very much. Okay Mr. Pearson, I believe the last item is yours, sir. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely, Mr. Chairman. Really quickly, just three quick plan items to inform you all on. You will remember the Winchester East at Opecan Creek project that failed at the rezoning stage. They did pursue TDRs and we signed the master development plan today actually for 289 units using TDRs on that property. We're happy to be reviewing a site plan for the fourth high school and the two elementary school expansions with one of those already signed and approved. And then you'll remember the lineman training facility rezoning. We're working on the site plan for that right now as well. Those were just a couple that jumped out at me as well. And then lastly, please be ready to join us December 10th at 530 for a joint work session with the Board of Supervisors to start some work on the comprehensive plan update. Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Is that work session here in this room? It is, yes, sir. Okay. Does that stand out? Yes. Yes, sir. Okay. That completes our agenda and I'll be glad to entertain a motion to hold it. We're not going to meet again until January. I want to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a safe and happy New Year and I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. All in agreement, say aye. Aye. Have a great evening. Be careful going home.
