Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=320
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you and you you you its interesting that you ballins up separated did you ah I toodom All right. Okay, folks, let's get back to our seats, please. All right. You just want me to leave, Steve? We have a meeting this morning. You got them on both ends. Welcome to our work session number two on the Board of Supervisors. Let's get it going. I'm going to turn it over to Steve to do a presentation for fire. Thank you very much. It's always good to be on the board of the finance committee. I appreciate the opportunity. I know you have difficult decisions this year. You're right. I've already got nailed twice. It's on. I did the right thing. Good. That's good. There you go. Oh, still operator here, apparently. All right. Again, thank you for the opportunity to be here. It's always good to be before the board and the finance committee. I know you have difficult decisions to make this year. There's always competing interests, and much of everything is a weighing out process. So we understand that, and we really appreciate it. I did want to say one thing real quick. I wanted to thank Cheryl this last time. We're going to be a budget hearing together, hopefully. You're not coming? You're not coming this week? Well, I could come next week. But I do want to thank her. I came here six years ago, and she's been very helpful through the process, and I appreciate that. So trying to learn a new environment and different things, it's always an adventure. So with that being said, we did get an opportunity to have the public safety committee this morning. I know it's been a long day, so I'm going to try to be as expeditious as possible going through different things. But I'll certainly answer as many questions as I can. I'll try to answer as many questions as you have. First, I just wanted to start with just trying to give sort of a state of affairs general overview. In FY, excuse me, in calendar year 2025, we had 14,909 fire incidents. And incidents are actually discrete calls. We actually had closer to 20,000 responses, which means various units from various stations going to various calls. A pretty significant workload. That's an 8% increase over the year before. As you can see, we're going to have a lot of work to do. We can see almost over 1,000 more calls. And if you track back to 2020, you're basically looking at a 37% increase in call volume over that time. We also know that, as you all are aware, acutely aware, the demographics of the county continue to evolve. I read a study, actually the census report, looking from 2010 to the 2020 census that really came out in 2022. There was an 80% increase in the number of people in the community over the age of 65. That's a profound increase. That's a profound impact on the delivery of service. Obviously older individuals tend to have more healthcare needs in different places. And so we see that directly impacting our service. As I've started most of the budget presentations over the last several years, there are opportunities to try at the board. This is all public safety. And the fire department is all about making a risk assessment. What is your risk tolerance and what do you want to be able to provide? And getting an understanding of that. And getting an understanding of that level of service the community expects. As we've sat down and talked at various instances over the last several boards, factors to consider, obviously the most obvious one is response time. What is the distance to get there? And what are the available resources to be able to reach you? Which drive our facilities and drive our personnel conversations. And then the effective response force. It's not sufficient that there's just somebody available to go. It has to be the person with the right training, with the right equipment, the right apparatus to effect an effective operation. And so if you look at that, over the last several years, I've brought to the board looking at a standard to adhere to. NFPA 1710 is a standard that applies to all career departments. 1710 has a standard that basically looks for a four minute response for engines. And if you were to go review that and look at the geography of Frederick County and the distribution of population, obviously that would be an extraordinarily difficult standard to achieve. NFPA 1720 is one that is a deployment model that's geared to volunteer and combination departments. And it has a tiered approach which looks at understanding that or with the assumption of in more urban areas you'd have a better response time with better reliability. And that is you went out from the suburban and rural areas. It would necessarily be elongated response times. The idea is that at the end of the day everybody needs to have a quality response. But recognizing that the demographics and the geography would be different. The prior boards have embraced and given me the direction that that's the manner in which they want to go on. And that's been the basis of developing our plans over the last several years. This is a quick map that shows you where we have the different plans. And this is the plan that we've been working on. And this is the plan that we've been working on. Where we have where we can theoretically make it based on the position of stations and where we would have difficulty doing it. Red are urban areas that are outside of the standards for urban areas. Which means just between traffic, geography, distance. The odd red one there by Fort Collier area is actually there's a manufactured home area. That based on road miles and speed limits and different things would be outside it. So it's a little it's a little funky there. But of course the ones that are more surprising are the ones maybe not surprising to this board. But more surprising obviously like like Frederick which has urban densities. But it's in more of what would consider more of the rural outside area. Like Holiday similar situation. Then you look at the suburban densities. You're looking at prudentially again. And then you look at adjacent to those areas and getting actually into the mountain falls area in the star tannery area. So those are not things you would necessarily fit. But those contribute to some of our outliers on terms of response time. And then the yellow is obviously rural would are considered rural densities. In which either because of road direction or distance from the stations that would still be outside those limits. So that being said obviously the standard glows from some tolerance. It's 90. It's 90% expectation to be within the response time for the urban and 80 in the rural in the suburban in the rural. And then touching on and again I can't take any credit for this because I couldn't draw worth a lick. But this is basically a representation of talking about a effective response. And it basically walks through why do we need all those fire engines and why those people go into a structure fire call. And this is a standard response for a residential structure fire of 1500 2000 square foot house without complexity. It also would be in a hydrogen area not a non hydrogen area which creates water shuttle operations. But basically goes through the roles and responsibilities in which we need to work through. In this representation obviously there's four engines three engines and a ladder truck and a command vehicle. Which would give you the right amount of people and the right amount of apparatus. And then the other thing that we're looking at is the number of people. And that's the number of people as well. And so we need to have the right amount of apparatus if you had four person staffing in those companies to be able to make that response. And most of our certainly on our west side. We have two person staff stations down as I've spoken to the board many times we refer to them as fire rescue stations. But in reality they're either an EMS unit or I partially staffed fire unit. It's not both. Fortunately we do have continued involvement from the volunteer forces volunteer segment. a combination system that provides surge capacity for us on long-term incidents and things like this. We have a dedicated cadre of volunteers who will come out day or night for different pieces and helps mitigate some of that. And especially we see that in whether we're into rural operations, we need to get tanker operations out. And those are critical pieces for us or our needs would even be more expansive than what they are. And to that end, in our budget request, and again understanding the constraints that you're operating against and trying to get to competing needs, over the last several years as part of the 10-year plan that we've presented in the course of these budget presentations is look at eight positions a year for us to allow us to up staff. So on the east side where we have large volumes of calls, for instance, Greenwood and the other areas, we have Steven City experience close to 3,500 calls for service a year to be able to move from four people to six people to allow the level of staffing commiserate with what we're seeing with concurrent calls. And on the west side of the county, move from two to four on those stations. Basically it's sort of acknowledgment of this is a long-term goal, a long-term plan and the need to incrementally do it. Eight basically allows us to up staff one of those stations to the targeted level at a time. I think that's the only thing that we're seeing. I think we're seeing a lot of changes in the way that we're doing. I could certainly ask for all of them at one time, but our capacity to be able to hire, recruit, to do those different things is not realistic and having a manageable flow really serves as a realistic and serves the purpose that we think we need to do. Understanding that you have competing needs in that case, but that has been the plan. That is what the objective is and it is to get us in compliance and get us to the point where we can fully execute. On those delivery goals. So that's the first piece of the puzzle that's from the operating side. On the capital side, we're doing obviously it's apparatus and facilities. As everyone knows as being a combination system, nine of the 11 stations are volunteer-owned. The apparatus are almost exclusively historically volunteer-owned and operated, which includes the care and maintenance of those vehicles. Over time, the fleet has been able to operate and run on a more or less standard, but they're not going to be able to operate on the fleet as they would have been if they were not able to operate on the fleet. The second piece of the puzzle is the financial fortunes. The financial fortunes of the companies have been flowed. We have not had traditionally a set replacement schedule for apparatus. It's been more at the mercy of the strings of what individual companies could do from time to time. As part of the 10-year planning process, we've come together, made common standards, made common expectations, used a set set of criteria. We've come together, made common expectations, used a set set of criteria to set a comprehensive fleet plan. And NFPA 1901 is basically that standard. And so in a nutshell, for the large apparatus, includes an expectation that traditionally if you look at a 15-year lifespan for large apparatus, frontline use and 25 total life expectancy for those apparatus. And so that was the driving, that's been the driving factor in looking at the fleet plan. One of the challenges I had when I first started as chief is the companies had simply stopped submitting CIP requests because they viewed it as a process that had no outcome. Because, and I think as many board members know, it was referred to as a wish list and other different things. I know this board tends to take that in a different direction, to be a real planning document. And so part of the process is to get everybody back into that process. Part of it is then addressing the technical issues of the fleet plan. And so part of the process is to get everybody back into that process. Part of it is then addressing the technical addressing the financial realities that each company has and finding what we can do from the distribution of load to be able to make sure that we have the real equipment we need, not what one random company wants or decides that they need to have, but what actually serves the total needs of the system. And so that is what's driven the plan. It's been developed collaboratively, hours and hours and years, literally years of time, and it continuously evolves. And it's based on what happens with our apparatus, what happens with what things we get funded for, what don't we get funded for, what changes we have in service delivery, which of course, as illustrated, again, it has changed dramatically in just the last five years. So it's an evolving document. It is our planning document to move forward. On that list, and I think Mr. Pohlhofer presented the budget, the two highest priority items were Engine 21, which is the first new engine out of Millwood Station. That station is on the left. It's on the right. It's on the right. It's on the left. And so we've moved on to the next item. So we're moving on to the next item. So we're moving on to the next item. And this is one of the high-volume, one of our high-volume stations. And at this point, the point of it being replaced would be over 20 years old if we were able to make the replacement of it. So needing to move on with that. Tanker 16 will be close to, will be 40 years old when the replacement, a possible replacement would be made. It has been only sporadically in service over the last year, which we've been able to cover because we took an early delivery of Tanker 22. Obviously that option runs out when Station 22 goes online. So that would be our second highest priority. We have other things on our CIP list in terms of additional tanker replacements, but that's really the number ones on the list. The second item that I would appreciate consideration is looking at our ambulance fleet. Again, this is the fleet that gets run the most, obviously, because of the percentage of our EMS calls. We have two. We have ambulances that are approaching 20 years of age and are long past the point that they need to be replaced. In our proposal and our plan over the phase is that we move to having common county-owned reserve apparatus and companies being fully responsible for first-out ambulances. This would propose using those ambulances to become county reserves. Currently, again, similarly to the tanker situation, the two ambulances that we have been purchasing and delivered early for Station 22 have been running as reserve apparatus. We have close to 300 days over the last year in which they have served that capacity. So again, that's an opportunity that will go away with the due piece. This gets us into a cycle. I think what the Board has asked historically for is a rationalized plan in which we right-size the fleet, in which we move in a positive direction, and we make sure we're not putting good money after bad. Okay. Again, with the fleet side, not to belabor it, we certainly have, when you have an aged fleet, we have an aged fleet, obviously your repair and maintenance costs go significantly off. That's a drain on the companies. That's more funding that's taken away from doing some of the replacement of pieces they have, and it becomes sort of a circular drain on the system. And so over the long haul, I think we embrace what the Board is looking to do, which is making a comprehensive planning document so we have some predictability with it. We understand everything is always based on the availability of funding, and we understand each year we'd have to come and discuss that and make our case. So those were basically the high points. That's obviously a capital budget. Those are capital budget items. And so that's the primary focus of our presentation. I'll certainly take whatever questions you have. Okay. Anybody want to go up first? Supervisor Oates. I'll throw this in first. Okay. Okay. I've heard supervisors and even myself have said we need to kind of run the county as a business. I think this is a simple one here. This is fire and rescue. It's not something that's an option. We have to have this for our citizens. That's what they expect. I don't think we have the policies in place yet, but I think we need to get to where we treat fire and rescue as a small business. So he's not coming here every year, showing his budget. Okay. He's not coming here every year. I think he's going to be here every year. He's going to be here every year. So he's going to have to be in a position where supervisors pick and choose what we'll fund this but not this. It needs to be more of a document that when it shows up, well, we're going to have to get the money to cover this. It's not an option. It's, you know, we can't have engines out here 20, 30 years old. Same with ambulances. Same with personnel. They've got to be paid fairly. So the more we could set this up and have it run throughout the year, have supervisors involved, like in public safety or something like that, but just look at it as a business that needs to be funded. There's no questions asked. And we're assured that there's no fluff. There's no, you know, new fire truck with Alcoa wheels and, you know, all the bells and whistles. It's not needed. Everything's standardized. Everything. We're all comfortable with it. But we need to get out of this mentality that we've had for the last 10, 12 years of we can cherry pick what the fire department gets and what they don't get. So I'm going to jump in real quick. Because, Chief. Yeah. So, to answer your question about how long it takes, if you ordered a fire truck today and you ordered an ambulance today, how long does it take? Typically for ambulances, it's getting close to two years or more. For fire apparatus, it's three to four years. For frontline engines and aerials and other specialty vehicles, it takes longer than that. That's a dramatic change over the last five or six years. I mean, you were closer to a year timeframe probably in 2019 when I started here in Frederick County. So, to that point, making sure that we have a planning process in place to be able to look over the horizon to do different things, to be able to do it. And I'd add similarly to the apparatus space, it's the same thing with personnel. This isn't like we put an ad in the paper and suddenly five firefighters appear in there on our doorstep the next day. It typically is a six-month recruitment process for us to get the people through all of the pieces that we have to do for recruitment process. Okay. So, it's about seven months for our recruit academy, and then we have an additional six months that we have with the probationary staff before they count to minimum staffing. For that reason is, if you want something to happen today, you need to have started it a year and a half to two years before to happen, and it's across the board. Thank you, sir. Okay. Continuing down the line here, Supervisor Gouvernat. Looks like you're up next. Thank you. One couple of comments. I know the value of the volunteers that support this county. I know sometimes you all feel like you're never out of the fundraising mode. Between pancake days and cash parties and yard parties and everything else you do, the contributions to the county is massive. It doesn't go unnoticed. Okay. This is why I think to Supervisor Otu's point, we have to figure out how to run this more as a business. There are things we know we need. We got to fund it. I'm glad to see that the Winchester Star is still here because what you need to put in the newspaper is the value of our fire and rescue, and the citizens need to understand how important it is that that's funded. Okay. So yes, this board is going to have to make hard decisions to find funding, and whether it's businesses in the future that will come, taxes that may have to be raised, all those things go to making sure that when there is an incident in this county, somebody shows up to save you. Someone shows up to save your dog, your kids, your grandmother. We cannot not do that. We have to do it. We have to do it. We cannot do that. It's probably one of the most critical things people count on is when they call 911, adequate staff and apparatus show up. So I think I just want to make it clear that I feel like this is a priority for this board to find the funding and to figure out how to get the volunteers out of the constant feel that they can't do the work because they have to. They have to constantly be fundraising. That's my point. Thank you. Supervisor Orndorff. I think I've got two mics here. I don't know that I can add a lot to what Supervisor Gurman is saying or Supervisor Oates. I agree with what they're saying. I've used this expression before. Who do you call in the middle of the night? And to the point. Okay. So I think through the services that I've been called in the middle of the night numerous times and I've called them has been Fire and Rescue and the Sheriff's Office. And the importance of training, having when you pull up to a school, for example, to know that there are trained people there that know what they're doing, have a confidence. It just doesn't happen by chance. And the appreciation for those people that the fundraising is phenomenal by the volunteers. But we're at a point that service organizations is the classic example that you don't have the volunteers and you don't have the Lions and the Rotary and all the volumes of volunteers. And I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. You know, once you've got these volumes of people that you used to have, so the importance in looking at it differently and you use the phrase, operating it like a business and not try to micromanage, telling the professionals how to do their job. So I'm on the same page. Supervisor Atkins. I'll be short and sweet. I'm super excited that there's attention. a 10 year plan. I'm a planning guy. And I like how there's a staffing plan without a question. I mean, if you look at the 10 year plan that you guys need at least two and a half million dollars a year, you got my full support on making that happen. We just got to figure out as a county how to do it. But I'm going to be fighting for it every single time. Because the safety of our residents, I mean, when I pick up the call dial 911, I want you guys showing up. And you need to do we Yeah, and and you guys need the apparatus and staff to make it into pull it off. And I've got your back. I don't have anything that I just thank you for all you do. I had to say I had two hours. You got awarded support to fully supports, you know, we support public safety, fire rescue and the sheriff's office. We thank you. We thank all of the volunteers and the professional staff. You know, me personally, you know, you've helped me a couple times now. And we're just, you know, we we've got to figure out what we're going to do. But we absolutely, you know, I think Supervisor, it's hit it right. We've got to be you've got a plan that makes it a lot easier to support because you have a plan. And we also know the hurdles you have to go over. That's why. I asked about how long it takes for a fire truck and how long I mean, it's this to me is bothers my mind. You ordered one tonight. It's me three years now before we see it. So we've got to be thinking ahead. And that's one of the things about this board. We want to be thinking of head not only for the support of fire rescue, but in budgets in general. So this perfect example why we got to be doing our job. So thank you. Mr. Chairman, to that point, I did bring copies of the 10 year plan. I've done I've given it in various formats and these four but this is the living breathing documents updated. We actually just met with the the volunteer chiefs to review it Tuesday. And so it's it's it's freshened up to the minute and reflects the priorities that we have in here and we have copies for you. We're also going to make it publicly available as well. So that's all I see. Supervisor Akins, Mr. Chair, the the only thing I would add to my statement is that sometimes plans. Need to be revised. Absolutely. And the we have to be cognizant that you've got unanimous support up here. But some departments when they hear that, like, hey, let's throw in another ambulance. They got our back. You know, yeah. And we are trusting your all's experience. If you're like, hey, you know, we can get by this year. And let's get that one next year. You hear that those kinds of things. Absolutely. And if there's you guys have a staffing plan and there's been there's some side conversations about what you need and what you don't need. If you don't need the VA this year, shoot up a flare and let us know because that would really help us out and all the other departments out there. Yeah, absolutely. And to that point, as you see the list of things that we need, we're very conscious of making sure we're being as efficient as we can to get that because there are a lot of needs over time. So it's certainly the representation which is this board has been historically very supportive of things that we take that trust very seriously. And and we appreciate it. I am going to piggyback on that we had the board we had the school board here last night and I made a point of telling Dr. Hummer, you're part of a team. And that team includes all the other county services that this counties. So we appreciate you being efficient and working with us and having things planned. That makes it a lot easier. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Everybody good. Everybody go on site. Hey, finance. Can you thank for coming out tonight? All right, this we got this part out of the way. Do I close the work session or do we? Or do we roll here? I know you guys Joe here. Do we roll into it? It's your choice. Keep it going. Let's go. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Do you have till? I do. Thanks. Thank you guys. Anything. Okay. Okay. Tongue. Okay. Thank you. Yo Gal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. those committees you just mentioned to ask us to use the money in reserve for everything you need washer and dryer the new vehicle whatever it is the staff is there any reason why we can't do that no let's do it start right it's coming to the board yes all right awesome thank you mr. chairman I respect I think the money that's been donated the county's historically done the operation the maintenance the building that money has been donated I think that would be better serve for having events to try and encourage people to adopt the animals if we raid that account for this year then they're not going to be able to do it they're going to be able to do it they're going to have any money for other projects throughout the year that they do rely on that donation money for so my opinion is its responsibility the county to keep the operation going and the donated money to be used for adoption events things to help get the animals out of the shelter being sir mr. chairman joe some of those monies is at the same time being donated to the project and the money is being used to help the animals get out of the shelter and so you could first of all ask the university AmeriCorps housing project in Jackson County to fill out thoseram Bill that says was the definition of ownership they was trying to add focus but they just don't want that to be included when they hold them so you could think what you do get funding for what go with it so while this call to worship on the property goes on it's the genres of wh Arab thing is a mober the ft go organizins on the property arise and the families and clinics get together to curator ought to be before you notice that it's during this crisis is that as spring's into Washington they've done a mess immediately Charlie Parks he said you can't just to continue so Most of these people in the county have didn't invest that much because there's��는 is a lack of a lot of money in those forgive that you topings that have and I can't quite understand the most important part of things for me is remember them at the shelter some of them are just $500 checks $50 checks so a lot of times it's just made out to the animal shelter to be used and it's as I've saying historically they've been used for special projects but not operations maintenance or personnel but there's nothing legally that says it can't be except I do feel that with the trust of the two hundred twenty five thousand this for spay neuter that money should stay and be used to fund that typically we put twenty-five thirty thousand dollars a year in that but the other thing I will caution the board on is depending on how that's viewed by the citizens if you rate it and take the money there it's it's not going to be getting that every year you know we don't get in a million dollars every year we don't get in a million dollars every year because we have a lot of medication only get in 30 40 thousand depends on what it might be so just in whatever you request I mean just let us know and then you guys can discuss through it what what things you want to fund again just be careful that I think you might want to be careful not to send the wrong message to people if they're gonna donate because I'll be honest we get trusts all the time and those again unless they're specifically saying spay neuter or something else it's kind of left up to us to try to make that decision so whatever direction you can provide for us is fine I know Bob says coming to the board I would say at a minimum we should be able to fund a capital expense like the washer-dryer how did that yeah yeah in my opinion I think that the I concur I think this is just a perfect example of us talking it through love to hear some ideas on what a police policy could be here sure that hey you know what as a since it was donated to the animal shelter you know what that you guys feel that like we should keep a reserve of a million hypothetically I'm coming up random numbers here and because that million dollars is going to get unfortunately not very much interest because the way that we the county has to his strings are attached on what it can be invested in but then if it's at a two to three percent raise a rate it's getting it's earning twenty to thirty thousand dollars a year it's growing and then obviously if you're getting another thirty thousand dollars a year then maybe there's sixty thousand dollars there that it can be used towards washers and dryers and whatever it might be if I put if a policies is a little bit more established then we don't talk about it every year and and and put something put something together so it's not a an ongoing thing loved here's my ideas okay so I'm going to move on I'm really just going to talk about the engineering department now and one of the things we just got to work through guys is so currently the engineering department is going to be working on a new project and we're going to be working on a new project and we're going to be working on a new project as you can see on the slide so for the house here the project actually was made up really of a couple branches but the main ones are the part that we deal with new development with storm water management erosion some control the other main part of our development or department is project management on the storm water ens side we have a current ordinance chapter 143 that actually was just recently updated last year in that is for anyone do a new development they land disturbance permits as in this budget probably 50 to 60 percent of our budget is covered by revenue from the issuance of the permits that's what we're doing right now so there's a term called ms4 municipal separate storm sewer system that has been around for many years in many localities within Virginia and across the country have these programs and what it is is that once we grow to a certain size of urban development working with the Census Bureau every 10 years to do a census they map out areas of urban development and if you meet a certain threshold of population with an urban density then you will become an ms4 now what that means is is that county-owned properties within the urban area in the ms4 area we have to then do more control inspections many things I see supervisor Orndorff shaking his head because he knows about this with the school system but there's many programs across Virginia Winchester's an ms4 the school system has a small one but a lot of localities are so this is a I don't it you can't see much but that's kind of a map of Frederick County but if you look at all the orange the yellow in the middle is Winchester all the orange is that urban area all out Cincinnati Road up to our north to the area down south into Stephen City those areas are urbanized and all the red is county-owned properties within those urban areas so what this program would mean is that we're going to be able to do a lot of work we then have to develop a program that meets these requirements about public education public involvement elicit discharge detection construction site runoff control post construction storm water management and pollution prevention and good housekeeping for municipal so these are things that we as the county now have to embrace that we have to look at for county-owned properties so that means like the public safety building in the urbanized area we're going to have to start doing things out there inspections monitoring that we don't we've never had to do before and it's a lot of work and and the one the only advantage is that the state gives you time to build up but the thing is we've got to start working quickly we just got our permit in august that's our general permit number our program plan working with the consultant is due to deq in less than two weeks um it's going to require us we already developed a gis map working with our i.t folks mapping all the county properties mapping all of the storm sewer issues there and the other part we're working on is a standard operating procedure where county as we do cleaning snow removal whatever we do on county properties as a county we have to start following new rules so it's a lot of work and we're still working through what it might mean for the whole county as a whole i had saw him gary yeah just to clarify so this is something now the county has to start doing what we've been forcing developers and businesses to do over the last 10 20 years so here's the funny part our our new like if we're building a new building our development is always going to require that to do stormwater management develop the plan but what it means is is that we as a county are going to have to do maintenance we're going to have to do record keeping we're going to keep logs of you know thank goodness we don't have a public works facility where you're doing vehicle maintenance but if they're out at the public safety building and they're maintaining cars they have to keep records if there's pollutants being those types of things the same thing we've been requiring the businesses and other people basically yes sir so now we have to do the same okay yeah um part of this is we got to start inspecting county properties this year we've got to submit our first annual report to deq by the fall so we're not necessarily got to jump in to where it's going to be huge at first but within a year or two we're going to be doing a lot more than just the normal things we're going to be doing a lot more than just the normal things we're going to be doing a lot more than just the normal things more work to be able to comply with this permit now deq is the enforcement agency for the for this permit but they're on but over them as epa and if localities don't do this program and you're mandated to do it then there are fines and there are things that can happen um so what we're trying to do here i've got this exhibit i hope you can see it it kind of gives the roles and responsibilities of what this involves with the county it ultimately starts with the board the county administrator on the left above the big six you've got finance we're actually going to have to implement procurement in the future to ensure that contractors that work for the county follow our own rules that we're developing for pollution control and prevention when you come down to the next layer you've got six different pieces it's going to involve public works it's going to involve the building and maintenance department it's going to involve the pio it's going to involve i.t planning and development and parks and rec now the five on the right beside public works are going to have roles where they support us things that we need we're going to have to put stuff out on the website about the programs we're doing litter pickups all those things i.t we're going to develop a gis map that we're going to have it so that it's a tool that anyone in the county can use we're working with our gis people as we develop it to make sure it works across the board playing in development well they they're in charge of floodplain ordinance there's pieces of that with the ms4 parks and rec they have some of our bigger properties they have to do certain maintenance in the future put up signs make sure people pick up after their dog when they're taking a ticket on a walk part of this is telling people all your fertilizer on your grass and have the runoff go into the bay as far as under public works it's going to be mandated by us we're going to have to do a lot of the inspections take it complaints from people so that's kind of why in fy27 we're going to have to recommend that we're going to have to hire two people we need to hire an environmental specialist someone that can actually help manage and do the work of the ms4 and then also we're recommending that we need another secretary to help manage the paperwork that's not only going to go along with this program but the growing program of our stormwater because the amount of development that is occurring we do one sidebar if you develop a new property and you put in the stormwater management you are now required to provide a maintenance agreement that you're going to take care of that stormwater management facility forever the property is going to be under the ms4 and we're going to have to do a lot of the work and if the house is in need or a lot of the formal goals are there through that september and job search and july now we are going to pick whatever level you like the property is and Meat County the ms4 the property owners are going to helpilah Erfahrung county let's talk about that and blockage the property owners do that they sign it the county signs it every five years we have to go back and make sure that it's being maintained and inspected we have to do some of that work ourself as that grows the need within our department's going to be there for people so even though we need environmental specialists and they're going to be department as efficiently as possible to manage not only our current program which is growing but then to also deal with this new requirement so essentially as far as environmental specialists someone that can put time into managing this and reporting back and then making sure the reports are done on time we meet all the benchmarks at the state is having for so that's again it kind of lays out what those people are going to do our plan like I say is to try to make it as efficient we're already using mobile technology you can take out our phone and we're doing inspections right now for everything with stormwater and ENS right off of our phones it's very efficient we do the report it sends out notices to the developers or contractors who's you know not following the rules takes pictures again we're gonna use this technology it saves a lot of time and effort so we're gonna again try to be as efficient as possible but you still have to have people that can they can keep up and do the work that's going to be required by this so I hope that helps as far as anything else within Public Works the only other thing we're asking for an inspections department is place of two vehicles so other than that we've got the one person at the shelter two people here which the one person would need a vehicle and then two vehicles in inspections that's really the main capital and personnel calls for the whole division that's that we're put it that we put in the budget sure I'm gonna go back a little bit landfill you said that you said that you said that you said you said you were one person and right now it's one person for all of you it looks like you've got one only driver so groups usually and actually challenging one person audi or hotel in person but anyone that palavra 적oke Tourism company so I think we should go ahead and discuss that because that's been a nice conversation so much that was interesting and the next one that prap socially the word affected us and thank you the vaig is that people who are Filming if you don't like China a can contact usень think I understand and you'll also see kids with kids so if you see kids and their employer disabilities are overly targeted they are in the middle of that and a lot of people don't have anything but you know immigrants do these things too so the recruitmentDon't you think you're Jr Google review what you're doing has more specialty to hire make it easier for airplanes what are you doing what are you doing that's where the money would come for to pay for the road repairs or whatever or if some reason there's a shortage in funding from the taxpayers to pay for Shawnee land we have money to operate without having to come to ask for the board I'm trying to get my head wrapped around yes okay so I think you were in the audience but Gary was talking earlier about running the county like a business we've been beating our chests a good bit about that lately and when I when I hear Public Works and I hear that okay we've we've got excess funds here we've got excess funds here but this pocket over here needs help I'm looking at the whole thing together and if I've got a half million sitting in excess and Shawnee that's in excess why would I not use some of that part of it you gotta remember those monies are specifically earmarked they cannot go from Shawnee land anywhere else that's really unfortunate to my conversation the shelter money has to stay in the shelter it's just the way that those funds are taxed is that by code state code or what is the reasoning in between absolutely yes sir like the money from Shawnee land that's the people that live there that's their money that's not every taxpayer okay yeah that money's just for the people that for operations or maintenance it's Shawnee land only it's money that's it's their dues they pay that to it I'm just sitting here contemplating no that's why I'm following you 100% John first point is always tough because public works is not one budget it's a lot of budgets with lots of strings attached to each little piece i withdraw my comments chair jason you want to bank i'll have the car ready i was going to just quickly say i understand this new requirement because you guys came out to winchester landing yes sir and on the board of the hoa we walked around and we were the first development that was is now part of this every five years we gotta check this and we as a hoa board have to make had to get the funding to make sure we're keeping up with our five-year plan so when we come to them and say yes we been maintaining we checked it but yeah you guys would have to come out to make sure we're an honest broker and we're keeping those storm waters open so i do get that that's a new requirement for you so for sure thank you you might mention too i know excuse me i know how i was talking about the schools and talk expand a little bit about what we talked about about working together 20 20 plus years ago there was an urbanized map done that was watched by the ma 고 and the nous and they provided both and and so now and i'll be out of the Were you going do global shopping we Pedro hill so the new urban map they have five or six more schools that are gonna have to get tied in with that so one of the thought processes we've already had a conversation with the board and the public works committee is in the future once we get our permit coverage finished up this year there could be a program where we work with the schools to where we could help manage theirs and it would be we're basically the board can give a certain pot of money to ms4 and stormwater and we'd be able to take care of both of it because the school has got to be mandated they're mandated to run their own ms4 Al knows much about what is required paperwork wise but it's just something that we want to offer up and we've talked to schools about that because it's not it doesn't make sense if we're getting chunks of money to do stuff and they're getting chunks of money to do stuff there's there's overlap that can be done together so just an idea that we're going to have to do that and we're going to have to do that we want to throw out over time in the Gainsborough district there's Lake Holiday mm-hmm I'm assuming that I mean we have no do we have any involvement out there at all with their their plant and that kind of stuff no we had that small we we created a sanitary district for Lake Holiday when they did the dam improvement right but since that's closed out they're just a private entity and I'm sure their own HOA fees 100% yep okay and paid off yes well I've heard I mean I've had a lot of residents come to me and say some strong statements about about the system out there and that's reason I'm asking the question the water system and sewer system the answer that question is yes does anybody have any other questions I don't know I don't know if there's any other questions I don't know if there's any other questions I don't know if there's any other questions but I don't have any other questions but while we're being any other questions but I don't have any other questions but while we're being heard by the public I'd like to do my little part for the shelter if you are little part for the shelter if you are bowl bowl interested in adopting a dog or a cat interested in adopting a dog or a cat we have plenty of great dogs and great we have plenty of great dogs and great cats available at our shelter please go cats available at our shelter please go out there and visit them and take one out there and visit them and take one home thank you very much just quick home thank you very much just quick question this new sign is this gonna be question this new sign is this gonna be an animated sign where you can have an animated sign where you can have pictures of the animals yes sir I'm like animals yes sir sign along the road yeah it's gonna be a really nice sign it's gonna have a nice veneer and then it's gonna have a big digital display where we can have animals we can talk about events because one thing about the shelter you know it's right next to the jail but a lot of people don't know we're there and we had this sign that's real small so we all talk together we work with the jail we're gonna put a really nice sign it's gonna have animals up phone numbers all kinds of events so it's gonna be a really good really good thing we should have that finished by May that's awesome any other questions Cheryl is gonna handle health insurance okay can you hear me okay so Mike sent out something last week it was like our cover page of our health insurance and I think it showed like a 23% increase yeah yeah, plus we sat here last night and we listened to the school talk about their health insurance so I kind of wanted to explain our side of it I can't talk in reference to schools and I want to let you know what what Jennifer and I have been working on and kind of where we're at today which is a lot better than where we started so we did have a 23% increase that was a result of our claims it's also got some adjustments across the country everyone's dealing with health care increases the largest one we're talking about is the health insurance program which is one of our biggest among the largest in decades it's because of Medicaid changes it's because of the insurance exchange changes and it's also because of the tariffs on medical supplies so those are kind of the contributing factors we are self-funded so that really puts us in a great situation we can manage our own policy we pay anthem to administer our policy and we want their negotiated rates this year we normally and and we also then by reinsurance you know to protect the whole normally we have three to six people that reach that reinsurance level which is currently two hundred thousand dollars this year we had twelve if you looked at that cover sheet that Mike sent you there's a huge increase in our reinsurance reinsurance is something it's kind of like the deductible on your car you know if you have a hundred dollar deductible you're paying a large premium or if you can afford a thousand dollars your premiums less so that's what we're looking at right now when we took a snapshot of those twelve individual those twelve claimants that was through December we looked at did they have claims in January which means do they have ongoing costs and only five had on I had a claim that was in January and only five had on I had a claim that was in January in January so that hopefully means that seven of them have been carved out can I continue okay we are looking at increasing our reinsurance to three hundred thousand and that's because like maybe half of those people were only a little bit over two hundred so are we paying six hundred thousand dollars to cover two hundred thousand so that's one of the things that Jennifer and I are looking at this year is that we're looking at a number of things that we're looking at this this week we are also looking at so we have two health plans they are both very rich plans of course one's richer than the other and each one of those plans has four tiers so when you have nine hundred employees on that plan and you're trying to do a budget you don't really know which plan and which tier that employee is going to pick so you try to budget an average so there's this budget piece and then there's this health insurance increase piece if you have more people that are if you have more employees that are employee only you gain budget dollars because they are below your average budget so what we're trying to do is say how many how many budget dollars can we gain to help cover that increase how much can we change our reinsurance and then let's look at our pharmacy piece because right now we dispense as written so if you go to the doctor and they give you something that you see on television that is expensive then we pay for that no one really wants to go to the doctor and have the doctors and have the insurance companies say no you know there's there's something we want you to try this cheaper first we can shift to that we can also shift specialized drugs and different tiers and at the end of the day it's our plan that the 8% that we have budgeted we will make that work so the 23% you know I think Mike had had on his 42 million dollars he was trying to put additional money in there we're trying to say we're going to try to live within our 8% but there's a caveat we as a county need to look at those plans now and we need to say that we this is not sustainable we can't continue to afford this and I think everybody is starting on that but let's not keep on piecing it let's really look at what's gonna last for a longer period then change it every year and getting criticism every year so that's the good news that we want to share and and hopefully the school can kind of work on theirs as well and they can get to a better place yes you're welcome thank you so we ended the night with good news unless Mike messes it up I have a long presentation you see on the item there said revenue sources one of the revenue sources that I was going to discuss was donation of course Joe covered that when the his presentation and the other one is the available proper she were sent out a reconciliation from the finance department of the total dollars if you look at this sheet that shows you the total dollars in the primary proper funds so I was going to cover these first you have in schools there was 4.4 million dollars we've been doing a lot of research going back through documents so we could tie all these proffers to which ones had restrictions which ones did not so in the 4.4 million the one we could find with the restriction was the 1 million for Middletown school proffers and I believe that required the funds had to be spent either at Sharando High or at schools at any of the Middletown students attended and that was written in the proffers we were trying to find a way to look at how could we use these proffers for operational costs because I think it's important to look at the cost of the funds that we're spending on the capital costs or for other costs because proffers required to be spent on capital costs that are in your capital plan and we found a way we believe will work is that you know last year where they're doing the Middletown expansion well there's the debt on the Middletown expansion so we could use the 4.4 million to pay the debt on the Middletown expansion and then shift that 4.4 million into operating costs so that would help you with your budget and allow you to use those funds for that if this board chose to do so. So shift it to operating or shift it to their capital? Their capital yes and they could actually do both as long as you spend the other you could do whichever the board wanted as long as they spend the 4.4 million on the debts portion other once you've done that then the 4.4 million you can use whichever way you decide. On the parks you saw a number of 1 million dollars 1 million 82 thousand we've done the research gone back through all the documents and what we found was that the 4.4 million was the most expensive of the the 250,000 required through this through car moose that had to be spent up in the in that area the remaining amount of that can be spent on various capital projects for all the parks so that's the 832. Fire when you look at this I have a subsidiary ledger but most of those funds are all tied to different departments throughout the county what is available in general for the fire department out of the propers for fire is a hundred and forty four thousand. Transportation this was our difficult one going back to we went through a lot back to a lot of history a lot of documents and initially it was our understanding that all three million seven hundred seventy five thousand was committed to specific projects done a little bit of research and have to verify tomorrow but it may be that a four hundred and fifty thousand of that could be done to general projects for transportation if indeed that is the case and this board wanted to use it you could actually use those funds to help fund your transportation fund because that would meet the criteria of capital so that is actually our up-to-date information on the propers of what is available to make sure I heard you correctly the 144 665 with fire it is available to use towards capital correct you could we could use some of that towards apparatuses correct doesn't buy much but something yes every little bit helped the I'm sorry I needed to step out the question back for you on insurance yes have we looked at any other providers mean blue cross from shield is great but it's also one of the most expensive out there and we have we shopped the the the true carrier of our insurance are you talking about the administration costs because with being self-funded we just we just buy their rates basically by the rates we don't yeah so we paid admin and they administer our claims and we we get their negotiate race with Valley Health okay so there's there is no upside at looking at Optima or any other provider we have we lead I can't remember the date it's been years ago it's the only thing that we're really so what we'll have a list of your negotiated rates which is kind of like they're all kind of pretty much the same because they're gonna go straight with everyone so you're really shopping for admin costs well with a 23% increase I think we should pay them for it but I can't remember the date but it's been a be looking at every penny possible so so while you're gone we were talking about some of the things that we were looking at um we so right now we're at eight all right just so we're again so i i should have stopped talking but you know we ended up at eight right now and then um we've kind of like said that we're gonna now try to figure out a long-term plan fantastic thank you on the 250 000 for uh onn is that can that be used for the snowden bridge park that's going up now they all said some of their calls i will have to verify i may that's maybe what it's being used for i believe it was for the parking lot out there but i will verify that and send that out to you the information okay and on the uh transportation if there is uh some money there that we can transfer over to the transportation fund but something i want to bring up tonight to the board is uh the decal fee that we pay every year the 25 dollars to me that should go towards transportation every year it's about 2.7 million instead of us every year saying well how much can we throw to transportation this year just let that be the revenue stream for transportation funding that way we don't think about it we pull it out of the budget we don't consider it that way that pot of money can grow over time i think there was mentioned earlier this year or in the budget that we're going to have a budget that they may only need two major yeah two million this year well if they get that 2.7 there's 700 that carries over and that pot of money can keep growing uh plus we could if we need needed in the future for more road dollars increase that 25 to 30 or 35 but i think it'd be good if we set our budget to where there's certain things we don't revisit it's got a revenue stream you leave it alone and then we can't get it back to the state so i think that's a good point mr trey where's the where is that going currently just going in general funds the general fund general fund mike what's in our transportation fund right now seven million just rough i would have to get your numbers most of it's already been tied to those projects that have been approved correct i don't think there's a lot available just in general i know what uh but we have the funds are tied up but we have funds there yes and i will send you that out the uh plan department has a good breakdown of that okay i just wanted okay thanks i just like hearing the board throwing out ideas yeah this is very refreshing from an administration standpoint i mean um we've talked about multiple policies that we would like to maybe enact or entertain what is the process for that to actually take place it's it's really the board getting together deciding we want to create this policy and then you just vote on the policy and then you and it's created as a policy it's that simple okay i'm just going to throw one more thing out there we're pretty far along in the budget now i've been going through line by line trying to find little places we can cut here and there uh been making phone calls cheryl's been helpful bill's been helpful i think next meeting we have maybe all of us come in show what we've got you know how much money we i'm sure there's a lot of stuff we both or we all may have come up with and uh kind of narrow down to where we're going to be at come up with a scenario what do we need in a tax increase if we need one or maybe some of us found a solution where we don't need one but i think that'd be helpful at our next meeting everybody to show you cards and see where we're at and that is actually the next slide is on the general budget update is to schedule the next meeting i think the key date and cheryl correct me if i'm wrong march 11 is the drop dead date because we need that for the advertising does everyone have their notebooks and the part of it is that calendar so you can change the dates in the middle but it's hard to change them at the end of the week so if you so we have you did i'm sorry i'm sorry we initially had a meeting for next wednesday that was changed because there's a planning i think that's why we're having it tonight um so then you have one more in february the ad has to be let's see your public hearings on the love the ad has to be in the paper on the 13th is that right jennifer so after the 25th you you have one wednesday left that you can really talk about it because if it has to go to the paper on the 11th sorry 13th i don't have okay on the 11th it's too late to make a lot of major changes because you can't turn i mean you can make final ones you can change the transfer amount but by the end of february in the in the first week in march decisions have to be made agreements have to be you know i'm going to throw this out but i've had a vacation plan so i'm not even going to be here the week of the first week of march so not to let that hog tie anybody but that one's been playing for quite a while sorry okay so if you want to add dates of the time and he's not indicated so i got a message from a financial feeling I wanna know what plans you've got for January 12th and next week so let me get this in effect okay think that's why mike has i can't see that calendar but i think that's why you have it there right to talk about yeah and the idea and the idea was because of the short time frame to give a longer meeting if we could get like for instance a four hour meeting as a supervisor said everyone has their information brings their stuff together to get in a room together you know you iron this all out but we looked at a calendar this is just uh us looking at the car coming up with blocks of time that may or may not work we could also send a survey out to everyone to see what dates work but we thought uh as we're getting closer to that march 11th uh deadline it may make sense to have a good for at least one good four hour block set up up out there to get this done i know you mentioned that there's planning commission meeting on the 18th but wednesdays work pretty good for most of us it seems um the um and you have on the 18th starting at 9 00 a.m after finance but is there any reason why we couldn't do it from like two to six before the planning commission meeting um i mean i don't know if that works for people's work schedules obviously i'm sorry mr administrator the planning commission work session that evening starts at 5 30 so you would need to end up before that you you how about after finance committee what's everybody's good for that because half of you are here finance there's only one thing on finance committee at the moment and that's um our auditors so it should be pretty fast just a curiosity second question for ann what is the work session for at 5 30 on the 18th that's something the planning commission has scheduled for an item that they have on the agenda i'm not sure what it is but they've had that schedule for quite some time i think taxes are pretty much the same as the planning commission's schedule for the 18th so i think that's very important but okay i mean i could do the 18th in the morning yeah i can do 18th in the morning pop yeah i think i'll be all right i'm good when you should be on the line 10 o'clock is it so funny it's funny it's 8 30. yes the finance is 8 30. that'll probably take hour half hour hour so 9 30 we should be able to roll with it mr good or mine i'm looking at you i don't know i mean i can try to take the day off for work and that's the only thing i can ask to get off you can also participate remotely i mean i'll do my best either way mr supervisor supervisor edson uh i can do the 18th uh really anything through there other than the first week of march i'll be here till midnight if you need me to but i'll make it work let's go with the 18th so as of now jennifer and i's last day is the 25th that's our last meeting so we would like to not we would like to you know help with the process as much as we can so as many decisions as we can get made look better that makes it even better thank you thank you yes if i can make another recommendation sorry um is that a lot of people have notes um and if we could share those notes before the meeting on the 18th with each with each other that would be very very helpful uh that so we can come in because if we're if we're if all seven of us are bantering about different things on if there's a non-profit that you feel that should be funded more or what have you it would be good to get that out and for us to be able to talk about it a little bit on the side to to understand each person's position or or we're going to be talking circles for that four hours four hours is that going to get us in trouble i agree but the 18th is coming up pretty quick um i mean i can sit down on a saturday and spend a couple hours typing everything i've got out to where i could send it out i don't know about everybody else but i was thinking maybe on the 18th that's when we really share it all hash through it discuss it and then we have something for the 11th when we have our work session to make a final decision and put the rate out to favor i mean the 25th 25th excuse me yeah yeah so you're going to talk about on the 18th and then you're going to get your notes out and so then on the 25th we have a final i'm fine with that it just it was just so so the 25th are we keeping that at 5 30 or do you want to set up that's a board meeting night right right yeah do you want to let's go with this let's okay we're going to start at night we're planning on 9 30 on the 18th yes once we get through that period if we feel like we need to start earlier let's make a change on the 25th okay yep that works that worked everybody yes sir okay you can see how far you get yeah and then if we feel like we have to start earlier with the work session on 25th we will if not then we'll go with what we got by 30 so okay thank you cheryl before you yes if we discuss categorical funding for schools that doesn't impact you with any budget preparation does it um that's the resolution we've we have we can advertise in total and we can separate it by category and a resolution that doesn't go till um the 8th 8th of april so if we talk about that on the 18th that gives you it doesn't it doesn't that doesn't really play until april okay that's when you adopt the budget when you categorically fund it that's yes and if if there's any questions about the health insurance that you know i need to that can help you understand it more or you missed it or call me any other comment i would make and if we share notes and we have these conversations just from a public meeting standpoint staff make sure we don't get ourselves in trouble i'm going to verify that with the attorney to what extent you can do that and i will send that out first thing in the morning what issues are with that any foia issues yeah i think that might be better if we just could bring in everything on the 18th that way it's already out there in public then you're safe absolutely safe that way yeah yeah i i would agree better be safe and sorry all right are we good is that good mr chairman yes sir can i say a couple words sure this morning at the um public safety committee meetings a couple of you've already heard this uh today so i'm going to be brief um with the capital and state budget um the public safety committee meeting this morning um what are our capital needs that we're talking about we do have a Replen loose of capital needs of the fire rescue department both in moving stock and uh stations going forwardenge um second a minute we're only going two minutes long we we also created a wrist through out the 4 gets treated the same way. The criteria for the use of the equipment, things of that nature, where it's going to be located, standardization with the different units from the different companies and the firefighters themselves if they're on the same piece of equipment from station to station, that's very important. And then for the asset model or disposal of the asset at some point, whose ownership is it? Does it revert back to the county and go back in to fund future projects? And the other item that dawned on me today after this morning's meeting was in reference to the ticket items and the dollar amounts that are associated with them. It's kind of like trying to save up enough money to buy a house and you're just never going to get there. And I think there's opportunities that we can do. We can do some type of financing that takes away the hit on the capital fund constantly and still be able to benefit getting through this process and providing financing in order to handle the equipment needs. So those are some things I wanted to share. There are options out there for financing other than going to the bond market. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate the suggestions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any other? All right. Everybody go home and eat dinner. Good evening. I get it.
