Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-07-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=356
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Mr. Thomas, can you lead us in a pledge, please? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. That leads us to adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? We have an agenda. Meeting minutes from our April 15th meeting, 2026. Are there any corrections, additions, deletions that need to be made? If not, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And meeting minutes are? Adopted. Adopted. Committee reports. Okay. To my right, any committee reports? No committee reports? To my left, any committee reports? All right. I've got one. Transportation met on Monday, June 29th. Two things I'll mention. We are going to have recommended to the Board of Supervisors to hire a consultant to do the wetlands work on the Warrior Drive Trail. This is a proposal VDOT has given us. We have a responsibility for identifying wetlands out there, and we hope there are none. Also, very relative to the Planning Commission, the Transportation Committee has also recommended that McCormick Taylor be employed to update the comprehensive plan transportation model. This is the model that they'll use when we come up with a land use plan and evaluate what the impact is on the roadway network. So, thank you. So, we will get to interact with them in that capacity going forward. I saw Ms. Lisa Mayfield sneak in. Good evening, Ms. Mayfield. Hi. You have information from the city? Can you hear me? Yes. Yes. Yes. We had a very busy month in June. We reviewed PUD over on Treetops Lane. We reviewed a resolution to amend the... We reviewed a comprehensive plan to include the Old Town Neighborhood Design District. And we have, I think that might be the last of four neighborhood design districts. We reviewed a master development for the hospital. They changed their master plan, and we reviewed that. We reviewed a rezoning for the former Timbrook House over by the police station to become residential zoning again. And we reviewed... Yes. We reviewed a clear stature along with a забurchewed Lieutenant Butterfield. I also recorded a scene in the appeals required to pay for myN는데 Tahoe стр Karen in Memphis. I have no doubt that help comes in the name of the dla Animals Association who developed this project. So the victims of theickt testing issues for the old July number 11ham is in the chat. Some of our staff, some staff members, these all are directors, in San Remo. Being said, the Board of Supervisors did not meet since your last meeting, so I do not have a report. Very well. Thank you, sir. And I believe that completes the committee reports unless there's – I did have one. Oh, Mr. Bartok. Okay. I did have one. The Frederick Water had a joint meeting with the Board of Supervisors last month, and we discussed a multitude of topics and gave us some direction on what we're looking for in the future. Very good. We'll look forward to that as well. Okay. That should complete committee reports, and that takes us to Item 7, which is citizen comments. This is a time for anybody who'd like to address the Planning Commission to do so. If you'd like to address us on an item that is not on the agenda for a public hearing this evening, you can do so now. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing nobody, I will close the citizen comments, which leads us into public hearings. And Item 7. Item 8A is Mr. Bittner. This would be rezoning 05-26 for Busy B. Clearbrook Rentals. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bittner, Planner 2. This is a request by Clearbrook Rentals, LLC, to rezone .056 acres from B-2 general business with proffers to B-2 with revised proffers. The property is located at 4489 Martinsburg Pike in the Stonewall Magisterial District and was previously rezoned in RAZ 0501. This item was on your June 3rd meeting, but was deferred. This is the location of the property identified in red in relation to the bounds of Frederick County and the city of Winchester. And then this is the aerial of the property identifying the property in the orange. That's the B2 General Business District. Behind it and to its right from the street is B3 Industrial Transition District. That was rezoned in the same rezoning of 0501, and that's currently in use as a repair garage. The property was being used as a daycare facility. The applicant is seeking to sell that property to a user who would use it as an ABA clinic. That's a behavioral therapy for people with autism. That is classified in our ordinance as a health care services. That was proffered out as a restricted use in the previous rezoning, though it's typically a buy-write use in the B2. The comprehensive plan calls this area out in the Northeast Land Use Plan as mixed-use industrial office. These areas are intended to develop targeted growth sectors that are identified by the EDA and similar industries that bring higher wages, professional and technology jobs. This proposal for an additional allowed use of health care services doesn't otherwise further that plan policy for MUIO, and it's not identified as an EDA-targeted industry in the comprehensive plan. The B2 district is also not typically associated with this planned use designation. However, given the existing zoning of the property as B2, and that's not seeking to change that district, it's just seeking to add in a use that's otherwise considered as buy-write, the use would remain as commercial. This is the long-range land use map showing the area and the adjacent areas as all being mixed-use industrial office. The proffer statement with this largely reflects the existing proffers. The proffer statement with this largely reflects the existing proffers. The proffer statement with this largely reflects the existing proffers. The main modification is going to be proffer A to land use restrictions, which would allow health care services, including skilled nursing facilities, as permitted use. Proffer B, access management, that would dedicate 10 feet of right-of-way upon the request of Frederick County. And then there's also the proffer C, the structural development limitations, that restricts the building size to 3,000 square feet. That's an existing proffer. The building does currently meet that. There's also no building expansions proposed with this application. In the event that that were to change later on, there is a monetary contribution proffer of 10 cents per square foot. That is in line with the Board of Supervisors policy. The positives of this rezoning is that it doesn't otherwise change the existing zoning of the property, B2, and remains in conformance with the comprehensive plan. The proposed right-of-way also advances the Eastern Road Plan. That said, it doesn't further the land use policies of the NELUP and the designated long-range land use category of MUIO. Thank you. This item is presented to you all as a public hearing. Staff are seeking a recommendation following that from you all to forward to the Board of Supervisors. That public hearing is going to be next week, July 8th. At this point, the applicant and staff are available for any questions. Yeah, do we know why the health care services was originally proffered out from the first rezoning? I'll refer that to the applicant. Okay. Good evening. My name is Tim Johnson, also the owner of the property in question. The original zoning was for a daycare center. So it was not, you know, anything that had to do with health care. They felt like anything they could drop off the property, they would drop off the property. They would drop off, would pinpoint this building for primarily that. And when we, my wife has since retired, she ran the daycare for, I think it was 13 years. This company has come along, and they want to work with children also, but, you know, in a little more advanced setting. And so the county felt like that we needed, in order to be compliant with the, you know, regulations, that we need to get a proffer statement. And so they got a proffer statement added to that. But it's basically, from what I understood, not really going to change anything as far as traffic use or anything like that. But they need to have this to be in line with the county. And so it's more of a, just a little bit of change in use. But, I mean, we work with children with autism also, but not at this level. So it's much needed in the county. And I'm hoping that you guys can see that also. Thank you. Any other questions? Any other questions? All right. Any questions? Thank you. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing. Anybody who'd like to speak to this reasoning? So please come to the podium. State your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. And I'm sorry, my mic was not on. If you'd like to speak to this, come to this podium. State your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak? Seeing none. Seeing none. Yes, ma'am. Come up. Hi. My name is Cathy Arbogast. I've been living in Clear Brook for about 12 years now. I work there also. And I think this is good for Clear Brook. I think it will invite jobs. And it will give us, it will make us more modern, you know. It needs to grow a little bit. A lot of farmland, which is great. Farmland we use to make food. We use to make food. We use to make food for the family. That's what we're doing. We're not just working our way in. We're working to make it a better place. We're working to make it a better place. We're working to make it a better place. need our farms but there's still room for the farms and that was all okay thank you ma'am but anybody else like to speak seeing none I will close the public hearing planning commissioners any discussion if not we are in Stonewall gentlemen what would be your pleasure thank you mr. chairman I'd make the motion that on the rezoning 0526 for busy bees daycare we forward it to the board with a recommendation for approval second we have a motion in a second any further discussion okay miss broom back can you start our voting for us please run back yes McKay yes yes it's nothing yes Thomas yes Kozo yes current just de Haven yes crane yes Whitaker yes yes chair votes yes the motion carries this will go to the Board of Supervisors next Wednesday night the 8th of July thank you very much this leads us to item 8b rezoning 06-26 Hopewell Highway Commercial Center mr. Klein good evening sir yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is your consideration of rezoning 0626 for Hopewell Highway Commercial this is a request to rezone three parcels totaling forty point forty five hundred and twenty six for Hopewell Highway Commercial this is a request to rezone three parcels totaling forty point forty five hundred and twenty six for Hopewell Highway Commercial this is a request you have rezone eighty starts over and two petitions to be no result no retично from shooting institutional temporary 175其實 this again is we're in the middle of the сами school for work residents to complete the reconstruction objective of new housing and showing the general location of this parcel in northeast Frederick County between Interstate 81 and Route 11. And this is your location and zoning map which depicts the subject properties that 40.48 acres outlined in purple. I will highlight a couple of the businesses in the vicinity if you're unfamiliar with this area of the county. It looks like that's... So this is the Old Stone store which is the existing Sunoco gas convenience and truck stop which is part of this application assemblage. You also have this property across Route 11 and Brewstown Road which is slated for the OmniTracks Transload Facility. And then to the west of the subject properties in South you have existing B2 and B3 commercial which includes an animal hospital, freight line, or another regional facility. So that's kind of the the area that we're going to talk about today. retail services. When considering land use actions, the Planning Commission is tasked with evaluating if the proposal conforms to your adopted comprehensive plan. Your comprehensive plan was last updated in 2021, and the area plan for this part of the county, the Northeast Frederick Land Use Plan, or NELUP, was last adopted in 2023. And it states that given that the Clearbrook-Brucetown Rural Community Center extends to Interstate 81 in close proximity to Exit 321, it should be recognized that viable commercial uses in that area will need to serve the need of Interstate travelers as well as surrounding residents. Those would be residents in the Clearbrook-Brucetown area. As part of this consideration, a significant corridor appearance buffer is proposed along Martinsburg Pike. This would include an enhanced landscape screen and multi-use trail along the frontage with Route 11. Staff would note that a large portion of this property, if not all the property, is seemingly intended to be a travel center and truck stop style uses intended to serve primarily interstate travelers and given the use uses that are included in the in the generalized development plan there's not an indication of how the project may serve the needs of surrounding residents so in this respect the proposal is only partially compliant with your comprehensive plan policies as it relates to the future land use of this area of the county let's see if we're in regard to transportation and site access the comprehensive plan and the northeast land use plan envisions significant transportation improvements at exit 321 this includes a split interchange design frontage road and ramp improvements for interstate 81 along with the realignment of hopewell road uh the new road and the new road and the new road and the new road site access as proposed by this application is proposed from a new collector road which would be uh the realignment of hopewell road and while the applicant's proposal generally aligns with the planned transportations on the subject property the proffered mechanism that's included with the proffer statement provided with the application to implement it is only partially achieved staff will get into this in greater detail in a later slide but the rezoning proffers proposed that the applicant would be responsible for only 25 of the total cost of this realignment not to exceed 3.5 million dollars or the lesser of the two that includes both the total design of the project and construction and this is expected to be a multi million dollar project as you would anticipate this is a inset of our adopted long-range land-use plan with the plan transportation improvements on top of them this is the subject prop the primary primary subject property here and this is the old stone store or the Sunoco property for your orientation there's two alignments that are shown on our Northeast land-use plan again planned roads we consider alternative scenarios based on funding and the necessity for such improvements at various times so the dotted line you see across the subject property is this kind of s-curve realignment that would relocate Hopewell Road well north of the existing intersection of Hopewell Road route 11 and Bruce Town Road north of the railroad tracks the other which is difficult to see on this screen but will be shown in a later slide is a slightly modified a it's a realignment that would link Hopewell Road with Bruce Town and create a four-way intersection this is the public improvement plan included with the generalized development plan submitted by the applicant which shows the implementation of that one alignment scenario which is the s-curve with roundabout that would snake through their property and take Hopewell Road north of the railroad tracks to a Terminus north further north on Route 11. they include inter parcel connectivity to West way in the existing B2 and B3 zoning to the north of their subject property, and you can see kind of how that functions with both the interstate ramp and Route 11. It's important when considering this application to be familiar with the county's plans for this area, sorry, the county's plans for this area of the county in regard to the Hopewell Road, Brewstown Road, and Route 11 intersections. The county does have some existing kind of project prioritization that's currently active in this part of the county, and staff wanted to provide some clarity to the Planning Commission regarding what is currently in the project pipeline. So the county has allocated funding for improvements at the intersection of Hopewell Road, Martinsburg Pike, and Brewstown Road through the VDOT fiscal year 27 draft six-year improvement program. Many of you are familiar with our revenue share applications. This is a revenue share project which involves not only county funding, state funding, but also revenue share. So this is a revenue share project that involves not only county funding, but also proffered funding from that CARMUS rezoning, which many of you were participants on several years ago. This project that the county is currently pursuing design and construction on is a separate and distinct project from the realignment scenario proposed with this rezoning. The proposed Hopewell Road realignment, including with the rezoning application, while shown on county plans, including your Northeast land use plan, is not presently included on your six-year improvement program at this time. So it's not a project that is currently slated for funding. It's simply aligned on the map. This is a look at that project that the county is pursuing through the revenue share program. You can see this kind of alternative alignment scenario that takes you from what is currently Hopewell Road and realigns Hopewell Road further, just slightly to the north with Brewstown Road. This would go across that feed and seed property. That is there on Route 11, which many of you are familiar with. And again this is a project that the county is currently, has funding approval for and is working towards as well. working towards design and construction at this time. In regards to the zoning ordinance, the applicant is also seeking inclusions on portions of the property within the interstate area overlay district. Fortunately, you all are quite familiar with this, having recently done a rezoning to go into this zoning district on another property, but the interstate area overlay district is intended to provide commercial businesses within an identified area the ability to utilize business signs that are in excess of the limits specified in the zoning ordinance. This flexibility is provided to inform traveling public of business service opportunities at specific interchange areas, and that's pulled from your zoning ordinance. It would enable the applicant to develop what is known as an interstate-style pole sign at a certain height. In this respect, on this interchange area, they could erect a sign up to 85 feet tall, and this would be 65 feet taller than any other existing sign allowance that would be permitted. Staff would point out, while it is appropriate to consider interchange signs at the key interchanges, there's no existing interstate signage north of the interstate area. If there's no existing interstate signage north of the interstate area, there's no existing interstate signage north of Hopewell Road, so this would be a change to the heights of signs north of Hopewell Road. As is customary with the rezoning application, the applicant has included voluntary proffers. These were last revised in May of 2026. Proffer 1 pertains to the development and use of the property. The proffers specify conformance with the generalized development plan dated November 28th, and includes a multi-use trail and roadway enhancement buffer along Route 11 and Martinsburg Road. If all various project leaders support all projects based on their uniform technical decision making, бывает a flat-linkairyagine. When looking districts would beå fill out a large, semantic form . I will advance to information thatує at the end. This is basis information we sent out through the site. There's one requirement that with you cannotост whoa to不 pirro administer an area with centimeters broken, it should bettern't be männinfind the third implementation. This it is Allow all entities by這是� �r for tomorrowor otherταis clauses in this form. You must i have we inform others where your one of these is any work is carried out catch your taxi by grabboetime. thank you all. certain restrictions, including prohibiting any additional gas inconvenience on Land Bay 2. They also provide specificity about types of building materials to be used in the development of buildings on structures on the property. They've included a trip generation restriction that aligns with their traffic study, and they have allowed themselves to, if there's concern that their trips may be over, to utilize existing counts to verify that they are not generating trips in excess of what the traffic study accounted for. They have agreed to provide restrictions on trucking operations on parcel 33A63. That's the existing Sunoco. So after the establishment of a new truck center, they would prohibit truck parking and truck fueling at the existing Old Stone store, and that would just remain a gas and convenience type facility. And they are providing a requirement for substantial completion of the Hopewell Road improvement prior to the occupancy of the used-to-be-used truck center. So they would not establish a truck center at this operation or any other uses until that realignment was substantially complete. Proffer 2 pertains to transportation improvements. They've included a 50-foot right-of-way dedication, a long Interstate 81 for interchange improvements, and an interchange to the Interstate ramp. They've proposed that they would contribute 25 percent of the total road design and construction costs for the relocation of Hopewell Road, or $3.5 million. So they've included a $3.5 million, whichever is less. Within that 25 percent or $3.5 million, they'd be contributing up to 50 percent of the total design costs for the relocation of Hopewell Road, and that would be up to a maximum of $1.5 million. They've also agreed to provide the right-of-way dedication for the full realignment of Hopewell Road and any other improvements shown on the generalized development plan, which includes inter-parcel connectivity to the commercial areas to the north and other improvements to Route 11 and the like. Proffer 3 relates to fire and rescue construction. Proffer 3 relates to fire and rescue construction. They've agreed to provide a $100 per 1,000 growth square feet of buildings to county fire and rescue services at the occupancy of each building. Proffer 4 pertains to water and sewer. They have proffered to be required to connect to public utilities, public water and sewer service for operation of this use, and they've agreed to provide any dedications of grants and easement for public water and sewer service to their property. Proffer 5 includes an escalator clause, which they've agreed would kick in after 18 months of the approval of this rezoning, and they've capped that escalation at no more than 6 percent per year with simple interest. This is the generalized development plan that was included with the application. I will highlight in reference to those use restrictions, this is Land Bay 1, which again is that part of the parcel that is right up along Interstate 81. That would be your truck stop and travel center. Land Bay 3 here would be allowed to be allowed for accessory uses to that truck stop and service center, which would be truck parking, truck fueling or truck maintenance or a truck wash. Land Bay 3, which is along Route 11, would be allowed any other existing B2 use that's allowed in the ordinance with the exclusion of certain uses, including another gas or convenience type use. You can see there a road improvement and connectivity was mentioned earlier with the public improvement plan, which is part of their GDP. So, as is customary with their application, we've included positives and concerns as it relates to this rezoning request. As far as positives, the selected zoning B2 is typically associated with the business land use designation contained in your comprehensive plans, and as staff noted, the proposal is partially compliant with the planned policies about having commercial uses around the interchange area serving interstate travelers. The generalized development plan and the proffers also include the plan to envision pedestrian and frontage improvements along adjoining roadways. That was in regard to that enhanced buffering and screening along Route 11 and a multi-use trail. There are concerns with this application. Staff would note that the proposal does not fully address how commercial areas at 321 will not only serve interstate travelers, but the existing residents of the Clearbrook-Bruistown Rural Community Center. The proposal is for a truck stop and travel center, which is geared primarily at interstate traffic. The transportation improvements and road realignment included with the proposal contained in proffer 2 and the proposed plan are in line with the proposed plan. The proposed plan is a project that will be considered for grant funding, and as staff noted, it is not currently on our draft six-year improvement plan, so we would have to reshuffle our priorities if we were going to go forward with this proposal as opposed to the revenue share project that's currently underway. There are unaddressed agency comments from Parks and Recreation, your Historic Resources Advisory Board, and the Fire Marshal. Specifically, there were comments from the Fire Marshal regarding concerns to the negative impact of this realignment on the intersection of the Clearbrook-Bruistown Rural Community Center and the Fire Marshal. The proposal is for a small area of the area of the area of the county primarily to properties west of 81, and they did not address how, regarding HRIB consideration regarding impacts to historic properties in the vicinity of the project. And finally, the application lacks high quality building materials and site design elements that are typically expected to a company request for new commercial areas at key interstate and interchanges. Specifically, some of the materials are included are typical of industrial-type buildings, but not necessarily commercial-type buildings that we would expect. expect. So again, this is a requested rezoning for 40 acres from RA and B2 to B2 and interstate area overlay with proffers. This item is a public hearing item before you this evening for consideration and following your public hearing, staff would be seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors and if the item were to go forward this evening with a recommendation, it would go to public hearing before the board on August the 12th. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. David Frank is here representing Winchester 131 and Winchester 151 LLC, which is the applicant for Hopewell Highway and I believe they also have a presentation for you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any questions for Mr. Klein to my left? Any questions for Mr. Klein to my right? Mr. Kearns. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Klein for the presentation. Just one question. I'll have several for the applicant, but the first one is, what is the application for the public road and the public road? Mr. Kearns. I'll have several questions for the applicant. Just one. Actually, I got two questions. Sorry. Can we are we able to talk about the the rail? Is there future changes to the rail up there in that area? I don't believe there's changes to the crossing. There are changes as a result of projects in the vicinity that will be utilized in the rail network, but I don't believe there's a change to the rail at Route 11. I will look to Mr. Bishop. He's shaking his head no. So no changes anticipated. Or can we talk about the project? Is there a project coming that's going to increase truck traffic, tractor trailer traffic? In the vicinity? Yeah, right there. Not specifically this interchange other than their project, but there, as you are well aware, there are a number of significant facilities that utilize trucks in this area of the county. Tyler, I think he's asking about the transload facility for Omni Tracks. Yes. There is a, that was noted in the presentation I can show you on the map. On this screen, this is the Omni Tracks transload facility. So this will be a multimodal type facility where trucks come to the property to load and unload tractor trailers onto the rail network. Okay. And those will have to use, that access point will be on Brewstown, right? So they will have to get on and off from Brewstown. They'll be going right through the interchange north and south. So they won't be coming in and off of 11. They'll be coming in and off of Brewstown. I believe they're coming in and off of Brewstown. Okay. So that'll increase that intersection. Intersection traffic right there. Okay. If I may, I will say they'll be coming in off of 11 and going out on Brewstown. Okay. In 11 on Brewstown. I know someone who knows. And just off to the screen again, I should have pointed out earlier, is Carmoose, which you all are quite familiar with, which are a heavy user of Brewstown Road and that interchange. And then my second question is, as we know from a few years ago with, or maybe last year from Carmoose, when we approved the rezoning for them, there were proffers for that. And I think that's the intersection. I believe. Correct. What would happen to those proffers? I don't know if those were cash proffers or if they were going to make the improvements themselves, but what would happen to that if this were to move forward in its existing state? Sure. There are cash proffers. They are part of our revenue share project that has been funded. And I'll defer to Mr. Bishop. He can talk better about what happens if we were to kind of change course midstream with that project. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. terrific questions. but there's a significant proffer of rock aggregate toward the project as well. And that would, do we, What happens to it? Can we anticipate what would happen if, The language in the proffer is 25 volts. 25. The language in the proffer is not super specific beyond its to the improvements at that intersection. This is not that intersection. So we would probably proceed with caution on that and coordinate a little bit with Cormus and make sure they're not going to feel the need to challenge some of that. But in general, we think the majority of that could likely end up on this project if we were to shift gears. My larger concern has to do with the revenue sharing award itself that we currently have, which is just over $4 million. I'm going to be careful how I say this because it is true that the revenue sharing program has more flexibility for re-scoping than many programs. As the years have gone on, including this year, the timeline controls have tightened significantly. And so a shift would have impact on timeline. Obviously, it's going to have impact on cost. You can tell that just by looking at the pictures. We're talking about a much bigger project than what we're looking at here. So I don't have full confidence, and neither does VDOT, because I did vet this with them, that we wouldn't potentially lose the award we've just gotten and be in a situation of having to reapply for the new project. I'm not saying that's for sure. I'm saying it's a risk. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. Yeah. I've been trying to understand the advantages of this. And I appreciate your – I really like the way the staff does the comments now. You do concerns and positives. You're very diplomatic with your concerns and positives here. I think when I look at this, it doesn't seem to make any sense to me. I see no advantage to it. I see no advantage to anybody other than just this one project site. I see this as causing car use problems with getting trucks to 81. I see this with causing neighborhood problems there, the people that live around there, the traffic that moves up and down 11 and through that area. And I guess I was trying to find somewhere where I could find some staff positives on this alignment versus the previous alignment that has been vetted and discussed. For a long time. And I'm coming up blank. So – and I guess this would be more of a question for John. Is there any advantages to Frederick County for this alignment other than it's going to cost us more money and we're going to lose proffers? The – the way you worded that, I'm sorry. Okay. The key technical or physical advantage that I see – that I've seen since they first approached us with this. With this potential alignment back when we were updating the NELA to the point where we're like, well, we're not going to try and put a roadblock in front of it. We're going to put it on here as a potential alternative, which we then did do. Is the – even though it's through a unique way with that S curve, it does technically improve your stacking distance between the intersection and the – and the intersection with Route 11 itself. It also does remove the crossing of the railroad. Okay. Okay. So those are physical improvements. The offset could easily be, well, now you're also accepting the trips of a truck stop and that sort of thing. The modeling does work, and I'm thankful that they've brought their traffic engineer, Doug Kennedy, with them tonight who can speak in much better detail to that than I. But just the primary visual benefits to me are those. You do improve the stacking, and you do get away from – Yeah. You do improve the stacking, and you do get away from having to cross that railroad track with every trip. Okay. Since Carmuze was one of the people that provided proffers – Yes, sir. And they're going to be a traffic generator there, have they expressed any concerns or comments on this? We've received – Since they're going to have some of the larger vehicles going through that intersection? We've received no written comments that I'm aware of, and I don't know if they have someone here to speak tonight. There was a side comment made in a meeting on another topic where they voiced – some comments. There was a side comment made in a meeting on another topic where they voiced some potential concerns, but I'm a little hesitant to say, oh, he said, she said. If they haven't submitted, I'm going to treat that as a no comment. Yeah, I was just interested if they had comment – or had the opportunity. We've not received anything in writing from them, and again, I'm not sure they have a representative here this evening to speak to that. Yeah, no comment that we've received in that fashion. They are definitely aware of the rezoning application. They're not an adjacent property owner, so they wouldn't be asked for comments? Interested. In terms of receiving an adjoiner letter, they would not receive an adjoiner letter, but like I said, we were in meetings with them on other topics, and this rezoning did come up, so we are definitely confident they have full awareness. Let me add, Mr. Thomas, I got a call from them today, and they said they had concerns, and they were going to talk with Mr. Frank and voice those concerns, so that was what they shared with me. Yeah. I was just curious if we should have legal counsel. Yeah. I was just curious if we should have legal counsel from the county contact them to talk about the proffer. Do we need to check with them on the proffer? We don't want to get into a protracted legal argument where they say that the proffer wasn't intended for this, and are we clean on that part of it? I looked up – I apologize for interjecting, but I'll just read the proffer language out loud for you all. We're pretty careful when we do these for the transportation improvements to always generalize the area into kind of a broader context. This is how it got written. In order to facilitate improvements at or in the vicinity of the Hopewell Road, Martinsburg Pike, Brewstown Road intersection, the owner shall, upon final approval, and then there's bullet points for their monetary contributions, the 30,000 tons of aggregate. So that's – I think the operative is at or in the vicinity of those intersections, and Mr. Fox can comment further, but I think in the time that we've administered proffers in the county, this is certainly at or in the vicinity of that intersection. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have anything further to add at this time. Okay. Ms. Kozill? The fire marshal commented on additional delays because of the timing to get out because you're going to have to turn right and then go through that S to get to 81. I mean, without addressing those comments, is this really a viable? Option, because that's going to add additional time onto their responses. So I'm just concerned majorly with that portion. We had advised the applicant as recently as Monday that they should be meeting with the Clearbrook Volunteer Fire Company and talking through their concerns and seeing if their elite may be actually alleviated by their proposed alternative. So they may have an update for us. I know their traffic engineer is here as well. Any other questions? Mr. DeHaven? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quick question on this proposal on the traffic. It looks like it's mainly focused on that Hopewell realignment out to 11. Does this project address any improvements to 11 itself or where Brewstown Road meets up with 11? It's kind of a different interchange down there. It's not square or fairly narrow. That's one of my concerns regarding the intersection with 11 itself. No, the applicant's proposal does not go beyond their new. intersection with 11. However, as we get into this project in totality, there will still be needs for upgrades at Brewstown itself. So I'm not sure if the applicant. I know we've discussed that with the applicant. I'm not sure if they're prepared to talk about that tonight. But that's still a remaining issue. Thank you. Mr. Kearns? Sorry. Yes, I have one last transportation question. The West Luke Drive connector up there kind of spurs off. The S is that is there any future development plans for that? Is that going to be kind of an artery up through there or is that just going to dead end or what's the plan with that? It's part of an industrial B2 and B3 development, which includes pine hole construction. And they have their main office there plus a contractor yard and then Dollar General is there. So there are plans to make that a full connection back up to Route 11 and they would be proffering to connect to West Luke. And then, you know, you have the opportunity. They get that secondary connection point. So that's a separate project. I can't remember the name of that. Was it Bruce Town commercial or Tim? I didn't know Tim's familiar with it. I can't remember the project. There is a project with proffers and a master development plan and site plan work going on up there. So they would be connecting as is our policy through an interpersonal connection from their development to that West Luke Drive connection. Is there any potential for West Luke to continue further north or is it going to pretty much just go right there? It goes kind of the opposite way on the other side of it, which was off. It goes off the map and then any development north of them would we would expect that they would, you know, again, connect back into that as well. Got it. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Whitaker. Has there been much consideration about the park out there? Clearbrook Park. Have you had much response or input from Parks and Recs? Parks and Rec did. We did request that they provide comment given their proximity to the project and they did express concern about the traffic and circulation. Yeah. How about the noise? I mean, that park is. We need some kind of shield or something up there to decrease the noise out there. Their comments were limited just to the traffic and circulation. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? Mr. Klein, I'm curious because I haven't seen this before. There were three different agencies identified in your report is not where their comments were not addressed. Okay. Thank you. The first one was that the park had been closed. Is that I just haven't seen that before. Does that mean that a resolution was not reached? Although Mr. Frank has tried or that they were just told no thank you, we're not going to deal with you? The applicant was provided the comments and they did not resolve them to the extent that the agencies did not provide a comment saying no comment. I'm sure Mr. Frank will address that in his comments. Mr. Bishop. Thank you. I'm just going to follow up on that because I think one of the things I've heard from the people who are in the public sector that they're kind of thinking, well, how much does a roundabout cost, a single-lane roundabout? Are we looking at $2 million, $2.5 million? Do you have a feel for that? A one-lane roundabout? Yeah, right. I think VDOT is estimated on the cost on the old Charlestown Road roundabouts up to north of $11 million right now. So that may not be a comparable example, but, no, it's a lot. Okay. I'm just looking at the funding of this project, thinking how much of it is $3.5 million going to cost? of cost because Mr. Kennedy has a bunch of off-site improvements that need to be made in addition to what's being done on-site, and it looks like there's more project than money, so that's why I was wondering. Okay. I did have just a couple more questions for staff on the proffers. On Mr. Klein, on proffer 1.2, do we want the property to conform to the NELIP or to their GDP? We would prefer that they conform to their GDP because that's what they've committed to and reflects the proffer statement. Okay. And I was concerned we had conflicting proffers there, and that was a little bit of a concern. So why is the existing truck stop across the street being shut down once this is open? Is there going to be a remodel job and another B2 use over there, or what's the plan? I'll let the applicant speak to that. I know part of their traffic consideration was removing the truck parking and truck high-fuel diesel fueling on that part of the property. I think the intention is to maintain it as a gas station. They also retain the right to have one high-fuel diesel pump, but I'll let them speak to that specifically. But the proffer does contemplate that the kind of truck stop element of that operation would cease at that property and be transferred over to this Land Bay 1 property. Okay. In 1.8, this is an issue we've grappled with on a couple of other projects. We've got a situation where we've got a traffic study, and the proffer, two of the projects, are going to be transferred over to this Land Bay 1 property. Okay. So, we're not going to do that traffic study, but we're saying here, if you change something, then you've got to go back and redo your traffic study. If it requires additional roadway improvements, do we have any mechanism to require them to construct those additional improvements that may be needed as a result of them changing the land use? The proffer is not specific to that, but they could utilize actual counts as well, which would likely pull them under that threshold. As many of you are well aware with the way that traffic studies are done, they tend to overestimate the amount of traffic that's going to be transferred over to that property. So, if you're going to do that, you're going to have to overestimate the traffic demand. Yeah. That would be good for them if that's the case. Is the value of the right-of-way being dedicated for the roadway improvements on the property included in the dollar value that is going to be contributed to the project? The dedication is in addition to their contribution of 25% of the total construction and design costs. Okay. So, we're not, that's not included in the $3.5 million? Correct. It's addition to. So, if in 2.2.1, if 50% of the total design costs is being covered here by the proffer, who's covering the other 50%? As we noted in our presentation, other funding sources or mechanisms would need to be identified, whether that's a different type of funding, like a different type of grant funding, like such as SmartScale or looking at other proffers that are, you know, that are, you know, that are allocated to the SPART or county dollars. And again, we're unsure of the total cost of this project. I know David was preparing a more, a better estimate for you all this evening. I believe he's going to cover that in his presentation. Okay. So, we'll have a better idea of what that kind of total allocation is. But as Mr. Bishop noted, it's going to be more substantial than the project total that we anticipate for that revenue share realignment. Okay. And my last question for now is dealing with the escalator clause. Okay. I haven't seen an 18-month timeline previously. I haven't seen a cap on the escalation previously. And I'm just curious where I'm used to seeing 12 months and then we follow the CPIU wherever it goes, whether we like it or not. Am I correcting that? I think you all may recall we started out with a kind of similar element for the Madison rezoning. And then they ultimately brought theirs down to an uncapped. They didn't cap their interest. And then they started at the clock at 12 months. And that seems to be fairly typical of the rezonings that we see. So, this would be a little bit different than what we normally see. That it would be capped. Potentially, we lose out if, you know, interest is greater than 6%. And do we have, okay. Proffers voluntary. I get it. But this is inconsistent with what we've seen in proffers. Correct. Okay. Very good. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Frank? Good evening, sir. Oh, you brought the whole posse with you. Yeah. Good evening. Good discussion. And my name is David Frank. I'm with Pannoni. I'm representing the applicant here today. And as you know, this is a bit of a departure from what you've been doing. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, obviously. Great. You've been dealing with folks who enter how they call it, the authorizationでき. All right. Certainly why, because controls are in question. But conversation has always been a good thing. If you think about a company, I think you have nearly half of them have long since come to stock market. And you've gone from kind of independent to small business moving through one of these industries and we've never brought anything back to, you know, then the the the some of the we were going to talk about the and expand his business as a local businessman in Frederick County to capture what might be available to the county in terms of tax revenue and him as a businessman on property that is right adjacent to an interstate interchange. So I'd like to – do I just put the down button? Okay, very good. So I'd like to start by just talking about where this property is. Obviously, it is in the Northeast Land Use Plan. You'll hear me say NELOP a lot this evening. The Northeast Land Use Plan is projecting for and looking for the corridor from exit 321 to 323 to be developed as commercial industrial. That is what the comprehensive plan is calling for. That is the vision of Frederick County. And this has been developed. This has been the vision for many decades now. As you can see in the central slide, I focused in a little bit on the exit 323 to 321 portion of the NELOP. And on the right-hand side, you can see, as staff pointed out, the two alternatives that are in the comprehensive plan for the reconstruction and relocation of Hopewell Road. Okay. How did we do? Okay. How did we get here? So I'm going to spend a little time talking about – this is the subject property. We are utilizing the staff slide for convenience. The first thing that happened is Route 11 is probably one of the oldest roads in the country. This road was pretty much horse and buggyed in place a long time ago. Another transportation element that occurred is the railroads. And the railroads built their railroads where they wanted. And they wanted to for their purposes. And they generally didn't consider much for anything except what their needs were. Brewstown is a community that needed to connect to Route 11 to get to Winchester, Martinsburg, and places. And they constructed – there's a road that developed that is where it is today. Another road that came in is Hopewell Road, which for our current experiences, it's – it missed it by just that much. It didn't line up with Brewstown. It's missed by several hundred yards, making a clean intersection. And then finally, you know, sometime later, Interstate 81 was constructed, which also really had no consideration necessarily for what was happening with the adjacent corridors and roadways. It was solely focused on delivering its alignment and corridor, and it's for its construction. So – Okay. So essentially what we have today is a functional failure and a transportation node that has systemic problems. One of the things I'd like to lean into right now is going back to the comprehensive plan and talk a little bit about the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan has been for a long time calling for employment revenue. And how – The revenue, hard trabalouts, paper revenue – That's an embracing task, and ciao. That's an engaging task. You might say, as aowed me to follow, a lot of the foods that we have in the neighborhood are sorely keyboarded out these days. But that's nothing compared to, like, what all of us have in our driveways. And we already have a thousand ends worth ofskibs, deadוטtplants, and more and more heavy industry choices in all of our areas of business. received a potentially significant response. That's meprise grows. Thank you. Good to have you here. time. The comprehensive plan is a guidance document. You hear that all the time from people on this side of the podium. It's a guidance document that's intended to direct people. And what it is doing, it is directing businessmen and people in the community to, if there are opportunities to invest in this county and bring employment and bring business to the county, please go to the areas that the comprehensive plan is pointing you to. You know, the property before you today is one of those properties, and it is also located at an interstate interchange. There are not that many of them in the county. So one of the things that I want to make sure I cover is when businesses are looking to develop and invest money in the county and bring employment and their business to the county, please go to the area that you see on the screen. And if you're looking to do is to our county, they have a process to go through. And it requires getting money from lenders, and those lenders do analysis and underwriting. And that analysis and underwriting is a check and balance on the soundness, if you will, of an investment plan that that's going to happen. Likewise, the businesses and the people that are moving in need to do an analysis and see if this is a good location. for the type of business they're looking for, and is it an optimal location for what they're trying to achieve. Strategic success for these businesses require meeting the needs of a market, having a good business that is going to be successful and has market demand. It is also critical for infrastructure to be in place so that employees and customers and delivery of goods and services have an access to this property. And ideally, a location that would allow for expansion, should the market opportunity be there, to do more business and better business, that is also a plus when you're selecting sites. My next couple of slides are simply to kind of talk about our... our comprehensive plan and our story in Frederick County, a little bit less about the subject property. In the last 20 years, what you see here is a slide of down at Warren County exit 6 on I-66. In 2003, you can see what was there, and in 2024, you can see what's there today. This is an area in which a jurisdiction wanted commercial and industrial development to occur, and they invested in infrastructure, and the infrastructure was there. The following picture is up in Berkeley County at exit 8 near Tabler Station. Same picture, same 2003, same 2024. This is what they... another community did, invested in infrastructure, and was actively seeking to bring employment opportunities. This is a picture of the area in question we have between exit 323 and exit 321. So, the comprehensive plan is really, really important. The comprehensive plan... Shifting to the transportation component, we know that this transportation node does not score well. It's not efficient. It has safety concerns, and it has absolute challenges with expandability and serving increased capacity from 321 Hopewell Road, as it is today, going to Route 11. Okay. So, we're going to... Okay. So, we're going to... Okay. So, we're going to... Okay. Okay. Okay. So, 321 is an entry point in the NEILA comprehensive plan for the corridor that goes between 321 and 323. So, any future traffic, any growth and development that is in that corridor will either pass up to exit 323 or come down to exit 321. Use those exits as their entry point and travel consistently between that block and that distance. The Bruce Town alternative is what I'll call it, is what the county has identified this property... Sorry, this intersection as a transportation challenge. They have moved forward with some proper commitments that they have, and they have been... Staff has been directed to seek funding so that the county can invest in making improvements at this location. There is no doubt that it is... It's accepted that Hopewell doesn't work as it is today. Hopewell needs to be realigned as a county road, and what is not realigned is going to be completely abandoned. Again, there are two rail crossings. There are misaligned roads, and essentially, we have an area that is not going to be completely abandoned. So, we're going to have to move forward with that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, you'll notice that we are тогда taking passage of the complianceowy electrical regulations that continue to have Корwood respect to the эту accommodation project. This is certification requirements specific to the members is an improvement as to what's there. That's not being contested, but what needs to be understood with the Bruce Town alternative, it is not an effective connection to increase capacity from traffic from 321 or from Route 11 trying to get to 321. We still will have two rail crossings. We will still have a very short distance from the interstate ramps to the existing rail crossing before you get to Route 11. The solution being proposed will still have those elements. The proposed improvements will also require any traffic traveling southbound on Route 11, truck traffic, employees, whatever is developing in this 323-321. The proposed improvements will require any traffic traveling southbound on Route 11, truck traffic, employees, whatever is developing in this 323-321. corridor to come through two rail crossings and work their way to the interstate. And the proposed improvements do not provide for any growth, any new land uses, any new businesses or tax revenues to utilize this road. There just is not the capacity in the existing cluster that's there to really build this road for the future. It addresses a current alignment and safety concern that the county has. Alternatively, we've spent a lot of time analyzing this property and this project, and it's gone several years. And I hope I'm not putting everybody to sleep here, but this is looking at the opportunity, looking at what the comprehensive plan is calling for, and looking at a vision for the future. . The NELA growth alternative is what I'm going to call our roadway. The road that's proposed that the applicant is willing to participate with the county on is looking to the future. It is a full right-of-way. It is four lanes. It has the capacity to pass 25,000 trips per day, which is three times the traffic that's on Route 11 today. It is a full-section roadway. It is the roadway of the future. And it is a county road that is a segment and a portion of what needs to be in place if you believe in your comprehensive plan and you want to achieve what you need to achieve in this location. The realignment, the alignment that you see on the screen eliminates a rail crossing. The alignment that you see provides tax revenue. And what that means is that it's going to be a real cost-effective project. If you will get to exactly what the land use is, it provides tax revenue and growth opportunities for if you will, return on the county's investment on constructing a road, in which the other alternative does not. . . Yeah, and another critical component I touched on before also is that any traffic in the future for the growth between exits 323 and 321, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . need to go over a rail crossing. You will come southbound on 11 and you will be able to navigate this intersection and get to exit 321. So I kind of want to move into now talking a little bit more about the subject property. Again, as it stands right now, Hopewell Road is a county road that's being relocated and there's an opportunity to look to the future and relocate a collector road that is a segment for the road connectivity that will need to go from exit 321 to 323. The impacts to the property that this alignment has, it takes the roadway through the center of the property, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is not ideal. It's curvilinear, which is also not which is not ideal for future development. It's essentially 15% of the property in right-of-way dedication alone. These are all very real impacts to a piece of property, but these impacts are recognized as necessary not only for this property but for the future of the comprehensive plan trying to grow commercial industrial development in this corridor. Another impact or something that needs to be called a call out is that the section is a four-lane road with a roundabout. Some of the challenges that exist today, and the reason why this is happening is because when rezoning applications mitigate their transportation impacts, they typically assess their access points and they're required to do traffic studies. And you improve the frontage roads. You widen lanes. You add turn lanes. You increase the number of turn lanes. You put in traffic lights where necessary. The existing Hopewell Road, the distance from the interchange ramps to Route 11 do not accommodate for any access points to the subject property. So without doing this kind of roadway improvement, you will not realize highway commercial on this property. You will have to travel. The alternative, the alternative, the highway commercial, you will have to travel. The alternative, the highway commercial, you will have to drive to the interstate. You will have to travel to the interstate prior to the 그렇 return. There's always a form of free second-pass. So the Bruce Town alternative will require somebody to leave the interstate, go over the railroad tracks, come to the stop light, turn, drive up Route 11, go up the railroad tracks, and then enter the property, and that's not highway commercial. So the opportunity for highway commercial on this property and at this location critically depends on the the NEILUP growth alternative. county is reconstructing this road, it is a new road that clearly transportation improvements are needed to access not only this property but points beyond. Again, I think that the benefits of this in terms of transportation I think are pretty clear. If you look at which road alternative is looking to the future and can have much more capacity to serve future needs, this alternative does that. We are with a lot of questions. We are working on and we have preliminary designs. There was a $14 million private investment estimate on the cost for this construction. Going to accessing VDOT funds and using a VDOT process typically has a 30 to 40 percent markup. Because of the complications, that would estimate this at around $20 million. These are private estimates from private contractors. We are working with a firm that does a lot of VDOT roadway construction and design. VDOT has a query, a cost estimating query system that is regionally based. We are working on getting an actual VDOT cost estimate for this road so that as we move forward and approach the Board of Supervisors on the costing of this road and making an apples to apples comparison. So as it stands right now, the program had about a $9 million price tag on the Bruce Town alternative. We will get a price on the cost of this road. And all I can say right now is it's looking like about $20 million. We will know more once we have those numbers. So I think it's a return on investment to consider on what road you're going to spend if you do get 50 percent of the funding from the state and you get a quarter of the funding from a private, from this project. There is, you know, simple math right now says the county is looking at $5 million of their own investment on this project versus the $3.5 million or so that they'd have to put in for the $9 million estimate that they have right now. And that's taking some of the money that's already been proffered by other projects. Again, this project has been studied. We have gone through and have done a VDOT traffic study. The traffic study and the recommendations are approved and acceptable. We prepared an OSAR, which deals with the federal highways because we're impacting areas near the interstate and the ramps. And again, we've got a lot of work to do. We're going to have to get the traffic to the interstate. And again, we're going to have to get the traffic to the interstate. And again, we're going to have to get the traffic to the interstate. And again, that's been accepted. So in terms of the design, the capacity, how much traffic is moved by this, there were some conversations about, and Mr. Kennedy is here this evening to answer any specific questions you have on traffic. The background traffic alone will make things more difficult at this location. The traffic counts that we have are The traffic counts that we have are limited more to offsite, Route 11 and I-81 than they are with with with what we're proposing the limitations the the capacity of the road essentially that we're building once those other facilities are also improved will not be the issue so so the basis for our trip counts being being capped it has to do it deals directly with the traffic study that we have back to the subject property and the the application again what we're proposing is is to put in this in this location here the Travel Center this is this is where this is where miss the mr. Patel will be constructing the Travel Center and and the other uses facing the the Route 11 will most likely be determined at a future date it is reasonable to presume that they will be more likely highway commercial there are opportunities to have forward-facing commercial uses on Route 11 but the thing that's going to help pay for the infrastructure improvements is is the Travel Center we had a community meeting of Cassidy now that's been咀 happen again going up as well we have started a very frequent meeting on Route 11 here in terra foundation Towne to see if there are any if there are any any plant maintenance data or any由-for-idea파ấnaide if you could just go over痛 tell me in the chat in jadiγόν ά FIFA ș transf grocerydelay Z au z pena The applicant is willing to consider buffering and screening on 81 to screen this project as you're driving through the county. The land use that's proposed is a land use that has an interstate sign. There will be signage on the interstate, and most people will be using apps and other things to use this facility. This is not a drive-by and quickly turn, hit a ramp to get gas as you're driving 80 miles down the interstate. Another question that's came up is a discussion about the fire station. I have, earlier this week, had a conversation with the new fire chief and the president of Clearbrook. There were members of the fire station present at our community meeting. And one of the intriguing factors, or elements of this project is we've seen an opportunity for in the south, sorry, the southeast quadrant of the roundabout to reserve a place for a future fire station. We would like that to come from the county. We are not trying to give county land to take care of. However, the timing on this project, the timing on both alternatives is many years away. We're still early in the choice. That's before the county on which alternative makes more sense to invest in. But reserving an area for a future fire station where the fire station facilities managers can, might have a different vision on what they want to do 10 or 20 years from now, it just appears to be a lost opportunity. And the president and fire chief concurred with that sentiment on our phone call earlier this week. So those are some issues that came up. There have been concerns about timing and how this impacts. Both the fire marshal and the Parks and Rec's comments were specific to traffic on Bruce Town. And the traffic study itself has shown that the time delay from going from Interstate 81 to Bruce Town is 0.1 minutes. 0.1 minutes? 0.1 minutes? So the time delay from Bruce Town going to 81 is 0.2 minutes. So when this is routed and we've gone through the traffic study with the capacity that's in the new road, those are the delays we're talking about. Mr. Kennedy is here and will be able to answer any questions on that as well. I'm sure there'll be some. And then with respect to the HRAB, this process started many years ago and it was our intent to add, in the proffers, to put any kind of signage or put significant signage on the historic and historic markers on the property where appropriate. Specifically, it's the existing home at this location. So adding signage for the HRAB is no objection we have. That is purely an oversight. And considering the tremendous headwinds that we have, we're going to have to do that. And I think that's something that we had before I got up to the podium. I also feel like that's probably one of the smaller concerns in front of the Planning Commission. We are also reserving a 50-foot buffer here. Mr. Klein spoke to that. It's not a 50-foot buffer, a 50-foot right-of-way reservation for roadways, roadway improvements that are in the Comprehensive Plan. And we are also making the connection with the Interparcel Connecture at this point. That is also something that is in the Comprehensive Plan. We have absolutely no objection to that. And then there's the conversation I've mentioned several times, return on investment. This alternative, the NELIP growth alternative to Hopewell realignment, provides potential tax revenue. That right now the pilot truck stop is one of the top five revenue generating businesses in the county. This will be just as significant as that. And that's not even including the potential hotels or restaurants or other businesses that could be located on the other land base. So the return on investment for this is potentially very significant. And I think that's something that we have to do. And that is something that the other alternative does not provide for. It does not provide for growth. It does not provide for implementing the vision of the Comprehensive Plan. The applicant is willing to work with the county on how to realize that vision. So I am sure I missed some of the points that were brought up. I'm sure we'll get rebutted. I'm sure we'll get repeated questions. I would like to invite, well, this is a public hearing, so I think we have another step. I will sit down. I'll answer any questions you have right now. Or if you want to wait, we can bring up the whole team. Okay. Thank you. All right. All right. Questions for Mr. Frank? To my left. Yes, sir. Mr. Steepe. When does the owner anticipate breaking ground? I mean, in an ideal situation, one year out, two years out? So, you know, I think it depends. So, Mr. Patel is a local businessman, and he is, again, he is well liked in the Clearbrook-Bruistown area. I think that's self-evident if you get out there. And he understands that this project has to wait for the road. He is making the commitments that he can to be the best partner that he can be to implement a road that hopefully will help, will help the vision of the comp plan and the economic growth in this corridor happen. So, breaking ground would happen nearing or at the time of road construction because the occupancy and the uses cannot open until the road is in place. So, he is potentially waiting for many years while we go through the routine funding, design, and construction process that state projects go through. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Because, I mean, that's my main concern. You know, this Hopewell improvement is not, you know, in play. You know, we have a level service of I and D was what the report said. So, yeah, I'm just, I don't think that will work until the road is in. Thank you. Yeah. That's been recognized by the team. And, again, that is respectful of the enormity of what we're looking at on the screen. And, you know, this is forward thinking. This is, you know, again, there's an opportunity here yet, we believe, to pivot and for the county to spend millions of dollars on the new growth alternative versus the Bruce Town alternative. Any other questions to my left? To my right. Questions? Oh, okay. Mr. Crane, we'll start down at the end there. Mr. Whitaker, did you have a question? Go ahead. Mr. Crane. So, obviously, this isn't going to be a Buc-ee's. Correct. Okay. Is it going to be more in line with the flying Jada, TET 323? Yes, it will be much more in line with that. So, we envision, again, these are preliminary thoughts. And we've, you know, that were the source of our cost estimating. We see potentially tucking down in this area truck parking. We envision the travel center being at this location for the vehicles. So, we'll be coming. And then we see fueling potentially over in this area for the trucks to fuel and access the site. Again, adjacent to the travel center itself will be the vehicular pumps. Is there an estimated employment number for this location, for this facility? I do not have any of those numbers right now. Okay. Thank you. 35 employees. Okay. Thank you. Just for the yes, just for the travel center, yes. Mr. Whitaker. Would the applicant consider to include a proper for construction of a sound barrier for the Clearbrook Park, and also to include a proper to start a fund for Frederick County to build a reservoir? That is something that I can take to the applicant and consider. I am not aware of other projects that have done that at this point. I don't think the, I would have to take to the applicant and discuss that. What I'm looking for is the, overall the county needs water insurance. So, I believe we should start asking applicants to, you know, come to the water, you know, water insurance center, you know, to come and do a water inspection. And if they were involved in a development project, or some development project that they were lost throughout the history, I'm asking applicants to start putting in and we start a fund so that we could fund such a big project. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. de Haven, did you have a question, sir? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Franks, for being here. I appreciate the, the dialog and discussion. Also want to thank the applicant. As you had acknowledged, Mr. Patel is a, a great contributor with his businesses and his properties down there, and I always like to see somebody that's here wanting to take a 1%. Okay. to continue to invest and help grow the community. Couple questions as we look at this. I think you made a good point in your presentation where if done right, this can be a good area for growth to grow the tax base and create some commercial uses here. I think the big question is to be done right and how we do it right. You had mentioned this $20 million price tag, which is, in my understanding, just on the estimate of what you're showing that. That wouldn't include improvements to 11 or improvements to the Bruce Town Road side of the intersection. Is that correct? It would completely. Yes. So another point, there are improvements on Route 11. There are turn lanes that are part of the traffic study, and those costs are included in our price. The inter parcel connector in this location is not part of the project and should not be part of this project. That is entirely on the developer. And we are not proposing any improvements on Bruce Town because our focus is how do we relocate a major collector road in the county through the property from getting people from 81 to Route 11. Looking at this and kind of what we've considered, we talked about these two distinct options. The initial one that's kind of a realignment there at the end, close to 11. And then the second option, which is what you have here with the more larger S through the property. So a bit of a big question, but thinking outside of this box here a little bit between these two options, if we've got the applicant who owns the other corner of this intersection, and I think there's some flexibility on the corner where the feed and seed used to be, and there's the old substation, which is where option A is looking to go through, and now this development, is there another road alignment or intersection rework that can accomplish getting a better alignment with Bruce Town and Hopewell while also giving good free flow into this? Have we looked at it? Or have we only looked at it as two separate projects? So the direct answer is yes, we've looked at this. And we've obviously gone through an extreme vetting process with the transportation study and discussing options. Clearly, the very first simple step with VDOT was how do you get access to this property? And there is just no opportunity to get access. No access management exception would allow us to get a full access to this property between the ramps and Route 11. The issue that we have is I showed you a picture that showed all those lines, the yellow line, the red line for the railroad tracks and everything. That cluster of roads. That cluster of transportation corridor is also a vertical puzzle. And navigating the alignment over the railroad tracks, if you were to try to, how do you look at these alternatives and try to eliminate railroad crossings and not change the vertical on Route 11? There are several puzzles. There are some of them that are at play here vertically. There's also design standards. VDOT has design standards. The existing entrance to Hopewell Lane in the current plan will result in something that is substandard in terms of access and entrances with the Bruce Town alignment, the Bruce Town alternative. It is deviating. There was a slide that was on the screen. And the current alignment. There was a slide that was on the screen. And the current alignment. The current alignment would begin to move that. That intersection would stay in the middle of this short distance. It also would then cross over the railroad tracks and come to its new location at Bruce Town. So we've looked at several things. But when you go back and you ask the critical question, what is going to happen in the future? What is the comprehensive plan trying to achieve? I'm sorry. It's you can't fix stupid. This is basically the conclusion we came to. If you're going to try to have a significant amount of future traffic going between exit 321 and 323, you're going to have to have a road section of what we're showing on the screen. We're going to have to have improvements on Route 11 to pass a lot more traffic as well. And down the road, you're going to need VDOT and the state of Virginia, the Commonwealth of Virginia, is going to have to improve. I-81 between exit, sorry, mile marker 319 and the state line. These are all things that have to happen in the future. But what we do know is the tax revenue, the highway commercial, it gets realized by the road you see on the screen. Otherwise, we're looking at cornfields. Otherwise, we're looking at contractor yards. This is not the true vision of what the comprehensive plan has had in play for a very long time. Thank you. Any more questions from our right? Mr. Kearns? This might be a fairly obscure question, but I want to pull it out because I don't really understand what this is connecting to. But there's references to a multi-use trail. What does that connect to? And is it just going to be kind of one of those 75-foot trails that starts here and ends there? So, yes, but in this particular case, in this particular case, you are very close to Clearbrook Park. It is not – it makes sense. And again, Parks and Rec and the county, this is all part of the process. And that is essentially no – in essence, no different than what I am standing here in front of you today saying this road segment you see is part of a greater vision for the future. And that trail also is something to connect up and down 11 to allow pedestrians and the community to move. Outside the traffic that's going to be out on Route 11 that is out there today. So hopefully there will be more connections as the trail moves towards the north. Any other questions from our right? Mr. Thomas? And Mr. Frank, I appreciate your presentation. I don't know if this is a question for you or for the traffic engineer. Did your traffic engineer do a traffic study with the turns and the volume? And the capacity? And also select this route? Or was that someone else who came up with the route and the realignment? I would like to say that it was the brilliance of Doug Kennedy. But I think it was a bit of a team effort. The conversation obviously starts with how do you get access to the property. So when this project started on how do we implement the comp plan? How do we build something here at this interchange and capture it? Got all that. But to just get to the chain. Yeah. I'll go back to Chase. I don't see that this circuitous routing does anything for the functional failure of the traffic there at Bruce Town, Hopewell, Bruce Town Lane. In fact, I see that it makes it a whole lot worse. And I certainly prefer the original alignment connecting Hopewell Road and Bruce Town in a fashion that is more functional. Okay. So you need a road through your site. I agree with that because you have four bays in there. You're going to have to have transportation between there among the bays. But what I see this doing, and I don't understand why you're dumping traffic over on Hopewell Lane. I'm not sure it can handle it. But what I see this doing is forcing, I mean, from a business, this is a great thing. You're forcing the traffic to go past your business. So if they want to get gas, if they want to go to the travel center, they're going right back. So you're forcing the traffic to go past your business. So if they want to get gas, if they want to go to the travel center, they're going right back. So you're forcing the traffic to go past your business. So if they want to get gas, if they want to go to the travel center, they're going right back. So they're going to see it. They're going to have to go to it. I don't see that this fixes any traffic issues in the area. In fact, from looking at it, I think it compounds them and makes it much worse. In addition, I see the Frederick County taxpayers and Virginia taxpayers paying for the road through your project site. And I have no problem with the rezoning. I think the project, I think it's a great project. I think it's a great project. I think your road system is abysmal. I'll just put it that way. I'm not very political, so I'll just say it the way I see it. This is great for the developer. It's horrible for the taxpayers of Frederick County. It's horrible for the taxpayers of Virginia. It's horrible for the people that live up there getting around and people that want to use this site. I can't understand a traffic system like this. And I've seen one or two traffic systems. I have a little experience with them. And I just see no benefit at all. And your comment about that this is the only way you could get into the site, well, why can't you come off Hopewell Lane or Hopewell Road at the same location and just have an entrance into your site? Because like I said, you're going to have to have a road through your site anyhow. It's not allowed by VDOT. Well, if they're not going to allow that, they're probably not going to allow this. So I don't see that. I don't see that. I don't see that. I don't see that as a valid reason. There's no possible way I could ever support this. Okay. Well, I appreciate, I do appreciate your comments. And some of the, some critical distinctions that need to be made here is it is not our preference to build this road through our site. It is expensive. And it is essentially building a county road through our property. The best way that these developments happen is by putting road improvements on your frontage. If you're going to build road improvements on the frontage of Route 11, it is no longer a highway commercial exit. No, you are not going to capture any travelers. You are not going to let being able to pull the travelers off of 81 and keep them off county roads. Hopewell Lane needs to be abandoned. It needs to be started over. Our preference is to build, would be to build lane widenings and intersections just like you're saying off of Hopewell Lane. But it fails every design standard that VDOT allows, and that is because of where the interstate was constructed. And there were. There are no ramps. There is no proximity of those ramps to Route 11. There is no viable access to this property from Hopewell Lane. That is clearly our first choice. We would love to not build a county road through our property. We'd love to not lose 15% of the property and have this curvilinear stuff going through the property. It is, you know, buildings are rectilinear. Parking lots are rectilinear. This is not a desirable outcome. This truly is building a county road. And the idea that this is for the benefit of the project, it, you know, if we were able to build simple lane widenings and entrances off of the surrounding roadways, we would love to do that. But we can't pick where the interchange is. We can't pick where the railroad tracks were built. And we can't pick how short Hopewell Lane is. And that VDOT won't allow any entrances. The existing entrance to Hopewell Lane in this location, it already exists. So, we're going to have to build a county road. It already exists. And the alternative, the Roosetown alternative, will have to allow an existing entrance that's nonstandard to continue to exist. No one's going to take that entrance away. We can agree to disagree. Thank you very much. Mr. Kennedy is here, and I'm sure there are some questions. Are there any more questions, Mr. Chairman? Did you speak with Karmouz today? I had a conversation with Logan Thompson. He was at a construction site. He said he would give me a call back. He said they would not have anybody here. He is out of town, and they wouldn't have anybody to speak. We have reached out to all of the community, not only the citizens, but local businesses. And we originally, and very early on, spoke to Karmouz. We understand that Karmouz has concerns about the traffic coming out on Roosetown. We understand that a lot of people have concerns about the traffic exiting Roosetown. So, I think that that's something that we need to look at. And that's why we're here today. We're here today to talk about the traffic that's exiting Roosetown. And we also understand that there is a significant amount of money that Karmouz has given so that those improvements can still happen. Did you not consider improvements to Roosetown with your overall transportation plan? Our actual transportation? I can let Mr. Kennedy speak to it. No, we did not consider any improvements to Roosetown because we're not really increasing any traffic on Roosetown. Those traffic numbers are essentially... Okay. Okay. So, there's been some improvements to Roosetown. I think that there's been some improvements to Roosetown. So, the traffic has been relatively flat. The community isn't growing that much in Roosetown. And the number of trips that come out of the quarry. So, knowing that there was already proffer dollars to fix the... Add additional lane to Roosetown. And that funding was there. That is something that could be incorporated into a larger scheme. But in terms of what this application is requesting and what is attributable to this, there's a point where we're chasing things offsite. In which we're not adding any vehicle trips to. And as I say, as with all that Mr. Kennedy speak to, how this alternative has been routed. And the effects... The imagined amount of delays and difficulty that this alternative presents. I think Mr. DeHaven asked you a question. I'm not sure I understood the answer. Okay. I'll answer. Dealing with your $20 million number. Does that include the improvements that Mr. Kennedy's report says are needed out of the northbound and southbound ramps of 81 on Hopewell Road? Yes, sir. Okay. Very good. And again, I'm going to underscore. These are preliminary numbers. These are numbers that we recognize are significant for the Board of Supervisors to consider if this is a direction they want to go. And that is why we're doing a properly vetted VDOT cost estimate for what these improvements are going to be. So that the Board of Supervisors can adequately assess the shift from a $9 million improvement to potentially a $20 million improvement. Well, I think it's very important that Mr. Patel understands and that you communicate to him that county will not be on the hook for additional overruns on a transportation revenue sharing project. And I've been involved in them enough, and you have as well, to know that they always go over budget and someone's got to cover that cost. And I can tell you, because I've been through it and Mr. Bishop will tell you, and I'm sure Mr. Pearson will tell you as well, the county will not cover that cost. That's going to be his responsibility. And that's a big, big load to carry. So please make sure he knows that if this were to go this way. I think that's all the questions. But if we have more, we'll call you back up later. Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this, please do. If anybody would like to speak to this resuming request, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, Ms. Spencer. Good evening. Sorry I was late. I share the same concern, Leslie Spencer, Gainesboro. I share the same concerns as the county staff and more. If we designed a new, innovative, tourist-attracting, and beautiful interstate exit in our district, that shares our state's and valley's first impression. If we designed a new, innovative, tourist-attracting, and beautiful interstate exit near one of our favorite community parks, which I love, the new splash pad, would we also design a major new truck stop near one of our favorite parks and community rural centers? Could we think longer and help the applicant in any way? Would this be increasing air pollution in this area where kids play? How can we make it better? Is it going to add health or decrease our health? Is it going to be safer with more trucks? Is it going to give our children at one specific area the best industrial, heavy, trucking area we could? Just like we're thinking about where to design a beautiful place for shuttle buses to arrive, preferably near walking districts. You know, if we were to think like that, would we? Specific for Hair Truck, is this the best we could do for Clear Brook for the families at all of this park? Could we design this somewhere else? Would this area be the first to come to mind? I mean, right here, would this be our first choice? Will it be attracting more heavy industrial in this area? I mean, that's one of the things the applicant says for data centers. You know, well, there's already a flying day there, so is it going to be more and more and more? And what is that going to look like? Do we want it near this? I mean, my little boy fell on the playground, and it was great because I've never been to the emergency room, but there we are in the car. We went to urgent care, and it was right there, and he was all stitched up, and it was great. So, I mean, that is how our community uses this area. Sorry, I lost it. So I know Stonewall is dynamic and does a lot, but I think that we are evolving and adapting to do better and balance industry overall countywide with different industries that are not so heavy and truck-intensive, and I hope that we keep that long-term vision in mind, especially for... for the long-term tourism of the people that live here that could use a more tourist-focused site, and also for the families that visit for the first time. When I travel out of town, I love to find parks that are near exits so that I can get my kids out of the car with a good, healthy meal and then let them run around before I get back in the car. And I think it's very likely that a lot of people coming to Virginia and the Shenandoah Valley for the first time will cross the interstate, they won't stay on the west side, they may cross, and they may go to one of the best parks in the county. Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to address the planning commission on this resigning request? Good evening, ma'am. Hi, my name is Pam. I live off of Martinsburg Bike. I support this project. I think it would help alleviate some of the traffic right there at Old Stone and make it easier for some of us people that just want to get gas on a regular day. Okay. But yeah. I'm for it. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'm Jim Emmert with Emmert Oil Company in Frederick County. What a project. I urge you to look around when you travel and what is best for an interstate location. And... I'm... I'm... That's about all I want to say on this, but I have an idea for Bruce Town Road traffic. Put a tip jar up at the Christmas lights. Have you ever been there? That's a joke, folks. It's so busy you can't get home, okay? But anyway, I'm here to vouch for Mr. Patel. We've supplied Round Hill Shopping Center for 40 years. Mr. Patel has owned it for five. In that time, our relationship started as business, and then it became one of trust, and now friendship. He doesn't do things half-bubbed, okay? If you have any concerns what this is going to look like, it's going to be class A. It will be done right, and he will make amends, or not amends, but he will meet you in the middle. So ask what you... Excuse me. Ask what you want, and he'll be there. If you have any questions, It's not all shut up. Thank you, Mr. Emmert. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, sir. Good evening. Kenny Unger, Stonewall District. I own the property there at 117 Hopewell that was Clearbrook Feed and Supplies, now called Pepper Farmers Co-op, which I'm general manager. I kind of want to reiterate Mr. Emmert's comments about Mr. Patel. Kind of the same thing. I started off in some business, and it's gone farther than that. I think he's the valued person in the community. And when I had the business, we had people who would be tied up at that at 5 o'clock. We closed at 5. The traffic would be so bad they'd have to call because they weren't going to make it there. It is a cluster at that intersection now. I don't think the realignment's going to fix anything. Again, I'm a country boy. I know cows go through. They go through paths and things like that. That's a cow path right there, and it ain't going to fix because how many cows at the water, you're not going to change who's going to get there first. It's the same thing there. So, again, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Unger. Would anybody else like to speak? Anybody else? The national closed public hearing. Mr. Frank, would you like to address any of the comments that have been made? Anything you want to say, sir? I would love to have. Mr. Kennedy. Okay. Any questions you have? Sorry. Mr. Kennedy, answer any questions you have on traffic. Sure. Because there is a... I know Doug will be shocked. I have a couple. Yeah. So, I'll just turn the floor over to Doug. I can tell by the surprised look on his face he's shocked. Doug Kennedy with Pannoni. To just follow up in terms of the general questions on the access route, yes, we've been involved in working with VDOT. And the county extensively, really, for over five years to try to develop an access plan for this property. As David mentioned, the access locations with the road through it was not our first choice. But we came to it as a solution that met with VDOT standards and provided a public street. We did analyze and we did coordinate with both VDOT and the county because one of the things this project would end up doing is allowing for the removal of the offset signal at Hopewell Road. So that the south signal of the two signals would be... Would not be needed for the access. Because traffic would be turning at the new location at the relocated alignment location. We think that is a positive. We did look at the travel times. And I think the one thing that we took away is, yes, it is a longer route. But it is a route that has more capacity. It's safer. Because we're eliminating a railroad crossing. And the travel times, really, in terms of what's changing between existing conditions and the initial phases, was a small change in terms of the travel times and distances to get from 81 to the east. And that's a huge change. I think it was a huge change. But it is a big change. And I think it's a real change. And I think it's a real change. to Carmuse and points on Bruce Town Road to the east of Route 11. So overall, we did think this plan was a superior plan to a do-nothing solution. And in terms of the impacts of growth and elements in terms of extensive traffic studies, I think we did document well the impacts along Route 11, along the new roadways, and along at the interstate junction. And we felt this plan was superior to a condition where nothing happens here in terms of activities on this site and with growth. The last thing I will say is that with the future studies, we've looked at the long-term traffic conditions. We had to go through the FHWA and VDOT process to look at a design year in 2056. That's well beyond a lot of times we see for traffic studies. But we did find that these improvements done in cooperation do improve the conditions. And we're actually approved. And we're also looking at the new roadways in the area of the FHWA. And we're looking at the new roadway in the area of the FHWA. And we're looking at the new roadway in December of 2024 by FHWA. That's a big lift. So I think overall, this is a solution with public streets that benefit the region. We are providing capacity above what we need for this particular site in terms of the face initial uses as a travel center and for the ultimate potential of traffic with the zoning. And so this traffic with the access plan there does satisfy that. But it also recognizes that a lot of the traffic is going to be in the area of the FHWA. And so we're looking at the new roadway in December of 2024 by FHWA. And so this traffic with the access plan there does satisfy that. But it also recognizes that a lot of the traffic being relocated from Help Bell Road to the new relocated road does provide capacity, not only for that diverted traffic, but for the site traffic. So if there's any questions, I'd be more than glad to go into more detail. Why didn't you just put an entrance on Route 11, a commercial entrance on Route 11, let people go around the corner to get in there? There's a lot of commercial, highway commercial facilities up and down 81 that that's the exact route how you get in. We looked at that. And the concern was that if we don't have a project when we started this, there's a lot of traffic. So we didn't have a project when we started this. There was not a county project to realign Hope Bell in the funding. So the time traffic and level service of traffic getting off the interstate, come down to Route 11 if they're exiting, make a left turn, so they're right across one railroad track, then they would have to cross the go past the Bruce Town signal, go past another railroad track, and then make a left turn in to the site. That delay in operations, level services, we could not fix that problem and make that additional incremental traffic. So we're looking at that. And so we're looking at additional incremental traffic work. So that's why that option really was not considered for the redevelopment of this property. It's $20 million less. Did anybody talk to Winchester and Western at the railroad about their operations? In terms of the traffic study, all we did was try to get the information for looking at the crossings, but we did not talk directly to them for changing that. Okay. Okay. While I'm asking questions, I'm on a roll here. You're, I was a little confused. And I'm not sure if you're familiar with the traffic study. I know you followed ITE in what you did. I get it. Table 13, though, talks about your pass-by trips. And you got over 7,500 pass-by trips out of your total traffic. Well, the population in the Stonewall District is just over 14,000 people. So I'm trying to recon, how do I reconcile that in my mind that 7,500 are going to go in there every day from trips that are already in the area to get a cup of coffee or fill up with gas, and then they're going to keep going? No one. No one didn't make a lot of sense to me, Doug. The pass-by trips were looked at in two-fold, and we scoped it with the county and VDOT. We wanted to have a capture from Route 11, which is about 10 to 15 percent of the traffic. But a majority of those pass-by trips were really passed by and captured from 81 traffic in terms of the travel center. So a lot of those traffic numbers are large because the fact that the interstate 81 traffic, who would not be exiting the site, would exit the site, go through the intersections, and then come into the city. And then they would go through the travel center, then return back to Route 11. So that number at least, I think, makes sense when you look at the volumes on 81 for that. Okay. And I, again, I understand what you did. That doesn't make sense as a local who knows what's going on with the traffic. Because I've studied these intersections three times in the last 15 years. And you're right, there's not a good solution. The off-site improvements, we're looking at a roundabout at the southbound lanes of the city. Okay. And then we're looking at a roundabout at the southbound lanes of the city. Okay. And then we're looking at a roundabout at the southbound lanes of the city. Okay. And then we're looking at a roundabout at the southbound lanes of the city. Okay. And then we're looking at a roundabout at the southbound lanes of 81 and Hopewell Road. Is that correct? That is correct. That was your recommendation? That was. Yeah, we looked at options to put a signal in there. It just didn't make sense with the limited, you know, we have right-of-way there. So that there is not, that's one of the cost savings of the roundabout. Looking at the traffic turns in there, we thought that the roundabout within the existing VDOT public right-of-way made the most sense to allow traffic safely turn coming off the southbound ramp to make the left turn. Did you model trucks? Did you? Did you? How did you account for the Car Mizz trucks? And one of the things those of us that, and I'm sure my Stonewall district guys will remember, when Amazon was being built and Procter & Gamble were being built, the number of trucks at Car Mizz tripled. And it was an incredible number of trucks. So that sort of thing is outside of the norms of ITE. And, but it's real. And I just wonder, did you account for anything of that nature or look at anything of that nature? The quick answer is yes. We did allow for the heavy vehicles that are out there from our, I mean, we took very extensive counts in 2022. In terms of the Car Mizz activities, as we understand their proffers, the numbers on Bridgetown in terms of truck numbers were factored into the analysis. We're understanding that with their growth, it's really going to replace in terms of, you know, there's different areas of the quarry being used, but generally the same number of heavy truck traffics will be coming in and out of the site based on the counts. So we're not expecting that number other than ambient growth to change. So we have accounted for the trucks on Bridgetown. We're turning on onto Route 11 and either going to Hopewell existing or looking at our realigned Hopewell Road. So we did factor that, those heavy vehicle numbers into our capacity analysis. Yeah, well, we're very fortunate in that our Commonwealth Transportation Board members have secured a lot of funding for 81 in this area, all the way up to 319, if I remember. Is that correct, Mr. Bishop? So we expect a lot more activity out of Car Mizz in the years to come. And I just wanted to make sure that had been considered. I don't want to dominate. That's excuse me. Another question. Okay. Mr. DeHaven. Oops, I'm sorry. Ladies first. Ms. Gazelle. Yeah, I'll go first. Thank you. If it's been answered, I apologize, but I'm trying to understand and believe me, I don't know VDOT standards. So if you could explain to me why we can't somehow mend the two options, like a hybrid option of the original Bridgetown alignment that's funded in design, soon to be constructed. And then your option. There's no. Because what I'm hearing is if you don't have this option, your project isn't viable. And we obviously don't want to like completely kill that. But I'm trying to understand design VDOT standard, why you can't do something else. I understand. We spent a lot of time. That's probably why I have the gray hair. When I first started, it was probably blonde. The issue with VDOT is we have to be offset from the limited access. So as Mr. Frank mentioned. The access on Hopewell Road today in terms of we have to be a minimum of 300 feet. VDOT prefers to have access 750 feet. And it's only about 640 feet from the northbound ramp to Hopewell Lane. So any access in that stretch does not meet VDOT current standards. And as mentioned, the only reason Hopewell Lane on our plan is shown as a partial access because it's there today. Anything new would not be allowed. So from our point of view. The idea of as we started moving Hopewell Road off its new alignment. We tried to say can we connect back to Bruce Town Road as its current location. Our understanding was in terms of the operations when we talked to VDOT originally is that the only way VDOT would consider that was if there was a grade separation option. So you're crossing the railroad and eliminating that conflict point that's there today on Hopewell. We looked at the profiles and we could not find a way to build a bridge over the railroad and connect. And so we're trying to do that. So we were looking at Bruce Town at the existing traffic signal. And make those grades work in terms of the profile of the roadway for bridge crossing without completely rebuilding Route 11. So from our point of view we did not think that the current solution has been suggested by VDOT and the county of having an accurate intersection of Bruce Town was not on the table four years ago. So then we started looking at connections up north on Route 11. And we were looking at the first location on Route 11. Where we could see. cross the railroad track, and have an intersection that had appropriate left and right turn lanes at a new intersection to meet VDOT highway standards for Route 11. And so that's really where the location is shown offset so we can provide separate improvements on Route 11 to provide that separate left turn storage lane that you don't now have at Hopewell to make things work better. So from our point of view, we didn't think there was a solution to go between Brewstown and our proposed location north of the railroad crossing for this new roadway to work. So the quick answer is I don't think there is a middle ground, assuming that we were always in a situation where we're trying to provide the county plan as a four-lane divided roadway between the interchange and a Route 11 location. And the location shown on the county plan is really a it's a bandwagon. The mandate is putting a temporary road in. It doesn't meet the comp plan function in terms of multi-lane roadways, in terms of right-of-ways. It does not eliminate the safety issue about the at-grade crossing. So we felt that the only solution that made sense was to bring the road into the property and relocate it with a new intersection to Martinsburg. Hang on. Mr. Bishop, how is it, with what Mr. Kennedy just said, that we're pursuing money and VDOT's given us money for something to do with the road? And the plan does not met the intent of the comp plan. What am I missing here? I want to make sure I clarify that whether this it's the alignment of Brewstown and Hopewell Road itself has been something that's been in development for almost my entire career. Here at the county, now there's been debates over the years whether that means Brewstown. needs come down to Hopewell needs come up to Brewstown Over time Hopewell coming up to Brewstown was what was settled upon. Now I understand the concerns. Virtually, not even virtually, nothing we do in terms of aligning these two roadways in the direct manner that is shown in your revenue sharing project is going to change the fact that you have insufficient space between Route 11 and the interchange. Blame that on the people that built 81. That's just a fact. Now, let me caveat what I'm about to say because I want to make sure, make it clear, I have a ton of respect for Doug Kennedy. He's one of my favorite traffic engineers that we get to work with at the staff level. He's great to work with. But in terms of the Hopewell-Brucetown alignment, as we show in our comp plan and have shown in our comp plan for some time, this S-curve was the new addition with the NELA update. Once again, to accommodate this. This proposal by the developer as a potential solution so that it could be studied and potentially move forward without being in conflict, in direct conflict with the comprehensive plan. The alignment of Hopewell-Brucetown has been in the comp plan as the comp plan solution long before that. But so I take a little bit of issue with calling it a Band-Aid solution. I take a little bit of issue with saying it wasn't on the table four years ago. It's this. What's being proposed by the applicant is the newer solution. I'm not going to put one against the other and say ours is right and theirs is wrong. Both have their issues. I blame our issues a little bit on the 81 designers. But that's the history. Okay. Very good. Mr. Kennedy, I know you have an opportunity to travel around a lot with your employment and work on different sites. Have you had the occasion to visit Buc-ee's down below Harrisonburg? I have not been there since it's open. I've been to the Buc-ee's in other states. Well, they do not have a direct access immediately off of the ramp. You've got to go around the corner and down the road before you can get to their entrance. And they do a whole lot more business than what we're talking about here would be my guess because they have a whole lot more fuel pumps than what you modeled. So I'm still perplexed on why this is the only way we can make this property viable for development. I'm sorry. I just have a hard time accepting that because it seems to me we've got an existing Mr. Patel has done very good out there with the existing truck stop. And I understand the desire to upgrade. I get it. Other businesses out there, the Paladin, I mean, it's done well. There's just a lot of businesses out there that are not doing bad at all. And I would love to see this property develop. I have no problem with it developing. But I'll share Mr. Patel's story. I'm not sure Mr. Thomas is concerned about the road. I'm not sure that benefits the county. And I always like to quote my friend Leslie Spencer and say, can't we do better? So I realize I threw a lot out, and I'm not expecting you to respond to that. But I do. I just remain concerned about what I'm seeing on the road. And I'd love to see the property develop. Did you have a question, Mr. Thomas? Just one addition to that. We have a lot of intersections. Interstate overlay areas at intersections where you have to go around a corner to get into the business. And it hasn't hampered those businesses and those intersections. I just, I think this is a great project, except for the road system. And that's a killer for me. If I could just make one comment, not editorial, but it's more, as we looked at it in terms of having traffic come off Route 11, or come off the interstate and come down to the intersection at Bruce Town, under the existing conditions with the offset roadways, there's not really room in the existing right-of-way that this applicant controlled, or does control now, to be able to provide the intersection improvements that would support double-turn lanes or left turns to make it more efficient to make that turn. And a lot of the projects in terms of the Buc-ee's experience, again, different scale. So I'm not saying that we're a Buc-ee's service. I'm not saying that we're a Buc-ee's service activity. But different scale where they've got more suburban designs to get traffic off the interstate with slip ramps and activities to get people into the property. They can do their business and then get back on the interstate. This site did not have the opportunity to do that. And we were concerned that if you're going to be making improvements on a realigned location, I think the only thing I would differ with Mr. Bishop on is we were expecting to be planning. If we're touching the intersection, we're going to be planning to do that. If we're not touching it, we need to bring it up to the county function as a four-lane divided roadway. And that right-of-way impacts and the widening and what happens at Bruce Town has significant impacts in terms of the overhead utilities, to what Bruce Town can look like, how things are aligned. And so for my reference being Band-Aid, I'm not sure that the solution that the county and VDOT are pursuing is really a solution that reflects an ultimate VDOT geometry at that intersection. All right. Any other questions for Mr. Kennedy? Yes. Oh, okay. Yeah. Go ahead, Beth. My question is kind of like a little bit like Liz's. Is there not a way, and I'm not a real fan of roundabouts, but like when you go north into West Virginia and maybe their standards are different than Virginia VDOT, I don't know, like Inwood is just one repeat. There's just one repeated roundabout after another. Is there not a way to move that roundabout closer to Hopewell Road and solve everybody's problem? We actually looked. This location of the roundabout was the closest we could do with the VDOT standards to get it to the interstate ramp in terms of where the limited access was. And the way we looked at the spacing, we are building more or this road plan envisions more public road, but on a per-access road. Okay. So, this is a per-access spacing. This is a better spacing element than trying to relocate Hopewell Road as a two-lane road at Bruce Town. It's a, you know, it is a longer length, so there is more access points, but that roundabout location was really the nearest we could push it to the interstate and make the access work based on the VDOT access management standards. I have done a lot of work up in Inwood, and I will say that the West Virginia standards are not as intense as maybe what VDOT would be asking for. Mr. Baltov? Yeah, I had a couple questions. I agree. I support a left and a left. I don't necessarily go with the roundabout. I was surprised that your traffic study didn't require improvements on Bruce Town Road, even if you put that roundabout in. Because right now any tractor trailer going south is going on probably 135-degree angle turn, and all the trucks that you are now going to be using are going to be using a roundabout. And that is a lot of work. I have a question. I do not know how long that will take. I do not know how long it will take. I am not sure. I am not sure. I have a question. I am not sure. I am not sure. I am not sure. I do not know. I do not know. I am not sure. I am looking at an Discoverion thing to see what they do at how far it goes, and what kind of a tightness that they provide because at least they get to basically where they can get through there. But you knew there was a test there. You were the upholder. You were the one who got to use space space, which is important because an apologized builder is licker T shirt done on death row. I didn't know this before we moved forward. I just wanted to see if you could get me where不对? Check. Yes, I did. I did get it. That is a nice thing to show us. Anyihi. Sir. Very bienvenue. is really an existing volume. It is changing and we did study the operations with the conditions in there and we've seen with the truck factors that the intersection operations were still no worse than a sort of no-build condition. I was more or less talking from the trucks coming from Carmoose and the other industries down Brewstown and then turning on Martinsburg Pike. Right now, the left is a lot easier than making that right because that right is probably about a 60 degree angle and not a 90. Oh, okay. For the exiting traffic, yeah, I thought I was referencing the inbound traffic. We did look at the change in traffic with the right turns and factor to the trucks in and from that operation, again, without looking at any widening in terms of the county project, the level service was basically still better than a do-nothing solution, sort of a no-build solution. Any other questions? Am I right? Mr. Oh, like a duo. Okay, Mr. DeHaan. Go ahead. I'll be quick because I'm struggling to understand what I just heard because I'm like Mr. Ball, I'm thinking that right, we're now forcing trucks to come off 81 if they're going to the quarry to go right and then left. We're out of the quarry, they now have to go right and then left. That right and that left at Brewstown Road on both of those narrow roads, you're saying that is equal to or better than the current? Mr. The current performance of that intersection where when they're going left, that angle aids them, it's straighter than now because I find that hard to believe. Mr. The operations on the whole for the overall grade at Brewstown under the build condition with this alternative road, because the traffic is really in one lane, it is moving in that it's basically has some of the same delay in terms of the operations as we look at the signal grades. Mr. How do you evaluate the left-hand queuing trying to get onto Brewstown Road? That's a fairly short distance. Mr. That is and we looked at those volumes with that diversion of traffic and from our point of view in terms of the operations, that left turn still with the signal timing still would operate. Mr. And they're not in the way of the trucks coming out of Brewstown Road making a right? Mr. For the planning purpose in terms of the capacity, we did not do an auto turn simulation for final design on that section of the road. Mr. So you're looking at more accounts than actual flow? Mr. We're looking at the counts with the truck factors in it and with the overall operations at that existing intersection. Mr. Correct. Mr. But we did also provide, we do recognize that as the trucks come out making the right turn, we did have to provide a left turn lane, a very extensive one as you cross the railroad to make the turn so they can get back to the interstate and that was part of our requirements. Mr. Mr. Chairman, do you have a follow-up? Mr. Mr. Kern, you have a question, sir? Mr. Yes, sorry, thank you. I'm on Google maps looking at that corner right now. I spent a bunch of time recently driving around up there just back and forth and back and forth and just kind of trying to envision this in my head. And I think this is part of the proffers in there but the Route 11 northbound turning left into this S. Mr. Mm-hmm. Mr. Right now there's kind of two lanes and, like, two lanes. Mr. Mm-hmm. eight and a half feet in the middle sort of thing. Is that part of the improvement that's going to happen there? And what is that left lane, left-hand turn lane going to look like? How long is it going to be? We're basically providing everything north of the railroad track on the west side of Route 11 is going to be widened on our side, proper dedication. So we'll have a full 12-foot wide left turn lane. I think it's about 250 feet long with a 200-foot taper. So we have storage so that any traffic making the left turn onto the relocated road has storage and will not back up to the existing railroad crossing. Now, I saw in the proffers, proffer one, paragraph 10, that it said that the construction would not start until the Hopewell road is improved, but it didn't mention anything on 11. I would be cautious to do one instead of the other, before the other. Agree. We would expect that any type of access on Hopewell relocated would include the Route 11 improvements. And I think VDOT would not let us do those improvements without things on Route 11. We can clarify that in terms of the proffers. Okay. Okay. Thank you. The intent is to make sure that the Route 11 improvements, the turn lanes are there with the Hopewell improvements. As included with. Yes. All the recommendations in the traffic study are going to have to be met. Yeah. Got it. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? Left? We all clear? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Kennedy. Thank you. All right. Planning Commissioners, we've had the public hearing. This is our opportunity to talk among ourselves. What are your thoughts? If I may, one final note. There was a question about, you know, can you develop this property? You can absolutely develop this property as B2. You cannot develop this property as highway commercial with the amount of trips that we're looking at because of everything Mr. Kennedy just said on, the existing Hopewell Road. It needs to be relocated. And I just want to underscore that Mr. Patel is trying to capitalize on the comprehensive plan, the tax revenue and the trips and the people that are on the interstate. Keep those people from the interstate onto the property and back on the interstate and off the local roads. Without this option, you know, you're not going to get the highway commercial land use. Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commissioners? What do you think? Mr. Crane looks like he's deep thought over there. Mr. Kearns? To fill the space. I was just going to make a comment. As I survive the intersection every night during rush hour, it's not a pleasant experience. I think you do the same, Mr. Chairman. And I just can't. I don't envision how this new addition, this new road is going to make any better. And maybe I'm not getting it, but I just don't see where. And the truck traffic is not going to be, I don't think, any different. We already have the truck stop at Old Stone. We already have the truck come from the quarry. And so I don't think the truck traffic may be. That much different. It could be. I don't know. But the way the traffic is now, I don't see getting any better with this proposal here. Yeah. And there's truck traffic from McKesson as well as Amazon in the area as well. Mr. DeHaven? I look at this. I'm supportive of the project. I'd like to see the development. I have kind of two concerns. One of the big ones is we're still talking about, I haven't heard too much about, we've been talking about the flow. We're talking about the flow of traffic. But if I'm getting the numbers right, there's still a $17 million gap in this project that we're not having an answer for. So while the project could be a good project, even if we decide the traffic's right, I struggle to approve something that we don't have a good plan for closing that $17 million funding gap. And that's a big concern for me. And the other one is could we do better? I feel like there's. There's maybe another traffic flow solution. But either way, with a $17 million gap, I have some trouble understanding. Okay. Mr. Kearns? Thank you. I've spent. This is a hard one. I've spent a lot of time on this. I'll admit, when I first saw this, I was like, what were they thinking? Like, I looked at it and I was like, what is that? That's crazy. And the longer I spend on it, and I've driven up there a lot, and I'm trying to envision this in my head, but I don't drive it every day. So I don't hit it during rush hour. But I have definitely gotten stuck there, you know, the double train crossing. There are a number of things that I do like about this. And I'm not a traffic expert. I'm becoming better versed, but I'm not an expert. But looking at that, I mean, how many times do you see 81 northbound blocked up and people getting off 81? And this creates a nice flow and a longer flow and cushion off of 81 north as people, you know, get off 81 north. You know, 81 gums up, everybody can go get on 11. So, you know, this creates a longer avenue for people to get off. It's four lanes for people to get off there. And that's a pretty long section of road. I like the revenue that it generates. I like that we have revenue generation that happens right off the way. I'm trying to think of what else is possibly going to go there other than, you know, a truck stop or some sort of interstate service thing that's going to service the area in the interstate. I struggle to see what else. You know, again, the project, like a lot of folks have said. I agree with the project. I think it's a good overall use of the space. I like the forward thinking of 10 to 15 years in the future of all of the development to the north along this. This opens up, I think, the corridor between 11 and 81 north of this all the way up to the next exit and creates a nice flow and encouragement of business development, industrial development up along that corridor. And not data center. You know, we're talking about, you know, manufacturing, light business, light office, all of that up there. This creates a nice avenue for all of that to get on to the interstate. And I think a fairly attractive one, too, compared to what we have now, which is just a mess down there. I think this would be a more attractive. I think it would be visually an improvement to the area. And I like the bays in there. I'm very concerned with the not getting really full comments and clean comments. I would like to see comments from Karmus, which is a very heavy user right there. And I would like to see better and more fleshed out comments from the fire department. So I would like to see those included. They seem like they were just, you know, for a project that's been being worked on for as long as it has, getting a call this afternoon and talking to Karmus is not the planning that I would have hoped to hear for such a heavy user for that area. And the fire department as well. This is something that I would want full. You know, sit down meetings and talk this out and flesh this out and see if they can work through improvements on this. So I'm not against it. I don't know if I'm going to I don't know if I would recommend denial, but I would I would I would recommend definitely some improvements in the communication. And I would also definitely want to include what staff's comments were about the the the use of materials and design. I was a little bit concerned with that. They seem like some cheaper materials in there. I'd like this would have to be a nice, beautiful. What the other you know, the folks I appreciate the folks that came out tonight and the folks that know Mr. Patel and vouch for him, you know, working in the community and trying to make a nice addition to the community. So I appreciate the comments and that that speaks a lot to this for me. But that those are my comments right now. Mr. Klein, I meant to ask you earlier, were the were comments sought from the school system? I do not believe we sought comments from the schools. So it wasn't a residential impact and there wasn't a school. Directly in the vicinity. You have to go down to Stonewall Elementary School, which is a significantly down the road to the south of this. Yeah, there's a lot of bus traffic that comes through here. We can certainly in the morning. That's why I was certainly advise the applicant to reach out to the schools and provide the schools with the materials and get a comment. Okay. Thank you. Any other comments? That's because. No. All right, Mr. Thomas, I agree with pretty much what the commissioners have said. I my biggest concern. And I agree with the development. I think this would be a good development for that area. But I think we have to do a better job with the transportation system. I do not see the need for this this type of an S curve. And now maybe if we had a letter from VDOT saying absolutely, they would never let you access this site from Hopewell. Maybe that would change my mind a little bit. But I think, you know, we've we've taken a functionally failing area from the transportation system. And I agree with the development. We've put $1.5 million into it. And we've put $20 million into it. And we still have a functionally failing transportation network. I don't see that this is going to fix what we have there. And I worry were that extra $17 million. Where Commissioner DeHaven is there talking about it. I worry that that $17 million is going to be expected to come from Frederick County for the deficit there for the increment. Whether it's $10 million. Or $17 million. And I don't have a problem with the transportation numbers. They're really either way, it's going to be the same. But I just I the money and not really solving the transportation problem. There's what what turns me away from this project. And it's a shame because I think it would be a benefit to the community in the county. But not if we have to pay all this money for it and end up with the same system we have now. That's it. Thank you. Any comments to my left? Mr. Chairman, may I make a request? No, sir. I'm sorry. I was going to ask since we didn't have a work session on this. We could ask to table it so that I was able to address the comments we've heard today. Mr. Pearson. I'll seek your advice, sir. Certainly the prerogative of the Planning Commission. One thing you'd have to figure out how to handle is. You've already held the policy. You've already held the policy. You've already held the public hearing on the topic. So it would come back as an action if you did choose to have a work session. But it's certainly something you could consider. Yeah. And that's my concern with tabling something after we've held a public hearing is. There are people who are going to want to speak to the project again after any changes have been made. And they won't have the opportunity to do so. Because the public hearing will be closed. Just a question. Wouldn't this push it into a new application territory? If we held the public hearing. We've had the Planning Commission discussion. We've had the presentation. And we've closed the public hearing. We've had all of our discussion. We're getting ready for a vote. Wouldn't that then necessitate us having essentially a new application to have a public or to have a work session and another public hearing and another discussion on it? No. I don't. I might have missed kind of what you were alluding to there. But I don't think it makes sense. I think it's a good point. I think it's a good point. I think it's a good point. You've done some really good work on that. I'm not sure how much you can get into there. But I don't think it makes it requires you to start from scratch on it at all. As you all have done in the past, you've tabled applications before or after the public hearing. But the Chairman's comments are what you have to delve into. You've already held the public hearing. You could ask the applicant to pay the re-advertising fee and hold another public hearing after the work session. But we've also started our 90-day clock. And that's something to be mindful of with this whole thing. I don't think there's anything that bears merit for it being a new application or anything like that. Have we discussed anything here tonight that had not been previously discussed with the applicant by staff? I would look to the case planner, but I don't think so. As Mr. Frank alluded to, we've been working on this for the better part of two years. And most of the comments that I've made this evening were communicated to them in that first preliminary comment letter. So they've been unaddressed for more than two years. And that's my concern, is the outstanding resolution to the various agencies that haven't been resolved is a concern. Ms. Cuzzell mentioned that as well. So I'm inclined not to table this because I don't think anything new has come up. But I'm certainly willing to discuss it with Planning Commission. Thank you. Well, I mean, I definitely brought up a couple of points that I think that they would be able to address. I mean, I'm okay with the tabling because then it doesn't have another public comment period with us. But it still goes through public comment with the Board of Supervisors. So there is still additional public comment opportunity. And I think everybody... And it will go through that process regardless of what we do here, whether we table it or... Right. Right. But it does give additional opportunity for those better conversations. And I mean, those are very important to me. For me up in that district, that's very important for me to have them, have Carmoose and the Fire Department and potentially Parks and Rec to really sit down and have... I really want to hear what they say. Not just a phone call, but actually have comments. That's what I... And potentially, yeah, that's what I would like to hear. That's just me. Okay. Is there a specific... Why this might be a question for you. Is there a specific timeline that if we were to table it, we would need to set a date for so that we don't run up against any deadlines as you were alluding to on a 90-day clock? Yeah, it'd be 90 days from tonight that you'd have to further a decision to the Board of Supervisors. You take... I looked at the clock. I mean, you'd have to act by your second meeting in September. Because the way the dates fall in October, this is July 1. You end up passing that if you go to the full 90 days. So you'd have to act by the second meeting in September to be within that 90-day timeframe. And this will not be on our August agenda. That I can promise you. So we'd have to hit a September meeting. One of them. Yes, sir. I'm inclined to table it because the applicant requested. So I would think that they would not request it if they didn't think that they could address some of the comments and some of the things that came up. If it was us pushing it, saying we think we need to table this, and then going we don't know what we would be able to cover in that time. But since they brought it up, it makes me think that they might be able. They think that there's something that they can address. We made a lot of comments here, and I would like to see what they come back with. Okay. Others? No. Okay. Stonewall. I would make. I'm sorry. I don't have the exact. Here we go. I would make a motion to table rezoning 06-26 for Hopewell Highway Commercial Center until sometime in the September timeframe within the 90 days. I need a specific date, sir. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Next. Okay. So we have a motion and second motions to table this until September 16th meeting. Is there any discussion? Okay. Mr. Whitaker, can you start a vote on that just to table yes. Yes. What agree? Yes. Crane? Yes. The only thing is we have a motion. There's two votes. Yes. Yes. Yes. A yes. Yes. Crane? Yes. Yes. Crane? Yes. Yes. Crane? Yes. Yes. Yes. Crane? Yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Sneddon, yes. Othruff, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Chairvice, yes. Motion carries. This will be tabled till September 16th. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, that leads us to item eight C, Conditional Use Permit 02-26, Lamar Rosenberry. Ms. Feltner, good evening. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. This is a conditional use. This is a conditional use for a public garage. The property is located at 730 Packhorse Road in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. As you are aware, this item was scheduled for your June 3rd regularly scheduled meeting and was deferred until this evening. The location map identifies the property in red. It's located in the east, it's located east of 522 in the northern part of the county. The property is outlined in purple that is accessed by a private driveway from Packhorse Road. The proposed sketch shows the existing garage and the parking, and the gravel parking area. It should be noted that the house and the garage are located at five twenty-two from the parking area. That's the first doing. are 35 to 45 feet higher in elevation than Pack Horse Road. This is the applicant's proposal and not conditions. The proposal is to operate a repair garage inside an existing 28 by 52 area for preventive maintenance. The hours of operation are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, by appointment only on weekends. Customers are averaged 10 weekly. Inoperable vehicles are dropped by a service provided by the customer. Storage of inoperable vehicles are screened or inside the existing garage bays. The zoning ordinance does allow public garages in the RA area with an approved conditional use permit. The zoning ordinance requires that all repairs take place within an entirely enclosed structure. All exterior storage of parts and equipment are screened from the surveillance camera. All vehicles are screened by an opaque fence six foot in height. Inoperable motor vehicles are stored inside the enclosed building or screened on all sides by a six foot opaque fence or screen. Sale of the vehicles are prohibited. Should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments shall be complied with at all times. The Virginia Department of Health operating permit shall be inspected. and approved prior to the establishment of the use. An illustrative sketch shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County. And all improvements shall be completed prior to the establishment of the use. All automotive related activities, including the repairs, shall occur entirely within the enclosed structure. Exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by a six foot opaque fence. All parking shall have a gravel or hard surface. The business is not permitted employees, beyond those residing on the property. Hours of operation are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekends by appointment only. A maximum of three vehicles awaiting service in the screened area. And any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. The item is presented for you tonight for a public hearing. And staff is seeking a recommendation to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm available, staff is available to answer any questions. And the applicant is also available to answer. Any questions? Okay, any questions? To my left? To my right? Ms. Kozell? Is this in operation currently? It is not in operation as a public garage, no. The garage itself is existing. Any other questions? Thank you very much. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this, now would be the time to do so. Please come to the... Oh, did he? Does the applicant wish to speak? Nope? Okay. Public hearing, if you want to speak, come to the podium. Limit your comments to three minutes or less. State your name and magisterial district. Would anybody like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. This is Gainesboro. Any discussion from you gentlemen? Okay. I'd like to make a motion to approve of conditions of approval. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Okay. Ms. Brumbach, can you start our voting for us, please? Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Otharff, yes. Sneddon, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozell, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Crane, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors next week on July the 8th. And thank you for your patience, sir, and let us push you back a month. Okay. I'll just say that I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get a motion or not. I'm going to say that I'm not sure if I'm going to get a motion or not. Okay. Other applications? Anything we need to be aware of? Just to remind folks that we will, the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee will meet on the 13th of this month. And then also make sure you have on your calendar your July 23rd joint work session half day meeting on the Comprehensive Plan with the Board of Supervisors. Happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman. I do have one announcement for the Planning Commission to be aware of. We have a new employee that we're going to have to deal with in our role as Planning Commissioners. That's a Deputy County Administrator whose name might sound familiar. It's a gentleman named Wyatt Pearson who's been promoted into that role. So we're very happy for him and look forward to working with him in that new capacity as well. So congratulations, sir. Thanks. Thank you. If there is nothing else, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Is there a second? Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Be careful going home. Thank you very much. Thank you for your attention. Uh-huh. Thank you. Bye-bye. Take care Sorry. Thank you. Have a nice day. Bye bye.으로
