Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-05-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=350
========================================================================

you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How are you doing? How are you doing? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just bow your head for a moment of prayer. Heavenly Father, we just come before you first and foremost giving you thanks as the creator of all things. We understand that you have even created government and systems of government. So we just give you thanks tonight for this group of men who have stepped forward and taken up the mantle of serving their community and serving other people. Your word says that you came not to be served, but to serve and lay down your life as a ransom for many. So we just thank these men for their servitude. We pray for wisdom. Your word says those who lack wisdom should ask. So we understand that you have all wisdom. So we come before you tonight humbly asking for you to guide this meeting, humbly asking for you to grant these men wisdom to carry out the business and the conduct. Of this county, we pray that in all things that they would operate with justice and with integrity. So we just pray for your hand of blessing over this meeting. We again pray for a blessing over these men in their lives. We pray that you would allow them to continue to operate with lives of integrity and that you would just again bless them for their service and watch over them as they conduct this important business and that you would guide them in all things tonight. We ask this in your precious name, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you very much. Supervisor Lerio, would you please lead us in the pledge? We can remain standing and face the American flag for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Thank you. You can be seated. The next part of our agenda is the adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chair, I would move that we adopt the agenda as written. Second. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Aye. The adoption of the agenda is approved. Number five, the citizens' comments for agenda items that are not on the subject of a public hearing on tonight's agenda. Mr. Chairman, we did not have anyone sign up this evening for this area. If there's anyone here in the room that didn't sign up but would like to speak, now would be the time. Seeing no one, we'll move ahead. Thank you very much. Mr. Chair, I'd like to make a comment on the consent agenda. I have one little change and that would be on number eight, county officials. It has no comment there. As chairman, vice chairman, I have a comment I'd like to make in there. So it's not a big change to the consent agenda. So we'll assume that the consent agenda works as presented. But go ahead, Mr. Laria. I would move that we approve the consent agenda as written. Second. Second. There's a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Gurumont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Lirio? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Gehr? Aye. I call him Gary all the time, the last name. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. Okay, that takes us over to... Board of Supervisors comments. None? Okay. All right, county officials, I do have some comments there. Mr. Tibbs, if you would, I'd appreciate it. Hi there. If you'd just stand there with Mr. Tibbs, I'd certainly appreciate it. I'd like to take a few moments to recognize Karen Vacchio, the county's public information officer, who will be retiring on June the 3rd, 2026, with 30 years of service to the citizens of Frederick County. Mrs. Vacchio. Absolutely. Absolutely. She began her career with Frederick County. She was hired as a public relations coordinator for Frederick County Parks and Recreation. Her position was reclassified to public information officer for Parks and Recreation on June 16, 2007. On August 1st, Mrs. Vacchio was hired as a Frederick County first public information officer. In May 2016, Mrs. Vacchio was designated... ...as the four-year officer for Frederick County in addition to her role as public information officer. And during her time as four-year officer, the county has seen exponential growth in the number of four-year requests from around 150 to 200 in 2016 to more than 1,500 requests in 2025. Her role as public information officer... ...in her role as public information officer... ...in her role as public information officer... ...in her role as public information officer... ...Miss Vacchio has initiated and implemented a variety of programs and services to help the county communicate with its citizens. During COVID, the pandemic, Mrs. Vacchio developed a variety of COVID-related communication pages to provide relevant information on county operations and links to state and federal resources. During COVID, the country has seen exponential growth in the number of four-year assistance for원� Ihac at hover disaster test stations, city of Edmonton, and Thunder INFAC cluster associations. And during COVID-19, the county has seen international work included locations to respond to students' student messages and all of that family VIP, studentizing and joint engagement. Working in conjunction with IT staff, this team was instrumental in launching the early-online comment portal for the Board of Supervisors' public hearings, which allowed citizens to comment on public hearing-related items without having to physically attend meetings during the highs of the pandemic. She worked with IT and county administration staff to implement the live streaming of the Board of Supervisors' meetings. She worked with IT and county administration staff to implement the live streaming of the Board of Supervisors' meetings. whole list, but we'd be here half the night. I don't know how this employee, friend, great person did all the things she did, but on behalf of the board, I want to extend our sincere thanks and appreciation for all of Karen's hard work and dedication to Frederick County and its citizens. We wish you all the best as you start your new chapter in life. Congratulations. Thank you all very much. All right, that moves us on to number nine, which is the appointment of boards, committees, and commissions. Social Service Board Shawnee District Representative. Four-year term of Dolores Stoudemire expires on 6-30-26. Ms. Stoudemire is eligible and willing for reappointment. And this is Shawnee. Mr. Chair, I'd like to nominate Ms. Stoudemire for another four-year term on the Social Services Board. Thank you, Dodie, for all your service and looking forward to working with you for another four years. I'll give you a second. Second. Thank you very much. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed, congratulations. Yes. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. You're welcome. your service. Mr. Chair, while we're on the topic of Social Services Board, I'd also like to put out that there will be a vacancy on the Social Services Board in the Back Creek District beginning on July 1st of this year. Kermit Gaither, who has served on the Social Services Board for the last two terms, four-year terms, is term limited and would like to keep serving but is not eligible for reappointment. So if you live in the Back Creek District and you're interested in serving on the Social Services Board, please look us up online. The Social Services Board meets once a month at 8 30 a.m. on a Tuesday morning, and those meetings usually take an hour to two hours. So it's a good time slot for you. So if you're interested and you live in Back Creek, please think about applying. Thank you. All right. Number 19. 9B, Parks and Recreation Committee, Stonewall District, representing a four-year term of Jennifer Meyer, 6-23-26. Ms. Meyer does not wish to be reappointed. She has the see the attached application from Christopher Lubecki. This is Stonewall. Yes, sir. I'd like to nominate Mr. Lubecki for Parks and Recreation. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those opposed. Congratulations, Mr. Lubecki, to your appointment. Community Policy and Management Team, two-year term of Robert Johnson as private province representative expires 6-30-26. See attached letter requesting Mr. Johnson's reappointment. I need a motion on that. So moved. So moved. Second? Second. Second. Thank you, sir. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All those like sign. Okay. Extension Leadership Council, Stonewall District, representing a four-year term of John D. Klein, expires 7-13-26. Mr. Klein has chosen not to be reappointed. See the attached application of Lauren Morrison. Yes, sir. I'd like to nominate Lauren Morrison for the appointment. Second. I have a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All those opposed? Thank you very much. That brings us to public hearing. Non-planing issue 11A, proposed boundary line adjustment. This is a boundary adjustment from our neighbors in Stephen City. I finished the parcel. I'm under single ownership. Carball family. Is the microphone on? Carball family. Yes. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I'm on the phone. I apologize, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the board. This is a boundary adjustment from Stephen City. Carball property, 10 acres. Desiring to come under unified boundaries within the Stephen City boundaries. The Stephen City City Council passed a resolution requesting this at its April business meeting. This would, if approved by the board, this would, we would then petition the Circuit Court to adopt the boundary adjustment as requested by the board. As requested by the families. I don't know if we have any members of the Carball family tonight. So, thanks for being here. And they're available for any questions or clarifications for this public hearing item, Mr. Vice Chairman. Okay. Thank you very much. So, is there anyone who wishes to speak on this? If you would, give us your name and your magistrate or district. My name is Margaret Carball-Wolfrey. And I live on Passage Road in Stephen City. Yes, that's good. That's good. That's good. You're fine. We request the boundary adjustment to our property on Passage Road in Stephen City to reside in the town of Stephen City. This will eliminate the partial divide that currently exists between Frederick County and the town of Stephen City as it stands now and has been for many years. Having all the partial divide, I would like to ask the Board of Trustees to vote. Having all the property in the town of Stephen City will ensure a smooth transition for our children and grandchildren should there be a desire to utilize the property in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to have comments or speak about this? Seeing none, I'll close that portion of the comments. How about the Board? Any comments from the Board? All right. Seeing none, this is Stephen City in Opecan District. So, being Vice Chair and also the Opecan District Representative, I will make a motion that we approve the proposed boundary line adjustment as presented before the Board. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Any other further comments? Seeing none, this will be a roll call vote. I'm correct? Okay. Supervisor Guilmer? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Lirio? Aye. Supervisor Ohrdorf? Aye. And Supervisor Oates? I got it right this time? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion passes. So, number two, number 12A, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modification to Chapter 165 zoning ordinance. Yes, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Vice Chairman, members of the Board. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. This is the first of two items this evening that are related but require separate actions. This is your phase one zoning ordinance and subdivision ordinance updates. As you know, we've been working diligently over the last 18 or so months to revamp our zoning ordinance. And I won't take our consultants' thunder away and let them explain kind of the ins and outs of that process. But I wanted to first recognize the staff that were involved in this. An undertaking like this is beyond one person. Obviously, we're looking at the context of the ordinance. Holistically, Amy Feltner in our office, the zoning administrator, Mark Cherin, John Bishop, Mr. Pearson, and, of course, our county attorney, Andrew Fox, have been instrumental in making sure that we have a concise and articulate ordinance for you all's consideration this evening. And then, certainly, this process involved a review committee. They were diligent in their time and their effort in asking questions of our consultants and staff and reviewing the complex materials that were provided to them over a series of meetings. I'd like to recognize Supervisor Liero, who was your board liaison. We had Chad DeHaven and Thomas Boutour from the Planning Commission as representatives. And we also had Christopher Mone as a representative of the development community. Again, their efforts do not go unrecognized. With that, I'll turn it over to Caroline Vantor with the Berkeley Group. She represents a team of individuals who worked on this. And she'll walk through the ordinance. And then we'll have a public hearing on the zoning ordinance. And then we'll have a similar presentation. And then, again, a second public hearing will be required for the subdivision ordinance. And she'll explain why. And then, of course, we'll have a public hearing on the zoning ordinance. And then, we'll have a similar presentation. And then, again, a second public hearing will be required for the subdivision ordinance. And she'll explain why both sections need to be amended. And then, of course, we'll have a public hearing on the zoning ordinance. And then, of course, we'll have a public hearing on the zoning ordinance. Thank you, sir. Good evening, Mr. Vice Chair, members of the board. Good evening, Mr. Vice Chair, members of the board. Thank you so much for your time this evening. I appreciate you having me here. My name is Caroline Vantor and I'm here on behalf of Berkeley Group. We are a local government consulting firm based here in the Valley. We are a local government consulting firm based here in the Valley. And we've worked with Frederick County on a number of projects over the past several years. And we've worked with Frederick County on a number of projects over the past several years. The most recent one being the phase one zoning and subdivision ordinance. The most recent one being the phase one zoning and subdivision ordinance. Update which is being presented for your consideration this evening through the public hearing process. Update which is being presented for your consideration this evening through the public hearing process. So the zoning ordinance is chapter 165 of the county code. So the zoning ordinance is chapter 165 of the county code. And it is the set of laws that regulate how land in Frederick County can be used or developed. And it is the set of laws that regulate how land in Frederick County can be used or developed. The zoning ordinance is also the county's primary means of implementing the goals and policies that you have in your comprehensive plan. The zoning ordinance is also the county's primary means of implementing the goals and policies that you have in your comprehensive plan. The zoning ordinance is also the county's primary means of implementing the goals and policies that you have in your comprehensive plan. And so accordingly, this is a really giant thing to consider in this position. important set of laws for the county. It's important to keep them up to date and functional, both for staff, but also for the community. And so that is the reasoning behind the phase one update. The reason why we're saying phase one is that this is a technical update. There are no, what we'll call policy changes in this update. There are no material updates to the zoning content. I will talk a little bit more about that, but I just want to be sure that is completely clear from the beginning. County staff initiated this process in the summer of last year for several different reasons. The first being that the county zoning ordinance has not been reviewed and updated in its entirety for over 30 years. This has created a very complex document with a lot of redundant, outdated, and inconsistent language. Additionally, over time, state laws change and local codes must be regularly updated to remain compliant. There's a lot in Virginia law that addresses land use. And so the zoning ordinance needs to be clear about what those requirements are. And because the zoning ordinance has only been periodically amended in a piecemeal fashion over time, this has led to redundant and conflicting provisions. And this has made it extremely hard for everyone to administer and use. So there are four main goals of the phase one update. The first being to improve organization compliance. This is going to include the ability for a state to provide a process to implement a zoning ordinance by grouping related topics, procedures, and standards into logical articles. We want to make sure that if a process is being explained or required, that all of those requirements are in one place and not scattered throughout the ordinance, so it's difficult to understand what exactly is required of an applicant. The second goal is to ensure state code compliance. Virginia is a Dillon's rule state, meaning that local governments only have the authority that is expressly granted to any state. This is a new form of local government. And so this is going to be a major requirement that we need to adopt. expressly granted to them by the state. That absolutely applies to land use authority. State law does set strict boundaries for local land use authority. And so the current zoning ordinance is severely out of compliance with Virginia law, to be blunt. And so this process is really important to make sure that all of the references and provisions are aligned with Virginia law, where those certain provisions are either only partially codified now or not codified at all. And that is absolutely not to say that your staff is not complying in practice. However, state law is clear that these requirements do have to actually be spelled out in the ordinance. And so this was probably the primary goal of the phase one update. The third goal is to increase clarity and transparency. And we've sought to do this by simplifying language, removing any redundant or conflicting provisions with the direction of county staff and the folks on the review committee, and converting text into tables where appropriate. Introducing those state code edits also helps advance transparency by making it clear for the community what is required by the state versus what is actually required by Frederick County. And all of that works together to achieve the fourth goal, usability. We want to make the ordinance easier for staff to administer and interpret, and easier for the community, applicants, the planning commission, and you all to use and understand. So this process began kind of informally in the fall of 2024. Berkeley group was commissioned to do a diagnostic report of the county's current zoning ordinance. Through the diagnostic process, we went line by line through the county's zoning ordinance to identify which provisions of state code were integrated in the ordinance, where the ordinance only partially complies with state code, or where the ordinance may be out of compliance. And so this is a process that we're working on right now. And we're working on a lot of things. And in the report, we also just made some general recommendations for ordinance structure, reorganization. There were also some policy recommendations in that report as well. I believe most of you would have been at the work session where Berkeley group presented the findings to the board and the planning commission in the fall of 2024. The phase one process was formally initiated by staff last summer. We started with the zoning ordinance reorganization and update. The review committee met periodically to review and then we've had a series of adjustments and improvements that have been made by the board. And with that in mind, we're grateful to you for all of your efforts and for your support. And I want to take this opportunity to thank you for joining us. Thank you. throughout last year to serve as a truth check to make sure that we were on track for the ordinance and would like to thank Supervisor Liero for his representation and the time he spent serving on that committee. As part of the zoning ordinance reorganization, we also developed graphics to serve as visual aids to communicate the requirements that are more complex and could benefit from a visual interpretation. So there, I believe, are upwards of over 30 graphics now in the zoning ordinance, as well as flow charts to explain the permit and application processes. Again, those graphics are not explaining new requirements. They are just visually communicating what is already there. The ordinance also consisted of a thorough legal review. We had a third-party attorney from a firm in Roanoke review the ordinance. At the time, the county attorney had not been hired yet, and so that third-party review occurred, and then the county attorney also reviewed the ordinance. When he came on board, he was able to review the ordinance and the plan and commission. So there have been quite a few eyes on this document, especially to ensure that we are checking those state code boxes. The planning commission held a work session to review the phase one ordinance in February, and then the planning commission also held their public hearing for the phase one zoning ordinance in April. And so while this process is not a full rewrite and doesn't consist of material content changes, county staff felt that it was still important to receive input along the way. As part of that diagnostic, we also reviewed the ordinance and the plan and commission. As part of that diagnostic review, we also reviewed the ordinance and the plan and commission. As part of that diagnostic review, which we souped up in status report, Berkeley Group facilitated a focus group with local and where need regional stakeholders and representatives from the development community. As you can imagine, a lot of that focus group conversation did emphasize positive policy items development standards, use conditions, a lot from that focus group about what we've been trying to address through the phase one update. Ordnance organization, lack of structure, lack of So that focus group discussion was very relevant to the phase one updates. There's, of course, the steering committee. Those meetings were held throughout last year. The DRRC also reviewed the ordinance in March. And there is a public FAQ flyer that was made available at the beginning of the year. So I will stay on this slide for a minute and will first reiterate that this is a technical update. Again, it is focused on state code compliance and readability. And it does not include changes in the actual content or county policies related to zoning. So the ordinance may look different. It may feel a little different. You may be referencing a different section than you previously would have. However, in reality, this is more or less the same as what you have now. And we've been calling this phase one because county staff anticipates a second phase following completion of the ongoing comprehensive plan update. Because phase two is where all of those policy and process changes. Will be worked through is the primary means of plan implementation. County staff felt that it was relevant to split it into phases to allow the community more time to weigh in on land use issues through the comprehensive plan process. So we wanted to protect the integrity of community engagement in that planning process there. So what phase one does include is a full restructuring and reorganization of the ordinance. It also includes edits for state code compliance. I'd like to clarify. That unfortunately, due to the timing, we weren't able to integrate the new legislation that's come out of this session of the General Assembly. However, I do know that staff is aware of those updates and is making plans to address those in a timely manner. Along with making ordinance review an annual practice for the board and the planning commission. So you don't develop a backlog and are having to do this all over again in 10 years. Introducing tables, graphics, and flow charts where appropriate. To help explain those. And then we also have a lot of work to do with the So that brings us to what phase one does not include. It does not include policy changes. And when we say policy changes, we mean considerations like what uses are permitted in the county, where they are permitted, if any additional standards apply to them, such as additional setbacks, language, and other things. So we're going to be looking at that. And then we're going to be looking at the policy changes. And then we're going to be looking at the policy changes. And then we're going to be looking at the policy changes. So we're going to be looking at the policy changes. Landscaping buffering. Landscaping standards across the board were not changed. There are also no new zoning districts proposed as part of phase one. So there were 14 districts in Frederick County when we started. There are 14 zoning districts today. There will be 14 zoning districts tomorrow. The ordinance does not introduce any. It does not take any away. It is an ordinance, so it is not encouraging a rezoning to any one particular district. All of that falls into the policy change. It is an ordinance that is generally Aloha懂dine on the ground engineering to upset the parking here in Jefferson. As a significant évolution of public service to requires a Olha actually has to report to the I have not read that. Go ahead. have been consistent with state law. And because there are no policy changes, there aren't any new application requirements moving forward. So in your packet, you should have received a summary memo that explains the changes in great detail, particularly as related to state code. For sake of time tonight, I'm not going to get into all of that, but I am happy to answer any specific questions if there's anything that you'd like some clarity on. So your zoning ordinance can be split into two different types of articles, your administrative articles, and then your development articles. Your administrative articles are largely dictated by the Code of Virginia, and so this is where you'll see the bulk of those state code edits coming into play. These articles address the purpose of zoning, the authority that the state gives Frederick County to have a zoning ordinance, the powers and duties of key county staff, planning commission, BZA, the board as related to zoning authority and land use decisions, and permits and applications. So in the updated zoning ordinance, you have six of those administrative articles, general, admin, permits and applications, nonconformities, the transfer of development rights program, and definitions. You'll see where some of those, your current articles and your updated articles are tracking one-to-one, namely the nonconforming article and the TDR article, but you'll see where we had to break up content from articles, combine articles, and that's, again, to achieve the goal of having a zoning ordinance. So you'll see where some of those articles are tracking one-to-one, but you'll see where some of those articles are tracking one-to-one, and that's, again, to achieve the goal of having an organized, straightforward ordinance where all of the like provisions are grouped together. And then the second set of articles you have is your development and design articles. These address the character and the quality of physical development in Frederick County, and so there's not as many state code changes that come into play with this set of articles. You'll really see those organizational changes here. Tables, graphics, streamlined text, the use of a use matrix, which I'll show on the screen in a second. which I'll show on the screen in a second. which I'll show on the screen in a second. which I'll show on the screen in a second. You'll see they're all three areas. You have five of those development and design articles. Again, you can see where some articles have tracked one-to-one, namely, overlay districts and additional use regulations, but you'll also see, again, where we split up articles, regrouped things, reorganized to make things clear and in one place as needed. So there are four examples on your screen of what we implemented to achieve the phase one goals. So the first one is a group of articles, and the second one is a group of articles, I'll start with the top left-hand corner. I do realize that text might be a little difficult to read. I apologize for that. But that is just demonstrating an example of state code compliance and achieving compliance through simply citing the pertinent section rather than reiterating all of the very lengthy and complicated jargon that's included in state code. The reason why we've done that through reference is because in most cases, this helps the county remain compliant with state law, even if there are updates being made to that associated section. The graphic on the upper right-hand side of your screen is new. Again, there are upwards of 30 graphics in the ordinance to illustrate housing types, setbacks, corner lots, parking requirements, landscape buffer requirements. You'll note that in some cases, we've recreated the 1991 original graphics that are scans of scans of Sharpie drawings. And so this is a tremendous improvement from what you have currently. You'll find these throughout the ordinance. And I'll say that this set of graphics is a little bit more than just a little bit more than just a little bit more than a little bit more. The setback pattern book graphics also includes the setback pattern book graphics. Some of you may be familiar with the setback pattern book. That's a document that's currently living outside of the zoning ordinance. It basically just restates all of the requirements for residential use types in the RP zoning district with graphics. Because it's pretty much the same thing as the zoning ordinance, should you adopt the phase one update, that setback pattern book will go away and everything will be in one place in the ordinance moving forward. The bottom right is what we call a use matrix. This is a fundamental improvement and a best practice that Berkeley Group always recommends to streamline use permissions. The way the use table works is that all permitted uses in the zoning ordinance are alphabetized in the left-hand column. Each of the remaining columns represents a different zoning district in the county. And within those cells, it will identify whether a use is permitted by right, conditionally permitted, or prohibited in that respective zoning district. So a lot quicker to see what's actually permitted and what's not. If there are any other additional standards related to those uses, those are then identified in the far right-hand column. So again, it makes it a lot faster to understand what's permitted where. This will also expedite the process of making text amendments in the future for your staff. And then real quick, the bottom left-hand corner is an updated flowchart. To quickly explain application procedures, you'll find several of these in the permits and applications article. So we've talked about the goals. We've talked about the purpose. Now time to talk a little bit about the impacts. So what will the impact on county staff, planning commission, the board, the community? First, we anticipate that this will ease staff time spent on ordinance interpretation and administration. We also expect this to significantly improve clarity and transparency. We expect this to increase transparency for property owners. The inclusion of state code and achieving code compliance serves to strengthen legal protections for the county. And then having a streamlined ordinance and getting some of the reorganization, structuring state code amendments out of the way now will prepare the county to more efficiently address those policy items at a later date after your comprehensive plan has been completed. The final impact is supporting a business-friendly and predictable ordinance framework. I know that you all know that there's a lot of work to be done to make sure that those changes are being considered. I know that there's still a lot of work that has to be done and a lot of changes for the county to consider moving forward to have a truly more business-friendly ordinance. However, this is a great step in the right direction in supporting a framework that is predictable, consistent, easier for everyone to use and understand. So county staff is looking for a decision from the board this evening regarding the phase one zoning ordinance update. The board can approve. Approve with amendments or deny the phase one zoning update. The planning commission held their public hearing for this during the regular meeting on April 15th, following which they recommended approval. Should you all choose to adopt the zoning ordinance this evening, it will be effective immediately. So first thing tomorrow morning and it will repeal and replace the existing zoning ordinance in its entirety. I'm more than happy to answer any questions that you all may have. But otherwise, thank you. That is all I have for you this evening regarding zoning. The subdivision ordinance will be the following public hearing. Thank you very much. Board members, any questions? Comments? Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Would I be correct in assuming at this time we need a motion to? I know, but after the public hearing, we'll need a motion to approve? Okay. Okay. So it's just a public hearing. If anybody has any questions, please feel free to ask. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone would like to speak on these topics? Now would be the time. Does anyone sign up? No, sir. If anyone would like to step forward? Seeing no one, we'll call and close the public comments. Board, how would you like to handle this? Chairman? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I just had one quick question. I noticed there are some, but I can spot one right off the bat, minor changes between the existing ordinance and this one, such as a setback. And so is there a mention of any changes? so I know we're supposed to be looking at this as just strictly a revision to the format not actual changes in the ordinance but I just want to make sure if we adopt this and those new setback is adopted immediately it's not something that goes back and need to double-check later well yeah I think we'll handle it the same way as we did the SIC to NAICS conversion which is if there is truly a policy change that we missed will immediately add it to the top of our amendment list and the zoning administrator can work under the intent of how we adopted this in the meantime but I mean if you've identified anything that doesn't match as far as standards please let us know the only one I called just looking at it here while she was speaking was like for preservation subdivision prior 45 foot with a setback for the new public road built within the subdivision and now it's going to be standardized under a new rule around that if the new화re is Having a family is having a family unit and there's some reveals 60-foot, and it's only 45 if it's private easement. Not that I have a problem with it. I just want to make sure that if we adopt this, since it conflicts with the existing ordinance, what we adopt tonight, this new 60-foot will go into effect. Technically it's going to go into effect, but if you want to send us that and any others that you found as discrepancies, we'll come right back through. It's something minor. I have an issue with it. I want to make sure that since we're technically just doing a reformat, that any of the little things that also are changing are also adopted at the same time. Yeah. Okay. Anyone else? Any other comments from the chairman? Yes, sir. One question. Yes, sir. There are additional phases. This is phase one. Just a general timeline of the additional phases and the phases. Phase two would be the final. Phase two is the final phase, ideally, and it's going to occur after adoption of the comp plan. Tyler, off the top of your head, what's the tail end of the comp plan looking like? So we're anticipating the comp plan will be completed in the fall of 27, and then we'll go into working through those phase two policy updates at that time. There are things that have been communicated to us about updates to the policy and the ordinance, things like the housing types that we offer or changing our landscaping and buffering standards that we feel like going through the comp plan process, soliciting public input on topics related to that will provide us with some additional insight that we can use to address those. So we're anticipating that we can put into the ordinance at such time the comp plan is adopted. The other thing I'd say is we'll probably do an interim phase between one and two, because I know when we were talking with the planning commission and Supervisor Guvermont also echoed the sentiment is there were some policy changes that I think everybody agrees with, and namely there was some like Board of Supervisor waivers that nobody makes use of because it's for things as simple as if there's utilities, and you're required to put a buffer there, you have to come to the board for a waiver for that purpose, but you really don't have a choice in the matter, but people don't make use of them. So some of those like common sense changes will probably bring through in a batch before phase two while we're still working on the comp plan, but we'll use some form of consulting services to assist with the phase two because it's going to be, it's going to take us a lot longer and be a lot more of work that we're going to have to delve into on individual topics with you all. Thank you. That answers my question. I just kind of wanted a general overview of the overall process. Sure. Anyone else? All right. I'll go back to my question of how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chair, I'd make a motion that we approve the ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code modifications to chapter 165, sending the ordinance as written. Second? Anyone? Second. We have a motion and a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Obernorth? Aye. Supervisor Alerio? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Gubermont? Aye. And the Vice Chair votes aye. The motion passes. As we started this process with the zoning ordinance, we could quickly realize that there were a number of elements in the zoning ordinance that needed to be in the sub- sub- sub-division ordinance. So as we started that work program, we did an amendment to the work order with Berkeley group, and they did a similar process for the subdivision ordinance. I'll let Ms. Vanter cover those changes as she did for the zoning ordinance. So the next public hearing you have on your agenda this evening is for the phase one subdivision ordinance update. So staff just mentioned that the zoning ordinance is not going to be updated until the end of the year, which is a really important step. staff just mentioned, after beginning our zoning work, it became evident pretty quickly to Berkeley group and county staff that this process would be necessary for the subdivision ordinance as well. And so where your zoning ordinance is regulating the use and development of land, your sub-division ordinance is talking about how that land can be divided or consolidated. Much of the subdivision ordinance functions are administrative in nature, meaning that they're carried out by your staff. The board and the fall commission, the USDA Board of Directors, its DOU We wish to speak with you as a final public speaker today. As staff and district council chair would rock. Planning Commission have a lot less face time with it, but that doesn't make it any less important of a document for you to consider as you're thinking about land use and development moving forward. And so the purpose of the Phase 1 Subdivision Ordinance Update is really the same as the purpose of the Phase 1 Zoning Ordinance Update. The Subdivision Ordinance is also largely out of compliance with state law. The Code of Virginia has quite a bit in it that relates to zoning, but there's also quite a bit in the Code of Virginia that must be addressed through the Subdivision Ordinance as well. In Virginia, there's also case law as well as that state law that requires certain provisions to be addressed through subdivision. The Subdivision Ordinance can't try to regulate what should be regulated through zoning, and so it was important to make sure that those ordinances are consistent and that the Subdivision Ordinance is not a part of the State Law. So, I'm going to turn it over to you, and I'll see you in a minute. So, again, this is a case law update. They're not trying to talk to or include what the other one should be saying. Like the Zoning Ordinance, it's been quite some time since the Subdivision Ordinance has been reviewed and updated in its entirety. Again, this has made the document difficult to use and interpret. There are provisions internally that are redundant and conflicting. There are also provisions that are conflicting with the Zoning Ordinance. And so, undergoing this Phase 1 Update for the Subdivision Ordinance was important to make sure everything was squared away and those loose ends are tied up. Again, the same goals for phase one of the subdivision ordinance update, or the zoning ordinance update, excuse me, apply to subdivision as well. Improving organization by making sure your platting and permitting requirements are consistently included together like provisions being in those articles. Improving compliance with the current standards and regulations of the code of Virginia. Increasing clarity and transparency for property owners. And again, all of this working together to create a more usable ordinance moving forward. So we did complete a diagnostic report of the subdivision ordinance. This was not initially included in the 2024 diagnostic report. However, when county staff indicated that they would like to begin this process for subdivision. We felt that it was important to do our due diligence and understand what exactly the deficiencies were, particularly as related to state code. And so Berkeley group completed a diagnostic of the subdivision ordinance in the summer of last year. Those findings were provided to county staff and the review committee for consideration and then discussed as part of the planning commission work session in February. The subdivision ordinance reorganization and update happened at the tail end of last year. It came before the review committee in December of 2025 and then was also considered at the planning commission work session earlier this year. Like the zoning ordinance, the planning commission held their public hearing for the phase 1 subdivision update during their regular meeting in April. As you can imagine about that diagnostic report, the findings are very similar to the zoning diagnostic. The subdivision ordinance is very out of compliance with state code. There's a lot that's wrong. There's a lot that's wrong. There's a lot that's wrong. And so the policy changes in the sub-division ordinance were only partially codified or not codified at all. And then Berkeley group also had quite a few other recommendations for ordinance structure and organization. So again, like phase 1 of the zoning update, phase 1 of the subdivision ordinance update does not include any policy changes. The policy items in subdivision look a little bit different than those in zoning because it's not talking about land use. All the same. The goal here was reorganization. And so we're going to talk about that in just a few minutes. So phase 1 of the subdivision update does include is a centralization of all administrative responsibilities and tools, relocating those zoning standards as necessary. Again, making those edits for state code compliance. Didn't include anything from the general assembly this session. But there was only one subdivision bill that came out this year. And it's optional. So you're pretty caught up there. Removing redundant language and then again making those edits for clarity and brevity without changing the material meaning of the text. Policy changes related to subdivision look like changes to plat submittal requirements, changing standards for vehicle and pedestrian access, or utility standards. Those all fall in the policy bucket. We did not make any of those changes as part of phase 1. Similar to the zoning update, we also have a policy change that we're going to talk about in just a few minutes. So the zoning ordinance phase 1 of the subdivision update also does not include any major process changes. If there's a board waiver process in place now, we left it in with the understanding that you all will likely revisit it later. This is also not making significant changes to platting or permitting requirements. Again, any subdivision applications, plats, plans in the queue now will continue to be processed as they are. There aren't any changes to that procedure. And much of that is regulated by state code. Regardless. So you should also have a summary memo for the subdivision ordinance and your packets that goes into much more detail about the changes. Again, as in particular as related to state code. Your subdivision ordinance is much shorter than your zoning ordinance. And so the full updated structure is on the screen here. You can see that in the blue column to the right. There are six articles of your subdivision ordinance. Again, this is a very simple structure. Some of those are tracking one to one. Namely, your definitions article. That's remained its own article in the updated subdivision ordinance. But again, you'll see where we consolidated articles, split articles apart, rearranged things to keep like provisions together, achieve those stated goals of the phase one update. Again, we expect the same set of impacts from the phase one subdivision ordinance update. Easing staff time spent on ordinance updates. Spent on ordinance interpretation and administration. Particularly important for the subdivision ordinance since so much of the responsibility for administering it and enforcing it does fall on planning and development staff. Improving clarity and transparency for property owners. Strengthening legal protection for the county. Preparing the county to efficiently address those policy changes at a later date. And then supporting a more predictable business friendly streamlined ordinance framework. So, again, this phase one of the subdivision ordinance update tracked along with the zoning ordinance update does not include any policy changes but is a technical update focused on state code compliance and reorganization. County staff is also looking for a decision from the board this evening regarding the phase one subdivision ordinance update which is chapter 144 of the county code. The board can approve. With amendments or deny the phase one subdivision ordinance. The planning commission held the public hearing for this during their regular meeting on April 15th. Following which they also recommended approval to the board. And should you all choose to adopt the updated subdivision ordinance tonight, it will go into effect immediately and will repeal and replace the existing subdivision ordinance in its entirety. Before I wrap up, would like to say thank you again. To the folks on the review committee as well as the county attorney and planning and development staff. Even though there were no policy changes, this was a significant amount of work on their part. And my team and I at Berkeley group are thankful to have been a small part of that. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have about the subdivision ordinance. But otherwise, that is all I have for you this evening. Any questions from the board? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is also a public hearing. So if there's anyone who would like to speak on this, now would be the time. No one has signed up, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Any board comment? Hearing no board comments, then I would entertain a motion. Mr. Chair, I would move that we approve modifications to Chapter 144, subdivision ordinance as written. Okay. Thank you. Second? I need a second? Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. It's a roll call vote. Mr. Goubermont. Supervisor Goubermont. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lirio. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. The Vice Chair votes aye and it is approved. And that brings us to 12C, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modification. I'm going to take a moment to read this. I'm going to read this. I'm going to read this. I'm going to read this. I'm going to read this. Amendment to the Code, section 161, sewerage disposal and sewers. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Members of the Board, this is a request brought to you by Lake Holiday Country Club and Corbett to allow for portable toilets or poor toilets within the Lake Holiday community. However, just so we understand it, this change will also affect sporting events, festivals and fairs, community activities, community trails, and the Frederick County Parks and Recreation activities. To give you a little bit of background, Mr. Chairman, the Board of Supervisors back in 2010 recommended that any pumping halls that are issued in Frederick County come before this body before they'd be issued. In the memo that you got on this proposed change, it shows what, and I can go through it for the record if you want to, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So what, um, you know, if you'd like to provide some feedback on this, on this proposed change, it shows what, and I can go through it for the record if you want to, Mr. Chairman, shows what a pumping hall while we issue them, what they are, what the criteria is. However, the strict application of this chapter does not allow for temporary toilets at any above-referenced activities that was just mentioned. And, you know, the use of temporary toilets is only allowed on active construction sites, and that's also by building code, and as you're well aware of, when we approve special event facilities, there's an option to have portable toilets there through the conditional use permit. This proposed changes of 161, your chapter 161, would affect sporting events, festivals, fairs, community activities, community trails, and the Frederick County Parks and Recreation activities. And the reason I point that out or is pointed out by staff is that staff doesn't go, first of all, doesn't go look around. It's not a, if you have a fair or a community yard sale and there's portable toilets set, that technically, yeah, it's a violation. It was Frederick County going to say, no, you can't have it. No, but this will cover that. And these are only seasonal, so this will cover that gray area, if you will. Up on the screen to your left and also in your application package, these are definitions that staff came up with to forward to the board. One was the seasonal use. As I said, the seasonal use will read as any use that is no longer than six months to include sporting events, festivals, fairs, community activities, community facilities such as picnic areas, parks or playgrounds, and of course, the Frederick County Parks and Recreation activities. And then to add that, so there's the pump and haul systems, which would be subsection E, portable restrooms for seasonal use as defined should not be a permanent pump and haul system. Similarly, someone could not put, a system at their, if they have a failing system at their house, say, hey, I'm using this as a, you know, as a Johnny Blue or a Privy, as we used to call them. They still have to come in front of this board for approval. So that was sort of the, sort of the, if you will, stopgap to allow local communities, local HOAs to do things and have it on the up and up. With that, Mr. Chairman, this item is presented as a public hearing item. The following public hearing staff is seeking to recommend a recommendation of the Board of Supervisors regarding the Frederick County Code 161, Section 101.02 and 201.05. I'll answer any questions your board members may have of this, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Appreciate it. Any questions from the board? Yes. I have just one question on the six-pump for seasonal. If it's there for six months, they take it out for a day, come back for another six months, or should we say six months over a year period? I think the six months would cover, Mr. Oates. I mean, it just said six months, whether they take it out of here or not, we would know it's there. Now, there is no permit provision I should take back on this. So if you wanted to add that, that would get a permit. I could just say being abused, somebody put it in for six months, take it out for a day and bring it right back again. That'd be hard to enforce that, six months. So put it in some language. So you're saying that it's a six-month period? I'd put it back to staff. My concern is it's kind of a loophole there. I mean, we've got several of those in other parts of the ordinance. Staff will work on it, Mr. Oates, and it will be taken care of. All right. Let me make sure, I just want to see if we have a public hearing on this and pass this, can we get this back to staff and make these changes after that, or do we need to say anything? I think it'd be best suited as far as what long as we are to pass it, and we'll make our attempts at enforcing it and see if it becomes an issue. I know in the past when we've had that with sign issues, if you're able to document even that it was there a week before, they take it out and put it back, you can still go to court, and the judge is going to look at it and recognize they're trying to abuse the language of the law and generally back you up on that. Mr. Fox, would you agree that we may be able to handle that as it's written? Okay. But if we have any issues, we can certainly bring back another code amendment to clarify that and make it kind of more on the nose. That's all right with you, Supervisor Oates? Any other comments or questions? All right. This is a public hearing, so anyone here to speak on behalf? Mr. Chairman, we did have one person sign up, Carissa DeWig. DeWig. If you would, name and magisterial district. Thank you very much. Good evening. My name is Carissa DeWig. I'm from the Gainesboro District. I'm a resident of Lake Holiday. I thank you for your time this evening as well as I came to your March meeting. I don't know if you all remember. But I'd like to speak on this. I really appreciate you expediting this and making it a priority. I know it is for our community members. We are a community of over 1,000. We have over 1,000 lots, and that's just on a regular day. During the seasonal time that you've mentioned here, I can envision more than with the visitors that come to enjoy our lake. So just wanted to again tell you how important it is for us, how we appreciate your dedication and time to this, and appreciate your time for all the things that you do, and really would appreciate a vote of approval this evening. So thank you for your time, and thank you for your consideration with this. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak on this topic? Hearing none, we'll close the public comments. Board, how would you like to handle this? I'll make a motion to approve as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. It's a roll call vote. Supervisor Gubermont. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lerio. Aye. Supervisor Wurndorf. Aye. Vice Chair votes aye. The motion passes. It takes us down to Board of Liaison reports. Are there any? Yes, Mr. Chair. I'd just like to recognize that at the most recent Parks and Rec Commission meeting, Mr. Randy Carter was elected Commission Chair for the remainder of 2026, replacing Jamie Myers, who's leaving the area. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Vice Chairman. Yes. I have a rather lengthy, I have three liaison reports. Sure. Conservation Easement Authority met on Thursday, April the 30th. There was a progress report at the meeting on planning department's meetings. It was indicated that the rural preservation and more meetings held by the planning department that the April 7th at Orchard View Elementary School, was the largest of the six community meetings, which pleased the authority. There was some general conversation about the lack of awareness of open space and land conservation by the general public. In a continued effort to improve communication on these important topics, the authority will work with the GIS department in the development of map overlays with key land preservation information, such as where current conservation easements are located in the county. During the meeting, it was also mentioned that agritourism should continue to be one of the key focus areas for the EDA. So, I'll pass that on to the EDA for their consideration. Economic Development Authority. Moving from Conservation Easement Authority to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee, met on Monday, May 4th. The manager's report stated that the EDA was not a priority. The EDA was not a priority. The EDA was not a priority. The EDA was not a priority. The EDA was not a priority. The EDA was not a priority. They still for the器 A ful Ful Ful Ful Well, May 16th, Shawnee Land Trail Crawl, there will be Shawnee Land Trail Crawl. 62 families are already participating in the multi- ничего 62 families are already participating in the multi- р participating. I think some of those multiple families are going to participate with possibly more to sign up. Also at the committee meeting, Aqua Water Services gave a brief report on services provided to the Shawnee Land residents. Also at the meeting, Frederick County Public Schools Assistant Director of Transportation Calvin Davis and the Sheriff's Office Deputy Roberts discussed managing parent and resident traffic during bus pickup and dismissal at the two Shawnee Land bus stops. Some additional striping and signage will be installed prior to the 2026-27 school year to help manage that. The Planning Commission met on Wednesday, May 6th. They held three public hearings. They were rezoning 03-26 of Snowden Bridge Station and the City of Shawnee Land. They held three public hearings. They were rezoning 03-26 of Snowden Bridge Station LLC, submitted to rezone 1.61 acres from B2 General Business Zoning District with proffers to B2 General Zoning District with proffers and the interstate area overlay zoning district. Subsequent to the public hearing, the Commission approved the request and forwarded to the Board for consideration at the June 10th meeting. Next, the Commission heard a request for conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land. The Commission heard a request for a conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land. The Commission heard a request for conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land. The Commission heard a request for conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land. The Commission heard a request for a conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land. The Commission heard a request for a conditional use permit 01-26 from the Board of Directors of the Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land and the City of Shawnee Land and the City of�art cling guilty ofbras lab буду waka bozars dumbo already Submittedк hote or amgo commission approved request and forwarded to the Board of Supervisors for Section C, Subsection 1, the Residence Separation Buffers Article 1 and Supplemental Use Regulations, Parking Buffers and Regulations for Sick Uses, Part 203 Buffers and Landscaping, 165 Days 203.02, C1, Residential Separation Buffer. The Commission denied the request and forwarded it to the Board of Supervisors for consideration on June 10th. With that, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my liaison report. Thank you very much. Any other Board liaison reports? Yes, sir. One last. I had a very productive EDA meeting, I guess it was, I think it was last Thursday, to get a consensus on the approved plan that we approved. And it was a very good, healthy, robust discussion there. There was also a discussion to formally move forward with the hiring of a new Executive Director. And so all those balls are rolling. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anyone else? That brings us down to citizen comments. Anyone sign up? Yes, sir. Nikki Michaels. Okay. Name and Magisterial District. My name is Vicki Michaels and I'm in the Stonewall District. Thank you. And I'd like to thank all of you for hearing our comments. Because for the sake of time. And my nerves, I'm going to read this. I am a gardener. I have beautiful flower gardens. People ask to photograph them. I use rain barrels for water as much as possible. On May 9th, 2026, the flow levels in the North Fork, South Fork, and main stem of the Shenandoah River fell below previous record flows, in some cases breaking 100 years. Where is the extra water for the data centers going to come from? That's my environmental issue. Economy. My personal property tax is 4.35. A newly added line item for data centers will be at 1.25. An incentive to bring in much needed revenue. The cure-all for Frederick County's budget troubles. Yet Loudoun County's data centers are taxed at 4.14. And they have a $5 million shortfall expected to last for the next 15 years. We attended a meeting yesterday with the developers for the Gateway Project. And they said they were more than willing and were quite shocked to see when you all approved 1.25 for data centers. They said they felt they should pay their fair share. I don't know why you all didn't think so, too. Ecology. At last night's meeting, I asked a developer about the chemicals treating the water for data centers. And what they would be. I was told they can't say. Because in three years, things may change. We discussed that there's a glycanol that is safe to be dumped in the sewers. But they may not use it. How can you issue a CUP if they can't even tell you what chemicals might pollute our land? Ethics. Last night, I also heard a representative tell a constituent that with TREX already there, the Gateway Data Center would not act. But did you know that people know the next business could eventually change. Again, thanks and happy events. Food. Lit. And when food change, it adds to the noise. Susp报? What do I mean say it is bad news? Well, that means it adds to the noise. Is that intentional or intent, or misleading. legacy. Thank you. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, Vice Chair, members of the board. My name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. I'd like to speak to the economic development plan that Supervisor Aikens described in summary form. Of course, it was approved by the board a week ago, transmitted to the Economic Development Authority Board of Directors, who also then approved it on Thursday. It's called the EDA 2.0. It's the economic development plan going forward for Frederick County, and I think it's important to elevate the conversation so the public knows what's in it. There are eight strategic pillars. The county is committed to a $775,000 annual budget. The EDA 2.0 is a budget that is going to be used to improve the state's economic development plan. It's a budget with three core staff, and there are key deliverable in the short term are two shovel-ready sites by 2027. In the short time available, I want to speak to Pillar 3 specifically, only Pillar 3 out of the eight, and that has to do with site readiness. There are four objectives in site readiness. One is to establish a $250,000 site investment reserve, which is to help projects become competitive statewide. Two is to identify 200 to 400-acre sites, land tracks, in collaboration with the 2026 comprehensive plan, which is something I've been speaking about, is to be intentional about the sites that you want to put forward. Third, pursue two to three public-private partnerships, or P3, agreements for sites with the Virginia Economic Development Partnership, or VDEP. And then four, reduce rezoning timelines from 18 to 9 months. Those are the four objectives in the EDA 2.0. roofing a a way was start the ground this as emails source from onsite idol w e that 0 through theourt r okay 0 0 0 here at 0 01 0 0 09 20 70 20 and it happens to be owned by a dentist, it's available. There are a lot of smaller sites that are more conducive to development, much less controversial because they aren't immediately adjoining residential properties and they're not in rural areas. So I urge you to consider an economic development strategy that doesn't just play the long game looking for the Grand Slam home run, but also looks at singles and doubles promoting small business expansion in Frederick County, which is going to be much more sustainable in the long run. The other thing I would ask you to consider doing is to make the site selection criteria public. We, as a public, are going to be much more open to the rezone conversation when it comes if we know what the criteria are in advance. So I appreciate your consideration of these. Thank you very much. Thank you. Linda Reed. Good evening. My name is Linda Reed and I'm in the Shawnee District. Thank you for the opportunity to allow me to speak on a non-agenda item. Before retiring, I was the director of organizational effectiveness at a company of 40,000 employees. At that time, we were number 13 on the Fortune 500 list and they are even higher now. And I'm going to be very frank. If I had asked my team to create ideas and approaches to increasing revenue, if they came up with two, raise prices or in our case taxes, or build monstrous buildings and infrastructures that deplete our already strained natural resources and threaten the health of all creatures within a radius of several miles, if my team came back with only those ideas, I would be in a very bad position. I don't want to doubt you. I would think that with only those two proposals, I think I might have sent them back to their desks to start packing. But this was exactly the way it was proposed at the meet. They, we, we were presented with two choices, raise taxes or build data centers. There were questions at both of those meetings that were not, they weren't answered. And I don't even know if the data is available to answer some of the questions, but I think there would be, they would be, there would be. and I think the questions would have already been answered. And I think the questions would have already been answered. answer some of the questions as to the effect of data centers on our pollinators, our livestock, our egg production, as well as health risks such as brain development in children, brain development in children. The water consumption cited in these meetings covered only a fraction of the number of data centers being proposed. As a business concern, it seems to me as if a thorough risk assessment has not been conducted. Another huge business concern is that our current data center ordinance does not cover the complexities of these projects. Along with others, I brought this up before it was approved last year and was told by this board that we can always amend it later. And yet here it stands, an ordinance that doesn't begin to cover all of the concerns that our informed citizens have brought up over the last several months. And do we have a contingency plan in place? What if the industry collapses in three to five years, as some have predicted? We will have all our eggs in one basket. This is enormously dangerous for a community our size. Most likely, we wouldn't be able to rely upon federal funding to bail us out. I think we should keep looking, examine the comprehensive plan, and if there aren't good alternatives, let's keep looking even further. From a business standpoint, data centers are a bad, incredibly risky investment. From a moral standpoint, it's stridently against our community's values, as evident in the great number of people who oppose them. We are the stewards of this valley. Let's not trash it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. All right. Is there anyone else in the audience who would like to speak on this? Name and Magisterial District. And three minutes. My name is Rebecca Rager. I'm with the Gainesburg District. I'm just going to do this off the cuff. Talking about the data centers, I've gone to a few meetings recently. I want to give you guys the benefit of the doubt, because listening to the last one, it seems like you guys really can't make a decision until all the information is here. I just want to ask that when you listen to these experts that are coming in that are saying, you know, this is a very, very risky investment, and you're not going to be able to get it done, how do you think you can make a decision? I think that's a really good question. I think that's a really good question. I think that's a really good question. I think that's a really good question. This is going to impact our environment. It's going to impact our children. It's going to impact our agriculture. Please consider that. And not just think that you're doing what's best for us 10 years down the road. Because our kids, who are young, have to grow up and live this. So, just please keep that in mind if it's something that you're looking at and that you're not going to give up on. I just want to make a little note of the fact that I would like to have this conversation with you guys. I know you're not going to be able to do this. I know you're not going to be able to do this. But, you know, we're going to get to the end of this. I'm just going to go through this. And I just want to make sure that everyone, culture, please consider that and not just think that you're doing what's best for us ten years down the road because our kids who are young have to grow up and live this. So just please keep that in mind if it's something that you're looking at for the future, that it's not just something that you think you're not going to have to worry about it in ten, fifteen, twenty years, but our kids do. So please keep that in mind. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Name and Magisterial District, please. Hi. My name is Paige Feliciano. I'm from the Gainesville District. I also want to talk about data centers. It kind of feels like we're yelling into the void talking to our representatives about what we don't want in our community. I'm a mother. I'm a proud member, resident of Frederick County. I love our land. I love that we have dark skies. I love that we have clean water. I love that I look at mountains every where I go. I am terrified about what these data centers are going to have impact on our water, on our electric bills. I know we don't want to raise our taxes and that there's a fear of that, but what about the impact on our electric bills? We're already seeing parts of Virginia where they talk about their electric bills are triple what they used to be. How is that not the same as a tax on Frederick County? I'm worried about the impact on our grid as well. Over the wintertime. We had really cold temperatures and we got an alert from our electric company saying, conserve your energy and that was because the data centers were sucking so much power. There has to be an alternative. I'm asking that the board put a moratorium on the data, any future data centers, the current data centers until actual studies can be taken place about what is the impact going to be on our community. What is it going to be on our water? Our electricity? The noise? The medical impact? We are almost a medical desert. If this is going to create such an impact on our health, what will that be for Frederick County? We are currently going into a four year drought. What is that going to be like for our fire departments? Is there money for the impact that's going to cause for drought related wildfire fires? There's so many ripple effects that I feel like are not being taken into consideration. I'm not sure if we can get that to the state. I'm not sure if we can get that to the state. So there's so many problems and there's so many issues that we need to address. And I'm not sure if we can get this to the state. But I think that's why we need to get it done. I think we need to get that to the state. And the next thing I want to say is, I want to thank our board members. I want to thank everybody for supporting us in this session. I want to thank everybody for the support and the communication for this. And I'm asking that our board take a pause, do the studies that are needed, listen to these scientists and the actual data before decisions, huge, long term impacting decisions are made. This isn't just a here and now, it's a generational effect. Thank you. Anyone else? Name and magistrate of the district, please. I'm going to go to the first. I'm going to go to the second. Magistrate of the District, please. My name is Alexander Ritter, and I am a Peckin District. The other night, or last week, I attended the engagement, public information engagement forum, and I wanted to state that there was a lot of talk about, you know, state limitations due to Dillon Rule about what can actually be accomplished in regards to data centers. But I want to say this, that there are people who may be willing to run against anyone who's up for election, and that the power ultimately belongs to the people who will be casting their votes. And if you consider even for a moment that... It could not happen. That's... It is... Sorry. All right. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Keynesboro. I wanted to... I wanted to share Alex Ritter's sentiments. A group of citizens and groups are... And I are concerned that we're not hearing enough feedback from our board of supervisors on data centers, on rural lands, on environmental health, on ecology. And we're organizing. ProtectFrederick.org, FrederickCoalition.org, and you can reach out to me and email me at friendsfcba at gmail.com. And we're organizing volunteers to go collect signatures. We do have a few serious candidates to get behind. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Seeing no one else, I'll close the citizen comments section. And we move down to board of supervisors' comments. Yes, Mr. Chair. I'd like to... I'm sorry, we are closed. I apologize. Oh, okay. Sorry. Yes, sir, go ahead. Yes, Mr. Chair. I'd like to make some comments on National Police Week. This year, National Police Week is celebrated from May 10th through May 16th. During this week, we honor the men and women who risk their lives every day for us in the line of duty. It is also time for police officers to honor their own fallen colleagues. Citizens can also celebrate the day of the National Police Week by showing their gratitude to our policemen and women by simply taking the time to say thank you. Thank you for all that you do. National Police Week is about honor, gratitude, remembrance, service, and community support. On behalf of this board and the citizens of Frederick County, I would like to extend our sincere thanks and appreciation for all that you do. Please stand and join me in applauding the officers in this room and all police officers throughout our nation. Thank you. Thank you. Since Mr. Vice Chairman is here, Mr. Supervisor Leary, I'll let you have the honor of number 17. Actually, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I had one more thing. Yes, I'm sorry. That's okay. I'd like to see the... Oh, I'm sorry. I absolutely forgot. My apologies. Not a problem. I'd like to see the tax rate increase for data center equipment to match Loudoun County. I know during the budget season, this was briefly discussed, and we've talked about it four more after the fact, but I would like to get the ball rolling on this and would like to get the finance committee to look into this and give us a recommendation. Are there any comments from the board? It would be a consensus. It wouldn't be a motion vote, but a consensus to forward this idea to the board. Is there any concept of finance for them to look into it? I'd be supportive. I'll be supportive, but to me, it's just reactionary legislation. If we look at tax rates every year during the budget season, there's not a data center that's going to be built between now and the budget season. If we want to change the rates, I mean, to me, it's meaningless. It almost implies that we're planning on passing the tax rate. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes. So, we'll send this forward to finance. Thank you. A citizen kept saying, how will you vote on a data center? How will you vote on a data center? And it's everybody, whether it's a data center, Joe Public, whoever, has a right to petition the government and come before us. If I sit here and say I'll vote for or I'll vote against a certain application before it ever got here, and my vote's the swing vote, they could take us to court for being prejudiced and they didn't get a fair hearing. So although you're talking and we're not responding, we really can't respond because we can't broadcast what our feelings are. We owe everybody a fair hearing, and then we make our decision. So it's not that we're not hearing you, but we just can't broadcast what we're going to do. These two applications come before us. That's what's in the ordinance. That's what I got inherited when I came here in January. That's what we have to deal with. Once these two applications are dealt with, then we're going to have the freedom. We're going to have the freedom to go into the ordinance, look at doing changes, updates. To me, that will be the time to do the taxes, but we've got to wait for these two to come through the system because they've already applied, and we can't change rules midstream, or we're going to be held liable. So again, we hear you. We just can't respond. So try to understand that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rowe. Anyone else? Yeah, I'll echo Supervisor Rowe's comment. Because it was ironic that you came up here to make a comment about the tax rate, and Supervisor Akins was planning to deal with that. A lot of the things that people are asking about, we're looking into. We're not not looking into what you're asking us to do. Everybody up here gets 50 to 100 emails a week asking things to be addressed. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. We read them. Sometimes we get the chance to respond. We call people back. It's a lot of stuff. It's a lot of information, and we're trying. We are listening. We go to the meetings when we could go to meetings around the community. We're talking to people. It's happening. So I agree with Supervisor Rowe. We're in it. Anyone else? Anyone else? Seeing none, then I think we'll move forward then to number 17. Mr. Chair, you've done a wonderful job tonight as our acting chair. I'd like to make a motion that we adjourn. All in favor? Aye. All those opposed? We're adjourned. Thank you all for coming tonight. Thank you very, very much. Outside, I think you're going to get wet, and that's a great thing for Frederick County. Keep the water. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
