Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-04-06
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=127
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks you. decides to pull into the ditch. And needless to say, my husband had to pull her out with a chain. So I'm thinking that with the traffic from Airbnbs or short-term lodgings are going to make a potentially bad situation on this very narrow driveway. So I thank you for allowing me to share my concerns. And please consider regulating short-term lodging properties when shared dryways are concerned. I do have one more thing to say, if I may. I don't think they should be, you know, short-term lodging properties or Airbnbs should be one size fits all. I think how a guest is to approach each and every one of these things individually, property should be a consideration. And our particular driveway we feel is going to be, you know, quite difficult. And then the homeowners are left to deal with the issues of that. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? At this time, I will close the citizen comments. OK, next up is a public hearing regarding conditional use permit 0221 for a special event facility. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Planning Commission, this is a request for a conditional use permit to allow special events that are on a 10-acre piece of property. The property is located at 1570 Gull Road in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. The property is surrounded by RA Zone properties, which includes open space, agricultural use, undeveloped lots, residential lots, that is, and single family detached. Residents, if I could turn your attention to the map on your left with the outline of the property, is a friendly tonight, Mr. Chairman, for this proposed conditional use permit. A special event facility, as this body well knows, is allowed in the RA with a conditional use permit since we adopted it in our ordinance. And just for the record, you know, the ordinance defines the special event facility as a facility or site utilized for events that are typically conducted on a single day. But you may be conducted for up to three consecutive days for attendance that is permitted only by invitation or reservation. The special events includes, but are not limited to, meetings, conference, banquets, dinners, weddings, and private parties. This is the subject property. Includes a single detached residence on the property with open patio and a 2,640 square foot barn that will be used for weddings and other special events. The applicant intends to host up to 200 people and provided for a gravel parking area for the guests and a mobile portable restroom will be used. All food preparation will be via catering company. So there will be no on food preparations or no kitchen assigned with this conditional use permit. Should the Planning Commission find this application for a special event facility to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions be attached to it. Number one, the facility will be used for events that are not permitted. Number one, all review agency comments shall we comply with at all times. And number two, an illustrative sketch plan in accordance with requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Organs addressing additional regulations for specific uses contained in 165-204, TAC 30, shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to establishment of the use. Mr. Chairman, that is just the additional requirements that we put on the special events facilities. It doesn't mean that any other conditions that could be added, the illustrative plan would actually encompass that. So if this body felt like they were willing to put some other conditions on it, it would be included in that. Number three, special events will start earlier than 8 AM on the day, and all events and related activities shall conclude by midnight. Amplified outdoor music shall be concluded by 9 PM. All traffic, event traffic, shall use the Gull Road entrance, which is at Route 6, Route 618. Special events may accommodate up to, but not exceed, 200 persons. The number six, one, monument-style sign with an maximum sign area not to exceed 50 square feet and not to exceed 10 feet height would be permitted with this conditional use permit. And number seven, any expansion or modification that's used would require a new conditional use permit. For the record, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Williams is here to, to answer any questions you or any of the planning commissioners may have. This item is presented as a public hearing, and following a public hearing would be appropriate for the planning commission to offer recommendations concerning this application to the Board of Supervisors. And I'll answer any questions that you may have, Mr. Chairman, on this conditional use permit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone have a question? Mr. Thomas? Just for clarification, the application says 5.63 acres. The write-up says 10. Let me go back to the map. When the original application came in, it was at five acres. Mr. Williams actually got that upper property. It's part of it, it is 10. Our GIS map did not reflect that. However, in your agenda package, I believe there's a recorded plaque that shows the total acreage. No indoor music after nine, or no outdoor music after nine, but you can have indoor music after nine. Condition only states the outdoor, and if that's an additional condition, we can look at that and add to it. Anybody else have a question? Looking around. Mr. Williams. Hello, sir. Hello. How are you? How are you doing? Good. So do we have any questions for Mr. Williams? I do have a comment. Mrs. Brannon. I spoke to him today, so I just want to get some things in the record. You do plan on moving into the house when it's completed, so this isn't a business property, it is a residential. Right. I'll be there at the property all the time. And a big concern we've seen from feedback is the noise. Right. It's the noise, and I talked to you about if you would be willing to have all amplified sound within the barn rather than outside, since you're surrounded by houses, and you were open to that idea. Yes. So you're open to no outside music at all? Correct. Okay. Just wanted to clarify that. Yep. So. And there also was mention of a violation that I talked to about. Can you explain the history there? Yes. I had one event, I guess, last summer, sometime in July. It was for a friend that was going into the Navy, I believe, was the Navy Army. And he asked me, well, let me just kind of jump back. I started with this process about 14, 15 months ago before I even started on the project with fixing up the barn. And I started talking to Mark in planning and zoning. And I kind of got the idea that we'd be up and operating by spring of 2021. So probably in about January, a friend came to me, asked if they could use the barn in July. So I said that would be... Because he was set to leave shortly after that. So I said that would be good. And then I guess probably that winter, right after the barn was done, the county was recommending that I buy more property just because since the CUP is a lifetime thing, they just wanted the barn sitting on 10 acres. So it took many months to get that closed. So that didn't close until like... I guess it's past February. So last summer, they used the barn in July. And I didn't have anything else. Mr. Thomas, I want some clarification. One clarification. Mrs. Brannon said no outside amplified music. I think if you'd have a wedding where they were in a tent outside and people sang or there was a violin or a guitar. There was a violin or a guitar or something playing with the wedding, that would be allowed as long as it's not... Amplified. The amplified part of it, yeah. You want to clarify that? Yes. So... And you left that little part out. So I'm going to ask you a question. You did not charge your friend for that wedding, correct? It was... I could have done that on my property as well. And my understanding is your work on the barn, it's pretty insulated would help. It helps, yes. Okay, thank you. Sure. Anybody else? Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Ms. Brubach. On the portable toilets, they would be screened, and they're just moved in for the function. They're not going to be permanently. Correct. Most of the time it would be some sort of bathroom trailer. It would probably be there a couple days at max. It would be on the south side of the barn. And I've got a gravel pad there. I'm trying to keep it kind of blending in with the landscape and with the barn there because one of my neighbors, you know, he's got a historic home over there. I'm trying to keep it as close to the barn just so it doesn't, it's no eyesore, you know. So this trailer, would it be screened as well? It's right next to the barn. The ground itself around there is pretty hilly. I mean, you could try to see it, but it's just one. Those things, if you try to look at it and try to see it, you'll probably see it. But I don't mind getting some trees in pots or something to just kind of put in front of it, you know, just to help block it even more if need be. Can we not put that on the east side since that's where the historic resources said to put the parking? Could you put the portable toilets on the east side? You could. In that way? I mean, probably so, yeah. Yeah. And anyone else for questions? All right. Well, the only question I'm going to have is parking. Yes. Where is it going to be? It'd be the east side. So the area that I most recently purchased. Basically on the backside of the barn. So if you're going up Golf Road, you pass the barn, and then it's on the left. I think we're talking, like if you're going towards Cedar Creek, great. It's between Cedar Creek, great, and the barn, that area. It's hidden by hills. It drains off well, but it's still mostly flat down in there. And it's a pretty smooth area. Any other questions for Mr. Williams? Look around. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Absolutely. Thank you. This is a public hearing at this time. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward, state your name, your magisterial district, and keep your comments to three minutes, please. All right. I don't see anybody. Okay. Hello. I'm Stephen Carroll, Back Creek District, Conifer Lane, pretty close to the barn in question. And I'm here to speak against approving this project. I'm representing my sister and my father and my two daughters who live too far away to make it here. Together we own 17. We own 17 residential lots on the south side of the barn. I hope that's not where the porta-potties would be. There used to be two farms between Goff Road and Laurel Grove Road. The Carroll Farm, that's ours, and the Snap Farm, which the barn was part of. Both farms raise cattle and crops, but neither has been in operation since the 90s. We stopped in the early 90s. Leonard Snap passed away at the end of the 90s. For better or worse, the county has approved the subdivision of both of these farms into what I count as about 53 residential lots. There are 20 on our lot, on our land. There are 19 in Granville Estates, and there are 14 more recently along Goff Road. Now, because Eli bought one of those lots that has the old farmhouse and a barn on it, the commission is tempted to make an exception to allow a commercial enterprise in the middle of what is obviously already a divided residential neighborhood. If the map were a little bigger, you'd see that it's all divided up, and the barn is right in the middle of it. Quote, for the area to remain rural and agricultural in nature. I think, this is a little, too little, too late. And by adding a second five-acre parcel sometime in the middle of this process, it doesn't make this anymore a farm to be saved. Nor does a 100-car parking lot or 200-person, often alcohol-fueled parties bring back anything rural or agricultural that I remember. Maybe I had a stifled childhood. The wording, the county, comprehensive plan only makes sense to me in a case like that of the Boyds in Opecan with Cloverdale Barn. Bobby Boyd still runs an operating farm. He has cows, sheep, horses. She teaches. But without the barn income, they might be tempted to subdivide their 234-acre farm. They might have more pressure to do that. But in Eli's case, the transition to residential has already happened. It's already been cut up. He bought one, then he bought another, another one. It's true we need to preserve the rural character of the area. People who buy my, I'm a builder. I build on the lots that I was talking about sometimes for sale. They come to the area because they're looking for the rural qualities of Frederick County and our area. But by rural, they usually mean a large lot, trees, fields, nature, and above all, peace and quiet. Not, okay, the request was for amplified outdoor music until nine. I'm not sure how long the amplified indoor music is going to last, but, or a hundred car headlights sweeping around the fields till midnight in the traffic. They could have that in town or in Northern Virginia, though even there they wouldn't have it in a residential neighborhood. Claire Boyd says that she rents their barn up to 40 times per year. My calculation, that's almost every weekend. In conclusion, I disagree that this proposal is consistent with the county's comprehensive plan. It's not an agribusiness supplementing a farmer's income. It's not making the area more rural. The barn's already there. Or more agricultural. It's a request for an inappropriate, inappropriate, commercial enterprise on a residential lot in the middle of other residential lots, just because it happens to have a barn on it. If this is the case, I see Ivan Snapp renovating the barn to the south of us as we speak. Who knows what he wants to do with that one. I don't think every barn in the county needs to become a party place. Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Thank you. Anyone else? Please state your name and the Magisterial District. Yes, good evening. Rodrigo Pinero and I'm in Back Creek. So I have a prepared statement. So some things have changed based on the comments tonight, but I'll get to it. So my property has the direct view of Mr. Williams' barn. My wife and I chose to live here because of the quiet rural pastoral beauty of the area. The purpose and intent of the rural interest, the rural area district, is stated to be preserved large open parcels of land, tree cover, scenic views, sensitive environmental areas, and prime agriculture and locally significant soils, and intended to reduce environmental impacts, such as soil erosion, by requiring the development which is sensitive to the existing features of the natural terrain and by reducing the amount of clearing needed for roads. According to VDOT's guidelines, greater than 50 trips would require commercial entrance in addition to devoting nearly one acre of land to the required parking lot to host events. The intent of rural area district is also to minimize the alteration of the natural site features, relate positively to surrounding properties, and protect the views from surrounding areas. It is not difficult to imagine that a parking lot of nearly an acre in size would negatively impact the surrounding areas. By hosting events, Mr. Williams will profit from the beauty of the rural area surrounding his property while negatively impacting the peace and harmony of the community. It is easy to understand why he granted Mrs. Sullenberger's conditional use permit for a 200-person event. Her 300-acre property forces the ability to host events within the confines of her property without too much impact to her neighbors from loud music. However, in Mr. Williams' case, hosting the same size event on 10 acres places all the stress on his neighbors. On the basis of excessive noise, increased traffic, and need to convert an acre of agricultural land into a parking lot, I respectfully request that you deny Mr. Williams' conditional use application. If the committee so chooses to override the concerns of the community, I'd request you consider adding the following conditions to the permit addition in addition to the conditions applied to Mrs. Sullenberger's application. I'd like to add that what's been requested tonight is different than what has been applied for and much more liberal than what was granted to Mrs. Sullenberger. So one, limited visibility. I'd like to add that I'm not a fan of the idea that the city should be able to have two events to no greater than two events per year as requested by Mr. Williams' application. I had limited noise levels to less than 85 decibels as measured by Mr. Williams' property line. Per DDOT's rules, require addition of commercial entrance. All event activity shall start no earlier than noon, which is what was granted to Mrs. Sullenberger. All events and related activities shall conclude by 11 p.m., not midnight as stipulated tonight, and certified outdoor music shall conclude by 9 p.m. and consider lowering the event size to no more than 100 people. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. Is there anyone else that wants to speak for or against? I close the public portion of this, and at this time, discussion among commissioners. Can I ask one more question? Mrs. Broombach, yes, ma'am. On, and maybe this goes to the committee, is this for Mr. Sharon? Mr. Sharon? Mr. Sharon? The road, his current driveway that circles the barn, that is entrance and exit. The entrance and exit are going on Gull Road. Yes. There appears on the plat to be another road to the south of his property. That won't be used at all. No, ma'am. As part of the conditional use permit, that's why we had, Yes. and talked with the applicant, had the entrance on that road, because it is another easement there, Right. maybe shared, and that's why we put it on Gull Road. Thanks, sir. Commissioner's discussion, Mr. Thomas. I'd just like to clarify. VDOT's comments, they said that there would be little measurable impact on Gull Road, and that the existing entrance was adequate for the CUP. So unless it's expanded in the future, more than 200 people, they don't see any additional work required for the entrance or anything on the property. So. Yeah, I remember that comment, too. Unless there was more clarification from VDOT. Excuse me. Yeah, that's what they had reviewed. There was no more clarification. We're just going to go through the comments. Thank you. Thank you. There was no more clarification what you've seen on the review. I'm with it. Yes, sir. Okay, anyone else? Any more comments? All right. Discussion has been completed. I need a motion from the Back Creek District. Mr. Chairman, I move that we approve CUP 0221 for Eli Williams. We would like to approve this motion as it relates to the construction of the back creek. Mr. Chairman, I move that we approve CUP 0221 for Eli Williams. With additional restrictions, and those include no outdoor music, no outdoor amplified music, and that the portable toilets, whether they be trailers or just portable toilets, be screened from the road, from the neighbors. That's it. All right. I have a motion. I have a second. Mr. Molden. Molden, yes. Mr. Markardt. Markardt, yes. Brennan, yes. Dawson, yes. Triplett, yes. Almas, yes. Horndorf, yes. Daniel, yes. Krupp-Mack, yes. Kozell, yes. Akins, yes. Kern, yes. The Chair votes yes. This will go on to the Board of Supervisors. Do we have a date? We don't have a date yet. Okay. This will go forward to Board of Supervisors. Okay. The next items that are up are informational discussions regarding the ordinance amendment for protection of environmental features, and we're going to also talk about short-term lodging. Mr. Klein. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the Planning Commission. This first request is a multiple amendment request to clarify and amend requirements contained in the Supplementary Use Regulations. The first item is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance for the parking and planned development district sections of the zoning ordinance. I'll walk you through each of the three amendment proposals and what the current standard is. The first item is protection of environmental features. You all will recall that the Planning Commission and Board reviewed and ultimately adopted an amendment to the zoning ordinance to put a new allowance for the disturbance of steep slopes. The disturbance was defined at 25 percent. This amendment would expand the allowance to allow for additional disturbance of steep slopes beyond that zoning ordinance standard. There is currently a statement in the protection of environmental features section regarding the zoning administrator allowance to allow for additional small sections of steep slopes to be disturbed where they will alleviate potential health and safety problems and not significantly impact the overall environmental quality of the site. This proposal would strike that health and safety problem out, granting the zoning administrator some additional flexibility in determining what small areas may need disturbance. Again, it's a clean-up change in response to some feedback we received from the development community when we made that previous change. We'll go on to the next item. This pertains to our off-street parking requirements, and this is a proposal to amend and modify the requirements for off-street parking for single-family attached or townhome dwelling units from two off-street parking spaces to two and a half off-street parking spaces per unit. The zoning ordinance currently requires two spaces, irregardless of the housing type, so single-family detached traditional housing to single-family to multi-family, whatever you have it. What we have found and what we continue to see is that that standard is proving to be insufficient. We are also not having a real, complete solution for townhome communities where the off-street parking requirement is being met with one garage space, which is typically full of personal effects, and one driveway space. In these townhome communities, there's little or no on-street parking because they are private streets. They have a narrow width, which doesn't allow for on-street parking, due to the driveway spacing between the units, and there's not currently an off-street parking requirement for visitors. So, unless a developer wants to do that, there's no requirement in the ordinance for that. ordinance for that so by changing the standard we feel like it will alleviate some of these parking issues that we've been dealing with in some of these townhome communities in our last item in this ordinance amendment is it pertains to conditional uses in the r4 and the r5 zoning districts this amendment would clarify that use is permissible with a conditional use permit in the residential planned r4 community and the residential recreational community the r5 communities it could very clearly spell out when a conditional use permit is required per the zoning or it's currently the wording doesn't state that we've interpreted to be that way but it's not the way it's actually it's actually worded so this change in the amendment would clarify that conditional use is permitted in the districts that are allowed that allow uses in the r4 and r5 communities would continue to be required to have a conditional use permit application approved prior to establishing those uses you can't a cleanup item we've not run into an issue with that in the past but again trying to get ahead of any potential pitfalls there the development review and regulations committee discussed these ordinance amendments at their February 24th meeting and they were generally supportive of the changes this item is presented to the Planning Commission as an information discussion item and staff will take any comments gathered from your discussion to the Board of Supervisors for further consideration and ultimately this may come back to the Planning Commission as a public comment. Thank you Mr. Chairman we have a motion to approve the amendment. Mr. Chairman I don't have any other questions Mr. Chair. I would just like to make a note of the fact that the amendment does not include all of the public hearing items so with that I'll conclude Mr. Chairman and if anyone has any questions I'm happy to answer them. Any questions for Mr. Klein? No. This is great. Thank you Mr. Klein. Okay this is our second ordinance amendment for your consideration this evening. This is a amendment to add short-term lodging or STL to the definition section and to provide additional regulations for short-term lodging establishments. And to add the use short-term large lodging to our RA rural areas, RP residential performance, and MH1 mobile home community zoning districts. As proposed by staff, short-term lodging would be permitted by right through an administratively viewed permit process and the draft permit application was also included with your materials showing how we intend to implement that program. Those permits for short-term lodging would be valid for a period of two years and require a permit fee. So those permits would have to on a two-year basis come back to the county and restate their intentions to continue operating that use. The zoning ordinance presently doesn't really include a regulation for short-term lodging. We know that they are out there and they are operating but we don't really have a great use in any of our districts to address them. Similar uses do exist. We have rooming house, boarding house, and bed and breakfast. There are conditional uses in certain districts but they are defined in the zoning ordinance in such a manner that they would otherwise not permit short-term lodging. They typically imply providing a meal which isn't really a component of short-term lodging operations. So our proposal is to provide a definition for short-term lodging and short-term lodging for Frederick County would be defined as any occupancy of all or part of a dwelling or mobile home for a period of less than 30 days. For those uses where they you'd rent out for three months or a full year, those are just your normal subleases or leases, not a short-term lodging. This is your people coming for a couple of nights during the week or over the weekend stays. We also are adding a fairly extensive list of supplemental use regulations regarding the use. I would note that these use regulations went through a review by the building official, the fire marshal, the Virginia Department of Health, the Commissioner of Revenue, and the County Attorney. There are a number of changes are made so what we're trying to do is implement a standard that checks all the boxes for the fire marshal, checks all the boxes with the building code, and etc. So where permitted short-term lodging would need to meet the following requirements. The maximum number of lodgers per night shall not exceed 10 persons except where the building code permits a fewer number of applicants. No more than five guest rooms are permitted for short-term lodging. The maximum number of rental contracts per night is one and all lodgers occupying the short-term lodging must be associated with the same rental contract. A dwelling or manufactured home used for short-term lodging shall comply with the following standards. Be available for inspection by the county during reasonable hours to ensure meeting the statewide building code. Have it working in multi-purpose fire extinguishers, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide detectors when required for a fireplace or gas service. Have a plan posted inside each of the sleeping rooms showing the exit pathways from the sleeping room used for short-term lodging to the nearest exit from the dwelling or manufactured home. Have at least one designated off-street parking space available for lodgers which the operator has the authority to reserve for short-term lodging purposes. Special events as defined in part 101 of the zoning ordinance are prohibited and associated with the short-term lodging use and that no short-term lodging activity shall take place at a property until the Department of Planning and Development has approved the administrative permit and the commission of revenue has an approved business license for the use the commission of revenue collects lodging occupancy taxes on these so ensuring that there are up to snuff with the treasurer is very important obviously the development review and regulations committee discussed and is in the process of updating until they have met and approved for use withinる this proposal at their March 25th meeting we had a very good discussion and they were they were generally supported the proposed use and the item was sent forward to the Planning Commission for discussion again this is an information discussion item for you all this evening and any comments that generated during your discussion will be forwarded to the board for further consideration any comments mr. Thomas yeah I unfortunately I couldn't make the meeting but I did send some comments and the two things I'm concerned about it really relate back to the unintended consequences this is directed toward air B&B's and VRBO's which you know are good and I think we need to have a an ordinance or a permitting process for those in the county but the two things that concern me are the number of adults that can be there and the number of off-street reserves parking spots I've stayed in a number of air B&B's when I've gone places and typically the ones I've stayed in have one off-street parking spot per bedroom in the air B&B now most of them have been two or three bedroom air B&B's they end up with two or three parking spots but if you have ten adults in five bedrooms they're not going to fit in one car so you one parking spot isn't going to hack it most of our residential areas now or townhouse areas or mobile home areas we have cars all over the streets we don't need any more cars parked on the streets or parked in front yards so if somebody's going to have an Airbnb that they're going to rent out it's a business they need to provide off-street parking dedicated off-street parking hard-surfaced so I really think we need to up the number of parking spots and look at the maximum number of adults that can be in that ten people do we want painting crews coming in renting a place with ten adults five pickup trucks park you men parking them in the front yard a residential area and having ten adults in there for twenty nine days I don't that's what concerns me the the unintended consequences of what we're going to do. to do. I'd like to see us require a limit on the number of adults that can be in that 10 people and also increase the number of parking spots at a minimum of one parking spot, but for every two bedrooms, you have to add a second parking or a third parking spot. So if we end up with three bedrooms, you have two dedicated parking spots. If you have four bedrooms, you have three. If you have five, you have three. That just kind of mellows out. You know, we have enough people parking in the front yards of houses now where we have single family houses with six and eight cars, four of them on the street, four of them in the front yard. I don't think we want to perpetuate that. Well, certainly could recommend a change in that standard. What I would add is that, you know, if they're renting out five bedrooms, it's implied that no one else is going to be there, so they would have those two off-street spaces that were already accounted for in the parking plus the one additional space, but you can make that recommendation. They probably have the garage locked up that no one can go in it. That's probably where they have their personal stuff, their cleaning supplies or maintenance stuff. So you might end up with one additional off-street spot. You're not going to end up with somebody parking in a garage in a VRBO. It's a valid, certainly a valid comment. Thank you. How about in the rural areas where they're on a septic field? And we know, will we be pulling those to say it's, you know? So as part of the permit application, they're required to get a review and approval by the building official, the fire marshal, and the Virginia Department of Health. In cases where they may be claiming four bedrooms, but their septic is for three, they'd have to amend their permit and say it's actually three bedrooms. Same thing with the building official and the fire marshal. They've indicated to us that at least in this initial round of applications, they're going to meet and go on site. And verify that what is being used as a bedroom is in fact a bedroom that has a door and a window. It's not a basement space or a converted attic space or a garage that's being used. So there is an internal review as part of that permit to ensure the issue that you're getting at is being met. Anyone else? So one of the things that I came to mind, and really it goes back to Mrs. Casey's comments earlier about access. It's not working. The comments that Mrs. Casey said about access, what I didn't see in the conditions is, it seems to me like these STLs should be accessed by a state-maintained road. I also live on a private road. It's two miles long. It services 17 houses. And if you live on that road, or at least are on that road with some regularity, you know, and it's 11 foot right of way through there, so you know that if somebody's on there, you're going to have to get off the road. And especially if you're going deer pulling a trailer, or a wagon, then the other person knows that they have to figure out a way to get off there, and you just pull in a driveway. It's kind of an unknown rule. But if you start opening those things up to people from outside, they would not know that unknown rule if it's a private road. So to me, a condition on this would be that it has to be accessed by a state-maintained road. I think it's a valid comment. We certainly will convey that to the board. Comments? All right. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Pearson, do we have anything under other? Just an update on current planning applications for the commission. So Opecan Crossing, which is an older development that is coming back online off of Route 7 near the wastewater treatment plant, has had their MDP approved, and we have received site plans for Bartonsville Energy Facility's solar project, phase one and two, that are currently being reviewed. The Gore Citizens Convenience Site Upgrade site plan has been submitted, and it is being reviewed. And then the switching station for Foxglove Solar, which was another utility-scale solar project, has been submitted for review. Right now, we're not planning to have a meeting on April 20th. And then you'll all see in your inbox, I sent you an email regarding a change the Department of Environmental Quality made for how they're considering utility-scale solar projects. Happy to answer any questions you have on that, either here or after the meeting. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. Do I have a motion to adjourn? I'll move. We are adjourned.
