Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-10-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=107
========================================================================

Yes, yes, that's the one I want to do. So if we have anything else, we can tie it down. But this is one we – she said that she could get it ready for her presentation for our meeting. Okay, good. So if she can do that, then let's go ahead and have the meeting and get that taken care of. Is that good enough? That works. Okay. We need to get through that. That's what I mean, yeah. That's what I mean. So that's what I told her. Just check with her and see if she thinks she can, in the time constraints, can get it ready and be ready for this next meeting. If she can, we'll do it tomorrow, which is the way to do it. Yeah. Yep, yep, yep. All right. Not much. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Thank you. All right. Thank you. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. And now she can say she thinks she's done. All right. Thank you. Naylena. Be pleasing unto you, our rock and our redeemer. In the name of Jesus Christ, we offer this prayer. Amen. Please turn to the polls. Would you lead us in the pledge, please? If I may, I'm facing the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would move that we amend the agenda by removing item 913 and further direct that that item be sent back to Public Safety Committee for further consideration. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd also move that we adopt the agenda as amended. Second. Second. Discussion, anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you. There were no citizens signed up to speak. Is that correct, Ms. Phillips? Thank you, ma'am. The consent agenda. How would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver. No. Supervisor Dundon is absent. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My comments were prepared in regards to 913, which was just taken off of the agenda this evening and sent back to committee. I'd like to thank this board for sending it back to committee because that's where it needs to go. I'd also like to thank our interim county administrator for her hard work in getting the background information that was needed to make that decision. I'd like to share a little bit of that information this evening, as I think it is pertinent. I'd like to share a little bit of that information this evening, as I think it is pertinent for those committees, as they go back to review this, to have for consideration. The first is, how did we get here? We got here to ask for four additional people in our dispatch center because of a fire that was just outside of my district in the Gainesboro district where there was a fatality. Would have that fatality changed had the dispatch gone different? I don't know. Only God knows that. However, what we can glean from that is, is it took over. Almost two and a half times the amount of time that the national standard is to dispatch a call to get that call dispatched. What we also know is, is a call that should have taken seven minutes to get a suppression piece of apparatus on the scene took well over 22, which is over three times the amount of time that is required to get a suppression piece on the scene of that incident. Would have the outcome been different? I don't know. I certainly hope it would have, but only God knows. This has raised a lot of concerns. Immediately after this occurred, I asked for copies of the tape, CAD sheets, and other things that I shared with each one of you. Those CAD sheets, that information was all available when the finance committee and the public safety committee met and approved these positions and moved them forward. There's a couple questions that I think are very glaring that did not get asked, and my questions or concerns are, why didn't they get asked? And hopefully they will get asked moving forward. Some of the questions that I asked were, was the young lady... Was she a young lady that was working, working on an overtime shift, a forced shift, something of that nature to make up for absentee dispatchers? The answer to that was no. She was not working overtime. It was not a forced over shift. So the next question that I asked was, was there outside circumstances that could have greatly altered it? And the answer again was no. As I began to ask more questions after this got passed, I come to find out there were five open positions. In the dispatch center, when the request was made for these four additional dispatchers. The big concern for me is that there have been three open dispatch openings since what is near as the county administration can tell has been since 2012. So we have been running short in our 911 dispatcher of approved positions since 2012. So this got passed, not only our finance committee, not only our public safety committee, but to this committee tonight. With the fact that we don't know what a fully staffed 911 center looks like, because we've had three open positions since 2012, while we were asking for four more positions. There's a disconnect there, my friends. I believe that the committees need to back up a little bit and not just bring this back to us in a couple months. But I think we need to look at, let's get these five folks on board. And our... Our communications director has done a wonderful job trying to get that place organized since she has taken over in January. And I commend her for having offered all five of those open spots over the last month. She has done a commendable job. I think what we must do, however, is see how those five positions fit into the schematics of things. As I look at other localities across Virginia and other localities surrounding us, the distance... The distance between the two of us is about the same. And I think that's what we need to do. And I think that's what we need to do. And I think that's what we need to do. If we get these five dispatchers on board, so then is there a need possibly for two more dispatchers? There may be a need for that, but we'll find out after we get these five folks on board. What we'll also find out is, is there a need next month, we'll find out, is there a need to raise the salary for those five folks so we can attract good talent and keep good talent? And the proposal that was brought forth tonight does not address either one of those issues. Now, another thing that's glaring at me when I looked at the proposal that was sent forth was there was no data. And that is very concerning. From 2018 to present, there's data, but the only reason that that data was present was because the state required it. There was no data kept before that. That's a dialect of duty from the folks who were in charge. And I'm not shaking my fist here at our current director because that was well before her time, and I appreciate the hard work that she's done. As I've stated, she has done a phenomenal job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let me just share a couple things that she has done that's going to give us some good data to make good decisions moving forward if we will use it. The first is EMD, emergency medical dispatch. The second, quality assurance. I commend her for implementing both of those things. Should have been implemented 10 years ago. I'm glad we've started this year. So it is concerning to me that it's gotten to this point with all of the question marks that I just laid out to you. So I want to thank this board for allowing it to go back to committee. I think we probably ought to wait even a little bit longer than two or three months going through these committees before we act on it. The second aspect of this, to tie it together, is we have four to five shifts. We have five new people. We will have trainers training those folks on a shift. If you get too many new folks, if we have four people to a shift, if we have two of them being new, additional, we will eventually either burn out our trainers or they will not be trained adequately or properly. And we don't want to burn out our trainers. And we don't want to have two. We don't want to have too many folks on shifts who are learning that cause distractions or slow down the process. If we get these five folks on board, if we are in the budget process next year in February, we'll have the numbers on what it looks like as far as our salaries, the salary study. We'll also see how those five folks are fitting in. And we'll have a really good feel on how many more dispatchers we need and what the price needs to be. Thank you for the time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to reiterate what this board had said about an hour ago. We just met in a public session to discuss the redistricting within the county. And there was a lot of hard work, very difficult work done by our county attorney and especially the IT staff. And I just want to commend the IT staff for the incredible amount of work that you all did and the data that you provided to us. It's unfortunate that we don't have folks like you at the state committee running the redistricting because maybe we'd have some answers by now. But thank you all for the good work that you did for us. And I appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. We'll move on. Appointment of the county administrator, Vice Chairman Wells. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would like to move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County adopt a resolution appointing Michael Beaulieu as the county administrator and authorizing the chairman to enter into a contract on behalf of the county consistent with the board's contract. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Set employment to commence on November the 16th, 2021, or as soon as possible thereafter on a date to be determined. Further move that upon the commencement of this service of Michael Beaulieu as county administrator, the duty authorized sign signatories on the county checks are Treasurer County William Orendorff, Jr. and County Administrator Michael Beaulieu. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Michael Bohofer. Second. Motion and a second. Is there discussion? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn is absent. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. And Mr. Bohofer is appointed. Mr. Bohofer, if you would like, it's my great pleasure to introduce you. Please come to the podium so our folks watching from afar can participate. Welcome, sir. Thank you very much. Well, first I'd like to thank you all for giving me this opportunity. My wife and I are both very excited to move to Frederick County. As you know, I've been in the city of Winter Garden for 25 years, so this is a big change for us. I kind of prepared some words, but I'm going to change them around after coming here. I was a little nervous coming to a new place, meeting new people, and this afternoon I met the staff, and I was unbelievably impressed. But they're not only professional, they seem sharp, but they were very nice, and I think every single person had a sense of humor. I really enjoyed my interview with the board. I felt like everyone there was a very good board member, knowledgeable, but also very nice. Frederick, Virginia must be a place with a lot of nice people is all I can say about that. I've talked to a lot of the board members, and I know some of the big items for this board are some key issues of character are, I think you said, honesty, fairness, transparency, and integrity. And I want you to know I believe in all four of those things, and I live those things, and that will be my goal. I will bring to this job 100% of my heart and soul every day. That's the way I work. I've always worked that way. I understand my role here. It's to serve the citizens. It's also to assist you all in ensuring that you're, that your vision comes to fruition, and then to carry out the policies that you all determine. And I'm very well aware of that and understand that's how it works. I'm really just pleased to be here and thank you once again. Thank you, sir. Welcome. We're very happy to have you. I would also be remiss if I didn't publicly thank the Berkeley group and their group of professionals, which were our consultants that helped us through this process and did an outstanding job. Thank you so much. Please share with your colleagues. All right. Tourism update. Mr. Kearns. All right. Good afternoon. Actually, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Congratulations. Welcome. I took a lot of strings to get pulled to be the first agenda. I. As soon as you got hired. So you paying attention to the court. Okay. All right. Welcome. Congratulations. Thank you for, as always, for the opportunity. I love being able to come and give you guys updates every once in a while. I thought this was very good timing here. We're right at the end of our summer campaign. So I figured I'd kind of show you what we were up to, especially since a lot of, since you live here, you don't really see what we're doing because you're not our target audience. You're not the people that we want to come here and spend money and go home again. We want you to stay here because you live here. So you don't see a lot of what we're doing. So that's what I'm trying to do here and give you guys a good overview of what we're doing. So real quick, I'm going to go through a whole lot of stuff here. Kind of quickly, if you see something you have more questions about, please feel free to ask me. If there's something at the end, please, please ask me at the end. So the goals and objectives of this campaign, and this was a summer campaign that ran from about May until just a few weeks ago. Number one thing, all of this is research and database. This was all based off of research we've been doing for the past three years. Number one thing was increased brand awareness. We want to increase awareness of the Winchester Frederick County area as a destination. Number two, increase conversions. We want people to come here and spend money, actually come here and spend the money at our small businesses and support everyone here. And then finally to invite and entice post-pandemic travelers that it's safe to travel again. And we wanted to be kind of at the top of the list of places where they felt safe to start going back out to and start traveling again. And we did see a lot of all of this, actually. We were very lucky. So let's look back at the campaign. We're going to do this whole thing. But basically the concept says that Winchester Frederick County is an unexpected destination, unexpected history, unexpected experiences that you get here when you come. So we didn't want to use the word unexpected. A lot that's been used a lot. That wasn't creative enough for us. So our firm that we were using, we actually worked together with them. We came up with uncommon. And then we wanted to take that a little bit further. So we did uncommon to the core, playing on obviously the Apple history, but also the core of what we are here. So that's our campaign was uncommon to the core. We did a whole lot of creative on this. This is just a quick little snapshot just so you kind of get a feel for what the feel of it was. Have your apples and drink them, too. You pick the day we'll be here. Play on the picking apples. Take a hike D.C. Seriously, it's beautiful out. That was a more targeted one just into D.C. Beautiful imagery. Got the apple crate in the background. Uncommon to the core. A lot of natural outdoor settings. A lot of airy kind of feeling. So people felt safe traveling. This is some of the more of the stuff we did. This was a I really like this one close to home, but nothing like it. And this was really targeted into the D.C. Area. Part of our research that we did showed that a lot of folks in the D.C. Area thought that we were four hours away and somewhere off in West Virginia somewhere. So we're like, well, that's not really true. So we we we knew that we had to kind of address these perceptions that were out there and we saw the opportunity and we were able to adjust our marketing to to to adjust our marketing to to adjust our marketing to to adjust our marketing. So we did that. And this is one of the other billboards you pick the day will be here again going in with the apple picking the apple picking theme. This is one of the videos that we have. We did a number of videos. This is the one long 60 second video. We also had a 32 30 second videos and then 415 second videos that we use strategically throughout in different places. This is kind of a general one in our videos. We kind of tell a storyline. You don't really see that. It's not glaring that it's a story. But you'll see that. There's kind of different storylines that go through. So we're kind of looking at that. So we're kind of looking at that. So we're kind of looking at that. So you'll see all of these storylines built into this one 60 second one. But this is the this is the general 60 second one that we have. And I'm told that the sound is loud. So let's find out. Oh, is it good? OK. You are now entering Winchester, Frederick County, close to home, but nothing like it. We're all out of hustle and bustle, but there's plenty of small town charm and characters to go around. We're all out of hustle and bustle, but there's plenty of small town charm and characters to go around. You can't get here by following directions. Only your gut. Let our old town teach you a few new tricks. Take a hike on the beaten path. Try something off the menu without reservations. Make this trip one for the history books. This is a land of wide open spaces. Wide open itineraries. Where city meets country. All are welcome. All are family. All you have to do is visit. Come see us at visitwinchesterva.com. We shot all of that in Winchester and Frederick County. We used all local models. I think one of one of one of the people you saw was a girlfriend that came in from out of the area. So almost every single person was a was a local person. Thank you. Should I? You are now. Let me. There you go. And there we are. Okay, so we had all this beautiful, beautiful, creative. So what are we going to do with this? So we wanted to create a very good media strategy to get this out in the marketplace. We use Shred It as our marketing agency to do this to help us with this. Our target I'm not going to go through all of this in super detail, but basically we had two primary targets. First, traveling without children to a regional people traveling without children to regional. Driveable destination that allows for a change of pace. And then our secondary target was an active multi generational family in search of experiences that allow them to relax, reconnect and share their togetherness. So those were kind of the two targets they were going after. Not going to get in too far into the weeds with all of this, but I will explain some of these differences if you don't recognize these terms. So Geo fencing, site retargeting, digital behavior and Geo farming. So Geo fencing. First off, we can draw a digital kind of boundary around that. And if you're in that area, you can actually drag a line around that area and say we want you to hit me with this. So we can draw a line around that area and say we want you to hit me with this. We can draw that area around any area that we want to and say if you live in that area we're going to hit you with these ads. Geo farming is a little bit cooler than that because we can draw that area around those same folks in that same area. But we say, you know, we want you to we we only want to target the people that have exhibited travel behaviors that we're interested in. So we will then draw a line around something like Gettysburg or Charlottesville, visited one of these other places in the last two years, then we'll target you. And we spent more money on that because, again, we're trying to very intelligently spend our money so that we know that we're getting a return on our investment. Site retargeting, that's just online ads. You go to our website, you go somewhere else, our ads follow you around. I'm sure you've done that on Amazon. The ads follow you around as you go around. Same thing. And then digital behavior, we can track people's digital behavior across the internet and we go across that way. We had this very well spread out. I'm very proud of this. We had a very, very broad and balanced attack that we did over the past probably five, four or five months. I will explain two things on here. OOH is not, ooh, it's out of home. That's actually billboards. That means billboards. And then OTT is over the top video. Those are ads that if you have cut the cord and you have like Sling or Hulu or whatever that is, those ads that are hitting you while you're watching your shows on Hulu or one of those streaming devices, you can go and watch those ads. And then OTT is over the top video. So that's considered over the top. So we actually, that was our biggest, that was our biggest spend right there. And then a whole bunch of other. Key performance indicators, we just want to show you that we were measuring as we were going along with hotel data and website traffic and social engagement and video click-through rates. We were super happy with this. Again, over 8.7 million impressions. Our click-through rate was over 40% across the entire campaign, which is phenomenal. And then our OTT, our video completion rate was over 40%. And then our OTT, our video completion rate was over 80%. I think it was over 87%. So that's, those are phenomenal numbers. That means that we have very captivating imagery. That means people are actually clicking on things that you're doing. And then just our website traffic went way up. You can see across the, across the spectrum, all of our website traffic went way up, way, way, way up. So we were very happy with the results from this. Just show you a little bit of data on the backend. So say, hey, this is, are we making money in our community from this? You know, is there, is there something that we can do to make sure that we're making money in our community? So hotel occupancy was nearly flat. There's a reason for this. I included June in there. June of 2019 slewed our numbers. If you remember June of 2019, we had a little event here with some motorcyclists called the Hog Rally. And that filled up all of our hotel rooms for June, for about a week and a half in June. So that kind of threw off our June numbers when you're comparing them. If I had knocked out June, the percentage would have been much higher that we were, we were higher, but I included June in there. So, you know, I think that's a good thing. We're talking about 2019 pre-pandemic. So we're looking this year versus pre-pandemic. Our hotel average daily rate was up 6%, which is phenomenal over. So not only are we recovered, we're well past recovered and into record territory now. Hotel revenue per available room is up 4%. Our hotel revenues were up 9.6%, equaling over five, almost 450,000 in additional revenues. And that's not, that's just additional revenues just from June through September. So a lot of additional spending and a lot of additional dollars coming into our community. That's not counting all the restaurants and all the local businesses and all that stuff that people are doing while they're here. That's just hotel revenue. So the actual spend is much higher. Hotel occupancy, all of that stuff is up against the Shenandoah Valley. We did compare ourselves against Shenandoah Valley. You might say, well, Justin, that's great. Everybody was going to outdoors anyways. People across the Shenandoah Valley were going up. What you were doing didn't make a difference. Well, we think it did because we looked at our numbers versus the average. We looked at our numbers versus the average. So we looked at our numbers versus the average of the Shenandoah Valley, and we were still 10% higher than what the Shenandoah Valley numbers were. So the Shenandoah Valley numbers were up, but we were still 10% higher than what the Shenandoah Valley numbers were. So we were very happy to see that. Short-term rental properties were up significantly as well, double digits up. Our top origin markets from people that were coming to visit reflected where we were placing our campaign. So we were very happy to see that. And then our top destination points of interest, we could see where people were going when they were in the community. And that matched the number of people that were coming to visit. So that's what we were advertising people to do. This is a fun slide. This is from Arrivalist. We use Arrivalist as a platform to help track mobile data visitorship. So your cell phone, you're on your cell phone, you go somewhere, guess what? We're tracking. We're watching. We know where you're going and what you're doing. If you see the bubble right there, there's a little, it's kind of a donut right there. So we're in the middle of that donut. And then that circle around there is people that we're not counting because they're within 50 miles. If you're within 50 miles, you're within 50 miles. You're not a visitor. You live here. You're local. And so you would have had to come through our area and stayed at least two hours before leaving to be able to be considered a little red dot. And this is just from June through September of this year. So just this summer. So you can kind of get a feel for how many people came just to the Winchester-Frederick County area and how far they were coming from all across the entire United States. This is a really fun slide. And we can get down into the nitty gritty on this. But this is really fun data to watch. So are we done? No, we're not done. We're not taking our foot off the gas at all. We're pushing down harder. We've got a whole fall campaign, fall and holiday campaign. We're just in the fall campaign right now that started about a week ago. So we're keeping with the uncommon to the core. But our new kind of little sub campaign is how we holiday. Kind of enticing people to do their holidays a little bit differently. You know, instead of just going over to somebody's house and eating a pie. You can come out here and have a whole experience here with your family. You can come out and do it our way. Forget your florist. Here we pick our own flowers. Fall is for family. Deck the trails. Don't direct the halls. Deck the trails. Come out here. There's great outdoor experiences all fall and all winter long. So this is just a little sample. And then I'll do our video real quick. This is a video that we've got for it that's in market. Whoops. Bring the family and leave the traditions. Toss the itinerary and deck the trails. Because fall is for family. The one you choose and the one that chose you. Come on. We saved you a seat by the campfire. This is how we holiday. Start your journey at visitwinchesterva.com. Does that work if I just clip now? Can you help me get past this? All right. Thank you. Oh, okay. Sorry. There we go. So that's our 30 and then we have a couple of 15. We have a couple of 15 scenes as well that we're going to be placing in a couple of different spots. So that's pretty much it. That's what we've been doing and what we're doing right now. We're having a lot of fun doing it. And I just want to thank you for the opportunity and your support for being able to do this. Anybody have any questions with what we've been doing? Questions? Anyone? Chairman? Yes, sir. It's not a question, Justin, but I say it every year and I mean it. If I didn't live here already, the stuff you do would make me want to move here. You do a great job. Great stuff. Great stuff. Well done, Justin. Thank you very much. Great stuff. Thank you, everyone. And final little thing. What we do, we're able to do, and I really want to make this point and drive this point home, that we're able to do what we do because of how passionate all of you are in what you do and how you support our county and our destination and everybody here, the staff that are here and the public that's here. Everyone here in the Winchester area loves the Winchester area. If you live here. You love it here. That's the one thing our data has found is that if you live here, you love it here. So and people are very protective of it and people are very passionate about it. So that passion lets us do what we do. So just thank you. Keep doing what you're doing. So thank you. Thank you. Well done. All right. Committee appointments. Sony Land Advisory Committee. Supervisor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before you this evening, you had a application from Rhonda Sargent to fill the. Open seat of Jason Crosdale. I'd also like to add, if I may, Van Hugh Van Meter's term is expiring in a little bit less than a month. I've spoken with him. He does desire to continue to serve. He has done a wonderful job serving in that capacity over the past four years, I believe. So I would like to make a motion and you can direct me to do it individually or together if you would like. Either way. Either way. I'm going to make it together. I make a motion that we appoint Hugh Van Meter. Reappoint. Reappoint. Reappoint. Hugh Van Meter and appoint Rhonda Sargent to the Shawnee Land Advisory Committee. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. They will be appointed. All right. Historic Resources Advisory Board. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I spoke with Mr. Molden and his term is expiring. He is eligible and willing to serve. He's done an outstanding job and I'd like to see him reappointed. I would. I would so move. Motion and is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Molden's reappointed. Just as an FYI for our community, we are seeking applications for the Hanley Regional Lab Reboard. There are three vacancies there. It's a very active group and should be very rewarding. We encourage you to apply. And the Historic Resources Advisory Board also has a vacancy in Shawnee. All right. That will bring us to 8D, resolution to approve county's participation. Did you want to introduce that one, Mr. Williams? Yes, Mr. Chairman. The board has the memo and the agenda materials. This is part of the ongoing opioids litigation, specifically relating to the use of opioids. And I think that's a very important part of the agenda. I think that's a very important part of the agenda. And I think that's a very important part of the agenda. And I think that's a very important part of the agenda. I think that's a very important part of the agenda. There's a lot of settlements that have been reached, or tentative settlements, I should say, that have been reached by three of the largest distributors, and then also the Johnson & Johnson Company, a manufacturer, related to that. As the memo indicates, it's a total of $26 billion in settlements nationwide. It's a multi-step process. And there are... there are other matters going on as well. These are just four of the defendants. But as to these four defendants, it's a multi-step process. They first wanted to know that enough of the state attorney generals were willing to go forward with the settlement. That has happened. The next stage of the process is they're looking for a critical mass of localities to indicate that they are willing to go forward with the settlement against these defendants. And the deadline, in essence, for collection of these locality consents to the settlements is the end of the year, at which point if these defendants have a 30-day period, I believe it is, to decide that they've got that critical mass. And if they do, then the settlements will go forward and the payments would begin to flow. The payments will flow to Virginia based upon the previous memorandum of understanding between the localities and the attorney general's office. The county previously approved that. Frederick County receives about one and a quarter percent of the state's settlements that go directly to the localities. These settlements would probably amount to about $2.6 million to the county. There is one other little contingency to it is that, the settlements have thresholds built or benchmarks built into them, so to speak, that the defendants are seeking to have as many localities as possible agree to the settlements. And the more that do, the greater the number, the greater the amount that they pay forward in the settlements. And that is state specific. So the Virginia, whatever happens outside of Virginia at this point, assuming that they're going to be able to go forward with the settlement, they decide to go forward after December. Whatever happens outside of Virginia would not matter. The amount that will flow to Virginia in the benchmarks as far as settlements from other localities will be based solely on Virginia. Virginia has a good group. We're with 50 or 60 other localities in this effort, and we're all in a good position to move forward. And it appears that good efforts are underway to get other localities either that are not currently litigating or represented by other council to move forward. So the recommendation is to approve this in essence consistent with the strategy to pursue this, that the board previously authorized to pursue this litigation. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Williams? Anyone? Thank you, sir. How would the board like to handle this request? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would move that we adopt the resolution as written. The motion is there a second. Second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Advisor Graver? I did not intend to vote for this this evening. However, I will just to get this matter closed. I'd like to give a little background here. Many of the pharmacy, pharmaceuticals, the names that are listed here on this sheet, make drugs for each and every one of us when we have a heart attack, when we have seizures, when we have other things where a narcotic might be used. I don't believe in most situations that we can use drugs for other purposes. I don't believe in most situations that we can use drugs for other purposes. I don't believe that most of the folks who use these for illicit purposes were held down with an IV shoved into their arm and forced to take drugs against their will. I don't believe that's what happened. I did not approve or I did not endorse, approve, go along with in any format us going to court and going down this road. While I understand the marketing of the drugs and the marketing, some of which could be conceived as deceitful or enticing, I don't believe the I also revert back to what I just stated was. I don't think anybody held folks down and made them take these drugs. So it's a catch-22 that I vote for this. I don't think it was the right thing to do. Mr. McArthur. While I respect Supervisor Graber's comments, I do see that this has gone through the court system and through, you know, both sides have had their opportunity to adjudicate this. And this is the offer that's being made at this point. And this opioid epidemic has had a huge toll on the community, the taxpayers. You and I are paying for the fallout from all of this. At this point, I believe, you know, this is a settlement that is meant by both the pharmaceutical companies, their distributors, et cetera. And the plaintiffs to agree that there's something that could be done. And this is they've agreed to pay it. So I think we're entitled as taxpayers to recoup the enormous costs that not only do we bear now, but we're going to continue to bear for at least another generation, if not two. That's going to be the fallout from all this. So I'll support it. Thank you, sir. Further comment, anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn is aye. Aye. Supervisor Lebson. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you. All right. That will bring us to the Finance Committee. Supervisor. I'm sorry. Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Chairman, the Finance Committee met on September 15th at 8 a.m. The following items. The first item on the agenda is the Finance Director. The Finance Director will present the fiscal year 21 year-end financial information and request a public hearing for general fund and capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $26.1 million. And Mrs. Schiffler is here to present that information. Mrs. Schiffler? Thank you. I thought that you said that. In case you have any questions. Well, we can go that way. Did you want to present? No. You go ahead with your slide presentation, and then if there's questions afterwards, then. Are we going to just go through your agenda item? Because I didn't know I was going to do a slide presentation. Okay. Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. I thought you were going to present the slide presentation to us this evening. I apologize. Okay. So let me back up. Yes. Are there any questions of Ms. Schiffler? No. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Hearing none. Thank you very much. Okay. I'll just stay here in case you have any other questions. So then I'd like me to continue on then with Item 1. Yes. We will make a motion to request a public hearing for the General Fund and Capital Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $26.1 million. And as you glean from your packet, the amount represented is $2.1 million. the general fund fund balance in excess of 20% to be transferred to the capital fund. The committee recommends holding a public hearing. In addition, there was information regarding the sales tax and meals tax revenue adjustment in the packet, but the motion would include holding a public hearing. All right, I've heard the motion. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? We might need roll call for part of it. We certainly don't need to do that for the public hearing, but let's do it. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. OK. Item number two, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a school operating fund and general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $454,276.12. This amount represents fiscal year 21 unspent restricted funds. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Graber? No. No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will take us to item number three, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a public hearing for school operating funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $13,562,792.89. This amount represents American Rescue Plan Act funds received by the schools for ESSER III and CSLFRF. The committee recommends holding a public hearing, and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number four, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a school capital project fund transfer from the county capital fund in the amount of $4,264,552. This amount represents unspent fiscal year 21 unobligated school operating funds to be used for the purchase of 19 school buses and other capital projects. As you will note in your packet, the projects that were outlined were the ones that were presented during budget deliberations that no capital funding was approved. The committee recommends approving the funding. I would so move. Second. Second. Second. Any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to ask. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask if the superintendent of schools who is present with us tonight would give me a little bit of clarification on that, if you would be so kind. Good afternoon, or evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Mr. Graber. Thank you, Mr. Superintendent. So about two years ago, there was a conversation here with you and this board regarding the Aylor school replacement. And during those conversations, there was some conversations with you regarding additional funds, a little over $3 million in order to expand the school from about 900 students to 1,100 students in that ballpark. I can clearly remember seeing your comments that should those additional monies be given, you failed. I felt confident, I believe that was your words, that a school for approximately 1,100 students could be built. When Aylor school opened this fall, it wasn't 1,100 students. It was 900 students. And to me, that represents a question mark of, I know you used all that money for the school. Where did those 200 persons, those 200 seats get to? What I'd like, before we move forward on this, is some assurances from you, not just some assurances. I'd like an assurance from you that in the packet that you presented was 19 school buses. And then if you go to slide three, maybe you would read those things that you presented on slide three, that every single one of those items would be completed with this money. And if it's not completed with this money, that that money would be returned to us. Because I am, if I vote for this, I am giving you the taxpayers' money to complete those items. And I would personally like to make sure that our students get that money. I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. That our students get a new roof where a new roof is needed. That our students get an HVAC system where an HVAC system is needed. And those are some of the things that are listed in there. Will you give me your assurances that this money, this $4,264,552, will be spent for those items that are listed on slide three that you presented and the 19 school buses? Will you give me that assurance? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Members of the board and certainly the board. Certainly, Supervisor Graber. I believe the comment regarding AILER and the additional dollars, three point plus, those dollars that were additional dollars appropriated by the Board of Supervisors went specifically to that AILER project. And Supervisor Graber and other board members, to the question regarding the request for these carry forward funds, it is specifically noted. It is 19 buses. It is 19 buses. As well as those items listed in the cap plan, which includes Sherando High School HVAC, heat pump replacement, Middletown skylight replacement, Sherando High School front and rear entry door replacement, administrative building roof replacement, transportation administrative building HVAC replacement, and transportation maintenance building HVA replacement. That is specific. That was board approved in their cap. That was not. That was not funded in the current budget. That is the request. And if those dollars are appropriated, that's specifically where those funds will go. Yes, sir. Thank you. I have one other question for you for some clarification here. In my memory, it's 10 years, maybe 11, the bus garage maintenance facility was built. Is that correct? It's approximately 10 to 11 years old? The transportation facility or maintenance facility? The HVAC system that is listed for replacement there. Which is it, the transportation facility or the maintenance facility that you will be replacing the system? It's the transportation facility. Is that, that is a fairly new building, is it not? Yes, sir. Okay. So my understanding in reading the original documents for that building was that those HVAC systems were designed for a 20-year life. It appears we only got 10 years out of them. Okay. Has there been any review on if they were installed properly? Has the maintenance been done on those units? Why are we replacing them at half their life cycle at nearly a million dollars? I think $800,000 was year marked for that. I have a real hard time understanding why we're not getting our full life cycle out of some of these things, especially when they are fairly new and hopefully are fairly efficient. Can you add any justice to that? Yes, sir. Thank you, Supervisor Graber. You raise a good point. And it's a point that gives us heartburn. The transportation center is a relatively new facility. I know that was, I believe, maybe the second year of my tenure. Sometimes you do get a system that is, well, we categorize a lemon. And it's rare, but that was certainly the case there. Our staff has done extensive review, but it was a faulty system that was in place. We have structures in place to minimize that from occurring again. Okay. And one additional question to add on to that. Is there any legal recourse or have you pursued anything there to try to recoup some of the taxpayers' money as a result of it being a lemon, as a result of it not functioning as it should function? We've done extensive review with legal. And I do not have those details in front of me at this point, but we've done an extensive review to determine. If there was any recourse from our standpoint. But once again, there are items, as you know, in terms of the agreements within the warranties and so forth. We've exhausted everything we could under the circumstances. Thank you, Mr. Superintendent. Thank you very much. Yes, sir. Thank you. So in light of that, Mr. Chairman, I'm really getting concerned. Our taxpayers in Frederick County are seemingly have to foot, seemingly having to foot Yes, sir. Thank you. So in light of that, Mr. Chairman, I'm really getting concerned. Our taxpayers in Frederick County are seemingly having to foot the money. Yes, sir. the bill twice. They had to foot the bill to pay for this. We paid for a, what we thought to be a quality system. And we have to pay for it again at half its life cycle. I'm starting to see this in some other areas as we go through things. We're not getting our life cycle out of them or we're replacing them prior to the end of their life cycle. And I'm not exactly sure why. So I have concern that we are doing this. I think that most of the other items that are on the list are greatly needed. And I think that we should appropriate the funds for the bill. I think that we should appropriate the funds for the bill. I just have concerns that it seems every year I keep seeing one or two issues pop forward in this category. And it is concerning to me. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegma? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Thank you, sir. We'll bring us to the next item. The next item is the The Deputy County Administrator requests a Capital Projects Fund transfer from the County Capital Fund in the amount of $18,006,724. This amount represents fund needed for the Public Safety Radio System replacement. The Committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I understand the need to transfer these funds. And since the committee has not yet approved them, I would so move. Panners? As's Besch kobonka? R brightness? Understood. As's so-called demand? It derives from please. So if heads? goes? 2 to 1? Andibilidad? 1. Always. 1. All right. Side note to this. So here we go listen, the so-called risk- disappearance is not the system and you know you and I we lost the vote but we have to move on and give our firefighters and police officers a system that works so I'll support the appropriation of the money to get the system in place further discussion hearing none supervisor Graber Oh supervisor Dunn's absence supervisor well I supervisor slaughter I supervisor McCarthy supervisor Stegma I chair votes I in the motion carries to six zoning administrator request a development projects and a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of a hundred and seventy five thousand this amount represents funds needed for the completion of Yardmaster Court of them that amount eighty five thousand is local funds the committee recommends approval and I would so move second ocean in a second is there any discussion supervisor Stegma I McCarthy I aye for 330 film necessity Premosive represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds for the completion of Old Charlestown Road Park design. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Parks and Recreation Director, request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of 101,000. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds for the completion of the Abrams Creek trail design. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 10, the Parks and Recreation Director request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of 55,000. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 proffer funds for the Bowman Amphitheater Project. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 11, the Fire and Rescue Chief request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of 2,076 dollars. This amount represents proceeds from the sale of a 1986 fire engine. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 12, the Fire and Rescue Chief request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of 48,250 dollars. This amount represents fiscal year 21 supplements for the volunteer fire departments due to an oversight. The fiscal year 21 payment was not distributed. Local funds were required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. And that concludes my report, Mr. Chair. Thank you. All right. That'll bring us to public hearings. Amendment to the 21-22 fiscal year budget. Someone presenting? Excuse me. This request is coming to you this evening to appropriate the ARPA funds. We know last board meeting, I think it was last board meeting, we talked about the broadband, so we tried to identify that on here. And there's also another item that's identified on here that is for lost revenue. And it's not actually revenue that's lost in our county. It's basically a formative that we have to go through and that could possibly be used for the radios. These funds would not be spent without coming to you and having discussion. This is just the appropriation process. And they'll be carried forward. And then the second round is received in May. Thank you. Questions of this? If there's any specific questions, I can try to answer them. Anyone? Thank you very much. Yes. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, this is a public hearing. Well, public hearing? Yes. Is there anyone who signed up to comment? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to comment concerning this proposed amendment to the fiscal year budget? Anyone? Seeing no one, how would the board like to comment? No, sir. I would like to handle this one. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion that we forward it to a public hearing. I'm sorry, we did. I'd like to make a motion that we approve as presented. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn's absent. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We'll bring us to item number 10B. Opposed amendment to the lease agreement. Is that you, Jay? That's me, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. This is a proposed amendment to the current lease agreement between the County of Frederick and Brian Keith Matheson for the Star Laundry business, which is located at 239 Sunnyside Plaza. The proposed amendment would extend the existing lease for an additional two years and would expire on June 30th, 2023. That is in keeping with the current existing lease for our longest, or I guess our longest, existing lease, which would be for the China Garden Restaurant, which expires in 2023 as well. The proposed rent for the space would be $1,859.10 per month. Our property manager, Virginia Property Group, helped negotiate this proposed lease renewal, so it's before the board this evening for action. And as the board may recall, the revenue that we received from the leasing of the spaces to the five existing tenants, those funds are used to carry the property to pay for maintenance. Utility bills and things of that nature. So with that, Mr. Chairman, I'd be glad to answer any questions. Any questions of Mr. Tibbs? Anyone? Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak to this proposed amendment? Seeing no one, how would the board like to handle this request? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move that we enter into the amended lease with Mr. Matheson. navigation system 평소 활동 associated with the productria. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair, did you have a motion to approve. In the second, the second be up 앞에. Mr. Chair is cool. you're quite familiar with at this point. This is a text amendment to the zoning ordinance to allow for chain-link fencing with plastic slats to satisfy the requirements of an opaque fence for zoning district buffers through a waiver granted by the Board of Supervisors. The proposed amendment would also allow this type of fencing in a variety of other circumstances in the county's business and industrial districts without a waiver so it would be a buy-right allowance. When we're talking about plastic slats we're referring to a very specific type of product, double-walled wing type slat which is a composite plastic material with a hollow core and has interlocking wings or feathers on the side. It creates a nearly 100% opaque fence when installed correctly. The proposal is specific to the zoning district buffer section of the ordinance and it allows an applicant or an owner or developer to apply for a waiver by the Board of Supervisors. The proposed amendment would allow for a change in the type of fencing that would be allowed in the county's business and industrial districts for the following uses. There is one stipulation they must have the neighboring property owner which the fence adjoins to consent to that change in the type of fencing allowed. And again opaque fencing would be allowed in the county's business and industrial districts for the following uses. Outdoor storage and processing, motor vehicle uses, automotive repair shops, public garages and self-storage facilities. And what we hear from our business and industrial users is that they're not able to use chain link. The plans Commission held a public hearing on this item on September the 15th and they recommended approval. In part of the discussion before they made their vote, the planning Commission offered an alternative for further discussion by the Board and that was to consider a zoning administrator waiver in lieu of the plan. And in that way, they recognized that the zoning commissioner was able to use this item and that the zoning commissioner was able to use chain link in the type of fencing and they recommended approval. And part of the of a Board of Supervisors waiver. A zoning administrative waiver would be an administrative process handled by staff. And the reasoning for making that suggestion was that if you already had the consent of the neighboring property owner, there really was no other impact to the adjoiners. So again, this item is presented to you all this evening for public hearing. And following that public hearing, staff would seek a decision by the Board of Supervisors on the zoning ordinance text amendment. And of course, I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone here that would like to speak to this proposed amendment? Yes, sir. If you would come forward, please. Name, Magisterial District. Limit your comments to three minutes or less. Please, sir. Willie Miller with Miller Hardware, Opeca Managerial District. And I would just like to thank the Board for considering the option for the chain link fencing with the vinyl slats. I think it increases security and also there's more beautification than the current wood fencing that's allowed. That's really all I have. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. Anyone else like to comment concerning this amendment? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the change in the... Ordinance Amendment to the Frederick County Code, Chapter 165. Heard the motion. Is there a second? I second it. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman, does that include allowing the zoning administrator to provide a waiver? It was my intent for that to be included. Clarify? Yes. It was my intent that that be totally... A part of it. Okay. Second concurs. Second concurs. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Don Zabson? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and motion carries. That will bring us to the sewer and water service area expansion. Mr. Client? We actually have one more ordinance amendment. I'm sorry? We actually have one more ordinance amendment. I'm sorry? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I found it. 165 Ag District. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. This is a proposed, again, zoning ordinance text amendment to remove the requirement for master development plans to be presented to the Planning Commission and Board as an informational item prior to the administrative approval of those items. Currently, you all are quite familiar with the process. The master development plan is reviewed by staff once it meets all the zoning and subdivision ordinance requirements. It's presented to you all and the Planning Commission as an information item. The plan is a public hearing on this item prior to its signature for approval by the County Administrator and the Planning Director. Master development plans have been a requirement in our ordinance going back to 1973. And before this most recent change, they at one point required actual board approval, but then they became, again, just an informational item. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on September 15th and recommended approval. They didn't offer any other topics for discussion as part of their action. And this item is presented as a public hearing to you all this evening. And following that public hearing, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on the zoning ordinance text amendment regarding master development plans. And I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions you have. Questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Mr. Klein, I would assume that if we do pass this that we would still have the courtesy of maybe getting an email or something regarding this so that we can still be kept abreast of what's being proposed? Yes, sir. Of course, we did create a current projects page on the Planning Department website, which has all of our current applications, both administrative and legislative. And Mr. Wyatt, the Planning Director, has offered to include a current projects update with your agenda packet so you all are aware of what has been approved and what is in the pipeline and what is currently pending so you all can be informed if a citizen asks that question. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you very much, sir. So there's a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment? I would like to comment concerning this proposed change. Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment period. Would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move for approval of the Ordinance Amendment. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Thank you. That will bring us Ms. Perkins. Thank you. Sewer and Water Service Area Expansion and Authorization. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. As you stated, this is a public hearing. We have two parts with this. First is a sewer water service area boundary expansion within the Southern Frederick Area Plan. And then second is an exception for Frederick Water to be able to serve Clark County in the double toll gate area. If I can direct you. Thank you, Huge. Thank you both. It makes it very Thank you, Vice Chair. I'll now move to a У 목unsину тару Mister Scarline. And go back to the slide byECAL 환源 gallis and then mark as玄 jewe w자� 사고 This islie음 approved in the comprehensive plan, and again, the 350 in Clark County. So just to discuss a little bit of the Southern Frederick area plan that covers that particular area, it's known as the 277 Triangle Center of Economy. It's a significant area of future industrial land use that's planned. So what this sewer water service area expansion would do once infrastructure is available, it would facilitate future commercial industrial land uses. And then that exception for Frederick Water to serve Clark County, I would note that, again, 350 acres, there is a cap not to exceed 150,000 gallons per day. So the Planning Commission held a public hearing for this at their September 15th meeting, and they did recommend approval. So tonight, staff is seeking a decision from the board on both the Southern Frederick area sewer water service area expansion, as well as the exception for Frederick Water to serve Clark County. I would be glad to answer any questions. I would note that Mr. Eric Lawrence with Frederick Water is also here. Thank you. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One quick question. I know in discussion that we had at work sessions, there was some discussion of some talks, expansion in Warren County. Where did those talks go? Where does that stand? Where are we at with that? That is kind of a secondary discussion that Frederick Water is investigating, so that is ongoing, so it's not part of this particular application. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor. Supervisor. Question. Candace, it may be. For Mr. Lawrence, I'm not sure, but just for the public's knowledge, any expansion to Clark County, the cost of that will be borne by Clark County residents only, correct? It will not be borne by a Frederick County resident? I see Mr. Lawrence shaking his head yes, so I'll take that. That is correct. We've been assured. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you, Ms. Perkins. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone who would like to comment concerning this change? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Supervisor Stegmaier. I, excuse me. Supervisor McCart. I don't have a motion on the floor. We have to have a motion, yeah. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion to approve the expansion and the inclusion of Clark County, the exception. Second. Second. Discussion? Anyone? Let's try again. I apologize. Supervisor Stegmaier. With a full-throated aye. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Don Zabson. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. All right. That'll bring us to our liaison reports. Are there any? Mr. Chairman, I have one from the Economic Development Authority. Just some updates. The EDA staff has started updating which industries Frederick County should target to attract. Yes. Each identified sector should be able to benefit from the county's assets, possess future growth potential, and provide overall employment opportunities that pay at least the county's average annual wage. Secondly, the Employer Expo, the region's hiring event, is next Thursday, October 21st at the Jim Barnett Park Recreation Center from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. Employers looking for candidates. The EDA staff should contact the Economic Development Authority to participate, and those looking for work should also and are certainly welcome to attend. Item number three, the Frederick County EDA is launching Frederick County's first Restaurant Week. Pretty excited about that. January 31st through February 6th. Restaurant Week seeks to showcase, celebrate, support, and elevate our favorite community hangouts, creative chefs, and restaurants. Thank you. For the EDA staff continues to attempt direct connection with remaining grocery stores. Mr. Barker has been able to make contact with many of them that were on our list, but they are continuing for the ones that we haven't been able to contact to go through that process. Staff has plans to regularly connect with all grocery stores to check on their growth plans. Thank you. Sounds pretty exciting. Any other board liaison reports? Anyone? Alright, hearing none. This is our citizen comment period. For you to bring anything at all to the attention of the board, if you would come forward, give us your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. And you may have to be a little more forceful but slower. I am height impaired. Apologize. Apologize. Joe Grant Gainsborough. And you know the board meeting tonight has been so nice and so positive. In order to be in keeping with this, I have changed my comments considerably. But you'll get to read them in the Winchester Star by the end of the week. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. My concern, once again, is with Marxism being taught in our county school system and being taught as an excellent way of life. The Frederick County school system has ordered a book titled The Deep Equality Process, a book that teaches CRT, again, a philosophy steeped in Marxism. The school board has stated unequivocally that CRT is not being taught in our schools, yet it is. I'm a retired student. Green Beret, having spent 23 years in places like El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Colombia, and Peru, fighting communism and conflicts you've probably never heard of. I've witnessed the horrors and ugly results of communism. I've seen peoples displaced. I've seen the elderly and the young murdered and their bodies dismembered and the common citizen assassinated because they voted. Not one nation has ever prospered from communism, yet board members you've allowed this to occur in our school system. Four of you have voted against the line-item budget for the school system, hence dissipating all oversight. You've allowed Dr. Sovine to run amok with the taxpayers hard-earned dollars and again with zero oversight. The rest of my comments you'll read in the next few minutes. Thank you, Mr. Graber. I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Graber. Thank you, Mr. Graber. I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Graber. Folks, you're Republicans. Please start acting like it. Let's have oversight of the budget. And I appreciate your comments this evening, Mr. Graber. Honestly, we just need to take a hard look at what our school system is doing. And if we can have oversight over every dollar that's being spent, then we can do it. Without Frost's leadership, we have really Uh-uh. really three Here. couple of things. Fantastic University of Western Virginia arts. grac母 purseterm Y . Gl consensus more than announced the original point that the Federal Reverend livres Brian Stephan Erickson began on Wednesday. We operate a 48-bed homeless shelter for men, women, and children. The shelter houses about 225 individuals every year. We run a soup kitchen, serving approximately 1,500 meals a month. Our food pantry serves about 150 families every month. This year, we provided utilities assistance for about 450 people. We sent a disaster response team to Louisiana after Hurricane Ida. This week, we're finishing up our Angel Tree sign-up. We expect to serve around 600 children with toys, clothes, and food. These services are entirely reliant upon community donations. Our most important fundraising season is about to begin, and I would love your help. We hope to raise $75,000 in the Red Kettle campaign. You'll begin to see Bellringers out starting on Saturday, November 6, at Hobby Lobby. Our official kickoff event will be on November 19 at 115 at the Old Town Walking Mall. I would love to invite you all to attend. Most importantly, I would love for you to personally volunteer to ring a bell. Volunteers ring a bell for two-hour shifts at a time that is convenient for them, Monday through Saturday. I invite you to ring at Walmart, Hobby Lobby, Apple Blossom Mall, or the Old Town Walking Mall. It would be tremendous if you could invite your friends, family, coworkers, or churches to volunteer as well. Volunteers can schedule a time by calling our office or writing our volunteer coordinator at hines.hines.us.salvationarmy.org. Your volunteer service provides a home for those who would otherwise be homeless, and it provides food for those who would otherwise be hungry. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, sir. Appreciate what you do for our community. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I'm Tim from the Back Creek District. Something I want to bring up to you that I witnessed at a school board meeting. I know you don't control any. I know you don't care that. Mr. Comstock, I believe it was in March or April, wanted to put out a survey asking the parents, would you allow your kids back into in-class learning with the new King Edwards mandate of three feet instead of six? They went through a debate just like everybody else does, and a member of the school administration stood at the podium and said this. Don't take my word for it. Please get the meetings. You're allowed to listen to them. We don't want the parents involved. They'll just mess things up. I found that to be very, very disturbing. It was not Dr. Savine. It was the subordinate of Dr. Savine. He said the meeting was either March or April. Please get the meeting and listen to it because I couldn't believe the man said that. Then they went through the roll call vote. Mr. Monk said yes, get the parents involved. Mr. Comstock said yes. Might not get all the names right. Mr. Wright said no. Mr. Lake said no. Mr. Hester said no. Mrs. Washington said no. And the chair said no. And that's Mr. Foreman. I think you should be aware of that. I urge everybody, please get these meetings and listen to it because I find it hard to believe that a member of the school board, not the school board, the school administration says we don't want the parents involved. It's very disturbing. Is that what's going on? And is that what you want to go on? And on the other thing, I don't know if you know this. There was a child. He was raped in a bathroom in Loudoun County Schools. It was a boy dressed like a girl. I think we should really take a closer look at what's going on today in our community. That's all. Thank you. Yes, sir. Is there anyone else? Anything you want to share? Yes, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a member of the president of the Opecan District. Obviously, since if you look in the. Paper, this critical race theory stuff keeps coming up more and more often. I'm reminded of the meeting on March 10th where a member of this board stated, quote, I will not give one more dime to the school board until this program is removed. I do applaud this member for not voting or voting against the appropriation tonight. However, during his presentation, he claimed that he had a piece of homework from a student. But we have no confirmation that student or parent actually even reside in Frederick County. Then in a very unfortunately, no offense to you, in very McCarthy ask manner, he held up a list of students stating I have a list of students here. I've been pouring through. Obviously, you can see my copy is very dog-eared of the Family Education and Rights and Privacy Act, Title 34 under education under federal law. Basically, what it says is that private that school, excuse me, school records are private. Only certain officials are allowed in it. And it's so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. I'm so dogged. Because I can't see where local government officials are permitted to have those lists. Then I went to Virginia under Title 22, Chapter 14, limitations on access to records. I still don't see local officials allowed there. So I think it would be good for this board to ask that supervisor to supply the source and those papers. Because I'd like to know if we're being misled on this item. And in reference to a question that I had, I'm going to ask the board to provide the source and those papers. I'd like to have another piece of evidence brought forward. Nowhere in the Virginia State Standards of Learning is deep equity or any other critical race theory curriculum in there. I have poured through it. I have looked through it. If you guys have found any section, please, at home, let me know. Because the standards of learning are set by the state. They're not set by the localities. So I'd like to know where this homework came from. I'd like to know where the list of students came from. I don't want the list because that's private information. The parents should be concerned that their students' names are being handed to people that aren't qualified to have it. And this argument over critical race theory is a null point. It's not being taught in the schools. Thank you very much. Next. Here we go again, board members. Anyway. Any Magistral District? Miles Atkins, Shawnee District. Thank you, sir. It is being taught. Critical race theory is being taught. It's been proven. Deep equity is being taught. There is workbooks out there. It does say CRT in those workbooks. We've went and poured over that. There's over 200 students whose names have been redacted because they are children who have been to the indoctrination training at Lord Fairfax along with most every teacher. That's public information. You can get it on a FOIA request. So, yes, it is being taught. Is there a class that you can sign up for like you can home ec or math that says deep equity or critical race theory? No. But it's an applied principle, and the teachers are being evaluated on it per the VOE standards for this year. Thank you. Justin. You want to bring that up a little? Yes, indeed. Thank you, board. Josh Ludwig, Shawnee District. I've gone through what's called the deep equity materials in detail, and I've done an evaluation of the terms used in that training material that we paid for as a county. The taxpayer paid for it and compared it to the principles laid out academically in what's called critical race theory, and there's a very high percentage of overlap. Keep in mind that critical race theory was designed never to be taught in a classroom, as Miles said, as a separate class, or even under the title of critical race theory. It is ideas and principles that were meant to be a philosophy that's meant to be imbued into other classes. And it includes, if we wanted to boil it down, if any of you read about it and want to boil it down to a simple phrase, probably the best phrase would be systemic racism. If anyone who's read online has seen that, no doubt, as part of critical race theory. And that is teaching that our country is systemically racist, and that you, as an individual, are systemically racist. You're a product of your society, is what it teaches. You cannot help but be an oppressor or oppressed. That is a basic principle of critical race theory. I'm here to tell you that the term systemic racism, I'm just giving you one example, one term that I look for to make a comparison. It is in those materials that we bought. There are many other terms of critical race theory also in those materials. So it's... It's a little displeasing for all of us, I think, to see nationally denied that this material is being taught in any school, and yet there are evaluation standards for teachers, and anyone who gets the book and reviews it can see that there's a strong overlap. Thank you. All right. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Where are the supervisors' comments? Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A couple of things I'd like to make note of this evening. First, I'd like to thank the captain from the Salvation Army for coming this evening. I have taken kids from our youth group to your facility here in Winchester, I think seven of the last eight years. I've had a wonderful experience, and it is amazing some of the things that you folks do for the less fortunate in our community. So thank you for all of the efforts that you and your staff put in. It is a good program. Second, I'd like to say welcome to Mr. Ballhafer. Appreciate you taking our offer. Look forward to working with you here. I believe you are more than qualified, and I look forward to our opportunity to work together. Another item that kind of came to mind here as I was thinking through our plans this evening and looking at our agenda, what you will likely see and what our public will likely see is some additions to a solar farm request from a solar farm that was approved about a year ago. There is an application that has been submitted. To expand the second solar farm that was approved in the Bat Creek District last year. I have had an opportunity to meet with a bunch of the farmers and people that would be affected by it. But if you are listening to this tonight, or if you are here and you are an adjoining landowner and would like to discuss how that may affect you, I would encourage you to reach out to me as I would like to have the discussion sooner rather than later. And for those of you who have already reached out to me, thank you for that opportunity. To address a few concerns, I have been brought forth tonight regarding the critical race theory and the deep equity process. As Mr. Ludwig and Mr. Adkins have attested, I did file a FOIA's request. And I have spent nearly a thousand of my own dollars to get that information. And let me share a couple of things with you. There is very clearly in that book, Oppressive vs. Oppressed. There is very clearly in that book, that white people are systemically right-wing, that black people are systemically racist, and that we cannot help it. I have seen it. It is in black and white. I have had personal phone calls and I can put those parents and students in front of any single one of these board members here present this evening who would like to discuss with a family member what that child learned in eighth-graded Aylor Middle School from my district. And I would be happy to do that with any one of you. Her father is a prominent business owner. They have the homework. It is despicable. The homework. The homework that was sent home with that eight-year-old child. For the comments to be made that there would be an individual here that would like to know where the homework came from, I would like to share with you that I have received over 30 phone calls from teachers and parents who have said, my child is learning this or I have had to teach this. As part of that thousand dollars that I spent, nearly a thousand dollars that I spent on the FOIA's request, I had lists. I have lists. I have lists. So where did those lists come from? Well, those lists came from our school system as a director's audible FOIA's request. Many of you have seen them. Not only that, but our school system has also put online on Facebook posts names, pictures of the actual critical race theory being taught in Frederick County. I have them. I'd be willing to share them with you. Why? Four members of this board chose not to ask for a line item budget. I know that I have a budget that would hold the school board a little bit more accountable to the taxpayers. I can't answer that question. I know that I fought hard to try to protect our students. I don't want a student to get raped like what happened in Loudoun County. But I am fearful that it's going to happen in Frederick County and I'd like to tell you why. At Aylor Middle School, the new Aylor Middle School, there are journals, male journals, in the girls' bathroom. Go take a look. Is it going to happen here? I pray to God it doesn't. Are you inviting it? I have to ask if you're not. It's time that we stand up as a board and say, enough is enough. We have the opportunity as board members, when we allocate funds, to provide a little bit of direction on where those funds go. And it is our moral, ethical, and I believe legal responsibility to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to speak. Other comments, anyone? I have a couple, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The Frederick County Transportation Forum 2021 will take place on Tuesday, October 26th at the Winchester Regional Airport at 491 Airport Road. Doors will open at 6 p.m. Presentations will begin at 6.15. The gallery will close at 8 p.m. The gallery will feature maps, interactive opportunities, and the chance to visit with staff. VDOT officials and our state legislators. So certainly welcome everyone to attend that event. It is an opportunity for us to speak with our representatives and share the comments. And typically what some of the comments that we have are unpaved roads, and we seem to be making some strides in that direction. For the folks on Timber Lakes who have been here for some of these transportation forums, I am happy to say that their road will be paved next year. So just want to share that, and that is some good news. I don't know if it's appropriate, but we talk about line item budgets for the schools. And I would ask Mr. Williams, if you will, Mr. Williams, we are, as board members, allowed to approve budgets to the school by categories, not by specific line items. Could you validate that, please, sir? That's correct. The Code of Virginia specifies the limit. And the greatest detail to which the Board of Supervisors can appropriate the school board budget is to approximately 11 very broad categories that are set out in Title 22. Thank you, sir. That concludes my comments, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCarty. Thank you, Mr. Williams, for clarifying how we can appropriate funds. I would just state that it's one thing to appropriate the funds. It's another to know what's going on in each of the categories that we're appropriating them to. So it's important that we understand what's going on in each of the buckets of money to determine how much money goes into each bucket. So I've cited this statute before when I called Mr. Lake to task when he said, you know, their board doesn't know what's in their budget because it's this big. I was on video. It's our job, too, to make sure that we know what's in that budget that's this big, but we're not allowed to see the book that's this big. And that's a major concern for me, both as a taxpayer, as a member of this board who has, as Mr. Graber said, an ethical and a legal obligation to be seeing these things and making those determinations. It's not our job to necessarily run the school system, but it's our job to know how the school system is being run. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Others? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We thank everyone for their time and attention. And we'll stand adjourned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ms. Humley. Be store be. . . . . . . . . .
