Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-03-20
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=218
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We have Supervisor Leroy with us from the Board of Supervisors. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chair. Just some report from last Wednesday, the 13th Board of Supervisors meeting. CPPA. Number 02-23 on Jordan Springs. That item was removed from the agenda prior to the meeting at the applicant's request, and it may come back up at a later time. Next issue, telecommunication facility, the revision to the Frederick County zoning ordinance, Chapter 165, to modify the supplementary use regulations for the commercial telecommunication facilities, specifically criteria for setback waivers. 171 Towers toanner company. The degrees of 1815. The division of commercial remuneration used political purview Umm E Thinking and Properties rules. proposed by the Board of Supervisors. The division of operational employment certifications also school management standardsany immediate powers沙發ag替 by court is pretty偉 of cell phone towers that was approved. Conditional use permits. What was approved conditional use permit 0623 for Diamond communications 135 foot tower. A 1 27 Mercedes. Court was approved conditional use permits 0723 for Diamond Communications. 50rusd правosaw bone kaum. CIP was adopted and the sewer and water service area request to allow for public water and sewer service to the property at 8126 Valley Pike in Middletown was approved. And that's all I have, Mr. Chair. Very good. Thank you, sir. Those items sound familiar. Next item on our agenda is citizen comments. If any citizens are here to speak to the Planning Commission on items that are not public hearing items tonight, you're welcome to do so. I ask you to come to the podium. Give us your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anybody like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comment. Period. That moves us to public hearings. Our first public hearing is rezoning 02-24 for Washington Commons. And this will be presented by Mr. Bishop. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. As you have noted, tonight we have a public hearing to consider 02-24 Washington Commons. There's a long property description to your right there. But essentially, we are discussing the movement of approximately one acre from a... from RP to B2 on one portion of the property. And on another portion of the property, once again, approximately one acre from B2 to RP. You have a net zoning change on the parcels of .02 and additional residential. .02 acres, that is. This property is located on the southern side of the intersection of Gateway Drive and Route 7. You may be more familiar with it. For those that have been around the county for a while, it's the former location of the 220 Seafood. The property identification numbers are 54-5-10 and 54-A-111. The parcels are highlighted in blue. On the screen to your left, you see we have two parcels. And right here, we have your current zoning. I'm actually going to go ahead and skip ahead in a second to the applicant's GDP to specifically highlight where your zoning is changing. But within the parcels, you'll see we have split. Zoning on both parcels. On the southern parcel here, the one closest to Valley Mill Road, you have a mixture of buy-write RP, residential performance zoning, and a smaller portion of B2 general business. Over here on the smaller parcel with frontage on Coal Lane and Route 7 as well, you have a mixture of M1, B2, and once again, a little bit of RP. Referencing the applicant's GDP, you can see highlighted in orange, I guess it's orange, where the changes are taking place. Over here in the little piece of B2 that's surrounded by RP, they would like to go ahead and change that B2 to RP. And they would like to change this portion of RP to B2. To be specific and not to declare other people's intentions, my understanding of the reason for the need to do this is that, under your zoning ordinance, you can't cross the RP zoning district to access your commercial industrial parcels. So in order to gain access, or better access rather, they do have access via Coal Lane to these parcels. They need to change this to the commercial zoning district. So that's why you see this piece of B2, I'm sorry, of RP, where my pointer is going to B2. And as I've already noted, that's a piece of B2 that will be going to RP, like the surrounding problem. So that's the reason for the change in the zoning ordinance. So that's the reason for the change in the zoning ordinance. Here you have your long-range land use plan. And what it calls for currently on the larger portion of the property is more of a mixed use, with the front portion being business. And we have notated, we do have a comp plan roadway through the property. Many have long heard of the desire to realign Valley Mill Road, and that goes straight through this parcel. In terms of the long-range county, I'm going to talk about the property's land use plan. I'm going to talk about the property's land use plan. I'm going to talk about the property's land use plan. I'm going to talk about the property's land use plan. I'm going to talk about the property's land use plan. As it speaks to this parcel and other portions of the Cincinnati Eastern Frederick Urban Area Plan that are near interchanges, it notes, these areas of land use are located at highly visible locations on prominent interstate interchanges and along the primary arterial roads that feed into the interstate. They shall be designed specifically to accommodate and promote highway commercial land uses. Particular effort must be made to ensure that access management for the supporting transportation network is a key priority as the function of the interstate and primary road network is of paramount importance. The site layout and building design should recognize the nature of the region and land plan should not focus on the minor use, but more on the comprehensive macro use. And as we're, if you don't already know, we actually practice our presentations on Tuesdays before every Wednesday. And one of the questions that came up was, well, what the heck does that last? And it's me. The way I interpret that last sentence is you're focusing less on if this were, for instance, an individual parcel with one use on it, the impact, how it fits in, as opposed to how the entire vision of what they're doing with the property is fitting into your comprehensive plan. Whereas in this case, you have commercial uses such as, as I understand it, potentially a grocery store. Or I believe they were talking to a C store at one point. I'm sorry, convenience store. And uses such as that nearer to Route 7 that is. Whereas behind that you have a bit more of a buffer as you head back to your other residential uses with townhomes and that sort of thing. Specifically to the proffers, the applicant has proffered construction in two phases of the major collector road extension from Gateway Drive Interstate intersection with Route 7 to the southern property line. That does include some potential turn lane improvements on Route 7 itself. There is a right in, right out access on Route 7 to the east of Gateway Drive intersection that's being proffered. That would still be subject to VDOT approval, but it does appear to meet VDOT's spacing standards just from my analysis. But that's still, I just point that out to note they still have to go through that process. Improvements to the intersection. So, the construction of Regency Lakes Drive and Route 7 to assure that the traffic exiting their property via Cole Lane can't just swing over in that very short distance to the left turn lane to Regency Lakes Drive creating a potentially unsafe weaving condition. Addition of a proffer of 10 cents per non-residential building square foot within the area being rezoned to B2. So not the entire B2, the part that's not already by right, the part that's going from RP to B2. And similarly, there's the addition of a proffer of $9,912 per unit for any residential unit constructed within the area to be newly zoned RP. So once again, not the entire by right RP, just the new piece going to RP. And that amount is calculated from the county's capital impact model. Now, there was a bit of a mistake in your staff report where we noted the wrong elementary school. We did rerun the capital impact model with a proper elementary school and the number did come back the same. So in case anyone was concerned about that specific calculation. The remaining outstanding issues in terms of communication between staff and the applicant are as follows. We have indicated a need to reword the Cole Lane proffer, which is proffer 1D in your package. The reason for that is the applicant has proffered a rather specific improvement that has not really been previously agreed upon already with VDOT and the county. We feel more general language is called for to make sure that as that process goes forth, basically whatever VDOT is happy with ends up being what goes in. It's I think rather unlikely to be what they've specifically laid out. So we're just some caution there. And finally, some minor updates to the GDP that have been brought forth as potential concerns by the county attorney. The staff intends to work with the applicant. We're passing those along. We consider the staff level for the proposed rezoning to be in general conformance with your comprehensive plan. And following a public hearing, staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors. We do have the applicant's representative here, Mr. Mike Wiley, as well as the applicant himself, Mr. Ed Scott, should you have questions for them. And I can try and take any questions you may have as well. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. For the benefit of those who may not know in the audience or at home, can you explain what by right means? Maybe go back to the zoning map and just explain when that zoning was put into place and what some of the history might be. So basically the zoning that's on the property, with the exception of the actual name of the zoning district, goes all the way back to the 60s when first land uses were applied to the land in this area. In 1989. There was a general reworking of the zoning ordinance and it's at that time that you got the RP, the B2, and that sort of thing applied to this parcel. So by right means they already have their zoning. They're already allowed to do everything under that zoning district that your ordinance allows without any action by the Board of Supervisors or the Planning Commission, so long as, like I already noted, they are following the ordinance. The reason for the rezoning, as I noted earlier, is there's a preference or a better access that can be had. Being able to come into this intersection with Gateway Drive, that part is in conformance with our comprehensive plan and I well imagine it makes the business portion more marketable. So I can see why they want to do it, but that's what's going on. Thank you. Are there any questions from Commissioners for Mr. Bishop? To my right? Yes. Good evening. Thank you. So I, even though this is not in the Stonewall District, I know a lot of people in my district know that intersection quite well. We have to drive through that all the time. So traffic obviously is a huge thing. I have a question. Based on kind of what they're proposing here and the proffers that they're, with the road, that additional road. Does that impact any future plans or any other projects that could potentially come down the pike with that interchange with 81? Short answer, yes. Longer answer is a big yes. Basically, if I can come to our comprehensive plan. I noted earlier that it has long been planned to realign Valley Mill Road through this property to an intersection with Gateway Drive. The applicant proffering to build from there to the back of their property really puts the county in a position to be able to move the property to the back of the property. So the county has a lot of money in a position, once again, if this were to be rezoned, where we've got something we can work with in terms of the smart scale program, a VDOT, which we're entering an application cycle of. And not to take you on a long, you know, winding road down discussion of smart scale, long story short, the cheaper we can make the project we're applying for, the more likely we're going to be able to get it. So the fact that they're proffering to build a significant piece of it, I sort of glossed over the fact that they're building it in two phases. If I can go into that for a second, this will be important. The first phase goes roughly to here, and we'll be accessing this business parcels. But then there's a phase two that they have proffered to build either before there's any construction in the RP portion of the parcel, or before any successful county application for state funds to tie into it is there. So even if they haven't sold and built or whatever. That RP, if we're successful with a smart scale application and we have the money and are ready to go, the applicant would be obligated to have their piece ready to go as well. Mr. Thomas. Yes, sir. When I look at this, transportation is the significant concern. However, the horse is already out of the barn on that. And when I look at what they want to do to rezone this. I think. This really has no impact on the traffic. The rezoning has no impact. Now certainly if they build a development. But they already can build a development by right. So what they're changing has no impact. It actually may lessen the impact from before the way it was rezoned before. And when they build the connector road between there, or build the road in there, it's actually going to improve it from what it is now. So there's really. I mean from a transportation standpoint there's a concern. But at this point this really will lessen I think the impact of the overall development the way it is now. So I. Do you see it that way or am I looking at it wrong? Yeah. I try to be careful because it is a rezoning application and I want to try and seem biased or whatever. But I also am sort of obligated to point out how it fits within your plans. Or the adopted plans of the Board of Supervisors for that matter in terms of comprehensive plan. And yeah if you look at this strictly from the perspective of the buy right. Let's say this wasn't to happen. Well this proffer doesn't happen and technically this could develop anyway with no obligation to build that road. The RP does have access already. Maybe not quite enough access. It's about a 50 foot lane. So it could be they'd have to buy another house to have a wide enough access. But they're right there is my point. There's plenty of other ways to develop this property though not in necessarily the way that we might like to see it develop. And it's not necessarily the way that we would like to see it develop. And clearly not in the applicant's preferred way for that matter as well. Any other questions to my right? To my left any questions? Mrs. Broomback? Yeah I had a question on the density of the RP. I saw several different numbers. I saw 217, 210, 148. Basically it depends on what type of units they build. And since it's buy right RP they can build I mean they could build anything from garden apartments to city. I mean they could build anything from single family dwellings. Now my understanding I can let Mr. Wiley or Mr. Scott speak to this more specifically. The focus has been on town homes. Under a town homes only scenario you can do 10 units per acre. Now if you get to more of a mixed use scenario that drops to 6 units per acre. And I think that's why as this application has worked its way through and that's you're actually referring directly to some of the cleanup we want to do in the GDP. That reference doesn't even need to be there. But that's what they would be looking at. Mrs. Bramman? Okay. Mr. Markert? Yeah I just have a question. This is not necessarily on the specific rezoning but if that road is put all the way through what happens to the intersection by the Walgreen? Is that a problem? Mr. Yes. Mr. So you're referring to the intersection by the Walgreen's? Mr. Yes. Mr. Valley Mill and Route 7? Mr. The plan has long been that it would close entirely. However recent studies we've done through the MPO to kind of keep trying to move our planning forward and make sure we're doing everything in the right way is that at least some of the movements would remain. At the barest minimum that location would likely continue to be at least a right in right out. And frankly what specifically would happen there? With the county smart scale application is a little bit yet to be determined because like I referenced earlier we're trying to build a very competitive application so we're going to be really careful about what we build into that application and by we I mean as we coordinate with VDOT on putting that application together. To uh to keep it as competitive as all possible so you won't see a full shot down but I definitely expect to see a change in what movements are allowed at that intersection as we shift more traffic to this intersection. to this intersection with that project. Thank you. Any other questions to my left? I have one more for you Mr. Bishop. There were two different roundabout proposals that were in the applicant's traffic study. Was there one of those that's a better fit for smart scale or moving traffic? Or did one of those? Are you referring to like a two lane versus a one lane? One was offset with a big curve in the road and yeah. We expect the roundabout to be right here. There may be some offsetting. It's really something we're not gonna know until we get into design and right of way level decisions. Because we're pinched a little bit on the south since you have an existing subdivision there. We're very confident that there would be a need to purchase probably three or four of the homes on the north side of Valley Mill to make it fit. So there could be some offsetting there as we kind of balance it out. Balance those interests. Okay, very good. Thank you very much sir. Yes sir. Would the applicant like to speak? So. Pull up the GDP. Yeah I can pull it up now. Okay. That's your pointer right there. Right, gotcha. Thank you. Good evening Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission, Mike Wiley with Piedmont Design Group representing the applicant Washington Commons RELLC. We appreciate the opportunity to speak to you all tonight on this application request. Mr. Scott, the managing member of the LLC is also with us. He is a seasoned commercial and light industrial developer out of Frederick, Maryland has done many projects like we envision this will ultimately be. The catalyst for this rezoning so everybody understands was because Mr. Scott has lined up leases with several commercial pad site users. One notably would take care of what has been long thought to be a supermarket desert on the side of the county. And so he has a major grocery store ready to come out and build on this site as soon as we get to that stage of entitlement. He actually has some other, you know, other projects that he's working on. He's also been working on some other uses for the commercial site. And those will all be brought to the site plan stage as soon as we get through the rezoning and then the master plan subsequent to this. So I wanted to say I appreciate Frederick County staff's time in coming up with a very thorough report. I believe Mr. Bishop summarized all of the items of issue and I appreciate his time. As well as Mr. Williams time on working with us on the proffer. I just wanted to amplify a couple of comments or questions brought up by the commissioners. Commissioner Kerns, I appreciate your statement and concern about the traffic impacts. And I believe Commissioner Thomas hit it on the head that yes, the net effect is this project's proffers with the building of the comprehensive plan of Gateway Drive will be a major improvement. For the transportation issues in this region, fundamentally because the county had the foresight to see the need for the comprehensive plan extension of Gateway Drive to Valley Mill. We have had several discussions with Virginia Department of Transportation as well for that ultimate connection. And our traffic study was done reflecting ultimate possible highest and maximum build out conditions for not only the commercial land, but also the residential land for this project. Mr. Mayor, do you have any other comments? for ultimately a connection to Valley Mill Road. The ultimate disposition of the ramp and the interaction with Valley Mill, I believe VDOTS ultimately wants to close that. As far as Mr. Triplett's question about what happens to the entrance road there near the end of the ramp, we aren't at the design stage on that. That probably would close. However, note that there is still an access to the site from Martin Drive, which was the primary access to get into the old 220 Seafood site. That would likely remain as a property access, which then provide a back connection into that. But I do believe that the adjoining property owner still retains an easement on that road, and it's off of our property. So the disposition of it would have to be worked out with VDOT and the property owner. I believe it was Commissioner Kozol that brought up the comment about the density, and Mr. Bishop is correct. We haven't selected what the residential components will be. Likely, Mr. Scott would either develop that for another builder or sell it outright, since his focus is on commercial development. And so we don't know exactly what the residential components could be, but more than likely, it would be townhouses or apartments because of the permitted density. But we do want to do it cohesive with the rest of the commercial development, and we feel like it creates the synergy by having the commercial come in first and also building that master plan road, at least to the boundary of the commercial. And Chairman Stowe, you talked about were there other roundabout proposals. Yeah. We did talk to VDOT. Initially, they were talking about just a sweeping right-hand curve from Valley Mill Road into the alignment. They also talked about just a T-intersection opposite the terminus of Gateway. There was another existing road here where this would just T in like that. We also looked at other alignments that may have come in. And there's an actually existing road dedication that was granted when this, this property was originally created probably 40-some years ago. But that road dedication never saw the light of construction, plus it's sandwiched between two residential houses, and it doesn't align with the comprehensive plan. So that just hasn't grown any life. So ultimately, what is that intersection going to look like? I guess that's a question for the county and VDOT to address at the appropriate time. And I'm sure it will come to light. Once we, or the future developer files a plan for the residential development, which is when the second phase of Gateway Drive and the proffer is proposed. One other comment I wanted to make. One of the driving reasons for getting this rezoning of the approximately one acre area up by the entrance of Gateway and the commercial, Mr. Bishop touched on this. There's a provision in the zoning ordinance that prohibits, crossing an active buffer that's adjoining all residential property lines. So you have an active and an inactive buffer. Well, our primary access into the commercial is right at the rear of this commercial land bay. And with the existing residential in place, we wouldn't be able to make that connection because it would be prohibited by zoning. So that was the fundamental reason for changing this from RP to the B through to zoning. And I think that's a good point. Thank you. And then this other piece, I suspect that might have been a zoning change back when 220 was probably at some point a nonconforming use. Because the rest of the nature of these lots here on this street, they're residential. So we want to return that to a residential function. And also ultimately be able to provide a buffer on the west side of the property here from the adjacent commercial uses. So that's the reason why we want to do this. And by the numbers, it's. Practically a swap of acreage for acreage, which is why there is a net minimal increase in terms of the development impacts. Because of the residential to commercial commercial residential zoning is almost exactly the same area. So with that, we appreciate your time and your consideration. We don't take any exceptions to the staff report. We respectfully request that you endorse this application onto the Board of Supervisors. And Mr. Scott, do you have any comments to make? I'm sorry. Can you identify? Okay. Yeah. He said I can go ahead and reveal it's all. He is the grocery store entity. And they're very anxious to break ground. So the faster we can move through this, the better. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wiley. Tell me. Talk to me about Martin. Drive. Is that currently private or is that a public street? You mentioned it. It's disposition and I didn't quite understand what you were getting out there. Well, it shows up as a public street right now and the property has legal access to it. And so it was identifying the traffic study as a potential access point. But that's is one of the primary access points into the property right now. Okay. Very good. Thank you. Um, any questions for Mr. Wiley? Mr. Kearns. Uh, well, it's either you or, um, staff. I'm not sure, um, who really this would go to, but I guess staff first, since this is the overwhelming majority of this is not part of the rezoning, the overwhelming majority of the, the property there. We spent a lot of time talking about aesthetics down on, um, on, on Valley road down there and, and the, um, Apple Valley road. Is there, what's, what? What aesthetic requirements are there for this property now, considering it's been there so long and, um, nothing new outside the ordinance, the comp, even when we looked at the comprehensive plan to see what it called for in this area, it was fairly silent, uh, on like specific aesthetics. And thus far, the applicant has proffered nothing outside of our ordinance. Okay. I don't want to over ask, but I mean, this is compared to the number of eyes that go on the other section that we were talking about so much. This is, you know, a significant magnitude, more eyes that are going on this and so many people coming through the area that this would, it would be nice, but I know we don't want to over ask because the majority of this is not up for rezoning anyways. I'll let the applicant speak to their, their willingness to that. Uh, uh, admittedly, it's something that staff has not taken up with them. Okay. I can speak to that. Um, Mr. Scott, can you state your name? Yes. I'm sorry. Edward Scott. Um, the man. I'm the managing member of the applicant. Thank you. And, um, uh, there's, as you know, because you pass it all the time, as you made us aware, there's a bit of a grade difference on as the further East you go. So I'm not sure aesthetically on the commercial piece going East, you're going to really, it's going to make much of a difference other than the site plan will require landscaping, but at the entrance and especially along the new, um, street scape. I'm sure in the subdivision and, uh, planning process, I guess, uh, the, it would probably be the mass development plan. We would be able to answer to that, to do some sort of street scape because the, um, builders that we have been talking to are also concerned to make sure that that has a, a nice tasteful, you know, community feel to it. Okay. We have slowed down phase twos, um, development simply to just get VDOT. Okay. And Mr. Bishop's group to catch up with the master plan because there's so many opportunities to change that way that entrance is. And we, we, um, um, we've been, I think through, uh, VDOT's plans about four times now, and they're still not quite caught up with how they want to interconnect that. So, uh, we just thought, get the commercial piece off the ground, go ahead and profit. So, you know, we're willing to do it even though there's quite a bit of money, but we just don't want to. We don't want to rush the county and the state to tell us, uh, or until they can tell us what is the ultimate connectivity and, and how they'd like to see it. But that'll all come out. And I think, uh, you, you, you'll be able to, you know, feel comfortable and comment as we get to that phase two master development plan as it relates to that, because that's, that's an important feature. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions tomorrow? I have one question for you. I know our staff report suggested some language revision. And one of the proffers had dealt with the coal lane, uh, intersection. Is it, are you agreeable with what? Yeah, I'll take a stab at that. I think, again, waiting for the state, the state one time in one of the traffic iterations, they didn't want to connect another one. They might. And then there was that there would be, but you've got a little bit of a, uh, there's a couple of, uh, of, um, opportunities to cheat a little bit. I think from route seven. To get there because it doesn't quite line up and they don't want to do the connectivity, want to encourage more of that crossing that unless it's lined up properly. So, um, Mr. Bishop's group and, um, VDOT has suggested some alternatives to clean that up a little bit. And again, just waiting to see what the ultimate, you know, improvement that they would like to see. Um, which I think right now there is some, yes, conversation of design, but I don't know if we've. Yeah. Finalized it or not. No, but I can speak to one of the alternatives would be, uh, putting a raised concrete island on the right side of the left turn lane there. So people trying to come out of coal lane, couldn't go all the way across the eastbound lanes of route seven to get over into that left turn lane. Cause a lot of times they're doing that to try to head west back into Winchester. And so we would likely build a raised median to. Uh, discourage and certainly prohibit that they could still get into the eastbound lanes if they want to, but that's the primary concern. Discourage. Yes. Prohibit trying to do that. We see amazing things sometimes. So that's one of the alternatives. Uh, but again, we'll work that out with staff and with VDOT at the time of the site plan. Okay. Any questions to my left? Mrs. Brandon. Okay. Phase two will be the road being built out when the house is built. But my understanding is you're going to sell the property. So who's going to build that road? Well, any, any, um, entitlements and proffers, it would have to get built. I haven't made a decision. I've we've had several different groups wanting several different, um, type of concepts. Um, as, as you all pointed out, you can do singles, you can do towns, you can do apartments. Right now, it seems the overwhelming interest is in the city. Um, The town will be used as townhouses and, uh, we've designed at least preliminarily for the master development plan that the access will be the master plan road because that's the right way to do it. And, um, and then it would just continue to wherever you're going to connect it if and when the state and, and, uh, and Mr. Bishop's group can find some consensus. I know he's going to be working on that, uh, as he, uh, as he goes forward. Uh, we're going to have to do more of that, but we'll see. Mm. Okay. Okay. mentioned earlier regarding the application for a larger grant and project and we're just going to basically fall into place and and and help out with that as they see fit but you have to do it when you proffer and we'll just do it we'll do it when we're told to do it whether you know whether or not it's before the townhouses are built or after it's one of the reasons we're trying to get the commercial off the ground now because a lot of the commercial money is going to basically go to pay the road quite frankly okay I just want to make sure we know the proffer survives any sale of that land whether mr. Scott develops for builders or someone else comes in the proffer for that road is still in place if someone has to build that road during the development of the residential phase the proffers run with the land they won't get out of it well once it's recorded yeah you say that but just last meeting we had a reasoning where when it came before the Board of Supervisors I watched a meeting there was supposed to be a road built to give access to the tractor trailers to a back road then when it was sold it not only wasn't put in but it was developed where it could never be put it I want to make sure that's not going to happen again that houses weren't put there and oh we can't build the road sorry that's a good question it may have been it may have not have been a proffer where the proffer as everyone said is basically the requirement you can't do anything without it and we had to think long and hard to commit ourselves to that because you're looking at a couple million bucks just burn me one second I'll let it go any other questions thank you very much sir thank you all this is a public hearing if anybody would wish to speak for or against this project I welcome you to come to the podium give us your name your address your magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes would anyone like to speak to the project so this reason going once by seeing none I'll close the public hearing any discussion among commissioners none mr. Marker this is red button yes I yeah I make a motion that we approve the comments rezoning application number zero to dash 24 and forward it to the Board of Supervisors for their action we have a motion in a second is there any discussion seeing none mr. triplet yes Akins yes de Haven yes current Jess oh yes Thomas yes markers yes McKay yes from back yes Brandon yes chair votes yes and the motion carries this will go to the Board of Supervisors on April the 10th 3rd definition Board Res likely on the Please vote to approve the resolution and all Bill all in the consent then questions suspended Dr dunno mysterious Dean Par supposedly hatsOOD blue the proposed facility is an existing garage that is in the middle of the property the property is located in the southeast area of the county adjacent to the Shenandoah County line and it is accessed directly off of North Pfeiffer Road the applicant proposes a small repair of personally owned vehicles and the existing 40 foot by 60 foot building the applicant proposes the hours of operation from Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. until 12 I'm sorry from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. and Saturdays from 8 a.m. until noon there's an anticipated one to two customers expected weekly a parking area in the rear of the existing building was noted for two vehicles which was not visible to any properties along the road North Pfeiffer Road and the applicant has requested no employees the zoning ordinance supplementary use regulations requires that all repairs shall be placed entirely within the enclosed structure all exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view of surrounding properties by a screen six foot in height the inoperable vehicles must be stored within a totally enclosed building or screen on all sides by a six foot opaque fence wall or berm the sales for automobiles are not permitted it should note to that staff made a site visit to examine the property and to determine the two parking areas in the rear the applicant has reverted data that all all conducts of the automobile repair will be conducted inside the building and that should the need or the desire to do He is aware that the gravel and the fencing and screening requirements will go into place Should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate staff would recommend the following regulatory conditions to be placed on the conditional use permit all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times an Illustrative sketch plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County And all improvements completed prior to the establishment of the use all automotive repair related activities shall be Conducted in accordance with the zoning ordinance for automobile repair shops and public garages All parking areas shall have a gravel surface The business is not permitted to have employees beyond the current residents hours of operation 8 a.m. To 6 p.m Monday through Friday 8 a.m. To noon on Saturdays a maximum of five vehicles awaiting service is permitted any expansion or Gap of use will require a new conditional use permit Following the public hearing staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors Staff is available to answer any questions and the applicant. Mr. Bowie. Is it also available? Although he does not have a presentation. He does have or he is here for questions Any questions? Any questions for Mr. Bowie? No questions, thank you very much. Mr. Bowie Thank you, sir, thanks for coming out. Can you give your name for the record? Christopher Bowie Are you currently residing on the property? Yes, sir. Okay. All right any questions for Mr. Bowie? None to my right? No, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you This is a public hearing anybody who wishes to speak for or against this conditional use permit may do so I ask you to come to the podium Please state your name your magisterial district and list your limits your comments to three minutes, but anybody like to speak Going once twice and close the public hearing The discussion among commissioners I think this is a This is as simple as it gets I'll take it If no discussion, I'd like to move to approve CUP 0124 for Christopher Bowie's public garage and body repair Second we have a motion in a second any discussion Seeing none miss Brandon. Brandon. Yes Brumbach yes McKay. Yes market yes Thomas yes, yes, yes LeSue but yes Chairman. Yes. And emotion carries This will go to the board of supervisors also on April the 10th Thank you next item south Frederick agricultural and forest resources district removals in additions, mr. Chairman Excuse me mr. Chairman. Thank you members of the Planning Commission and this is a request to remove two parcels Keep moving identified the one parcel identified a tax map 84-8 28 a the Bentley property totaling 64 point 14 acres and the second property the needs are getting from the removals or tax map 74-8 dash 3 West Oaks totaling seven point seventy one point twenty one acres and to add one parcel tax map 73-8 dash 20 Springville forms totaling two hundred thirty eight point fifty one acres today I recall the South Frederick agricultural and Forstall district the reason for the two removals on mr. chairman is the property owners of this two properties wish to remove their parts from the district so they can subdivide the state code requires the agricultural for some districts if you're not doing a family subdivision if you're gonna do any other subdivision or even like I a boundary line Justin as small as that you have to pull the properties out of the agricultural for sale districts like I said it's only here's to those family lots this did the district is actually located in back Creek Magisterial district at a current currently contains six thousand nine hundred twenty one point sixty three acres is generally located along City Creek grade route 622 middle road route 628 Marlboro Road route 631 and Heights Road Route 625 turn your attention to the maps to your left this first map is actually with a Bentley it's highlighted in blue and that again is going to be one of the ones of the parcels going to come out of the district this is the West Oaks form is coming also out of district to 71 acres and adding the district is the spring form subdivision it'll be added to our South Frederick Agricultural Forest District this is an idea where alten forced districts or act properties are located in order to be withdrawn and atmosfera big districts axis for bigger districts we have in Frederick County comprehensive policy plan Frederick County guides offering country reading land use actions the district is the located outside the urban development area for water surface area First Lakefact変は not part of any land use plan or study by the county at this time the current land you should remain in its present land use with orchards agricultural residential within that district the intent of the rural areas to maintain agriculture significant portion of the Connie's economy and to maintain the role character of the areas outside of our urban development areas now the comprehensive policy plan accomplishes these goals by promoting the exclusion inclusion of an additional land in our agricultural forest districts the conference of policy plan supports this district where it provides an opportunity for agar agar business community and to conduct long-range planning efforts for the management of their operations while providing reserve of agricultural lands through the year 2025 the this request these requests meet the intent of the Code of Virginia and the are been evaluated in context of the land use plan and the land use plan is a comprehensive policy plan that is a conjunction with the Frederick County comprehensive policy plan the removal of two acres totaling 135 point 35 acres will decrease the total acres of the district to six thousand seven hundred twenty eight or seven hundred eighty six point twenty eight acres the addition of the one parcel of two hundred and thirty eight point four five one will increase the district to a total of seven thousand twenty four point seventy eight acres South Frederick agricultural forest district will be valid until August 12 2025 ultimately the board supervisors approves with modifications or denies the proposals to establish or renew an agricultural forestal district now the agricultural district advisory committee or a DAC and as we recommended approval of the removal of two parcels in the addition of one parcel to South Frederick agricultural district forced to share a proposal with the public hearing on February twenty two thousand twenty four following a public hearing Mr. chairman staff is seeking a recommendation for the planning Commission the board of supervisors for these additions and moves of the ag subject parcels the ag for sale district and Mr. chairman following the public hearing I'll put up the all three of the properties again what we'll need from the planning Commission is three separate actions on these proposals without Mr. chairman I'll answer any questions you or any of the commissions may have all these additions this attracts us from another For fö FBI I need to so I now move on the agenda item A that indeed is a public hearing I will not performed to keynote for this Wade first House I have to powiedz I pledge by a motion to recognize a motion under the these kept but this is a public hearing so I will first echo that and say I have still one aber emerges minutes but anyone like to speak going once twice a close to public hearing any discussion among commissioners seeing none mr. chair and a few kid please return that to the screen for miss broombecks benefit and my understanding is you need a motion you need an action for each addition and deletion right is that correct yes sir okay and the first one it's on the screen right now is the Bentley property that's for removal okay yes I'd like to move that we remove the Bentley property from the South Frederick AG and forestal district we have a motion in a second in discussion seeing none mr. triplet yes yes yes yes mark yes run back yes yes and yes chair votes yes the motion carries in front of you is the second removal from AG and forestal district is the West Oaks farm market LLC yes mr. chairman I'd like to move that we approve the removal of the West Oaks farm market 71.2 one acres from the South Frederick AG and forestal district motion is there a second we have a second any discussion seeing none miss Brown Week yes yes 2 speaking enough support any other questions Springwood farm I'm not sure which name it's under to the South Frederick AG and forestal district second any discussion mr. trippley trippett yes yes dehaven yes current just yes Thomas yes Margaret yes Brumback yes Brandon yes chair votes yes and the motion carries thank you to all who came out for these next item is the South Timber Ridge agricultural forestal district addition for CKW rentals mr. chair thank you again mr. chairman this is a request to add one parcel and it's a tax back identification of 34 at 37-8-8 for a CK or CKW rentals LLC totaling seventy six point nine zero acres in the South Timber Ridge agricultural forestal district this district is located in the Gainesville magisterial district it's currently contains one thousand one hundred and seven hundred and seven hundred and seven hundred and seven point ninety four acres it is Jerry located along Hudson Hall or Hudson Road route seven zero seven to the north Muse Road route six one zero and Golds Orchard Road routes seven zero eight to the east additional of this seventy six point nine acre parcel will bring the district to a total of one thousand two hundred forty seven point eighty four acres I can turn your attention to Matt left properly properties outlined again in blue the AG district again it meets within the radius where the districts at so one of her newer district I think it was just added the last go around that we did daggum forestal districts the comprehensive policy plan of Frederick County provides guidance again when considering any land use this district is located outside the urban development area and soil water service area it is not part of any land use study by the county current land you should remain as its present use and its orchard agriculture and again a residential you tell the Royers maintain agriculture a significant portion of the county's economy and term ain't it remaining role character the areas outside of our urban development area the company's policy plan again establishes is by promoting the exclusives additional land in an AG enforcement districts the comp sure policy plan supports this opportunity for agriculture agribusiness to conduct long-range planning efforts for the management of their operations while providing a reserve for agriculture land through the year 2025 the proposed addition of this district meets the Code of Virginia and the comprehensive policy plan this addition provides an opportunity for AG is this community to conduct Lawrence planning efforts for the management of their operations while providing a reserve for agricultural land through the year 2025 South Frederick agricultural this agricultural forest district will contain 1247 acres and will be valid through August 12 2025 all three board supervisors approves any modifications denies the proposal to establish or renew an AG for sale district the agricultural district advisory committee a DAK conсьmane recommended approval this additional one parcel to South Timber Ridge agricultural force the district after meeting February 20th 2024 mr. chair of only the public hearing staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors on this Compare Waste Surveillance Surveillance addition or to make one ignition I said 2025 I neglected to remind mr. Jeremy you and the planning commissioners by August next year ag forestal districts are reviewed by the localities every five years by state code so this time next year we'll be presenting any addition subtractions or renew of the districts and I neglected it said 25 we like to tell you that these districts were added taken out in your last actions will move forward to a for a year I'm a support see a Frederick County that any landowner which is the volunteer to come into our ag and forestal districts we usually take him out of this sequence but we renew them Adam would take them out at 25 and they can also request to come out at any time and that's the policy that the board supervisor so that mr. chairman that concludes my presentation for this audition I have to answer any questions you or any planning commissioners may have on this application very well any questions for mr. chair I need to recuse myself from this item as well mrs. brand does she have a question no okay any questions to my right so I'm going to go ahead and take a question and then I'll take a question so you No this would appear that 202alla logos, goin bylaws SB???一点 miller leen Patricia Jones so for June 20 I said I'm not gonna ask any more questions does anybody have insight though said in my mind is how long will we finally take this on would Triplett? Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Cozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Brumback, yes. Brennan, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. Thank you very much. Next item is an action item for us. Item 7A is an appeal of the subdivision administrator in the administration of County Code Chapter 144, Section 3 and 37. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This property is located on Quarrel Run Lane. It's in the Back Creek Magisterial District. It's identified by property identification number 40-A-129. It is 74 acres, 70.50 acres in size. It's currently zoned RA. If I can turn your attention to the map to your left, the property that's subject to this subdivision and appeal is outlined in blue. This is also the plot that was sent in to create that 10-acre parcel. This post-subdivision was submitted for the property does not meet the requirements of Section 144.3, which is our compliance section of the subdivision ordinance. It requires that all plots must meet the Frederick County Comprehensive Policy Plan and the Frederick County Code. What it means by the Frederick County Code is all the codes, including drain fill regulations and also including your zoning ordinance, which is actually, as you all administer here when we do code amendments, is actually Section 165. That's part of the county code as a whole. Furthermore, Chapter 144-37 actually calls out final plots and what is required on a final plot. Things on a final plot will require a to submit a deed of dedication, copies of covenants or restrictions, an estimate of public approval, all gratuities for improvements, and all final plots of subdivision administrator. However, the final plot shall contain there's a lot of following information. For the purpose of this action tonight is there were three parts of that. It goes from A down to or alpha, bad, pass, or. Basically, what this plot lacked was the location of the property. Basically, what this plot lacked was the location of the property. The location, the names of right-of-way WIS, existing or planned road streets, or shared private driveways adjacent to and on the property. And the existing of proposed utilities, utility easements, or other easements, or dimensions and locations. And finally, are the location of subdivision lines, setback lines on each lot. The applicant had submitted the subdivision plot for the preferred property. The proposed subdivision plot was to create the 10.5647 acre parcel was to create the 10.5647 acre parcel from the 74 acres that was already located at the south end of the Poster Front and Quail Run Lane and straddling Deer Run Lane. Now, Section 165.201.02b of the zoning orders requires front yard setbacks wherever a lot of butts are right of way. Therefore, the setbacks on this proposed parcel per Section 165.402.2b, that 7a of the zoning orders, is applicable to the R.A. zoning districts. And basically what that's saying is in the R.A. zoning districts, your setbacks for this property, when you have two roads, which is actually two frontages, would be, or right of way, would be 60 feet from the right of way of each street, road or egress and ingress easement, thus from Quail Run and Deer Run Lane, 50 foot to the southern boundary of the parcel, that in constant for the adjacent parcel being smaller than six acres each, and 100 feet on the west side of the road, which is a section of the northern boundaries to account for the adjacent properties being larger than six acres. That's what's in your R.A. zoning ordinance, or your zoning ordinance for your R.A. zoning districts if you're doing any principal structures. That's what your setbacks would be. Furthermore, this problem, a little history about the property, the property is located in the subdivision known as Lincoln Estates. This subdivision was created in the 1940s via Dees and Platt. The property has been deeded, subdivided over the years, leading up to this current subdivision application. Frederick County adopted zoning in 1967. The historical zoning maps of Frederick County show this property to be zoned A2, Agriculture Limited in 1967. However, Frederick County amended its zoning ordinance in 1989, which changed the A2 zoning district to your current R.A. zoning districts. Now this is a plot that was pulled out of courthouse. It's a plot that staff have looked at for the Deech Pay book, 706. If you look, there's a dirt road that runs right here and approximate dirt road right here, right away. This is to kind of orientate you, you have on this subdivision, a road running this way and a dirt road or easement running that way. Now what's important to understand by this, that those easements, it was not vacant. It was either vacated or there was no vacation or extinguished. We could find it in the records, it shows that these roads or right-of-ways are there now. So when the application comes in for your subdivision, you need to meet at least a 60 foot off the dirt road that's there. It's an unnamed road, it shows up on our GIS. However, the courthouse, looking through our records, we found out the road was never abandoned, it was in the state of Virginia, so we had to get that out of the way. So when we look at this, we're starting to find that the road is still there. We're going to have to go back there. There's a lot of dirt there. It's a lot of dirt there. There's a lot of dirt there. abandoned or extinguished now that what that also means is to put it a nutshell is that if I use other parcels software west of that have rights to that they're allowed to use that ergo that means it's a easement which is a front setback which you have to be set at 60 as you can see on the plot it was in your jet that was in your applicant in this application it does not show that now the interpretation
