Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-06-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=136
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioners, just a reminder, before you speak, make sure the mic's on, and I'll be looking back and forth to make sure I'm calling everybody. Okay, we've got adoption. Next up is going to be adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? So moved. Second. Okay, we've got a motion to approve and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Agenda's adopted. Many minutes. I hope everybody had a great chance to look at this, read them. These are the meeting minutes from May 18th, which I hope was good. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes? So moved. Second. All right. We've got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. All right. Minutes are approved. Committee reports, I believe, for our standing committees, I don't think we have any committee reports. I'm just looking to make sure. Okay, then I'm going to go directly to Winchester Planning Liaison, Ms. Burnett. Hi. Hi. Since the last time we spoke, we have not had a public session, but we did have a work session last week. So something that was tabled will be brought back to our public hearing this coming Tuesday. Okay. So we have a motion to approve the meeting minutes from May 18th, which was an ordinance to rezone three acres on Commerce Street from Commercial District to medium-density residential. So they are planning a planned unit development there. The second item, which I think will be very interesting to you, is that we are going to hear about an ordinance to conditionally rezone approximately 11 acres around Fairmont Ave., Wick Street, and Braddock Street. So the White House area there. They're looking to change it from limited industrial district. To high-density residential with a planned unit development. And they're looking at approximately 262 apartments and townhouses. It looks very interesting. They're going to lay it out very similar to the architecture of Old Town. So definitely keep your eye on that, because I think that'll be interesting as we're coming from Frederick County into Winchester City. And that's all we have for you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Burnett. Board of Supervisors Liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Board of Supervisors. Supervisors took up three issues which might be of interest to this commission. At the last meeting, they approved the appropriation of four out of seven of the categories for the school operational budget. And they reserved the appropriation on three categories where there were significant changes until more information would become available. That includes technology, operations and maintenance, and facilities. We just had a meeting just minutes ago. And we don't have... We don't have much additional information. So the decision was made to, in the form that you might all be familiar with, the continuing resolution, the way the federal government does it sometimes, to fund one quarter of each of those categories. So that no salaries would go unmet and that no projects would get interrupted. The second item is that the Board of Supervisors voted to reconsider the January 2021 motion on an ordinance permitting chickens on residential properties. The second item is that the Board of Supervisors voted to reconsider the January 2021 motion on an ordinance permitting chickens on residential properties. They recommended returning it, rather than an immediate vote, returning it to the Planning Commission and recommending a new public hearing. So you're welcome for that. As an analytical approach, I did request a map of RPR4 and RPR5 properties that could be affected if the ordinance remains as it was considered over a year ago. And that's been provided. By the Planning Department. I also asked for... So that would be 0.34 acres or larger properties by the previous ordinance motion. I also asked for maps at 0.4 acres and 0.5 acres, just so we could see what the differences would be. And I'll forward that to you, Mr. Chairman, if you'd like it. Yes, please. The last item is a proffer modification for Snowden Bridge Station. The commission was approved. And that's all. Thank you. All right. Well, thank you, Mr. Ludwig. I appreciate it. Very familiar with continuing resolutions. They can be painful. So my days with the government. So thank you. Next up is our citizens' comments, which is open for any items not before the commission for a public hearing or on the agenda. So please state your name, magisterial district. And I'm going to open this up. All righty. Seeing none, I'll close the citizen comments. So we are going to start the... We're going to continue on with our public hearing. Mr. Chair, this is a conditional use permit 0322 for Christina Boyer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. And again, this is a continuous... From the public hearing. from your last meeting. Just give you a quick over brief and we can get into any discussion with the applicant or staff. The property is located at 409 Pearl Road, it's a back creek match steel district. It's zoned RA. This conditional use permit before you is for a operation of a kennel at that property. Again, this is just an overlay of the property. I think we're all familiar with that. Kennels are, of course, allowed in the RA with a conditional use permit. And the definition of kennel is a place to repair the house, board, breed, hand or otherwise care for dogs for sale or in return for compensation. One litter of dogs for breeding, for compensation per house or per year shall not be defined as a kennel and should be considered as a home occupation. I bring that point up as some of you have been here for some time, we've had a couple of kennels come through. And if you had like only one, if the applicant was only doing one litter, you have to come in front of the planning commission for approval on the board of supervisors. Staff was directed to make it feasible to have at least one litter. So you didn't have to bring as a home occupation, bring the property owner in front of this board or the other board for approval. That was the only tweet that was on the kennel for some of you that have been here for other kennels. There's basically the application, the application is the same as the application. The applicant with this use in front of you tonight will take place in a residential dwelling. There'll be no more than three dogs for boarding. Would pick up and drop off the dogs or by appointment only. This use will have also a dog training component, which will be by appointment only for two week camp receiving two one-on-one training sessions per day. This proposed use also be by appointment only from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. There'll be no employees with this use. The number of clients will be no more than 10 per month and the kennel will be operated within the residential dwelling. As we had the last public hearing, I'll let the applicant explain more what her business plan is, but this is just a layout we have general. And should the planning commission find the application for this kennel to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions to be assigned to this conditional use permit. I'll review agency comments to comply with at all times. Number two, the CUP is solely to enable boarding and training of dogs, not breeding. No more than six dogs not owned by the applicant should be permitted on the property at any given time. There'll be no employees with this conditional use permit. Number four, number five, all dogs shall be controlled with not to create a nuisance to any adjoining properties by roaming free or barking. In number six, all dogs must be confined indoors by 9 o'clock. Number seven, the hours of operation for the public should be from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. It's highlighted that with staff working with the applicant change that you saw on the earlier slide which was presented to you was 8 o'clock, this keeps the hours, gives them an extra hour for any enforcement or help them in case folks want to come up and pick their dog up. So that was the only tweak that we had since our last meeting. And finally, any expansion or change of use will require an approval of new conditional use permit. Mr. Chairman, the applicant, this is a public hearing, and the following the public hearing, staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission forwarded to the Board of Supervisors. The applicant is here to answer any questions that you may have. For the record, there has been some e-comments, I think it's at your diocese throughout the day and also after the last meeting that you have copies of. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I'll answer if there's any questions that you may have. And again, Ms. Boyer is here to answer any questions. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, any questions for Mr. Chairman? Mr. Thomas. Just a quick one, and I asked this the last time. The e-comments, is there any way to tell whether they are neighbors or if they are customers? At this time, no. We are actually, from your comment, Mr. Thomas, earlier in the month or last meeting, staff is working to have that be addressed. But right now, no, sir. Anybody from Mr. Smith and Ms. Brown? I may ask him questions later, if I'm on her. Okay, so you don't have a question, Mr. Chairman? Not right this second. On the right, okay. If the applicant would please come forward. Hi, Ms. Boyer, how are you? Good. I'll start on my right this time. Any questions for Mrs. Boyer? None. No. No. Okay. Well, I'll go to the left then. Any questions? I do. Mrs. Brannan? Hi, how are you? I'm good, how are you? I'm good. I need to ask you some questions, because I don't understand what your business is. I have a statement prepared. Can I go ahead and do that? Yes, ma'am, absolutely. Okay. And they're working on trying to convert the video that I took in case you guys did want to see it. It's a video tour of the property, but it was on my iPhone, and it wasn't coming up, so my niece is working on trying to transfer it to MP4. All right, since I get nervous, I want to adequately be able to express my thoughts, so I'm going to go ahead into this. Don't be nervous. That's what we're here for. Good evening, and thank you for your time in regards to my CUP pursuit. I wanted to first provide a summary of the business works and structure. Family Doodles first began with a hobby breeding business. When we relocated to Star Tannery, Virginia in 2015, I did my research on what business licensing was needed to be obtained for such a business. I then initiated obtaining my business license, in which I have kept active since 2016. In 2018, I created the pet sitting and pet training programs to add to the business portfolio. I was under the assumption that because the business I was conducting was inside a residential dwelling, that it would be considered a home occupation. I did not imagine that I would need a commercial permit for conducting business inside the home. After the zoning office issued a violation letter, I reached out to the zoning administrator. Through conversations, I was advised I would need to, in fact, pursue a CUP to continue the pet sitting and training as currently structured. This is what has brought me here today. Through the CUP, I am requesting the ability to provide the pet sitting and training services in my home. My current limit for pet sitting is a three-dog maximum at one time. My current limit for training is a one-dog maximum at a time. The animals that are at the residence full-time are my personally owned and licensed animals. Some of the animals are intact, and some of the animals are fixed. The requested business license is not required, but the pet sitting and training is required. The business license has no impound effect or change on the structure or makeup of the property. The property will be the same as to whether I am granted the CUP or not, as I will still have my personal animals at my residence. The pet sitting and training is schedule-based only and is not full-time year-round at this current point. The business clientele has grown over the last few years, but I am a one-man show. I can only grow so far, and it is my opinion that the business has no profound effect on the surrounding properties. The area is rural in surroundings, which is one of the only areas perfected for a business such as mine. I did receive information on one opposing view from a property owner that sits behind my property. There are three acres of wooded land that is currently on my side between us, as well as they have 21 acres total, mostly wooded. Their concerns were to the effects of the business affecting their property value and causing pollution in the area. They were misguided in their statement in that they are assuming that I am new to the area, bringing the business new to the area. To that I say I must not affect them and their property so much as they didn't even know that I have been there on my parcel of land for seven and a half years. I have been conducting the pet sitting and training for almost four years total behind their parcel of land, unbeknownst to them prior to the zoning letter being sent out for my CUP hearing. As for the pollution statement, I bag all dog poop up and take it to the dump, including my own dog's poop. I would assume this is cleaner overall for land in the area compared to farms that have cows, horses, and dogs. I would assume this is cleaner overall for land in the area compared to farms that have cows, horses, chickens, pigs, etc. that a farmer does not remove the feces on a regular basis. To be clear, I have no issues with farms in the area as rural areas are reserved for such properties. It is just a simple comparison to contradict the pollution claim and or concern. Today I received an additional opposing view from another property that owns the land at the back of my property. The information is readily the same as to that there is wooded land between us and that they have not noticed my or my business existence. I am not aware of the fact that I am not aware of the fact that I have not noticed my or my business existence. until they received a letter from the county. Obviously, my property has not deserved their peace and quiet as they have not in seven and a half years made in any noise complaint against me. As for the road concern, VDOT had reviewed my application prior to submittal and made the decision or projection that the business would cause no concern to the existing roadway. The business generally has 5 to 10 clients monthly. I do understand their concerns if I was trying to put in a large dog boarding commercial facility. The letter the county sent to the neighbor properties leaves much to be desired or imagined when mentioning what the CUP is for the business plan was not disclosed in the letter therefore I can only assume that the two opposing views have a very different imagination about the business than what it is actually designed and desired the properties that are on Burrell Road and past my property on a frequent basis basis have mostly all signed the petition in favor of allowing me to continue business as normal they have been aware of my existence in the neighboring area for the last seven and a half years with no complaints made or issued I am in no way planning to be a big commercial boarding facility housing more dogs for compensation that will then what was mentioned in the CUP application part of the benefit and pull for clients is that I am so hands-on with their animals becoming too large would eliminate that factor and not what is desired for my business I have formed personal relationships with many of the people I have meant through my business I offer support to their families and for babies I would not be able to do that if I became an expert in the business plan I would not be able to do that if I became an expert in the business plan I would not be able to do that if I became an commercial business I am only desiring to be able to continue offering support to families on a so that when they are on vacation they can be assured their beloved pets are being cared for and looked after appropriately I'm not done yet I would like to also address the fact that I received correspondence from supervisor Graber stating that there was a woman in the Planning Commission desiring to tour my property I'm sorry that I was unable to accommodate the date and time requested I had several times for the party's information from supervisor Graber so that I may speak to them directly for that consent Tracy thank you very much Ms. families promises schedule a tour to be able to address any concerns they may have appropriately as this is my home as well where my children sleep it is my request that I know all parties requesting to have access to the property for any reason I have no issues with scheduling a tour with any part of the Frederick County Planning Commission directly to date I have not received the information requested to directly schedule with anyone in the Planning Commission I did bring along a video tour of my property if we can get its converted I would be happy to show it to you now to address a few of the outstanding questions from the 6-1 meeting question one was to the effects of why 9 p.m. was chosen as a business cutoff time I would assume this that this time was chosen to follow the noise ordinance time for Frederick County of 9 p.m. the second question was how would the time frame be enforced since it only applies to the animals at the property for business and not for my personal animals the answer could be that any complaints for noise is referred to the Sheriff's Office to follow up the noise ordinance I would assume the Sheriff's Office would address any noise complaint whether it be for my personal animals or the animals at my home or the property for business or the property for business services I would have no concerns myself with the 9 p.m. cutoff time I do not schedule appointments generally after 8 p.m. anyhow I have my animals ready for bed usually by 9 p.m. as well the only time we are out after that is if someone needs to go potty my animals are well behaved and many of the animals I have for pet sitting services or return customers who also fall right into my pack and behave wonderfully a third question was how do you know that the e-comments online are coming from Frederick County citizens the answer is that the online system asks each of the animals to follow the noise ordinance I would like to provide a copy of my original application submitted to the zoning office this copy has a petition in which I went around to all the neighbors on Burrell Road and there's 14 signatures of those neighbors stating that they have no issue with me continuing my business at hand thank you in advance for your cooperation and consideration in the manner if you have any questions I'd be happy to address them at this time thank you for your time and your time is up thank you for your time and your attention thank you mr. Boyer any anyone have mrs. Brannon yes I do okay I'm the one by the way that wanted to talk to you okay okay my understanding of reading the law is a kennel is a place prepared to house board breed handle or otherwise keep or care for dogs for sale or in return for compensation right but I am allowed to do hobby breeding which is one litter a year okay and I have my personal animals licensed through the county and I've had a business license on file with the county for the breeding since 2016 let me ask the question sure okay I've gotten some people have talked to me about this some your customers that love you and you're very good with dogs and I can hear you for that but others are there is a lot of traffic there there is a neighbor that has a sign on their driveway THEY LISTEN TO THIS!!! I am not this company. I do not breed the dogs. Don't come. So they get traffic from your business. Now, it made me start searching into it, and it's why I wanted to come see your facilities. Because when I search online for Star Tannery, and I found two sites. One is a Facebook site that is where you're doing dog rescuing. No, it's actually if a family that has had one of my puppies has decided to rehome that dog, I ask for the first right to find that dog a new home so it doesn't end up in the shelter system. That's part of my sales contract. Okay, well, my question is, when I look at the site, you have on there, like, dollar signs, like you're getting compensated for doing that. For rehoming them? No. I get compensated. I'm looking at your website, your Facebook, Family Doodles First. Correct. And I see, like, Goss is being adopted out. He is being rehomed. So was he one of your pets? Yes. He was one of my puppies that they're returning because they cannot handle him, and therefore they wanted me to rehome him because they're an older couple and his size was too large for them. Okay. Now, as I scroll down, because I was looking at the pictures of the dogs, you know, it says over here, Family Doodles, we are offering only the best F1B, Golden Doodles, and Labradoodles. Are puppies always... So that's for your breeding? Correct. Correct? Mm-hmm. Okay, and, like, this looks like a very serious business. Price range, you have double dollars. So I'm trying... It is a built business. It is. How many dogs? Are you breeding? How many do you have to rehome? You're also... I saw grooming services. I do offer grooming services. So if they're at my home... Like, it's more than three dogs involved in your business. So I just want to make sure... For the CUP portion? No. Because that portion is... It's two separate tracks. There's a business license on file for that track. If the CUP is denied, that track will continue. Which track? The CUP. The track of the hobby breeding. And my personal animals that are personally licensed through the county will continue to be on my property. Regardless if you deny this or not, I will reorganize the business and go to the client's property to watch their animals or help train their animals. This is why I submitted an appeal. I made it clear in the beginning there's two separate tracks because my animals are my animals. They're not going anywhere. That's why I licensed them appropriately. They're my family. And I will shut down the whole business to protect them. This part of the business was incorporated when my account management job seized because the billing office lost a huge account and she laid everybody off. So I was teleworking for that office and I was homeschooling my children at the time. I tried to find another telework to include being able to still homeschool my children and that's hard to come by. So I've always wanted to offer... I wanted to offer more services to families than just, you know, offering them a puppy occasionally. I wanted to be able to offer pet sitting and training so they had a place that they could go to and use someone they trusted to watch their animal. That's why I have so many people who return to me. I've actually... That's why they use me because it's so hands-on. It's inside my home. I've had people refer me outside of people that knew me just from being a customer of taking a puppy home. I've had people come in and say, come to me because they knew somebody that had dealt with me in the past. I've saved people's animals. The one guy brought me his dog for a training camp. She had diarrhea. We mentioned she had diarrhea. He said she ate a whole chicken. So we said, did she eat the bone of the chicken? He said, no, not that I know of. I said, okay, you can leave her here. By 5 p.m. she was throwing up and she had diarrhea everywhere. So I had to call him and I had to rush her to the emergency vet. She had a stone the size of a golf ball in her stomach. If she would have been in another type of boarding facility, she would have died. But because she was in my home and I'm hands-on, I was able to catch that. I have other clients who their pet has come to me and I take her outside to the potty and she's peeing blood because she had a UTI because they just let her out in the backyard to go potty. So it wasn't noticed by them. But because I take them out on a leash and I'm hands-on with them, I was able to catch it, send them to the vet, and they were able to get it cleared up. That's why people like to use me. They try to use me. They try to use me. They try to use me. They try to use me. They try to use me. They trust me with their animals, and they're inside my home. They see where their animals are staying. My personal animals are my personal animals, and I get the stigma around it because I have multiple dogs. But they're my dogs. I love my dogs. I like animals more than most people. I've had a lot of things happen to me in my life, and animals are the one consistent, trustworthy thing. So, sorry. I appreciate your passion. I do. Does that answer the questions you have? No. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. I appreciate your passion, but I'm trying to determine. Like, you can't just have a business on your property and say the cup is just this little piece of it. I want to make sure the cup that you applied for actually represents the business that you're running. Because if you read it, if you're approved, and your business grows, and they determine it's different than what you applied for, you're going through this all over again. Right. So, just try to calm down. Chill. Sorry. My apologies. Like, Gus is who I'm talking to you about. You told me that is one of your pets, but he's not. He's not my pet. He's one of the puppies. Well, that's my first question to you. Did you consider last time Gus one of your pets? No. Because he's not your pet. No. You are rehoming him. Right. I'm helping the family find him a new home. And actually, I have it set up for Sunday to he should have a new home. Meet and greet for the family to take him for a meet and greet. And how does that process work? So, basically, they reach out to me. And if they can no longer care for the dog, they ask me to help them rehome the dog. So, then I'll network the dog. Because I have a network of people. Because I've had the Facebook page, many people follow the Facebook page that's never met me because they have known somebody, that has dealt with me. So, because that network's there, I put the dog out there. And then I set up meet and greets for the family to take the dog to the meet and greet. And then if the family chooses a new family, usually they'll consult with me about it. Or if there's like some type of behavior thing going on, usually I help try to fix that and correct that before rehoming that dog. Because I wouldn't want to set them up for failure in their second home. So, if there's anything going on in the first home that needs to be addressed, I'll address it. I'll address it. And then I'll advertise the dog to be rehomed. Can I interject for a second? So, I just want to understand something. So, with Gus, and I'm whoever Gus is, but I'm assuming Gus would be one of those three dogs that you would in turn be qualified as boarding. Yes, because I can't. So, is that your question? Like if I have a dog like Gus, then I wouldn't be pet sitting three dogs at a time? So, like a maximum of that? I'm trying to understand your business to determine are you really only kindling three or by the definition because it's caring for, like your pet grooming, your training, your breeding, your rehoming. You're very organized. Thank you. You're loved by your customers. Like this doesn't seem like a little business. I bring a few dogs in my home for my friends. This seems like you're, you're a very organized, very good business woman that loves her dogs. And I'm not sure your cup matches that. The reason I'm trying to get clarification here is that the CUP explicitly states that no more than six dogs are not owned by the applicant shall be permitted on the property at any given time. So, Christina, is that correct? If Christina is abiding by, what the code outlines, and as long as her CUP does not exceed six, then she should be allowed to do as described in the CUP. Is that correct? Staff? Thank you. To answer though, I don't, like if Gus is there, say a rehoming is there, I would only have two pet sittings because I can only adequately care for that amount of animals at the same time. So part is the pet sitting. So basically I wouldn't have the room for the third. I just need to understand, like the staff makes comments on everything and it helps us decide. I want to make sure this CUP represents the business that you're running. It does. It does because I wouldn't go, like I told the zoning office and, you know, they were helping me out by adding an additional number. I put in five, no more than five animals that were not my animals because I do have my animals and I'm not going to stretch myself so thin that I'm not adequately able to care for my animals and someone else's animals. So depending on what's going on at the time, like I stated in the statement, the pet sitting and the training, it isn't all the time. It's year round, not year round. It's when somebody needs me. So people need you usually when they're going on vacation or around the world. They're around the holidays when they have a holiday planned with their family and then the training camps, they can vary. I can have five for the year and then I could have 12 for the year. It really just depends on a family's needs and if someone needs me or not. So 2020, I had nothing because COVID and then 2021, it was busy because everybody was excited to get back to regular being able to travel. So, but I would not, it would be included as one of the animals until he found another home because I can't adequately care for too many animals. Does that make sense? Yes, it does. Okay. Ms. Brand, Mr. Thomas got some questions. Sure. You mentioned that you take the dogs out on leashes. I do, I do. So you would never, I know never is a long time, but your intent is to not have dogs out running free on your property. So I have a run area where my dogs can play together and run around. I have a run around together already set up. I am fencing in the front yard. So right now I use a 50 foot leash when I'm playing fetch and taking the animals out to get exercise for extra security measure because the whole property is not fenced in at this time. But I'm in the process of fencing in the front yard as well. But any animal that's there, that's not my animal, I do not leave them unsupervised to play together or unsupervised outside by themselves because that's how bad things happen. And then you're held, you're held liable for those bad things. You mentioned grooming. Say I have a pet for pet sitting or training and the family asked me to trim the dog, then yes, I'll offer those grooming services. Your grooming is associated service with training the dog. Yes, that's correct. You don't have a separate grooming business. No, it's like an add on to if the dog's already at my home and they request it, I'll do it for them. I noticed in the application, you're a partial owner of, 431 Brill Road, the lot next to you. Okay, now the CUP is for 409 Brill Road. Your residence is where? 409. 409. And that's where all the pets would be, 409. So right now the 431, it has a trailer sat on it that needs to be demolished. There was renters when we purchased that property. They had recently, they were trying to buy a home. So we let them stay for a few months and they just recently vacated. A few months ago. And now there's cleanup to the property. When we bought it, the original plan was to hope to be able to one day build our forever home on that property. And then I probably rent out the existing home. Or I've been contemplating now because the price of building is astronomical. It's just building onto the house that we currently have and combining it for 10 acres total. So I don't know what we're doing with it yet. I just knew that we wanted the property for the option of, you know, having a bigger home in the future. Since the CUP is for 409 Burrill Lane, you could not do any training under the CUP on 431. Right. The zoning administrator and I discussed that in the beginning. If I ended up actually building on 431, then I would have to request canceling the 409 CUP and doing a 431 CUP. But that's also one of the factors that I'm going back and forth with of building new and just adding on to my existing home so I don't have to go through this process again. Yeah. Remarks that you read a couple times, you referenced a noise ordinance. This is an RA area. There is no noise ordinance? Correct. Okay. I read that there was one for Frederick County. I just, I was thinking that that might be why they picked the 9 p.m. So I was offering suggestions. Okay. Okay. Okay. I have a question. So when we, at the last meeting, at the very end, we were talking and you were telling me the number of personal dogs you have. How many personal dogs do you have? 14. Okay. You have 14 personal dogs. Do they go in at night as well or do they stay up? They're all up at night. So they're all up at night, basically. I have the retired girls that are inside the home fully and then I have the retired girls that are inside the home fully. And I have other, that tan building, that's the structure. I have an area there where I will crate them up and then be able to let them out in the morning. Okay. So they're crated in that building during the night? Mm-hmm. They are up. So there is a potential of having 20 dogs on your property at one time? And I've had that. Okay. Over the last four years doing these services, I've had that. And there hasn't been any complaints about dog noises. I've had no complaints about dog noises. I've had no complaints about dog noises. I've had no complaints about dog noises at all. But I'm not sure if they're the same in my area. I've had no complaints about dog noises or noises to the property that I know of. I don't think, the sheriff's never come to my house. None of my neighbors have ever made complaints to me personally. I took the liberty before applying for the CUP and this is the petition explaining my business to each neighbor. And each neighbor that was home signed it and put their address with no issues. 391 is the one directly to the right of my property if you're coming from the church. 431 is obviously my address. property with my spouse at this time so he's not going to have an issue with that 450 is the farm right across the road brill uh is it brill llc brill family llc or things something like that dennis and his wife signed it i went all the way up to the end of brill road 501 signed it um now taryn everly she actually lives in lake frederick but it's everly tree farm in star tannery she signed it 791 is susan tannenbaum her uh her ex-spouse actually purchased a puppy from me so she's on 7991 brill road and then 501 i think i already said and then there was one who signed it but didn't want to include their address because they didn't want any retaliation for their support i just wanted facts that's all that's why i want to make sure i had these numbers right 14 personal you'll do up to six doing whatever grooming training whatever to combine numbers but there is potential having 20 in your property right so okay any other questions would you mind if i looked at the list and compared it to the plats would you mind to the petition yes another quick question do you let your personal dogs the 14 personal dogs do they have the free roam of both 431 and no we don't use 431 at all right now because like i said there was the renters there that just vacated a few months ago and there's a lot of cleanup that needs to be done from their vacancy um so right now i just try to mow in the areas that need to be mowed and i'm looking for a logging service to help get some of the brush and things cleared out of there um but we don't use it at all right now it's just there until we're able to use it until we're in a place where we can utilize it for like i said combining to the current property or building our forever home good with talking with mrs boyer okay anybody else have any questions for mrs boyer i'm just going to go ahead and get started okay mrs boyer thank you very much thank you i appreciate it you can keep it if you want thank you this is a continuation of a public hearing so if there is anyone that would like to come forward speak for or against this topic please come forward state your name magisterial district and please limit to three minutes sir will you state your name and not just your mr chairman members of the board thank you for the opportunity to address you this evening i'd like to address a comment here by mr thomas first and that was the number of folks who had e comments were they neighbors or were they from out of the area i have done due diligence in researching that not only for my own thoughts as a neighbor as i am a direct neighbor across the road from mrs boyer but also as a board of supervisors remember the four e-comments that you had on record are not direct neighbors and they are not direct neighbors by miles the two last years of the board of supervisors have been very effective in helping us to get the work done we've composed a pretty overhyped book aboutquet details for that and the yesterday oільind and Кстати i'd like to move forward and now we're going to review now what we did today the rumah after school district return it now on the folks like i said press 3th but always wanted to give minute As a neighbor, I want you to think about 14 dogs. I want you to think about adding the 15th and the 16th and the 17th and the 18th and the 19th and has been already listed tonight the 20th dog that she has had on property. I've had multiple complaints as a supervisor about this in the past and have simply tried to keep the peace with the neighbors because she is a neighbor. However, when you have a dog who is being boarded, that dog is out of its territory of being comfortable. And so what happens when a dog is uncomfortable? They bark. Now, equate that with a dog who's uncomfortable, and now a second dog is also uncomfortable. I would have liked for you to sit on my front porch this morning about 10 o'clock because I was working from home this morning from 10 o'clock, and you could hear one dog and another dog answer and another dog and another dog answer. The comments that road and traffic are not an issue are simply untrue. The neighbor just directly... East of her, two properties down, has a chain that he puts across his driveway that says, No dogs for sale here. It is exactly as Mrs. Boyer states. They do have meet and greets. They do have things there at their property. We have vehicles from Maryland, West Virginia, Pennsylvania. I've seen vehicles from Delaware. If you've seen the road, it is a one-lane road. It's one lane in, one lane out, and it is very difficult to pass. Many of these folks do not know the road. They run you off the road. They treat you nastily when my wife and I are walking. Our dog on the road, it is not a good situation. I would kindly ask that you strongly oppose this ordinance that is in front of you. One other item, I followed up with Mr. Sharon and asked what was on her business license for what was stated purpose of her business. It was off-site grooming. That's what was listed, and I would encourage Mr. Sharon to change to correct me if I'm wrong. But off-site grooming is not what we heard or what is occurring at her residence tonight. Okay. So I have to wonder, where does the truth lie? And that's something that only you guys can consider this evening. I would ask that you kindly consider the two letters, one from Ms. Monk and one from Ms. Link, who are direct property owners to this property. I think they've laid out the case very well, and I would echo their case. I would support the letters in which they wrote. Thank you so very much. Thank you, Mr. Graver. Thank you. Is there anyone else who's come forward to speak for or against this? All right. Not seeing anyone, I close this public hearing. At this time, commissioners, let's have a conversation here. Mr. Chairman, before we have the conversation, I'd like to move that we include the petition she gave earlier and all the e-comments and the letters we received as part of the official minutes of record. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. Excellent. Thank you. All right. I'm looking for... Did we have any other... Any luck with the video? Okay. Does that mean we are allowed to see it? Who's that? Send it to our director of planning, please, Mr. Pearson. Comments? Discussions? All right. Everybody... Mr. Thomas? Yeah. I appreciate her... Her enthusiasm. I understand the concept of sometimes liking animals better than some people. I can deal with that. However... And there's nothing we can do about it. I mean, you can have 50 dogs on your property in Frederick County. To my knowledge, we don't limit the amount of personal pets somebody can have. Uh... That is... That is correct, Mr. Thomas. As long as it's inhumane and animal control doesn't get involved and they pay for their licensing, there's no... There's no number. So when she starts out with 14 personal pets, are we going to be able to... And I understand Mr. Graber's comments, but are we going to be able to tell whether there's 14 dogs there or 17 dogs or 20 dogs? I don't think so. Uh... I don't know... I don't know what we can do about dogs barking. Uh... I know... I had a neighbor at one point that had two dogs and they barked 24-7. I'd never... I always wanted them to go horse, but for some reason they never did. But 14 dogs, I don't know... I mean, I commend her. That's... I couldn't deal with 14 dogs. But I don't know from our standpoint or even... I mean, we don't have an orders of ordinance. I don't know how... I don't know how the neighbors would call the police and how the police would enforce anything there, because I don't know how we could tell the difference between 14 and 16 or 18 dogs barking. Now, do I think it's a good idea to have 14, 16 or 18 dogs barking? Absolutely not. And if I was a neighbor there, I wouldn't want it either. But, you know, from the standpoint of what is our legal authority, what is our role as a planning commission, is there any reason we have that we can sit here and say, no, we should turn this down? I'm struggling to try to find one. The only reason I can come up with is an emotional reason that, okay, it's going to be noisy, but it's already noisy. I don't think it's a good idea, but that's being capricious and arbitrary. So how do we go about this without just flat being capricious and arbitrary? And I'm open to any suggestions. I'm open to any suggestions from anybody else. I'm open for suggestions from the staff on, you know, if, you know, I don't know where to go on this. Mr. Akins. Mr. Thomas, I'm with you 100%. I'm a dog lover. I don't like cats. And I commend anybody that rescues dogs and that sort of thing, but that's not part of our discussion this evening. And it's. It's the CUP that we should be paying attention and whatever happens in the, in our, the residents' desires and their rights is up to them. And we need to be paying strict attention to the CUP, in my opinion. Anybody else? Oh, my only concern is. Brad? Yeah, Mr. Brad. My only concern is. The CUP. Does it. I mean, I don't quite understand. Our county laws on rescuing dogs and training them and sending them out. Is that counted as part of the kindling dogs? I think the grooming it. Mr. Cheeran can answer that real quick for us. Real quick. As Mr. Akins pointed out, what you have in front of you today, tonight is the numbers. And that's what you have. It's part of what. Ms. Boyer is. It happened with the conditional use permit is. A couple of things. Number one. For Mr. And just to go on. Mr. Thomas said, yeah, you're correct. Mr. Thomas, I'll be a busy man down there with all the complaints coming in. So Ms. Boyer in her defense did bring in all her dog tags that she had those 14 dogs. Now staff would have to go out there and figure that out. And as Mr. Akins pointed out, you're looking at. The conditional use permit as is the services she's offering at the house at the time. Yeah. If she says, hey, I want to do grooming there, it's still three dogs. That's the number we have to look at. She did have a business license in 2016 when this CEP was off a complaint that staff had received. Okay. We went down. We had cited her for violation. She had come in, met with me. We business license. She had. It was for the one and she was doing the one letter. Did she brought the license, brought everything to move forward. She wanted to move the business into the house as you see tonight. So that's part of the and it's under account on that. That's where we're at. There is, like I said, the 14 dogs, the other issues that that that are here again are part of the equation, but are just there's there's no limit on dogs. The second the second part of the conditional use permit. And also that. The second part of the definition is I pointed out in the beginning. We added that one litter a year. We had to go up to the Fitch where she moved. That's in department Main Islandris . And did let them possess it then we did it. This is the last please. Idd be more helpful for my do cuz. The next. So this is the front of the, okay. Okay. This is a video tour of my property where I'm requesting CUP 0322. My CUP is a request for permission to continue doing pet sitting for up to three dogs at a time and pet training for one dog at a time. You'll enter and it's in the process of being fully fenced off. The gate is up. We're still working on the fence over here. There is a privacy fence up to barricade the view of where I keep my personal pets, personal animals. This is a temporary privacy fence because of the situation. I had to get it up quickly. This is my daughter, Kaylin. She says hi. So when a person comes here, they pull into, the driveway, please excuse my grass. My lawnmower broke and it'll be fixed this week for me to cut the grass. They will either come up these stairs, which yes needs to be painted, but I haven't had time to do that considering the situation I've been dealing with. Um, and they'll bring their pet inside or I will come out to the driveway and you can go ahead and close that honey and grab the pet if they have any handicap issues. So you enter, my house. This is where I do the pet sitting and where the dogs stay for pet training. This is the area I have set up for when I'm not with the dog, which would be if I'm outside with my animals taking care of them or if I'm down the road, they will either go in a crate or they'll go in this pet run depending on how well behaved they are and how much I can trust them. They are allowed on that couch. Because I have blankets on that. This is a couch that is designated for my dogs to these two parts of the furniture. I do not allow dogs on. This is me a moo. She says hi. And then I also have crates in the bedroom if needed. So when I go outside and I don't think I have to show you this portion. Because this is not where the business takes place. I have set up a backyard where I will be fencing off a portion of this backyard right here to let dogs out to run for the potty as well as the front yard. I have a storage building there and I have kennels set up over there and a run over there for my dogs to let them out to run. I also use this building as shelter for my dogs whenever they are outside. We're going to walk around here and show you the setup for my chickens and ducks. This is all the backyard. There's five acres total on this plot. And it's wooded and goes all the way back about another three acres. And then I own the plot with my spouse next door. That's also five acres mostly wooded. We will be incorporating that into either this property in the future or possibly building. Here is the chicken coop. This kennel is what started the situation. They had claimed this was used for a dog kennel. I did send them a message. They said they wanted to know if I was going to build a kennel. I did send them an appeal for that and they understood that this is in fact not used for the dogs. And then we also have some baby chickens over here. And then we have our ducks over here. So this is where we keep the ducks and chickens. And then this is the run. That's our boy Caesar. He says hi. So this is the property. This is where I keep my animals. All of the pet sitting and pet training animals stay in the front yard and in the house. I'm going to walk back through the back door and show you that once again. This is where the chickens used to be set up. The grass is finally growing back in. Again, my lawnmower is broke. So I will be cutting the grass as soon as it's fixed this week. We are in the process of putting in a sidewalk. Here. Just have not gotten to it because I have been sidetracked with other projects. So back inside. This is where the pet sitting or pet training dogs stay when I'm not inside with them. Otherwise, they are roaming about just like my dogs are now. My daughter, Kaelin. Says hi. And thank you for taking this tour with us. Have a wonderful day. Okay. Thank you, Miss Boyer. So we've got clarification on personal animals. 14 animals. They can have whatever she wants quantity wise. That's not a problem in the county. The CUP is addressing specifically six. So is there any other questions or any other discussions? All right. I'm not seeing any. I'm looking for a motion from the Bat Creek District. Am I talking? Okay. She's answered my questions and I have to make a motion to approve the CUP. Okay. We have a motion to approve the CUP. Do I have a second? Second. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second. I will start with, I'm going to start with this end. You made the motion a second. You'll be the last. So, Mr. Aikens. Aikens, yes. Kozo, yes. Kozo, yes. Sorry. I'm sorry. Kern, yes. Orniff, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannon, yes. And the Chair votes yes. So the motion is approved and it will be going to the Board of Supervisors on July 13th. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good discussion. Good work on this one. All right. So let's see here. Our next agenda item is going to public hearing regarding rezoning number 0322 for 1 Logistics Park. I'll be Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. And it looks like we need to scroll forward here, Ted. As noted, this is an application to rezone 3.16 acres from the R4 residential planned community district to M1 light industrial. This property is located approximately one mile to the east of I-81 and on the south side of Millwood Pike, Route 50, and east of Prince Frederick Drive, Route 781 and Coverstone Drive, and west of Arbor Court and Pendleton Drive. On the screen to your left, you can see the subject property. If you'll let me skip ahead, I can give you a broader scope as to the property. And you'll see it there circled in red. And the surrounding property will be familiar to most of you. Most of you as the one logistics park, which was fairly recently rezoned and has been percolating along fairly well ever since. This was the one portion of that land holding that the applicant at that time did not control. They've since purchased and they're looking to bring it into the fold, if you will. As far as the proffers, this application actually proposes to adopt the proffers that apply to the rest of one logistics park in total. Which the net impact of that is no additional square footage, no additional transportation trips, no changes to the transportation system, just changes their land planning. But in terms of impact on county facilities and all of that sort of thing, there's nothing because they're abiding by those proffers which had controlled all of those items. I do need to note. The requested zoning is generally inconsistent with the comprehensive plan at this time in its current form, but is consistent with the proposal that was approved as far as part of rezoning 0-1-21-1 logistics park. In addition, with this property being within the airport support area and generally residential uses being frowned upon within the airport support area, that's actually a positive to their credit as well. With that. I think there's a brief presentation, but it's one of our simpler actions. This request does require public hearing. Upon completion of public hearing, staff is seeking recommendation to the board of supervisors. And we do have Mr. Randy Minchu here of, that's a long name, Walsh, Colucci, Lubelei, and Walsh representing the applicant. So, first off, any questions for Mr. Bishop? No. No, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Okay. Any questions for Mr. Minchu? Now, this one I think is pretty darn easy. So, okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Minchu. At this time, I will open this public hearing regarding the rezoning of 0-3-2-2 for 1 logistics park. If there's anyone that wants to speak for or against it, please come at this time. State your name and magisterial district. Mr. Minchu. Mr. Minchu. Mr. Chairman. First, Mr. Chairman, the Planning Commission, it's good to see you again, Supervisor Luebli. Probably my highest and best use, Mr. Chairman, tonight since the Planning Commission held a public hearing on the balance of the 1 logistics park almost a year ago today. As a matter of fact, this application is here because the Planning Commission gave us some advice to give the board of supervisors to work in good faith with Mr. Merkel, who owns the old Dicky Dick homestead. We did. I'm happy to report that back in February, the parties reached terms and the owner of the 1 logistics park, that by the way is called 1 logistics park LP, purchased the property. Thereafter, we thought it appropriate to file this application, really a 3.16 acre incremental addition and to make it as clean as possible for a zoning administrator to subject this 3 acre piece of ground to the exact same proffers that balance the project. It's going to be a great project. Thank you. scheda Essenb ja, two great work sessions. We worked through all of the transportation issues and then went up to the board. The board did a couple of refinements to the good work of the planning commission and that's probably the best thing for me to do here. You probably remember the phasing plan that was the source of a lot of work concerning the extension of Coverstone Drive. What the board of supervisors did is do a couple suggested some enhancements to that which we approved to. One, the phasing plan that the planning commission worked with us on stayed the same, but there were some enhancements in the form of three different ones. First of all, there was a commitment made that during the first phase, the entire section of Coverstone would be bonded. The whole shoot and match, the full four lane divided, bonded. So that the entire section will be built subject to that bond within three years of approval of the plans. That's enhancement number one. Second, in addition to that, the board suggested that when the build of Coverstone happens, and basically the area shown in the red there, that is phase one. That's a four lane divided section of Coverstone moving south in Millwood Pike, together with the intersection improvements that will be done there at Millwood Pike. The board said, if there's ever a curb cut put in south of that red area, you have to extend the full four lane section down south to that entrance point. That's enhancement number two. Second, thirdly, the board asked for a statement that if the total vehicle counts on Coverstone Drive ever exceed 10,000 vehicle trips per day, or 800 heavy loaders per day, that's a four lane divided section of Coverstone. But with the increased collection of vehicle trips, that's the triggering point to build the whole thing. So, what the board did is take the plan and the good work and put on those enhancements that could lead to the road being built quicker. With that Mr. Chairman, that's the same profit package we had before you about a year ago. It's my honor to be back here and be glad to answer any questions. Anybody have anything? Continue since this is a public hearing, is there anyone else that would like to speak for, or against, this particular rezoning all right seeing none I closed the public hearing and commissioners discussions oh yeah I mean you know I normally don't say anything I'm gonna say this is a good example of being a good neighbor it really is you did listen the company did listen and so that's that's it really is a great example of that okay this is Shawnee district so I need a motion from the Shawnee district yes sir I move to approve rezoning number zero three dash twenty two for approval okay we've got a motion do I okay we have a second and I'm gonna start down this and this is Brandon Brandon yes I'm back yes Marker yes Austin yes yes Thomas Thomas Thomas Thomas yes yes yes yes yes Aikens yes the chair votes yes so the rezoning has been approved and this will be going before the plane before the board of supervisors on July 13th so okay now we got number three up the public hearing regarding conditional use permit zero four to two four Justin Boyce's for a slaughterhouse yes mr. Klein yes good you new mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission the This is a conditional use permit request for the establishment of a commercial slaughterhouse on 110 acres of property zoned R.A. rural areas in the Back Creek District. Directing your attention to the screen, the 110 acre parcel owned by the Boyce family is outlined in blue. For your orientation, Cedar Creek, Greg, is just down here off the screen. And then you have Richard Lane, which forms the northeastern boundary of the site. And then Flinkertail Lane, which is a private road that serves the family property. The Boyce family does reside on the property. They do farm on the property, and they do have an existing operation, cattle operation there currently. This application proposes to construct a 4,800 square foot slaughterhouse facility. And the applicant states in their narrative that they propose to slaughter up to 50 animals per week. The applicant is also proposing three other outbuildings in support of their operation, 10 by 10 freestanding freezer units, and a three by 10 free standing freezer units. And the applicant is also proposing three other outbuildings in support of their operation, 10 by 10 freestanding freezer units, next to the main facility to keep the product cold. Existing and proposed access to the site is provided by Richard Lane, which is a state road via that private driveway. Again, Flinkertail Lane. The application does not propose any improvements to the private driveway or the connection to Richard Lane. It was reviewed by VDON. They did issue a comment in support of that statement. The zoning ordinance was updated in 2018 with slaughterhouses of use, and we added a number of supplemental use regulations. I'll summarize them for you. Again, requiring them to maintain the facility in a clean manner, screens on all the doors and windows to make sure that there's no animals going in it, or flies, bugs, insects, those kind of things. Slaughterhouse and the definition in the ordinance is this kind of commercial operation. If he was just slaughtering the cattle for his own use, wouldn't need a permit, but because there's a commercial element to it, because it's not all going to be his stock, it'll be stocked, brought in from other owners for slaughter, he does require a permit. Ensuring that the facility is located 100 feet from all the property lines, so it's not seen by the neighboring properties. Cap on the maximum square footage, which the applicant's proposal is well under. Again, ensuring that the facility is screened and roofed, so it doesn't create a problem or a nuisance to adjoining properties and streets. And additional buffering screening may be required by the zoning administrator as necessary. So should the Planning Commission find this application to be appropriate, staff has outlined the following conditions. Compliance with all review agency comments at all times. Provision for the requirement of an engineered minor site plan, which would address the supplemental use regulations that I summarized in the preceding slide. A prohibition on the onsite commercial sale of meat and poultry, and again, that any expansion or modification of this land use would require the approval of new conditional use permit. This item is presented to you all as a public hearing, and if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me at the address at the bottom of the screen. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the public hearing item this evening, and following the public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board. I would note that we did not receive any e-comments or any other comments as it pertains to this application. Justin Boyce and his wife, Becky, are here this evening representing themselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So any questions for Mr. Kline first? Yeah, I have one. Richard's Lane, I've only been out there one time. Is that just a gravel road going down through there? It's a gravel road, gravel state road, yes, sir. And what's the right-of-way size of that? Is it? I don't recall off the top of my head. All right, because when I think about a slaughterhouse, you know, you think about tractor trailers coming in there from Valley Proteins and livestock trailers coming in and out more so than just hauling your own stuff. So I'm concerned about the width of that road. As I stated earlier, the Boyce family has been operating a farm on Flickertown and Richard Lane for a number of years. There's also a number of other farms that are serviced back there, so I'm concerned about the width of that road. So, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to provide a little bit of information about the farm. I'm sure you have a lot of information. I'm sure you have a lot of information. I'm sure you have a lot of information. I'm sure you have a lot of information. Yes, there is a lot of information, so I encourage you to provide this information. Mr. Chairman and Madam Chancellor, are there other complains of farm sicherings any less about the farmers inools that might happen, In part because of the prickly nose precon Zhong sell fertilizer around a lot of them. This is a big topic that members in other parts of the dedans dealers too, they really want to happen when they see Mult Henry, I think, , and And so, the man last time we looked up ś these farmئ came out and said he knew how much power 국 already know the answers, but so there'll be in a record for him. Thanks for coming out tonight. Good to see you again. Hi Mr. Boyce, thank you. When I talk to you, like one thing neighbors may talk about is the carcasses. Could you tell what you're gonna do with those? Yeah, so basically we'll have a cold room to keep all of our rendered products and everything will be handled by Valley Protein. And then we have a wastewater treatment system, so all of our wastewater is gonna be, it's engineered. I just wanted everyone to know he's thought this out and there's not gonna be hazardous or anything. As far as the road's concerned, I pull a 16-foot corn planter down the road, so it's at least 16 foot wide. Is someone going to be able to help you with that? Yeah, I'm going to be able to help you with that. Somebody get value? I'm pulling that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, well, I mean, I'm just concerned. When you have two vehicles, and it depends, there's one little stretch that goes through the woods that it gets tight, but for the most part, there's enough room, especially at the beginning. When you get toward the end, which is where my house is, and then there's three other residences, that's where it gets kind of tight. But there is like one or two little pull-offs. I mean, if you meet at the right area, somebody's gonna have to back up, but. Well, I mean, we need more slaughterhouses in the area. It's a year and a half getting anywhere anymore, and I mean, I'm a farmer myself, so. But so my question would be, as I read this thing, the only question I have, the only concern I have is the right of way getting it out of there, because. No, like I say, we, I mean, VDOT says it's good. I agree. It's kind of, it could be a little better. I don't know. I've talked to VDOT a little bit about the dust, and they're, they've got solutions for that, because I was worried that maybe, some of the neighbors might get upset about that, but nobody's really said a whole lot, so. Well, if 50 hit, if 50 hit a week, valoprotein is going to be in there how many times? Well, that's, that'd be like two times a week, three times. Two times a week a tractor is coming in. And now 50, that's, that's long term. Yeah, getting up to it, yeah. Yeah, so initially starting out, we're probably looking at 10. Yeah, but you're not going to go through all that expense and time to, to not tap out at 50 as soon as you can. And that's why I want to, I want to make the CEP work for that, because, you know, that's about what GORS is doing, probably. Yeah. Somewhere in there. Has valoprotein been out, just to? I've spoke with them, but they have not been out. Okay. No. Okay. But I've had tractor and trailers in there. Okay. Yeah, it's not undoable. Yeah, I've been up that driveway. It's, you know, but if it's a vehicle that's handled used to that, they're used to going everywhere, so. Yeah, like mostly egg stuff, like fertilizer or trucks typed in there. Yeah, grain trailers. Yeah. My neighbor just put a, he's building two modules for his daughters, so they just brought those in there on tractor-trailer, so it's, it's doable. Just to clarify, what type of livestock were you? Beef, pork, lamb. Beef, pork, lamb. I just have another comment. We were, Molly and I were out there on Saturday, and, and we did see the site, the location, and he does have 110. acres, and he is building it smack in the middle of it, and you really can't see, and no neighbor, I don't think, is going to be able to see anything other than some traffic. Yeah, right. Thank you, Mr. Boyd. Yep. One more comment. Definitely the closest house to his slaughterhouse is his house. Oh, so now you have to, your wife, I see we got to make sure you make coffee. Okay, this is a public hearing. At this time, I'm going to open this public hearing. If there's anyone that wants to come forward and speak for or against this CUP, please state your name. Magisterial District. Seeing no one, this is really easy. I'm gonna, oh, this time when you walk up, please state your name in Magisterial District. I have a hard sell. Sean Graber, Back Creek District. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, thank you again for the opportunity to speak. Mr. Boyce is also a neighbor. I'll be it a couple miles down the road, but Mr. Boyce has been known by me and my family for many years because he farms property, farms land very, very close to our residence. I've known Mr. Boyce to be very conscientious, very respectful of the neighbor's thoughts, and in speaking of this last Saturday, the two planning commissioners from our district, I accompanied them on that trip, and I asked the same question that I've heard asked this evening. What about the smell? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? What about the carcass? He already has the container that those are gonna go in to keep them cool, to keep the neighbors happy, which being proactive and being a neighbor just down the road, I appreciate. I'm sure you can relate. Mr. Boyce also, as I stated, this is in the center of 110 acres. Should the driveway need to be reconfigured or reconstrued, he has a beautiful field directly north of where this will be built. He can put another driveway in, and according to the district, he's going to be able to do that. He's going to be able to do that. According to his wife, I'll let his wife do the talking here. According to his wife, they can put another driveway through the field if it would ever need to be widened to accommodate larger trucks or traffic. So hopefully that will alleviate any concerns you may have. I strongly support this. I strongly support the family farming industry, and this is a continuation thereof, and I kindly ask that you would support this resolution tonight. Thank you so much. Faber. Anyone else to speak for or against this CUP? All right. Seeing none, I will close the public hearing portion. Commissioners, discussions? I'm going to start to the right. Mr. Currens. Thank you. I would just like to say that from my standpoint, I talk with farmers all the time and have for the past several years, and the two top concerns I hear all the time are the cost of feed and slaughter times. And I hear that over and over again. There is a tremendous demand for that, and this is meeting that demand. So I'm more than happy to see this. As for planning commission, my biggest concern, again, would echo you with the traffic and the size of the vehicles that would be required to go back in there on that small road. But that would be my only concern. And like Justin said, they already have the size of those vehicles coming in there, but now they're in more, you know, for more frequency. So, yeah, that's that. That's my only concern. Yeah. Good. How about on the left here? Any discussion? Mr. Thomas. I think this is a well-needed business, and as far as the road goes, I think if it comes down to being a problem, it would limit his business, and it would be to his benefit to improve the road. So I think that would be self-correcting, hopefully, by the owner if need be in the future. And I wish him good luck, and I hope it works out great for him. Absolutely. Anything else? I'm in agreement. We all, anyone in this county knows we need a slaughterhouse, so this is a wonderful opportunity here. Okay, this is in the Bat Creek District, so I need for someone from the Bat Creek District to make a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move to approve Conditional Use Permit 0422 for Justin Boyce's slaughterhouse. Do I have a second? Second. Second. Okay, I'll let you all decide which one said that first. We'll start with, well, let's start with Bat Creek. Mrs. Brannon? Brannon, yes. Brumback, yes. Markert, yes. Dawson, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, yes. Hornby, yes. Kern, yes. Ozel, yes. Eakins, yes. Chair votes yes. This will be going before the Board of Supervisors July 13th. I'm going to go watch that just for the fun of it. It's going to be a busy night. Okay, we still have another public hearing item here. CUP number 0522 for Indoor Recreation Facility. So, Mr. Chairman. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, Plenty of Commissioners. This is a Conditional Use Permit to allow for commercial indoor recreational use. The property is located at 210 Fort Collier Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District, and it's currently zoned M1. Light Industrial. Turning your attention to the map on the left. This is the property outlined warehouse that they're going to be using for this indoor rec. Mr. Chairman, some of the newer planning commissioners, about five, maybe six years ago, we actually changed the zoning ordinance to allow commercial indoor rec in our M1 zoning district. Currently we have two of them that are operating in Frederick County, but there was a change. So, you know, we're going to have to do some work. We're going to have to do some work. We're going to have to do some work. You don't see it because mostly our gyms and a lot of our commercial indoor recreation is in our B2 or B3 zoning district. So, that's just a clarification on the ordinance that changed. This proposed use will be conducted within a 5,000 square foot space of a 16,000 square foot building with access to Fort Collier Road. The use will be for martial arts gym in the evenings on weekends. The applicant's hours of operations are from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. daily. The weekend hours will be from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. This use will have nine employees. The class sizes for these martial arts in the gym will be 15 to 30 students. Should the planning commission find this application to be appropriate, staff recommends the following conditions be assigned to this conditional use permit. Number one, all review agency comments shall be compliant with at all times. Number two, the odds of a failure to comply with the conditions shall be determined at all times. Number three, the odds of operations, again, will be from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, and Saturday and Sunday hours of 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. There will be no more than nine employees with this conditional use permit. A shared parking agreement shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the use of this property as a commercial indoor recreation facility. And number five, any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. Mr. Chairman, I'll explain a little bit about condition four real quick. That this warehousing for parking, it's set up a little different. So when you add more components to that, you have to provide for adequate parking. A shared parking agreement wouldn't entail between the, why the hours are put in there is that there is other businesses located in this warehouse. So between the hours of 6 a.m. and 9 p.m., we have to accommodate for some parking Monday through Friday. So prior to that, we have to provide for adequate parking. It's one of the conditions, the conditional use permit. The applicant's going to have to get a shared parking agreement with the adjoining property owner. What makes that shared parking agreement, if I could turn back to the map real quick, the property, there's actually three warehouses on here, three parcels are owned by the same property owner. So that's, they wouldn't have to go for any off-site one. The last one that we had a shared parking agreement was in an industrial park. It was not an issue. However, the properties weren't really close together. So that applicant actually had to do some walkways and stuff. Mr. Thomas was on the planning commission softball one. If you remember, that was an issue we had. This wouldn't be an issue other than getting a shared parking agreement. The applicant does not get the shared parking agreement with the landlord or the other users. The conditional use permit can't go forward. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any planning commissioners may have on this public hearing. Staff is looking for a recommendation. We're looking for a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors on this conditional use permit. For the record, the applicants are here to answer any questions that you may have on this conditional use permit. We'll start with Mr. Chairman. Any questions for Mr. Chairman? So do we have, I'm sorry. Okay, we got Ms. Brumbaugh. Do we have this shared parking agreement yet? No, ma'am. Because the reason, that's a good question, the reason is the hours of operation to see what they're going to have student-wise. We know for a fact. I'm going to let the applicant explain his business. He wants nine employees. He has nine employees. We know that to be where we're at. So once we, to tell you what, during his hours of operation, how many students we'll have, then we can work that parking agreement with the adjoining property or he can't. My question was, there was 54 parking places at the, that's the entire facility, correct? Right. And this particular office needs 20 of those 54. Right. And that's a good question. And to Mr. Orndorff, let me explain that this original configuration, his warehouse, was 16,000 square feet. There is parking right now for three users there. Okay. So during the hours of the daytime hours, and again, not knowing what the other businesses are, the applicant is going to have to have the shared parking agreement or have parking set up for his use. So the reason why the shared parking agreement would come into effect is, you're right, there's 50 spaces. You've got three other users there. I don't know what their employees are. And that is, as Ms. Brombeck was asking, that will get sorted out with the applicant and the landlord. We have, let me explain to you, a shared parking agreement. We actually have a shared parking agreement that we use in Frederick County that we look at. It's signed. It's almost like a, for a better word, a lease, if you will. And so if they need parking on the lower part of that property, they would have those spaces. That's what we're looking at at that time. And the business is owned, the property is owned by the same landlord. That's by the same landlord, yes. So that's a key tip. I reckon where I was still a little bit confused, I was understanding it as I read it earlier. There was 54 places. Okay, if there's three businesses, that would be, what, 18 per. But this applicant was only requesting 20. Right. But what you're taking into consideration at 56, I don't know what they have. He's. They have 20, but you've also got, he's got between 15 and 30 students and nine employees. Now, whether he has nine employees there at all time, that's what parking agreement Mr. Horndorff would sort out. Okay. Yeah, you're right. When you look at it today, if you write up here or you look at a staff report, it says, yeah, you've got 50 parking spaces there. Three businesses are in here. One's an electrical business. I don't know how many people they've got. So that's what the applicant and the landlord figure out. Okay. Get it that way. Okay. Okay. I'm looking to the left now. Mrs. Branson. I have a question. Like, right now, like, when I read his application, it's nine employees, and he would like to grow. So, like, the county limiting his employees is for the parking? Like, can we limit his parking spaces? Like, if they carpool, or if he has 10 employees and only four at work at a time? Like, what's this going to do to his business? Like, how many employees would he have? That's what he asked. Now, if he grows, then, of course, he would either have to move to another operation or rent more space if he wants to stay there. The shared parking agreement will ‑‑ there's two things. The shared parking agreement would come with a shortage of safe egress, ingress, drop-off, and where they're parking at. How the applicant wants to address, you know, his employees. How many times he ‑‑ they're going to have to go to the parking lot. How many times he's going to be there with hours of operation. That's what that parking agreement will pick up. I want to follow up on that question. I'm looking at Mr. Pearson on this one. Mr. Pearson, with the CUP, it specifically states nine staff. But if he does grow, does he have to come back? Yes. He does. Okay. I'm just ‑‑ I want it out there and make sure everybody understands that. So, okay. Any other questions? All righty. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, does anybody want to ‑‑ do you have any questions for the applicants? I have a question for staff. Okay. Come on up, guys. How does ‑‑ when was the last time that staff audited employee accounts? That's a good question. Just for the record. Yeah. How are you guys doing? Good. How are you doing? Good. So, I have a little diagram here just showing the parking situation as I understand it and talking with the property manager over the last week, just trying to get that figured out because Mr. Sheeran brought it up to me. By my count, it's like 19-ish spaces. I was looking at the e-mail that he sent me, and I think he actually missed a couple. By his count, it was like 18, something like that. But according to the landlord and him, the property manager, I have an e-mail from him stating that. So, there's a bay door in the front of the building that's actually been walled in, and the bay door is not operational anymore. It's just a, well, kind of a less good looking wall. Yeah. It's just a few feet off the side of the building. Yeah. So, with the hashed out parking area, it's a fit, you know, 2. 2.25 cars, let's say. Cars and a scooter. Right. Two cars and a scooter. Exactly. Exactly. So, and then also on top of that, the hours of operation. So, yes, we open at 6 a.m. on some days during the week. That class is then finished by, what, 8.30? 7. 7. That's Tuesday, Thursday, 6 to 7. Okay. So, and then we don't have classes again. Until 5 p.m. is a kids class that I'll teach. And... On a different day of the week. What did I say, 5? 6. 6. So, 6 p.m. The folks that are in the other suites in this building, for the most part, they're not there. And in talking to the property manager himself, he's like, yeah, it's really not an issue. When nobody else is there, which is generally when our classes happen, because it's recreation, most people are working 9 to 5. Basically, they're all gone by the time that any class that has more than 4, 5, maybe 6, 8 people show up. Right. The larger... Our morning classes are... Morning classes are generally much smaller. 8, 9, 10. They're mostly people with weirder schedules, local police, stuff like that. Guys that have weird schedules, they come in and train with us. At that point. But it's generally small classes. And according to the property manager, sort of a soft okay. That it's like, it's not a big deal if you've got to use one of these other parking spaces. I think there's actually only one other tenant in this building currently. They don't have that many employees. And then the other tenant... Well, the other piece of that building that's being... Being used by the landlord's company, just Adams Nelson's. And it's their shop. So they got one guy that's there whenever it's necessary. And they keep parts, materials, and stuff like that there. And that's about it. So for the most part, and I've been there every waking hour that I'm not at my day job over the last month and a half. But for the most part, that parking lot's pretty vacant. And I am, like I said, talking back and forth with the property manager. To figure out exactly the amount of spaces allotted on the lease. But all in all, we have a pretty... I do want to jump in. So that will be part of the lease. So you will have a specific amount of spaces put in that lease, right? The lease is already done. It's already executed. I don't have it on me. But I'm trying to see if he sent me a clip from one piece. Because he had to go, the property manager had to go and look. He went back. And so I'm assuming maybe it's not... It's kind of vague in the lease, the way the lease is arranged. But like I said, he says 18 on here. And I think he missed actually these two. You don't look at it. I guess my question is, somewhere along the line, there will be something in writing that they will have an agreement, right? For parking. Yes, Mr. Chairman. There will be. That's what the idea of the shared parking agreement. But it will be in writing. Can I interject? Yes, sir. Well, Mr. Chairman, just to be clear here, the agreement with the landlord is not the shared parking agreement. Okay. So there's going to be however many spaces they're entitled to under the lease for the property they're leasing. Right. And then what staff is talking about. The shared parking agreement is an agreement with an adjoining property owner that allows them to use spaces on adjoining properties to serve this use. Right. But I just want to... I want... You know, it's going to be black and white. There's going to be somewhere along the line, there's going to be something with ink on it. So... Sure. Mrs. Brandon. Well, my concern is he says we have nine employees, we have 130 customers, but we anticipate... Okay. Growing. So I've never been part of a shared parking agreement. Like, can he talk to the owner of the property that he's leasing and make it with him and see if we have to put restrictions on him like this on his hours, on the number of employees, if parking really isn't an issue according... Can they get that before we vote on it? Look at the staff here. That's an option if the commission wants to consider structuring it that way. Okay. So I would ask the applicant to look to the commission for the timeline that they're looking to receive an approval as well, because I know they're currently renting and would like to operate their business as soon as possible. I imagine. Okay. Every day they're spending money. Mr. Thomas. Let me just clarify. They can't expand without coming back to change a conditional use permit. So the number of parking spaces they need now, if they need more sometime in the future, they would have to come back. Or if they increase the numbers of people, they'd have to come back for a change to the conditional use permit. The number of parking spaces is really an issue between them and the landlord and not really us. Okay. So requiring that they have a shared parking agreement. Is really all we need to do. It puts the onus on the landlord and the leaser or the applicant to work out the parking spots. If this meets the intent of our zoning ordinances and is safe and complies with all other county regulations, we need to stay out of it and let them work it out with the landlord as far as parking spots and that. Because we, the last thing we want is staff to be able to come back. Okay. So we're going to have to do that. We're going to have to get staff out there counting parking spots and who's in which parking spot. How many staff are showing up each day? Well, my question is, do we leave the restrictions on the hours of his business and the number of employees he can have? I mean, it's his business. It's part of their CUP. They are the ones putting CUP in. They requested that. They requested that. So you want to be limited to nine employees and if you go to 10, you have to come back. Pay for another CUP. Preferably for us. Mr. Chairman, commissioners, can I address the nine employees piece of that? We actually only have two employees. Well, so it's, it's. Like on our payroll. Basically, I was called by Mr. Sheeran, right? And we're asked, what's the hours? How many employees do you have? We have instructors that teach all sorts of different classes. There's almost never more than two people acting as staff and not as a student there at any given time, almost ever. Right. That's what I was alluding to. The fact that you might be imagining pulling up to a building for a class and seeing nine vehicles there. The number nine is probably my count. Will and his wife teach the kids program. They carpool together. And then all of our classes otherwise are pretty much instructed by one person who arrives. And. The classes are staggered. So it may be one or two staff there when our students show up. But as you have the nine staff, you grow in and students, you're going to be moving to another building. But if you can afford nine staff, then we can probably afford a smaller larger. So you're fine with these restrictions on you. Well, to answer your question, would we like to be restricted? Absolutely not. But if it's required, then. I'll do anything I got to do in order to start operating in the new location so that I don't have to pay rent for two different places to the tune of five thousand dollars a month. Like Mr. Thomas said, we don't want to go count employee parking spaces. Do we want to go count employees? You know, she was. That's. Whatever. Right. The. The perspective of the commission is staff will work within the bounds of that. OK, well, let's let's let's go and get our. Did I open? No, I mean, oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Akins. Are you comfortable with what's presented in front of the council for your business plan? Or not council, but commission is as far as the nine nine people. Yeah, I mean. And the park getting a parking agreement. So, yeah, I don't quite understand exactly what all. Is entailed when it comes to the parking agreement piece. Like if it's literally just a notarized piece of paper signed by me and the landlord that says, hey, you got. That's pretty much what one on our. OK, I mean, that's something I. You. You're. So. So what I'm hearing is you're comfortable as presented on the business plan that you have to operate your business. Correct. Sure. OK, so I don't counsel. I'm not counsel commission. I don't think it's our job to dictate the business plan. If they feel that they're comfortable with presented. Right. Consider that. Right. There may be one other thing that the. I was just saying that we can. Cutting cutting off business at one o'clock on weekends. If we have a seminar. Oh, the ten to one. Yeah. And the one on Saturday. Right. That piece. Kind of restrict. That's sort of like our regular hours. But that would. That'd be great if we don't have to worry about. Being out of the building at one p.m. Or whatever. Right. Just it would seem like on a Sunday. There's no one in the industrial area on Sunday. So you should should be able to have all day Sunday. I would assume. I. Was in my. Based on. What. You said. There was. Exactly. The. Chairman. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. I. No. I. I. During this time. A. A. A. A. A. A. A. Maybe. Or. In the evening, mostly in the evening, are those kids' classes, a lot of kids' classes? At 6 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday, I teach a kids' class, and then Saturday mornings. And do those parents usually come and sit there the entire time or drop their kids off and go get 55 minutes of peace and quiet and shopping? We hope in our new location that some of them will have a space that they can actually escape the room where the kids run around screaming. I don't get to, but we'll have a separate section for them. But generally, it's probably 50-50. Just trying to make the point that if you have 15 kids there, there's probably not 15 cars parked there with the 15. 15 kids that they drop on with four parents or five parents. We have members that bring sometimes four or five kids in a clip. And to me, it's a one-for-par situation. Many, many of our customers stop by. That was all. You might have a few. They'll bring in the kids, too. So bring them in. Okay. Thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate you coming up. Thank you. At this time, I'm opening this public hearing. If there's anyone that would like to speak for or against CUP 0522, come forward. State your name. Magistrate of the District. I see no one. So I'm closing this public hearing. Okay, folks. Commissioners, let's have a little discussion here. Chairman, I think this is a good business. I think we ought to change the hours of operations to 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Sunday. I mean, there's no reason to restrict the hours on Friday or Saturday and Sunday since the other businesses really aren't going to be there anyhow. And I'm not sure what benefit Condition 3 gives us, limiting the number of employees. Yeah. Unless some other planning commissioner can think of a reason to have that in there. The original intention of both the hours of operation condition and the employee limitation, was to set the bounds for how they could work with the property owner to negotiate a shared parking agreement because it provides a firm setting for what they need for parking. Keep in mind, this structure was designed as a single one-bay warehouse, as far as we know. It's since been divided up into three. And sorry, Kay, you probably know better than me, originally, obviously. So it was not intended as a gym originally, and the parking that was designed around it, it was not intended for this use. And so that's really the onus behind all of the conditions, is to try to reconcile that fact moving forward. Mrs. Dawson, please speak to your experience on the original intentions for the structure, if I got that at all wrong. There were three units in that building. Okay, thank you. Does that answer your question, sir? Okay. I mean, if we want to limit the number of parking spaces they can use, I mean, that would be done by the owner of the building, and in the parking agreement, if we don't want to make any other limit, I'd say why don't we limit the number of students to 50 students at any one time in the building. But I don't know why we would limit the number of employees. That doesn't seem to offer much. The application could still function with that condition removed, if the commission feels it's necessary. As someone that spent quite a few years actually volunteering doing martial arts, and that's why I said, this is to you about you get future clientele in. You know, your parents, the parents come in there, they're with the kids, and all of a sudden the parents are part of it, and, you know, for the program I was in, it was actually a structured program where all the parents were volunteers, and they end up being the teachers and working their way up, and it's really a very great progressive way. So I think the limitation on the staff is it's a hard thing to say staff, because in the program I was in, we were all volunteers, but we were considered staff, right? So in that sense, but, so I agree with you about the limitation of the staff, so. I just wouldn't want to hurt their chances of, right, with their lease. That's right. Yeah. That's right. That would be my hesitation. My question is, like, if he goes to get the share parking agreement, and they don't want him to operate the hours, that I just don't think the county should be restricting him. He can limit his hours. He can limit his employees, the number of parking spaces. I just don't think the county should be doing that for him. I think there's a good, I think you need to have some structure. So having some set hours is a, you're giving them a pretty darn good window there with the hours. Well, yeah, I'm glad to see the extension on weekend, because, but let him work it out with his landlord. I guess. It's not a things question about what he can do with his time. Yeah, needs to be like a satellite during the entire quarter, because the take down is pretty similar with what the county's seing for the sum of it that was 내려ved before that because it just should be Conservation müssen amino acids instead of beş. Do we have any other questions or any other comments? Mrs. Cosell. motion, man. I'm perfectly fine with moving to accept this with the modification of the hours that Mr. Thomas adopted for approval. Alright, so the motion is going to be to accept it with the modified hours. Second. We got a motion. We got a second. But not the employees, right? We didn't. No, we left that in there. We left that in place. So we got a motion. We've got a second. Everybody is clear on what we're voting on here? Alright. Mr. Akins. Akins, yes. Ozo, yes. Kern, yes. Orndorff, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Lawson, yes. Marker, yes. Karmack, yes. Brennan, yes. Chairman votes yes. This will also be on the docket for the Board of Supervisors July 13th. So that'll be a fun night. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Under other, Mr. Pearson, what do we got going? Anything exciting? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. Nothing really noteworthy as far as current planning applications, but just to note where we're at at this point in the year, we've almost received more development applications than we did for the entire last year, and we're halfway through the year. So that's just noteworthy for your perspective. The Northeast Land Use Plan Survey is up and active. Sent you all an email on that. Please help us spread the word and get that out to as many people as you know who either live, work, or just Frederick County residents, because we all use the Northeast Land Use area in some form or fashion. And the July 6th Planning Commission meeting is canceled as we did not receive any applications by the deadline. Have a wonderful Fourth of July. Okay. July 6th is canceled. Excellent. Very good. And again, emphasize that you want that survey to go out as many Frederick County residents as possible. Don't limit it. So let's get that, let's do our part, share it with our folks so we can. So, okay. With that, I need a motion to adjourn. So moved. Second. Okay. We are adjourned. Everybody have a great evening.
