Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2020-09-02
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=60
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I may not have a mic, so I'll speak loud unless everyone can't hear me, but they're pointing at me here to that. But the next item is, before we adopt the agenda, I will say that, there we go, we'd like to make a slight change to the agenda tonight. We're going to take our second item that's on our agenda and move it up to our final item. Our first item, and if no one has an objection to that, I'll entertain a motion to do so. So do I have a second? Second. Then all those in favor? Aye. Thank you. So what we'll do then, we'll move that up. We'll just flip-flop those two. Next item, we have no meeting minutes to approve tonight, so we'll skip past that. Our next one is our committee reports, and I think we'll go right to our transportation report. Yes. We met a couple of weeks ago, had three items. First was our smart scale application that's been sent in. Of course, it takes two years for it to move through the cycle of the state before we find out if we can get funding. The projects we moved forward was down at Shawnee Drive and Route 11, widening the northbound lanes. That's a $4.4 million project. Out on Route 7, intersection improvements at Millbrook and First Woods. That's a $1.2 million. That's a $5.9 million project. Improvements on exit 317 to realign the ramps and remove a stoplight. That's $5.9 million. Route 11 and Old Charlestown Road roundabout, where there's currently being a stoplight put in. But to change that over to a roundabout, that's $6.4 million. And then a large improvement with a diverging diamond interchange at exit 317. The local VDOT really wanted to push to help traffic in that area. But that's a $40.5 million project. The other item is over at the Ravens. VDOT finally came back. There was a lot of concern from the residents about cut-through traffic through the subdivision. After taking all the readings through there, setting up cameras and whatnot, they found that the cut-through traffic really wasn't as bad. It was a lot of traffic. What was being projected, and it didn't meet the warrants for a lot of traffic calming measures. However, one thing they can do is paint line striping on the side, try and narrow the streets down a little bit to slow the traffic down. So the committee recommended that be pushed forward to VDOT to study and implement. All right. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. And going down my list, I see no others except that I didn't get a report from Winchester Planning. So I have no report from the Winchester Planning. I don't have a report from the Board of Supervisors. I don't have a report from the Board of Supervisors. I don't have a report from the Board of Supervisors. I don't have a report from the Board of Supervisors. Mr. Graber, do you have a report from the Board of Supervisors? Mr. Chairman, thank you. I don't have a report to bring from the Board. However, as a Board member, I would like to just share that I know Mr. Marston Rhodes, or Rhodes Marston and Mr. Jewell have worked extensively on the Bartonsville solar project. They've met with the community several times, as well as with me. I hope that you guys will take into account. Strongly, some of the thoughts and opinions they've been able to gather as a result of those community meetings. I know it has been a real challenge this year with the multiple solar projects and the multiple CUPs that they've had to deal with. And I want to thank them for their perseverance and their time and their efforts put forth in this, as I know that there has been a lot of work garnered there. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. The next item on our agenda is the citizen comments. Anyone would like to come forward and speak to the commission on any item that's not on our agenda tonight. This is your time to come forward, speak before us. What's your opinions? Anything and everything. Seeing no one, come forward. The first item is a public hearing item. Our next one is CUP number 10-20 for Hans Holthaus and Mark Cherin. Mr. Mark Cherin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the Planning Commission. This is a condition of use permit for a public garage with body repair. We're working on vehicles and farm equipment, property located at 5115 Cedar Creek grade. It's in the back Greek Magisterial District. This is a request again to establish a public garage. The property currently is owned to R.A. rural areas and the current land use is for agricultural residential. It's also surrounded by properties that are R.A. and are used for agricultural and residential purposes. The zoning ordinance defines a public garage or a designated or used for servicing or repairing of motor vehicles. The applicant proposes to have one employee with this conditional use permit. This use would take place entirely within an existing building on site and access the property provided by a private driveway from Cedar Creek grade or 622. The 2015 Comprehensive Policy Plan of Frederick County identifies this area of the county as rural and remain rural for agricultural nature and is not part of any current land use study in Frederick County. Here's the aerial photograph and the outline of the property. You can see it's surrounded by vacant property, really orchards. If any of the Planning Commission have visited the site, they're on Cedar Creek grade. This is the layout that the applicant is proposing to use for this. Like I said, it has an existing building out there. I want you to use it for the public garage. Should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate, staff will recommend the following conditions. One, I'll review agency comments and requirements so we comply with it at all times. Number two, an illustrious sketch plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County and all improvements completed prior to the establishment of this use. And number three, all auto repair related activities including the storage of vehicles, awaiting service, shall occur entirely within an enclosed structure. Any external storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by an opaque fence or screening at least six feet in height. Number four, hours of operation for this condition are used from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday and 8 a.m. to noon on Saturdays and be closed on Sundays. Number five, any proposed business size should conform to the Cottage Occupation Design requirement. And shall not exceed four square feet in size and five feet in height. And finally, number six, any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. Mr. Chairman, the applicant is here to answer any questions that you or any of the Planning Commissioners may have. Obviously, I'm here to answer any questions you all may have. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions? Mr. Thomas. Mr. Chairman, before we leave, just a quick one. I support this. But the item number three where it says any exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by an opaque fence or screening at least six feet in height. Any questions? Mr. Thomas. Any questions? Any questions? Mr. Chairman, I'm here to ask you, if you're going to be screening from view by an opaque fence, is there a limit on the amount of equipment that can be stored on the site? I mean, we don't want it to turn into a junkyard that has 40 pieces of farm equipment that are inoperable. Usually, it's just five vehicles. You don't see that, do you? Right. Well, with the opaque fence, which you don't see, we can add that as a condition if the Commission desires to add that. Any other questions? Thank you, sir. Would the applicant like to come forward, please? How you doing, sir? Fine, thanks, sir. Do you have anything you'd like to add? No, sir. Okay, so you did a good job. Any questions for the applicant? Am I understanding this is mainly just farm equipment? Yes, farm equipment for a family member. Okay, so you're just working on mainly tractors and... His farm equipment, like his cars and his trucks, stuff like that. Okay, all right. Sounds good. All right, thank you. Okay. This is a public hearing. At this time, I'll open a public hearing. Anybody would like to come forward to speak for or against this item, please do so. Come to the microphone. State your name, match your district, your address. Anyone? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. Any discussion amongst the Commissioners? Like I said, I support this. I would like to see us add no more than five pieces of inoperable equipment. I would like to see us add no more than five pieces of inoperable equipment stored outside on the site. Sometimes in a rural area, you can get a lot of inoperable pieces of farm equipment on the site that would be... Okay. Mr. Rhoads? My only concern with that is, by right, if he was just working on ag equipment, he could have as much as he wanted to. Ag equipment. Ag equipment. I mean, if he was just working on licensed vehicles, I'm on board with that. But, yeah, it's a six-acre track. I mean, he could only put so much on there. But if it's right now today, he could park as many tractors and plows and whatever else he wanted there. So I wouldn't want to limit him on that. Okay. So our wording, to be clear, is that we'll limit it to five licensed vehicles will be added to the... If we were going to do it, we would. If we were going to do it at all, that's where I would draw the line. Right. But I'm comfortable, actually, with the way it is right now. I think it's a good use and it's needed out there. Okay. Any other discussion, questions? Mike? Mr. Roddy? It may be appropriate to identify that as five highway vehicles, perhaps. Obviously, if they're under repair, they may not be appropriately licensed or inspected, but highway vehicles might be a fair enough description. Okay. Okay. If we do it, this is a back creek. Who from our back creek would like to include that verbiage? Mr. Chairman, the only thing that's going to see anything up there will be apple trees. But there is no more discussion. I'd like to make a motion that we approve CUP number 10-20 for a public garage without battery repair. And item number three to add limited to five licensed vehicles or highway vehicles. All right. I have a motion. Do I have a second? Second. I have a second. And we'll start with Mr. Ambrogi. Ambrogi, yes. Jewell, yes. Marston, yes. Manor, yes. Oates, yes. This CUP is approved, goes to the Planning Commission for, I mean, for the Board of Supervisors on the September 23rd meeting. Thank you. Our next item is also a conditional use permit. It's a public hearing item, number 05-20 for the Bartonsville Energy Facility, LLC. Mr. Klein. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a conditional use permit for properties located along Passage Road, Marlboro Road, Middle Road, Springdale Road, immediately west of the railroad corridor and partially within the limits of the town of Stevens City. It's in the Bat Creek and Opecan Magisterial District. And I won't bore you with all the PIN numbers, but they are listed there and includes all of the lots in the Springdale Glen subdivision and all the lots in the Carleton Estates subdivision, which are platted subdivisions. But do not contain any residences. The properties are all zoned RA, rural areas, except those within the town of Stevens City. And the current land use is agricultural and vacant. The proposed use is the utility scale solar power generating facility. Directing your attention to the screen, you can see that the subject properties are outlined in blue. They span from Middle Road in the northern part, south crossing Springdale Road, Passage Road. And then they span from the east end of the road to the west end of the road. And extend into the town of Stevens City and along the boundary of the town of Stevens City to the south. The Board of Supervisors added utility scale solar power generating facilities as a conditional use to the zoning ordinance in January of this year. And this is an application for a CUP to enable the construction of a 705-acre utility scale solar power generating facility. And that is the disturbed area. And it's located on properties totaling approximately 1,160.5 acres. The project will generate between 80 to 130 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy. And those 705 acres will be utilized for the installation of rows of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, commonly known as solar panels. And other necessary equipment for the facility operations, including inverters, access paths, security fencing, and landscaping. Power generated from this facility will be combined, converted, and increased to allow delivery to the adjacent First Energy KV transmission lines. And the proximity to those lines is important in the siting of this facility. Again, a portion of the project, approximately 132 acres, is within the limits of the town of Stevens City. These properties, although they're part of this application, are ultimately subject to the regulations of the town, which classify solar as a by-right use, and that the project will receive separate approvals from the town for the use of this acreage within the larger project. And again, 64 platted residential lots are included in this application that are within the county, within Springdale Glen and the Carrollton Estates subdivisions. And these will need to be vacated as part of this project if it is approved, in addition to removal of all the dedicated rights-of-way. The comprehensive plan is a project that will be implemented in the next few years. The comprehensive plan envisions this area of the county to remain primarily rural in nature and for agricultural land to be preserved for future generation. This project is generally compatible with the comprehensive plan and with the rural character of the area and with the adjoining agricultural and residential uses. The preservation of the underlying land maintains the ability for agricultural uses in the future if and when this facility is removed. In regards to the zoning ordinance, the zoning ordinance is a project that will be implemented in the next few years. The zoning ordinance is a project that will be implemented in the next few years. This program would take each city city, district and farm to lord to address Scout Road and the refugee ՛ ↗ Registering plans within the시� and Z tabwe regardless of their size. The zoning ordinance requirements for public utilities allows the zoning administrator to determine the setbacks and as consistent with the previous project that you all have reviewed we are adhering to the primary building setback principal use setbacks in the RA district. As part of the zoning ordinance compliance that includes a site plan reviewing approval under article 8 and the applicant has submitted a concept plan which is revised as recently as August the 28th and that's been provided with their application and on that it depicts setbacks of a minimum of 100 feet up to 200 feet around the perimeter of the project for the solar arrays. The site plan includes extensive landscaping and screening provided through a landscape buffer which includes a mix of deciduous trees, evergreen trees, shrubbery, and earthen berms and that's included on sheets 3 and 4 of the site plan and on the site plan it also includes a setback for the project. As part of the zoning ordinance compliance requirements for public utilities the zoning ordinance also shows that access to the site will be limited to two entrances one from Springdale Road and one entrance from Passage Road and again those those entrances are depicted on the concept plan sheets 3 and 4. Again directing your attention to the screen we have the concept plan cover and this is sheet 3 which is the northern boundaries of the property. Again Springdale Road kind of bisects the property here. What is now plotted as Springdale Glen is the are the two entrances to the site and the two entrances to the site are the two entrances to the site. These twelve lots and then the additional subdivision Carlton Estates is this kind of southern portion here and all of those lots will be vacated as part of this project. Again you can see on the concept plan the applicant has laid out an extensive buffer and screening to make sure that the project is not visible from adjoining properties and residences. And then this is sheet 4 again the southern portion of the property a portion of which is contained in the town of Stephen City and then this yellow outline is parcels that are part of the application but where solar arrays will not be located and those are being used for interconnection with the overhead transmission facilities. Again on the concept plan all the buffer details are included. The zoning ordinance also requires that for solar facilities a decommissioning plan be submitted to the county and one has been provided as part of this application and the decommissioning plan provides provisions for the removal of all equipment and the site being restored to the pre-development condition. The decommissioning plan consistent with the Code of Virginia and the zoning ordinance specifies entering into a written agreement and financial security with Frederick County for the life of the project to ensure that at such time the facility is no longer in operation the facilities are the equipment can be removed in the land restored to its pre-development state and the estimated cost and the decommissioning plan are updated every five years. Thank you. So we know exactly what the value of that equipment is over the life of the project. Again that's just a grab of the cover of the decommissioning plan provided by TORCH. For all solar facilities they also have to go through a permit by rule and this is a in addition to any of the requirements contained in the county zoning ordinance the applicant is pursuing a PBR through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality and the PBR is a state administrative review and approval process which includes an extensive environmental and cultural review and study as part of the project. One component of the state required PBR review is local jurisdiction approval of a solar project for siting and this CPE application if approved by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors would satisfy that requirement enabling the applicant to complete the PBR process for this project. So in conclusion should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate staff would recommend the following conditions of approval. I will note that the project is designed to meet the needs of the public. These conditions have been amended slightly from those that were contained in the staff report, and you all have been provided a copy of those revised conditions in an email in advance of tonight's meeting and also at your desk. Number one, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineered site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to and subject to approval by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use, and that the site plan shall address the additional regulations for specific uses outlined in the zoning ordinance and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with this CUP application prepared by Greenway Engineering and dated August the 28th, 2020. That buffers and screening shall be provided around the perimeter of the project in general conformance with the quantity of the proposed plantings depicted on sheets three and four of the concept plan, landscape buffer A, B, C, D, E, and F included with the CUP application prepared by Greenway Engineering and dated August the 28th, 2020. The landscape buffer plantings shall be maintained in good health for the life of the project. Number four, that prior to site plan approval, the owner shall enter into a written agreement with Frederick County to decommission the solar energy equipment, facilities, or devices personate to the terms and conditions of 15.2 of the Code of Virginia, and that the written agreement shall be updated every five years, and in general, will be updated every five years, and in general, will be updated every five years, and in general, conformance with Exhibit D, preliminary decommissioning plan included with the CUP application prepared by Torch Clean Energy dated May 2020. Number five, the batteries for the purposes of storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid are prohibited as part of this CUP. Number six, that the conditional use permit shall not be effective until, unless and until the vacations of the Springdale Glen and Carrollton Estates subdivisions are approved and recorded. Number seven, that the premises will be filled out during the next of the six weeks prior to site plan全部chniği and 1991. In addition, approval and recordation of such vacations shall not take place prior to the approval of any site plan son the use authorized by the conditional use permit. In addition, approval and recordation of such vacations shall not take place prior to the approval of any site plan for the use authorized by the conditional use permit. Number seven, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances from Springdale Road and one entrance from Passage Road Number seven, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances from Springdale Road and one entrance from Passage Road and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the CUP application prepared by Greenway Engineering dated August 28th, 2020, and that delivery of solar array panel construction materials willfic booty Solar Generation Tunnel Members and other regulations or machines will be provided. will occur at the site access entrance off Passage Road, identified as Deer Lane on Sheet 4 of the concept plan. Solar array panel material deliveries laid on area will be limited to Tax Parcel 74-A-44A, also known as the Carball property. Number eight, that pile driving of poles for solar arrays during construction shall be limited to 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and that all other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. No construction activities are permitted on Sundays. Number nine, and this is a condition that has been added since the staff report was published, that the location of inverters serving the solar project shall be at least 450 feet from all adjacent residences. And number 10, that any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. Following the proposal, public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use permit for a utility-scale solar power generating facility, and that any recommendation for approval from the Planning Commission should include a statement affirming that the proposed solar facility is in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. I'm happy to answer any questions, and Greenway is here on behalf of the applicant, as is representatives from Torch. I'm sure they're happy to answer some questions as well. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Questions, Mr. Klein? Mr. Thomas. Mr. Klein, the decommissioning agreement is between Torch and the county. Is that correct? That is correct, yes, sir. It's between Torch and the county. If Torch goes bankrupt and cannot complete the decommissioning, is the agreement based on a surety or a bond, or is it based on Torch having the financial capability to decommission the site? Based on a bond that would be held by the county, that if Torch went under and the project goes belly up, we'd be able to remove the equipment. The bond would cover the cost of the removal of that equipment and the restoration of the land. There's no way the county taxpayers can get put on the hook to put this back to its original condition? Correct, yes, sir. Okay. Other questions? I will add quickly, you all have been provided all of the public comment. That has been received in writing through the e-comment portal, and all that was provided in advance of the meeting this evening just to make sure everyone's voice is heard. I just have one question real quick, Mr. Klein. How many lots were going to be vacated? I missed that. 64 lots. 64, thank you. I've got a question, too. Mr. Molder. Will the lots be regenced? No. Once the lots are vacated, whoever takes over that property would have to apply for a new subdivision and go through the process to get those lots regened. You plot it. Any other questions? Thank you, Mr. Klein. Would the applicant representative like to come forward? I see him rising. Mr. Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. Evan Wyatt with Greenway Engineering and representing the CEP application. Also with me this evening is Sam Gullen with Torch Energy. When we were scheduled for the July 1st meeting, of course, this was continued because of some technical things that need to be addressed with the board as a first step. So we didn't get to make a formal presentation. Tyler did a very good job going over the project in a very thorough manner, but we're going to go over just a couple quick things and then be available for any questions you might have. And I'm going to introduce Sam to start the presentation. Thanks. Good evening, Chairman, members of the commission. Thanks for letting me speak tonight. My name is Sam Gullen. I'm a development manager with Torch Clean Energy. I wanted to give a quick background on my company. We've been around since 2008. We were actually originally the wind energy arm of an oil and gas company in Texas. We got our start doing wind projects in the southwest, and we've expanded geographically and also gotten into solar. In 2013, we took the renewables business separate and became Torch Clean Energy. And we've been developing in Virginia for about two years. We have two projects in Virginia that we've permitted at the local level. So we have one in Chesterfield County near Richmond and one down in Greensville County as well. So I'm from Virginia originally. I'm based in Charlottesville. And I'm a development manager at Torch Clean Energy. I really like kind of seeing different parts of the state and being in Virginia again and working here. And one thing we take pride in is that, you know, at Torch we do maintain ownership in projects from the start to the finish. So we, you know, identify, you know, good sites and good places to connect to the grid, reach out to the landowners, you know, do the local permitting. And we, you know, stay involved and manage the construction and ownership as well. So, you know, we've been doing a lot of work in the community since 2013, you know, with the exception of a couple projects that we built for electric co-ops, we've maintained ownership in all of the projects that we've done. Now I know that you all have gotten the kind of the solar 101 stuff probably multiple times. So rather than doing that, I wanted to give you a little background on, you know, what I've been doing as far as community outreach and, you know, meeting with folks in the community. So I'm going to go ahead and just kind of go over the concept plan in detail, but I just wanted to let you know that we have made a concerted effort to meet with the project neighbors, you know, and people that live around the project. A couple weeks ago I, you know, I met with some of the county officials with some of the neighbors, but even before that, you know, I reached out directly to several of the project neighbors and met with them. And when we go over the, the concept plan I just want you to know that this kind of reflects, you know, those meetings and talking to people and hearing their concerns. And to give you a few examples, you know, in a lot of boundaries of the project we have existing vegetation and topography and we're going to use that wherever we can. One example, you know, months ago I met with the folks that own the winery on Middle Road and kind of walked the site with them. And we adjusted the project boundary and kind of used the, the slope to kind of put the project behind the crest of a hill so, you know, it's not going to be, in that case, it's not going to be visible to them and the project will not actually be visible from Middle Road at all. In other areas we are proposing planting new, new buffers. You know, I think there's seven or eight different kind of proposed types of buffers. And the total comes out to, I guess, 11,000 linear feet, which is a lot of new plantings. And then in one particular area we're also going to be adding an earth berm given the topography in that, in that location to make that buffer more effective and better for the neighbors. The location of our substation, so you'll see when we go through the concept plan, but it's, you know, it's adjacent to the CSX railroad and industrial use on the other side of it, it's very much in the low ground. And I think it's a good location for the substation. And I think it could even be of use to Stephen City in the future given what their, their plans are for the land, kind of near where that substation would go in. And then the last one is kind of a specific example that Tyler brought up. We are agreeing to have a minimum distance from residences to our solar inverters. And the inverters are about, you know, the same level of noise as an air conditioning unit. But that's something that we added just to kind of make sure that in no case would they be audible from beyond the project boundary. So those are a few examples. You know, we have had multiple iterations of the concept plan. I think we last updated it on, on Friday. But this concept plan is going to be, this concept plan really does reflect, you know, our efforts to, you know, meet with folks in the community and design the project in the best way possible. So with that, I will let Evan go over the concept plan. Happy to take questions now or probably after the, after we go through the concept plan. But why don't we wait until we're finished with our presentation? Like I said, I'm, I'm not going to go into great depths of detail since Tyler was very thorough in his presentation. But I do think it's good to get a good orientation of the project area, which is where I'm starting with the aerial. And what we have, the way we thought we could best color code it so people could make sense of what we're trying to do, every parcel that's in the red is the actual area where the solar array panels would be constructed. And then the yellow parcels are where there would be an underground, a coating of solar. So that's where we're going to be connecting the sub station to the sub station. And then the yellow parcels are going to be the generation tie line from the limits of the solar panels that would go underground and then connect to the sub station. So everything in the yellow is going to look like it does today, less than except there's going to be a new substation, like Sam said, here by the railroad track. The one thing that is also a little bit unique with the project, this is a portion of the West Oaks farm market. The farm market sits right here. Middle road is right here. This is a portion of R&T packaging, our packing corporations parcels. We've talked a little bit about the Springdale Glen and the Carrollton Estates properties. And all those are properties that are located within Frederick County. This is the Staples property and this is the Carbaugh property, which actually falls within the boundaries of the town of Stevens City. Their corporate boundary does this, where this white line is. As Tyler said in his presentation, the sub station is located in the center of the town. So it's a little bit different than the other sub stations within the town. It falls in line with the outpatient towns of Southern atau bill and territoria. I also like our park and our Fremont有 � toilet and our hills. Moving north so man of these are the monuments possible within the town of Stevens 다양한- 반 power to myș map on all that but I call that by mural listing buildingありがとうございます. What makes me think this as permit by right site directly and it's pretty way detail in the town of the town as we get into management options just without the captain'sから In addition with that the town is managed by the City of Houston where a candidate for estates want to call some of thedzyxual back to Spanish Russel this is generally the搶avス it's aغ a lot of third land was здесь is your executive city and other residents掛 yk what's exactly a big city in Southernmakers? division located right here but there's generally large agricultural properties that are our immediate neighbors so the project in and of itself really does not butt up against individual residential lots but even though the ordinance would allow us to be 50 feet from a lot if it was six acres or less as Tyler said our setbacks are 100 to 200 feet for where we would start the actual project development Tyler went through the discussion about the concept plan in nature he said there would be two entrances Springdale Road runs through here we would have an entrance going into the properties that create the northern land base which is the West Oaks farm market and the R&T properties and the Springdale Glen and the West Oaks Farm Market and the R&T properties and the Springdale Glen there's also an entrance right here that would go into the properties that are currently Carrollton Estates as you can see by the detail there are multiple buffer details and those buffers are customized based on various issues and impacts and view sheds that we work through with various discussions with the county and with property owners and then the properties here on sheet 4 once again these two properties are located within the town of Steven City and that's a by right use but once again to be responsive to concerns by neighbors that reside right here there's been a lot of dialogue and there was fairly good detail worked out which includes earth berming and landscaping for the benefit of those property owners another back to sheet 3 real quick another area that was important to the historic resources advisory board Carter Hall which is a historic house sits right here and as I mentioned there's a small residential subdivision here what we agreed to do in these areas is though there's existing trees but to also supplement the buffering there with a triple row of evergreen trees that are planted so we've certainly tried to put our best foot forward to develop the property to be sensitive to the neighbors and to and to mitigate impacts as we see them the other thing before Sam finishes some closing comments it was kind of interesting to me I looked back through the agenda when we filed the rezoned or the rezoned the conditional use permit the concept plan that we submitted with the digital filing was a May 16 concept plan I went back through our process working through the county and there's been four iterations of the concept plan since the original filing so since we really started engaging the county and the neighbors since the beginning of June and for your meeting in July there's still been three iterations of the concept plan that were created to keep moving forward in addressing comments so I hope that's appreciated the other thing I also looked at the CUP comments that were on your July 1st agenda when we were tabled and the thing that also jumped off the page to me about that comment or condition three was that we took a look at this new CU and I've looked it up today on the web and I want to thank you sorry we've got another question on the8585 presenting t e 막 Thank you. So this slide is kind of a little background of the other processes that we're going through. So as Tyler mentioned, there is a state level permit which kind of looks at the environmental and historical impacts of the project. So we're kind of finishing those studies and preparing to submit that application. And then I've kind of divided the different construction phases, so I'm happy to go into more detail if there are specific questions about the construction. To conclude, I would say again that we've made a real effort to engage the neighbors and the people who live around the project. This would be a project that would contribute millions in taxes to the county and require nothing in the form of services. It's a way to kind of maintain the settlement pattern and character of this part of the county. So thank you again for the presentation. Thank you for the time and happy to take questions. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Thank you both. Any questions for our two gentlemen here? Mr. Thomas. The site preparation phase, before you put the solar arrays down, do you go in and strip the topsoil and put down gravel or do you just put the foundation piles, piers down? In general, we do not strip the topsoil. You know, there are a few things. There are a few parts where we put in a gravel access road, but we like to keep grass there as much as possible because that means we don't have to seed it at the end. So in general, we leave it there. The area outlined in yellow behind Stevens City where you have your underground transmission line and the substation, where does Torch's ownership of the substation and transmission line end before you connect into the sub station? What can you look for down there? So our ownership would end – if you see the black shape there, which is right under the transmission line, so the utility actually has to own what they call a switching station, but it's like a small substation. So they would own that. We deliver the power to that. So we would own all of the underground lines, which are at a regular distribution voltage. So we would own everything up to that point of interconnection. And we would have a subway. So they could run transmission lines or supply lines from that switching station or substation to support Stevens City and other locations? They could, yes. That would be a utility-owned substation. Any other questions for Mr. Oates? I have one for Tyler. If you gentlemen would stay ahead, I've got a question for you as we're done with this one. I have a couple of questions. Mr. Ryan, the portion we're looking at tonight as far as CUPs and some of this falls in Stevens City, I was just looking at it looks like basically it's the two subdivisions and the Robertson track and the SNAP piece to the north. As far as the substation line and the two large tracks that are in Stevens City, that's out of our jurisdiction to permit on, correct? Correct. It's shown as part of the concept plan to give you a better idea of the scope of the project, but they would need to go through the town separately. There is a comment letter that was included as part of the staff report where the town had no objection to the approval. Mr. Ruddy and I have spoken with the town manager. It's by right. They don't have any specifics and they would defer to the county as far as the site plan to make sure that it's implemented as it is on the concept plan. Is there a slide that shows just the portions that are in Frederick County that we're looking at? Because it seems like everything we look at. Everything. Here's the site plan. Here's the site plan. Here's the town boundary. This gray line here. So only this parcel and the Carball piece are within the town. Everything to the northwest of those pieces is within Frederick County. So the 64 lots and then the two tracks up there behind West Oaks. Correct. And the R&D packing and also the southern part of the SNAP property. And this is the sheet three of the concept plan. This is all within Frederick County. It's the bulk of it. The majority of the project. The project isn't only 132 acres are in the town. The other 600 or so acres are within Frederick County. I just want to make it clear that the portion that was in Stephen City, we have no control over. That's not in our review or. Correct. Okay. Mr. Clownway is there. I have a couple just for the other gentleman there real quick. The yellow. If you go to the next slide on slide four and we're looking at the yellow outline large parcel land. I think it was called interconnection land base. I may be wrong on that. And we just got the we got the transmission line sub transmission line coming through there. What is the rest of all that land base going to be used for in the future? Is it just a big vacant track of land that's just going to sit there? This is what we refer to as the Staples Farm. The large parcel left the all that line in yellow. Yes, sir. So that future use going to be there. They're planning on retaining the property. Right. So they're going to be retaining the property as they have for as long as I can remember. Really the all that's impacted with this project is specifically to the parcels in the yellow. There's a 35 foot easement that runs from the solar array development limits pretty much along the eastern boundary of the parcels to get to the substation. So the only real change to the large farm would be the addition of the substation and switching station and where it sits. I know it's difficult to visualize on this. But it sits in a low land area right by the railroad track, right by the 138 KV line that runs along the railroad track. Is that in Stephen City or Frederick County? The yellow parcels actually are all in Frederick County. That answers that question for me. I have one. Well, let me just real quick here. I got a couple more. Take your time. All right. When I read through your decommissioning cost estimate and reading wordings of contracts, which sometimes I have too much time to do. I'm going to read through this. I see where the decommissioning cost estimate shall be the gross estimated cost of performing the decommissioning. It's very good wordplay. And associated administrative cost minus 90% of the estimated resale. Is this a transparent process? How do you establish what that bond amount will be if we're not seeing a cost, if we don't see a cost of what that construction is or decommissioning cost? So the decommissioning requirement comes from a Virginia law. And we have to get a license. We have to get a licensed engineer to do that cost estimate. That would have to be approved by the county prior to the site plan. And so we will be transparent in, you know, it's not going to be a number pulled out of a hat. It will be very clear. You all had the process of decommissioning one of these before? We have not decommissioned a solar project. So you're not going through that process because you've only been there since 2008 and a lifespan of 30, 35 years. And I see there's a. I see there's an escalation in there where every five years you take a look at it, I guess. Or someone does. The county entity takes a look at that. Okay. So that's a transparent process, though, between your firm and the county, I would take it? Yes. Okay. The one of the other questions I have here, and obviously you've been around for 12 years, but more and more we're reading about how is the disposal of solar panels handled these days? Where does it? Do we have a certified site? Do we have a place where they go to in this country? Or are they shipped out of this country? Do you know where the disposal of solar panels goes to? So there are a few firms that are standing up recycling operations that will take the panels and just put new cells in them. So kind of using most of it. They can be. There's not a lot of solar panels being disposed of now, but you could dispose of them in a regular landfill. There's nothing harmful. I think utility scale solar, the solar technology has been around a very long time. It's a very well understood technology. Utility scale solar projects have only recently become cost competitive. So I think as we go forward, there will be a big business opportunity to recycle and kind of use that aluminum glass frame and just kind of replace the cells. Those cells is what has to be something thought of to be recycled. Thought of to dispose of. Yes. Okay. Last thing I'll do before I let it get to Mr. Triplett. Number nine is highlighted, really dark, you know, so it's really an important item. Number nine got added. Location of inverters serving the solar project. Where is those inverters located? So you can think of the inverters are, that's what, so the inverters are what solar panels generate direct current. The inverters convert it to alternating current. So you can see that for about every 30 or 40 acres of a solar farm, you'll have one inverter. It's about twice the size of a refrigerator. You always have those in the middle of the project. And that's kind of a wiring efficiency thing. You would never have those on the end. So usually you got an access road in the middle. On this, you know, you would probably have them on some of these east-west, you know, access roads. But, you know, they would be in the middle of the project. It's kind of centrally located. Thank you. That's it. Mr. Triplett, I'm sorry. Yes. You touched on some of it. Okay. But that's good. I would like for someone to explain the interconnection between the solar panels and our local power company, which is Shenandoah Valley and Rappahannock. The interconnection, because sitting here, if you really are not aware, you think we're going to get an electric bill from, you know, a bill from your touch. You won't get a bill from us. No. So this project will actually connect to the transmission system. So it's owned by Potomac Edison. So the local co-ops are Rappahannock and SFEC. The transmission is owned by Potomac Edison. So it's a long process that we go through with them. They have to spend, you know, two years. Right. Two years studying it and making sure that we're not going to, you know, cause any problems on the grid. We have to pay for, you know, the connection, you know, as the private company. So it will not, you know, it will have no effect on local electricity or, you know, retail electricity prices. In general, places that have more renewable energy on the grid, the wholesale price tends to go down. But there will be no, you know, no direct effect on retail electricity. Or bills or anything like that. And I'm sure everyone understands that. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Thomas? Would you, that, the rectangular yellow portion, is that in Frederick County or Stevens City? It's probably a little easier, Roger, to see it on the aerial photography. The town boundary is this white line. Right here. And it kind of comes out and then comes back in like this. So the entirety of this parcel where the substation and switching station are going to be are in Frederick County. The parcel just to the north of it is completely within Frederick County. And then the small parcel here is also split between the town and the county line. And once again, the yellow parcels are just to have a little bit of a look at. Okay. And the other parcels are just to have a 35-foot easement to run the interconnection underground from the solar project down to the substation. The yellow rectangular that is in Frederick County, that will remain in agriculture. The conditional use permit for that area is just in play to put a transmission line, an underground transmission line and a substation there. Correct. So, and the next question is probably for staff. Because that will stay RA, can the owner of that property go in and break it up into five-acre lots and sell five-acre residential lots on that property then? Mr. Chairman, I believe they would be able to do that. I believe they would be able to do anything that's permissible under the zoning ordinance. For an RA zone? Yes. For an RA zone property? That's correct. However, they would have to consider, of course, previous approvals such as this conditional use permit should it be successful. That made it very gray for me. So, walk me through that one more time because I see our attorney back there shaking his head, but I'm not quite sure what he's shaking his head to. So, if we, are you saying that? I'm saying that when they come, that they could still develop this. It's a very good point where Mr. Thomas has alluded to and I was kind of wondering why this land bay was so large. But they still have the availability to break this up into five-acre lots in the future, but the conditional use permit would have to be addressed. But does it preclude them from doing that? I don't believe it precludes them from doing a subdivision on that bottom portion in the future. Okay. The reason that the parcels are still there. Okay. The reason that the parcels are shown so large is even though we're only using a small portion of the properties, because that tax map number is part of the CUP application, we had to show the entirety of the property. That's why if you read the report, it says the acreage within the conditional use permit is about 1,150 acres, but in reality, there's about 690 that are going to be developed. How big is the parcel, Mr. Wyatt, there? I think the Carbaugh parcel is probably about 120 acres. I've got it on the concept plan. Subtract out the transmission line that gives them availability of 80 acres to develop? That parcel is 160 acres. Once again, the way I look at the Stables farm is you never say never, but there are generations of people who have been in the field for a long time. They're not going to be able to get out of the field. They're not going to be able to get out of the field. They're not going to be able to do anything. They're not going to be able to do anything. So I think the question is fair. The fact that they have the facilities, the conditions, they've maintained the farm. But yeah, I think the question is fair. I don't think by putting this in the CUP for the purpose of underground easement for a line and a substation, I don't think it precludes them from any other rights they have under the R.A. Zoning District. Thomas? If we extrapolate that then, we are putting 705 acres of solar panels on 1,600 acres. So there's 900 acres around there in various parcels. Can the owners of those parcels, since it's RA property, subdivide the 900 acres into five-acre lots? So the acreage that you see right here, the four large parcels, are primarily R&T or the half of West Oaks Farm Market. It's Carrollton Estates, Springdale Glen. Then this is the Staples property in the town of Stephen City and the Carbaugh property in the town of Stephen City. This actual approval, once it's developed by the solar panels, takes those properties out of play for the foreseeable future for any buy-right land use they could otherwise do. We did a calculation. You know, Tyler had mentioned that between Springdale and Carrollton, there's about 65 lots that would come off the books that are already currently platted. The R&T property is about 260 acres. The other interesting thing about the two parcels in the town, being Carbaugh and Staples, they're actually zoned R1 and single-family on half-acre lots as a buy-right land use in the town. So you're also taking about 140 acres, or 140 acres of land use. So you're taking about 140 residential lots out of play within the town by the approval of the application. That sounds good, but can someone explain to me why they couldn't use those R.A. sites for five-acre lots, but they can use the rectangular yellow piece for five-acre lots? The parcels that are shown in yellow are only for underground interconnection and subdivision. They're not being developed for panels. They're also not being owned by Torch. They're being leased. So those properties, the ownership is maintained by the original owner. They can do what they want to do with them under the R.A. We're getting north, south, and left and right head shakes over there, so I'm a little confused. I'm a lot confused right now because it's a different turn. Again. On that property, they would be able to go ahead and do a by-right subdivision. They would have to meet all of the ordinance requirements, obviously, to be able to do so. When you look at the balance of the property, where the solar panels, et cetera, are going to go, while there is an R.A. density permissible, they would not be able to subdivide them, quite simply because our major rural subdivision requires all lots to have access to public streets, state-owned streets. You get into a scenario where the use that's approved by the conditional use permit, as they go ahead and pursue it, would not enable other R.A. uses to occur on the underlying property. And again, that's predominantly in those red areas on the concept plan that shows clearly where the panels would be located. I don't either. The yellow identified property is somewhat different, again, because you just have a 30-foot easement running to the substation. There's a balance of the property. That if they met the ordinance requirements to do a rural area subdivision, they would be able to do so. I understand all that. I'm still a little confused, because if we have 900 acres, take out half of that for the yellow rectangle and the area that's in Stephen City, that's still 450 acres of open property that's zoned R.A. Now, I find it hard to believe in a 450-acre clump of property that you couldn't go in and find 10, 15, 20, 100 lots, or maybe not 100, maybe 20 or 30 lots that you could develop on that. And I'm just curious if that's possible down the road. I mean, yes, they have to meet the ordinance. They have to have access. They have to have five acres, or if it's a family subdivision, two acres. Can that still happen on those other properties? You're speaking of the properties in red. Properties in red. You're talking about in the areas outside of any development. Yes. Outside of the solar array development. I mean, again, we're only developing less than half of the 1,600 acres. I'm finally understanding where you're going. I think the answer is there's a portion, and first of all, just so we're all kind of on the same page math-wise, everything in the red and yellow, is about 1,150 acres in total, okay? And everything in the red that's shown for development is 690 acres. Why does the application say 1,600 acres if it's 1,100 acres? It shouldn't say 1,600. We got on our documents. Because I've got. Well, it's 1,160. But anyway, in answer to your question, Roger, I'm sorry. Red parcels, when they develop, I think what you're trying to glean, if there's space within the red that's not going to be in solar array, can they subdivide it and put a house on there, correct? Obviously, Sam and his company own everything in the checkered pattern, which is intended to be developed in solar array. And then what you have around the perimeter is about 100 feet of width. They own that or they lease? They will own some and lease some. But the bottom line is, it's spoken for, okay? It's going to be developed with solar array panels. There's not going to be sufficient room to site a five acre lot inside those red lines. And the only area that's going to be void of the solar panels is the 100 and 200 foot perimeter boundary between the adjoining properties and where the solar panels are developed. And there's not enough width and depth to cut a five acre lot in those areas either. But those areas are going to be built. And those areas are pretty much spoken for for security fencing, landscaping, you know, etc. So if my paperwork said 1,100 acres, I'd understand. Yeah, and I'm not sure where that came from, but a big difference. Yeah. Those are multiple places. Not just one place. We've got it all through our documentation. I don't want this to get too far out, but Mr. Moan, would you like? Yeah, so we have different numbers. I mean, staff has 1,605. I've in multiple places in the staff report. I mean, what's the. That's a typo. It's 1,160 acres and a half. Okay, so 1,160. That's a typo. Is correct. That's an error on our end. All right. Thank you. That's just 500. We're good down here? Yeah, I'm fine. Okay. Mr. Poach, do you have a question? Just a statement. If the concern is that they'll subdivide parcels up there, basically on that sheet there that's in red, out in the county, then we just make a condition that no further subdivision of the land while it's in solar panels. Well, if my paperwork would have said 1,100 acres, I mean 500 acres less, I wouldn't have been that concerned about it because there's not going to be enough land to subdivide. But I just was wondering what that extra 500 acres would be. But I think you're still valid that lots could be broken off along the state road. So if you're concerned about that, then a condition not to allow further subdivision. With 500 acres less, not that many can be broken off. So I'm not that concerned about it. I was just worried about the extra 500 acres. I guess my wonderment is more along the lines of the Staples track, that piece in yellow. If all it is is an underground utility coming across, then why is that entire track being brought into the CUP? And that was my question. Why we got this whole track of land there, and now we find out it can possibly be developed down the road, and it's gobbled up in our CUP. So someone has to explain that. Can staff explain that, why that is that way? Absolutely. Mr. Chairman, it's appropriate to identify the entire parcel, in particular for purposes of legal advertisement for the conditional use permit, because it's applied to that parcel. Okay. And that's why we included, or excuse me, the applicants and staff, we included that property in its entirety in the application to ensure that we covered all the legal bases. And for clarity, Mr. Ruddy, they do not lose their developmental rights, is what you're basically saying to us tonight. They still have their developmental rights there, even though it's part of the CUP. And I would agree on the yellow property to the south, correct? On the yellow property, okay. Does everybody understand that? I've got questions now. Mr. Moan. I just have one, and this is about kind of recurring maintenance for the site, assuming the CUP is issued and it's developed with the facility. What techniques do you use to maintain the on-site vegetation, things of that nature, since you'll be leaving much of the cover as is? What's your typical approach? With operating projects, on some of them we mow it, use kind of normal 72-inch zero-turn tractors. On some of them we actually graze sheep on the project, and that's great because they kind of walk under the panels, eat all the vegetation. So we prefer that if there are sheep around. But yeah, if you don't do that, it's kind of mowing it three or four times a year. Thank you. I have another question down here. I thought I heard someone say, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, the issue of the identification of the parcel, I think I can add some clarity there. Earlier tonight at this meeting, there's a perfect example of the same thing on a much smaller scale. The commission recommended approval of a garage on a property. The applicant submitted a sketch plan with that that shows where the garage is. The commission recommended approval of the garage, and the applicant submitted a sketch plan with the same principle. The same principle that the commission has before it with the Staples property. It just happens to be that the Staples property is a large parcel, and only a small part of it is needed for the facility. So it's really the same thing. You have to designate the whole parcel. But the rest of it is left blank on the plan for the CEP. So presumably, it's just as staff said, the rest of it could theoretically be developed if it met all other requirements. Thank you, Mr. Williams. And I think it's added clarity, too, because even with the earlier applicant, what you're saying is that gentleman could come back and build houses on the remaining parcels of that land. He could do and follow this. Large enough to so qualify, he could. Okay. I think it was just a portion that was like, we were thinking you're taking 64 houses out. There's never a chance you're going to be adding 60 townhouses back in. And I think that's where the thought process, in my mind, was starting to go was, yes, we got rid of 64, but do we still have the availability of 70 acres that we could put one house per quarter acre or something of that nature to come back in? So I think it added clarity. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Does anyone else have any questions? Mr. Olson. Are they leasing the entire part of the whole division? What you need to have to do? On the yellow parcels? So only what we need. So we have, like on that. Certain amount of space you're leasing. Yeah. So it's a, you know, on the Billy Staples farm, it's a 50-foot easement along the east side of the property. Anyone else? Just one thing. Just one thing here with Mr. Oates. If we were to make a condition of not being able to do further subdivision, I don't think I would support it for the yellow parcel, just because I'm sure he wasn't expecting to lose all his rights just to give someone access easement. Okay. Thanks, sir. Thank you, gentlemen. No, wait a minute. This is a public hearing at this time. I'll open the public hearing. Anyone would like to come forward, speak against or for this item, please come to the podium and state your name, address, and we're going to limit to three minutes for each person to speak. So public hearing is open. And the public hearing is open. I hope we didn't scare you. Yes, sir. Chairman, my name is Charles Heath. I'm a resident of Frederick County. I've been a resident since 1970. I've owned small businesses. I paid my taxes every year. I'm a hardworking individual. I could go through this whole spiel here, but I'm going to take Mr. Triplett's advice and just get straight to the point. I plan to reside on that property and retire there. And I know what these drawings show, and I know what Greenway Engineering has done. It's a great job. I think it's a great job. I think Mr. Markson said to me earlier tonight, he said, do you question the engineers? And I said, yes, I do, because I have been working with engineers all my life. And anybody that doesn't question the engineers is going to get in trouble sooner or later. My background is I graduated from VPI in the College of Architecture with a degree in buildings construction. So I've got a pretty good idea of what these plans show and what they mean. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Last five minutes of break. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, can I just speak for the่ Mr. Chairaksi with your understanding of the foot apart. All you have to do is go over to double coal bait, look at the solar farm over there. They've got three years growth on them, and you can park your car parallel park in between those trees. It takes forever for those things to create an actual block. We're not against the solar panels. We're not against the solar farm. We just don't want to look at that thing the way it's going to look right now without their help of blocking that view. I passed out this little packet here for each one of you. The views from their back and side porches, we get 240 degree view of that solar field. And even with a seven foot berm, that brings it up to ground level. So you could go out there now on the cornfield that exists, you could plant your scrawny little trees 15 foot apart on top of the cornfield. Corn tassels, and that's the view that we still get. The drawings that they show, and Greenway did a great job. However, they didn't extend it far enough. They went 575 foot. The hill goes up to over 1,058 feet, and it raises up to elevation of 815 feet by the time you get these 14 foot panels. So we get to see everything from 790 up to 815. And it looks just like those brochures and those pictures that I showed you. If anybody can prove to me that that's not what we're going to see when this thing is all said and done, I welcome it. I really do. I'm hoping that they can prove me wrong. But I do have sense enough to know that what you put on the paper is one thing. What you see on the ground is different. I went out there on that field. The corn is seven foot tall. I took a 12 foot white post. I marked off seven foot. I went out 21 feet into the field. I took a 12 foot white post. I marked off seven foot. I put the post there. I go back and look for the seven foot mark. My God, it's at the top of the corn tassels. It didn't block anything. Everything above that is what we're going to be looking at for the rest of my life. So as members of this committee, if you can vote on this thing and pass this thing through, I don't see how you can. You would not want it in your front yard. And I was told earlier, well, you could have condominiums there and all this other stuff. I know there's a lot of ifs, but we're not talking about an if. We're talking about one specific application, and we know what the results are. You're going to have to be wrapping it up. So I ask you and I implore you, please postpone this thing. Look at it. Get this stuff right. I get a funny feeling that all these questions are going on tonight that even now we still don't know all the answers. We don't know half of them. And some of these other people have got some good ones, too. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. That's all we're asking for is help. Help to block that view. We're not trying to stop it. We just need your help. Thanks, sir. And you're our last resort. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. I'm Cecilia Brown, and I have invested in a home, one of the most important investments I'll ever make, me and many other people, in Stephen's City. Even though Stephen's City did always kind of seem like more on the industrial development category, you know, it's close to Winchester, beautiful bucolic area. And so I'm here because I only just found out that a huge fiduciary impact on my investment and my neighbors was under consideration. And thank you all for seriously considering all impacts. This is all for free. So we didn't takeяют an investment. So you're not calling up people to back me up for more lessons, huh? Exactly. But you said you do money haven't you? I certainly didn't. Right. What was the goal of a home improvement? Well, one of the first忽 number of my assignments that have ever reallyIt was the development of home MCs. And I remember putting in it two propositions. The house and the apartment, including recycling or disposal of this toxic waste. tailor and we all of course, have groundwater so I am actually in, I'd have to immediately say opposition Whether the action is going to change, or if although I accept the decision, but at the very least I want to ask Torch, just, what was the date that they first applied or first put in contract them asulty aion, the property opportunities there are many parcels including renので. included um you can't just direct your your comp ma'am ma'am just direct your comments to us oh okay oh can i add can i you've asked the question that we'll answer that later okay okay well see my point is is that i believe it i did talk to john sculley when i first found out about this in july it was like only when i came back to the area and was on springdale jogging and i'm like what is a fire rider doing here right so and then eventually i see the little yellow signs so my point is i believe that the development has been going on a long time or the consideration on these contingent purchases at least a year and we as a community have only had a few minutes to realize to even if you happen to be lucky enough to see the little yellow sign and make the inquiry they responded very quickly and thoroughly on my request um but it's it's just a lot to kind of get your head around a little bit of research i've got a whole book of notes i know other people there's lots to process here and i don't know what the reason might be to not give us give us as a community one other thing to add to i did meet sam this afternoon as i was came back just came back into town and i was knocking on doors not one person right adjacent to the staples farm knew nothing i know i feel strongly that the only people that may have had contact with them is maybe the people the actual parcel owners that are considering the sale or they're under contract with because the general community has not they know nothing about it and it's just a huge impact for us i mean at the end of the day maybe you know and as far as the development of those five acres i don't know who wants to live in the middle of looking out on some it's it's basically a moot point you know whoever owns that property would never be able to develop it with five acres but um so that then and also i'd like to know what kind of money is involved in the development of those five acres and you know who i've read also some things that it can cost the county the city you know can cost the residents of an area i know a few people you know might do pretty well with i know that also it's in 2013 it was a 1 billion dollar industry it's grown to 10 billion dollars your time's almost there yeah okay well you know yeah you understand what i'm saying i'm saying please pause and let us process and reach out to the entire community not just a few of us that happen to see those little yellow signs thank you so much for your time appreciate it and thank you for your inquiries and questions appreciate you representing us okay thank you ma'am anyone else i see a hand go up here but this this lady jumped up right in front of you so let's let her come on up here she was eager to speak earlier so yes hi there i'm sandra de azaghal um gentleman your address ma'am and we live at 628 marlboro road pond county fishing town and i we palm farm farm landown village in the eastern gregory school there by the stretch of s万th and what my husband told me is a lot of deserts centrally and so on up in the valley from what i know part of this area comes directly from dominica on the faust other parts of the state have with these four accounts beethoven och JJ's that enter a pipes 2 the land económico our הה gate which is in hawthorn and north gray's north land district 5th county and the beautiful orchards, the beautiful farmland, spectacular, and we purchased a home that, if any of you travel up and down Marble Road, you see us up on the hill. We have a commanding view of these orchards and the farmland. When we bought this land, it's zoned agricultural, and with that, we assumed that we would never have a power plant built next door to us. Our home right now is valued at $678,000. What will this do to the value of my property or my neighbors that have this commanding view of a power plant now? And we have, we've got the berms, we've got the trees. I had to spray a lot for bad worms last year, almost lost my trees. So, we asked for, if this should go through, a 200 foot setback, because we see all of this. I have a kitchen garden that's 250 feet from my house, and I run the hose out there every day, and I have a lot of work to do every day, and I can assure you, gentlemen and lady, it's not very far. We're talking about a big chain link fence, big sign saying, you know, excuse me, hazard electric, you know, electrocution, that's going to be just 100 feet. You have to take into consideration, we have large properties. We have large houses. The fogus are going to be building. I'm going to be building. I'm going to be building. I'm neighbor to them. They don't have the house yet, so are they not going to give the setback, the 450 setback to them for the inverters? When we sit on our patio, when we come up our driveway, the view is right there. And if they're going to give, if this goes through, and they're going to give a 200 foot setback, to trees and corn, that don't probably appreciate the view very much, for us, out of this whole, all this land, we have the homes that really are impacted. And we're nice homes. We are stewards of the land. We are an asset to the, these homes and property are an asset to the community. And it's heartbreaking. Your time is just about up there, if you can be wrapping up. Okay. That'd be appreciated. So I think at the very least, we should have a 200 foot setback. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Anyone else? Sir, you had your hand up there. Thank you. My name is Jason Gordon. I live at 1 East. I live in the area of the city of Washington. I live in the area of the city of Washington. I live in the area of the city of Washington. I live in the area of the city of Washington. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. That's what I'm looking to do. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. I live in Florida. I'm Mr. Gordon. I live at 191 Bracken Fern Lane, Steven City, In the Opec and Magisterial District. Good evening, Chairman, Frederick County Planning Commission, Members, Citizens, and Guests. As a homeowner on 11 acres adjacent to the proposed Solar Power Plant, I'd like to begin my statement tonight by reminding those in attendance of the last half of the Vision Statement of the Frederick County Planning Commission. The Department will establish, maintain a process which will positively influence the type, quality, and location of development to produce a livable community that is well balanced. Please remember this quote as that will be referenced by myself and others this evening. I know there are county residents who stand to financially benefit from this project, and my attempt is not to reduce the likelihood that they should receive that benefit, but in the end they themselves would benefit by living in a more well and balanced community. On July the 8th of this year, Board of Supervisors, upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, approved the development of a 668-acre solar plant on Back Creek District off of Marlboro Road. Now, just two months later, we are attending another public hearing on the development of another 1,060-acre solar power plant, located, again, in Back Creek District and, again, off of Marlboro Road. While we appreciate the efforts of some of you on the Board of Supervisors and the Planning Commission, I'm afraid that the government of Frederick County as a whole has not fully considered the result of developing 1,828 acres of currently forested and or agricultural land within a single district of Frederick County to be used exclusively for utility-scale solar power plants. That is over 2.85-acre or square miles of solar power plants in Back Creek District alone. That amount of solar centralized into one area of the county does not appear as if there has been a positive influence on the type, quality and location of development. And it does not seem at all well balanced. By approving the C.U.P., the county government will will be placing an undue bias on the use of less than 55,000 of classrooms just in this state, as opposed to the EU's illegal use ofnemaniah for very few acres and improvement of land. burden on the residents of Bat Creek District and would be demonstrating on the lack of oversight on the part of the planning and zoning departments. I know I have painted a bleak picture here, so let me change the tone without changing the message. Through the history of the United States and our free market economy, industry partners have brought new and innovative ideas and solutions to our country. However, as a result of fostering innovation and creativity in our industry partners, they are usually out in front of the government who must in turn create policy after the technology has already hit the market. More than once the government had asked the industry partners to wait while the government must play catch up to create policy ordinance and regulations to protect our citizens and our country's best interests. What we are asking for this evening is that the government to effectively create and execute governance prior to the approval of this Contentional Use Permit 5-20. What we're asking for is not the impossible, but that prudent steps be taken to govern. Multiple other locations. Localities within the state of Virginia have enacted temporary moratorium on the development of future solar projects until the governing bodies can develop a solar ordinance to protect the character of the county, to ensure conformity with the county's comprehensive plan, and to guard its citizens as well as its historic and natural resources. And contrary to some, a solar ordinance can be used in combination with the Conditional Use Permit. It is not an either or proposition. All of the followings have been addressed in solar ordinances developed by other localities, including the City of Virginia, the City of Virginia, the City of Virginia, and the City of Virginia. 1. Protection of the neighboring community from the effect of the imposing size of a power plant and too many solar power plants in one area. 2. Visual protection through appropriate screening, setback and buffering requirements, and avoidance of sitting a solar power plant in a location that cannot be appropriately screened from neighboring properties, as in this case. Protection from residents from the noise produced by inverters and substations. 4. Protections of our soil and groundwater by minimizing grating and compaction. 5. Protection of our homes by monitoring our foundations before and after the pile driving of thousands of I-beams into the ground within 100 feet of our homes, which would be required for construction of the solar power plant in the CUP. 6. Protection of our historic resources, such as adjacent to Carter Hall and adjacent or possibly actually on Kernstown Battlefield Grounds. 7. Protection of our forest resources. 8. Protection of our farmland, most of which is categorized by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as having elevated importance and categorized as prime farmland and a farmland of statewide importance. 9. Protection of the citizens' best interests through proper notification to not only include those property owners who are directly adjacent to the project. 10. Protection by the energy company of all parties within one mile of the proposed project. 11. Protection of the aesthetic, rural, and agricultural character of our county, as well as the tourism and agritourism that goes hand-in-hand with this character. And with that, I'll let my wonderful wife continue. Thank you. Hello, Chairman and Commission members. Hi, I'm Julie Gordon, and I live at 191 Brackenfurn Lane in Stevens City. I'm a resident of the City of Brackenfurn. I'm a resident of the Opecan District, and we are located just south of the Staples land that's located in Stevens City. So while Mr. Graber and Mr. Jewell and Mr. Marston have met with us and worked extensively with us and made great strides in securing some screening, setback, and buffering requirements, unfortunately, we live in an area that cannot possibly be covered. I'm sorry. I too am. I'm sorry. I didn't want to call your name just now. Do you mind coming down the stage? Thank you. I, of course, am already beside Mr. Graber. Does Mr. Graber mean to introduce himself? Mr. Graber will do. over the development of solar in our area, then the power company ends up dictating its demands to the county and the county relents most of its power over fear and threat of lawsuit. Is that any way to develop a livable community that is well balanced? Please Frederick County be willing to put forth the required effort to protect our rural character, agricultural heritage, historic and natural resources, and your own citizens and their residences and businesses by first placing a moratorium on all utility scale solar projects until you can draft and enact a solar ordinance. And please involve your citizens by holding public meetings to discuss the ordinance with those whom you have a responsibility to protect. Thank you for voting tonight in favor of the citizens of Frederick County and in the words of Tom Perriello, and I'm going to hand it over to you. Thank you. I'm Tom Perriello, a former Virginia congressman, and Tom Cormans of Appalachian Voices. Sometimes moral leadership is not about choosing between yes and no, but hitting pause until one has both the facts and the trust of affected citizens. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Hello, my name is Isabella Gordon. I live on 191 Rockland. I'm from the sacrificing city in the Opec district. Other localities are taking action to protect their land and citizens. In Page County, Virginia, the local government has placed a moratorium on all solar development until its elected officials can develop a solar ordinance by which solar companies must comply with when they submit their conditional use permits. Campbell County, Caroline County, Charlotte County, Coppell County, Goldcaster County, Halifax, King William, Madison, Mecklenburg, Middlesex, Northampton, Page, Pennsylvania, Prince George, Southampton, Spotsylvania, Suffolk, and Sussex. According to Page County's draft solar ordinance, the purpose of this solar ordinance is to establish requirements for construction and operation of solar facilities and to provide standards for the placement, design, construction, monitoring, modification, and removal of solar facilities, address public safety, minimize impacts on scenic, natural, and historic resources, and provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning. Augusta County's solar ordinance provides for a minimum of 1,000 foot setback from any residentially zoned property. It is also required ground monitoring to ensure that homeowner's wells near the solar plant are not negatively impacted. Southampton's county solar ordinance provides for soil sampling for heavy metals and other toxins on a regular basis throughout the life of the CUP. With the passage of HB 656 by the state legislature this year, localities are no longer allowed to create their own stipulations on types of panels and equipment that can be placed on county land. Therefore, it is imperative that the county protect its citizens and natural resources by ensuring our soil and our wells remain safe virtual resources. Augusta County and Southampton County solar ordinances both provide for a community meeting sponsored by the solar energy applicant in advance for their submission of their application to the local government. The solar energy company must not be involved in the solar energy application. The solar energy company must not be involved in the solar energy application. The solar energy company must not be involved in the solar energy application. The solar energy company must not be involved in the solar energy application. Every property owner within a mile of the proposed project area by mailing delivered by mail delivered at least 5 to 21 days prior to the public meeting, this requirement places the burden of notification on the applicant as opposed to the county government. It also allows all residents who may have been impacted by the project to receive basic information on the project in advance of the county's approval meeting. And speaking of proper notifications, we are also not allowing the full maintenance of the solar energy application for the project through the lower end of the solar energy structure, the lower end of the solar energy structure, the lower end of the solar energy structure, and the lower end of the solar energy structure, letters to adjacent landowners postmarked two weeks before a public hearing does not give sufficient enough time for landowners to gather data on the proposed projects, to understand their impact on their properties, and to determine what steps are necessary to defend our rights as property owners. And to the best of my knowledge, only those property owners directly adjacent to the solar power plant received a letter from the county. In light of the current safer at-home policies enacted in the state of Virginia, many residents have not left their homes, or only rarely, over the last several months. Those property owners who currently live out of the area and are planning for their future retirement homes have not been on the local roads. Therefore, the requirement to place a small sign in the yard of a few affected properties notifying citizens of a public hearing is quite insufficient to be sure that all neighboring property owners and those within the viewshed of the future project have knowledge of what is to come. According to the Frederick County GIS system, there are 57 property owners within 1,000 foot of the project that are not directly neighboring the project, and so they receive no notification whatsoever. Some citizens with the pandemic may be observing safer at home policies, and may be having their groceries delivered, and may not even have left their homes to see the small signs indicated that there is a public hearing this evening. Ms. Gordon, you might have to be wrapping it up pretty quick. Okay. Sorry. I didn't mean to lose your place, but... It's okay. I'll find it. They may very well be completely oblivious to the fact that tonight you hold their future properties values in your hands, as the pandemic has required everyone from hospitals, schools, businesses, large and small, and governments from localities to national governments to change their way of... doing business, adds even more produce to the recommendation to pause the official view... review of the CUP, and expand the scope and notification of those landowners within the mile of the project. Thank you. Good job. Thank you. Anyone else? Anyone else? Yes. Good evening. I'm Sonia Sneddon, and I live at 199 Brackenfern Lane in the Opecan District. Our property lies directly behind the proposed solar farm, which would be about 100 feet from our backyard, where our three children play. I would first like to take the opportunity to thank Mr. Graber and other board members who have met with us, and have tried to work with us. However, that 100 feet is just not enough. And like the Gordon family, we are very concerned about the fact that Frederick County doesn't have a solar ordinance in place to protect the interests of Frederick County citizens, and the beautiful land that we enjoy here. As stated previously, Page County, another county in Virginia, has 10 stipulations in their ordinance, and Bartonsville Energy would fail to meet seven of those, which I find pretty concerning. I just want to highlight a few of them for you, that I think that Frederick County really should consider before we put something like this in place. Like some of the other neighbors, we aren't completely opposed to it. What we want is distance from our children. We want our beautiful view, and we want Frederick County citizens to be able to enjoy the beautiful nature of our city. We want Frederick County citizens to be protected. We don't know a lot about solar farms yet. This company started in 2008. That's not a lot of time. That's not a lot of history. And when Mr. Mone asked about how the land was going to be taken care of, and he said, mowing? I didn't hear anything about watering those trees. And if we go over to Front Royal and look at those trees, they don't look very good, do they? And that's what I get to look at. That's what my kids get to grow up looking at. So, Page County, one of their stipulations is that a solar farm shall be less than 500 acres. And we know that this is going to be 1,600, 1,100, not sure, but somewhere in that vicinity. Also, it will be located a thousand feet setback from residential properties, and all we're getting is 100. Also, utility scale facilities shall not be proximate to residences, historical, cultural, and scenic viewshelves. Bartonsville Energy is adjacent to residents like ours, which will not be screened. It's directly neighboring Carter Hall and Kernstown Battlefield. These ordinances are fair, and they have the interests of county members like me, and they are at their heart. And we just really hope that tonight's decision by the Planning Committee will reflect a desire to protect citizens like myself and citizens here, our farmland, our trees, and acres upon acres of scenic beauty that will be taken away. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. My name is Kevin Sneddon. Address is 199 Bracken Fern Lane. I grew up in Arlington County, so I'm not opposed to growth and density and just the big city. That's why we moved out here 14 years ago. We love Frederick County. We love the land. We loved everybody out here, the people. It's just a beautiful country and has a lot to offer. So three years ago, we found this land on eight and a half acres. It's zoned rural and around us is zoned rural, agricultural. So, you know, we thought this was great, you know, the perfect place for our family and, you know, raise our kids and have our dream house. You know, had we known the lack of foresight of the local municipality to protect the residents with solar ordinance, you know, we may have, you know, chosen a different path, you know, bought a different lot, built somewhere else. You know, like I said, the zoning of RA, you know, the definition is what it is. It's zoned residential, agricultural. It's not zoned, you know, extreme, large-scale, commercial, industrial, and that's what this facility is. You know, we didn't sign up for that. You know, let's see here. We do, we definitely do like to thank the board here. They've come out to our house numerous times and tried to make the best of it. But like I said, that's not what we signed up for. We're not opposed to growth. Like I said, you know, I'm from the city. But, you know, we just, we do not want this thing directly in our backyard. We want some separation. You know, they've done, TORCH has done a good, decent faith effort to, you know, try and block it. But, you know, I don't know where the three parcels actually end, Stephen City limits. And with the contours of the land, I mean, you know, we're going to see the whole thing. We're taking the brunt of this whole facility. Let's see here. I mean, we agree with the rest of our neighbors. Gordon's our neighbors. Keith's our neighbors. You know, and like I said, it's just, we're kind of beside ourselves. And we hope that we can kind of press the pause button and come up with something because, you know, if we wanted to live next to a commercial, you know, zoning area, and that's where we would have bought, we would have looked there, but that's not what we did. So we hope that, you know, we can come to a better understanding and make sure that this, this land for the county is preserved and the residents are protected. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your comments. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. You might move the mic down just a little bit. There you go. Hi, my name is Elizabeth Foggis, and I have property at 636 Marlboro Road. So what I think is we have five-acre property, and I am and my husband are, had looked for that property, and we are going to move there. We're going to have our own or build our own home there. And when I found out there was going to be a solar panel farm there, it was very upsetting for us, knowing that this is going to be our retirement home, and we're planning on staying there until we die. Also, when we were told that we're going to get 14-foot panels, you know, and the trees that we're going to get are going to be six-foot. When we look out our window, we're going to see a field full of panels. To me, that's just very upsetting, knowing that we look for this property, and this is what I was looking forward to in retirement. My last thing that I want to say about this is that I looked at our plot, and I noticed that on this plot, this line here is where you're saying that, or they're saying that this is going to be our 500-foot buffer. That is actually our land. So I have a problem with that. I think they need to look back over this, and that they need to, I mean, it's just, it's our land. If you would like to have it, I can give you a copy of it. I also have a copy of our deed. We can research that, but thank you, ma'am. Appreciate that. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. My name is Rudy Foggast. We're going to have property at 636 Marble Road in Steema City. And I'd like to talk a little bit further about this map my wife's trying to show you. We've got an email from Sean, and it's stating that they're taking our land. I wonder why they want to do that. They're taking this 100-foot, it's about 1,000-foot long, and that's where they're going to put the buffer. They're going to put the buffer on our land. They're claiming that it's theirs. This is proof it's our land, right here. And another thing, these solar panels, I have multiple sclerosis, and I just want to know if these are going to affect me in any way. I was already told no, but where are you getting this information from? Neurologists, and especially multiple sclerosis specialists. Will these panels affect me? I'm very concerned about my health. I belong to an MS support group, and I know what this stuff can do. I've seen the bad effects, and it's really bad. And I just don't want to look at these things, these solar panels. They say they're going to put them back. Nobody wants to look at them. They say they're going to do it, but what they're doing is a joke. It is. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Anyone else? I see a hand go up. Yes. Good evening. I, too, am a property owner, and Air Land adjoins us over 1,000 acres. Name, ma'am, your name. Your name. Oh, Linda Heath. Air Land adjoins us over 1,000 acres of industrial solar farm project. Not only are our views destroyed, but our way of life will be completely changed. I have eight grandchildren growing up beside this monstrosity. How can they concentrate on their schoolwork during the installation? We were eating at Arby's in Stevens City when the pounding was happening for that new road. The employees couldn't even hear their drive-through orders, and we had headaches by the time that we left. And this is what we will experience for months. I am concerned about our grandchildren's safety and the safety of our neighbors. Though we have been reassured by torch energy that everything is safe, we have no proof. And we all know what is safe today may not be safe tomorrow. What about the glare from the panels increasing our outdoor temperature? What about the water runoff? What about the inverters? Will there be a retention pond? Or serval? What about our wells and our foundations? All of these are pertinent questions our neighborhood has asked but didn't receive adequate answers. Just no problem. And what about fire? Our research shows that solar panels do catch on fire, releasing toxins. How good is that for our neighborhood and their first responders? How good is that for our neighborhood? And our first responders to respond with the project being fenced and gates locked? Has this been considered? And it's important to have a fence and gates locked. But if a fire happens, what do we do? All officials have signed on all these issues, but were these superficial reviews? I would also like to point out that the people who are being compensated for the use of their agricultural aid, and culturally zoned land, do not have the privilege of looking out at those fields and fields of panels 24-7 as my neighbors and I will. Nor will they hear the constant hum of inverters. Not only are we overpowered by such a project, we receive no compensation. We are the sacrificial lamb so Torch can use beautiful Frederick County land to sell electricity to the Northeast. Someone asked where the electricity was going. It's going to the Northeast and metropolitan cities. Sam told us that. What will Frederick County do when our county will have to rely on solar for our electrical needs? This is the second project scheduled for beautiful, scenic Marlboro Road. There will be at least two more somewhere in the county. Maybe next door to you. Whenever Frederick County approaches Torch about our neighborhood concerns, the county is threatened to be sued by Torch. Is this right? I consider that big business bullion. Instead of working out a suitable solution, they threaten suit. Since we have no say in the matter, we only plea for an adequate screen berm, sound deadening fencing, and tall trees to be installed and maintained by Torch. And since Frederick County is to be paid $200,000 a year, I feel our neighborhood should be entitled to a decrease in our real estate taxes since our properties will significantly be devalued. Amy, you're going to be wrapping it up. Okay. I feel this project should be tabled until such time we have in writing when Torch will do to appease our neighborhood. I cannot believe that our county, would allow such invasion into a beautiful, peaceful neighborhood with nice homes and law-abiding citizens. Everybody is getting nicely compensated except for us who have to live beside and look at this massive industrial solar farm, which belongs in an industrial park instead of a nice neighborhood. Thank you, ma'am. And that's all. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Anyone else? Still open hearing. No. We only get one shot at it. Sorry. No, ma'am. No, ma'am. No. No. No. No questions. We don't do that. Thank you, though. Here is hearing no one else. I'm going to close the public hearing. We've all got some questions. Mr. Oates. I've got a question, Mr. Williams. Can we impose conditions on property, that's located within the jurisdiction of Stevens City? Yes. No, sir. All right. Because I was watching the addresses of people coming up. And the heaths, sorry if I got your name wrong, Dizaga, Gordon, Sneddon, Foghouse, the piece that you're adjacent to, the 100-acre farm that you're working on, is that the piece that you're working on? Yes. The 100-acre farm that is directly behind your property, that's entirely within Stevens City. And that's not part of the conditional use permit for us, because that's in a different jurisdiction. Stevens City has a by-right ordinance that says they can go in. We have no control over that. Which three of you actually live in Stevens City. So that's something you need to take up with the town of Stevens City. They control that. So I'm wondering, so we're, right? No, no, we don't. I'm sorry, Mr. Sneddon. No, we're doing that. So we're just addressing that. So I just wanted to make sure that was clear that we have no control over that piece of property, that 100 acres that lies entirely within Stevens City's jurisdiction. We can only look at the piece that lays outside of that that's out in Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Rhodes, for that information. Mr. Trippett, did you have a question for an applicant? We can follow up with some applicant. If they'll like a response to some of the questions. I will. Okay. If we do, we do have some questions, Mr. Wyatt, there. And I think you get, I'll give you an opportunity for a response back to some of the issues that was raised there. Sure. The, we were going to respond to the comments to note that out of the 11 people that did speak, we were going to respond to the comments that were raised. And I think that's what we're going to do. So I'm going to go ahead and speak. As was said by Mr. Oates, nine of the speakers are pretty much involved in the properties that fall within the jurisdiction of the town of Stevens City. There's one of my pointers not cooperating. Let's try that. Okay. So, I'm going to try to get this. So, this is the parcel that most of the comments were based on and the property owners reside in here. And once again, this kind of wedge shape is the corporate boundary of the town. I want to point out that the properties in the town are zoned R1 district. So they're not zoned agricultural. They're zoned for residential use. They're zoned for residential development. And because both parcels, the adjoiners and us are zoned R1, not only is the land use permissible by right in the town, there's also no buffer and screening required because they're identical zonings. So, we tried to work to give them something above and beyond what the town code does not require. And one of the comments that was made by the first speaker talked about the berm with saplings. And that's inaccurate. If you look at the detail, it's a seven-foot berm and then it has a double row of evergreens that are six feet in height at time of planting. So, it's not just a seven-foot earth berm and some saplings that may grow over years. It's a pretty established berm from day one. And it's not just a seven-foot earth berm. It's a seven-foot earth berm from day one. And there is language in the conditional use permit and on our concept plan that requires the trees to be maintained in good health throughout the life of the solar project. So, if for any reason the six-foot row of trees would die, by condition, we would have to go back out and immediately reinstall six-foot high trees. And all this is above and beyond what would be required. So, we're not trying to minimize the concerns about view shed. But we do have to. And we do believe that we have gone above what is required and tried to work to do this. In the county, of course, you have a buffer ordinance for land uses. And you typically try to establish a ground level buffer. And with the ground level buffer, you have a distance and you have landscaping components. And for example, if there was a residential use in the R.A. zoning district, and you had a commercial property that had a 35-foot tall office building, there's a 200-foot distance and some landscaping. And that's satisfactory. So, the intent of buffering is not to screen properties for views that are thousands of feet out. It's to create an effective ground level screen. And in this case, it's for support posts that are 10 feet in height that have inverter inverters that have panels that would rotate to a maximum of 14. So, once again, we're not trying to argue that we don't think they're going to see anything out in the field. They will. But we've tried to do something that we believe is appropriate and reasonable. There was also another comment about cost to the county citizens for this project. Actually, the complete reversal is the case. By taking several hundred. There's a lot of residential lots out of play for the foreseeable future. It's actually a cost avoidance savings for the citizens of Frederick County. Because if these properties did go in residential development, the cost to do schools, run school buses, provide emergency services, et cetera, is a cost that the citizens of the county ultimately have to pay for through their real estate taxes. So, by doing this type of project, you're actually doing cost avoidance savings for our city of Frederick County. So, those are really the two primary things I heard. And I think, once again, I know that there was a lot of comments about the process. Of course, we have followed the process that the county has approved. You all spent quite a bit of time to get to the point where this became a permissible land use through the issuance of the conditional use permit. This permit has been approved and then we're going to take it to the next level. I don't think that this is a good time to get out of the process. We're still doing the right thing. It's a good time to get out of the process. But this is a process where we've been working on this for a long time. And I'm going to make sure that we keep the process going. So, that's really the first thing I want to talk about. followed the process that the county has approved. You all spent quite a bit of time to get to the point where this became a permissible land use through the issuance of a conditional use permit. This particular applicant has done everything to meet legal notice requirements to provide the information that's required for consideration for the decision makers, and we truly believe that we've brought forth a good plan that's been modified over the last couple months in particular in response to comments from the same people that you heard speak tonight, and we would respectfully request that you move us forward this evening. I believe we have a couple questions. Mr. Triplett had your hand up first. Did not address the setbacks. The setbacks, once again, for the project, we have a 100-foot setback from our property line to where the solar array panel limits would be situated. Between the property line and the solar array panel development area, there would be landscaping, in the instance with the folks that spoke, there would be berming and landscaping, and then there would be security fencing, and then our project. So there's a distance, but there's also a landscaping and buffering and berming element that's in place. And once again, just to reiterate, these are things that are above and beyond what is required by the town zoning ordinance. Mr. Thomas. Just to expand that question, all of the buffers and the setbacks are on your property, not on any other homeowner's properties. That's correct. So the one individual that thought the buffer was on her property, that was a mistake? I think the question, and it was a good question, the exhibits that we have this evening, of course, are based on the county GIS data. The platting that shows the actual location, there probably is an adjustment to the county GIS data that needs to be made. But to circle back to your specific question, wherever that property line becomes that's part of our project, the setbacks, the berming, the landscaping, everything that's required is on us. It's not, it's not on them. Good question. It appears to me as we go out Marlboro Road, even for the part of the property that's in Stephen City, and we can't control anything that happens within the town of Stephen City limits, the closest I see the solar arrays to Marlboro Road on the Stephen City property is about 600 plus, maybe 700 feet. And when you get into the Frederick County portion that is totally in Frederick County under control, we're probably looking at 2,000 plus feet from Marlboro Road to the first solar arrays. That's correct. It's probably easier to visualize on the aerial. The county CUP properties pretty much start right here, and then they become all this. Marlboro Road pretty much runs through here. So people that live on Marlboro Road, what's in the county is quite a distance. I was a little confused because when I drove out Marlboro Road, there was some conditional use notification signs that were actually on Marlboro Road, and I couldn't see how that was connected to this at all. Those are on the properties in which the underground co-gen tie line will be going through. They were on this, and I was out in the state of Frankfort Farm. They enforced all district notifications, but before that there was conditional use permit notifications. So I was... All the properties we posted were along Springdale Road. The properties along Marlboro Road that were posted were these two. And then there were two properties, I'm sorry, one property that was posted off of Passage Road. That's part of the missing... Yeah. Mr. Triplett. Yes. Evan. How close to Mr. He's property is that, his house, his residence? Mr. He's property is currently undeveloped. There will not be any solar panels near the back of his house? No, I'm not trying to mislead. No, I know you would never. I don't know what just happened here. No, I thought the question you asked me was, where's his house? His property is this one right here, and it's currently not developed. Gordon's have a house about here, and the Snudden's have a house about here. And one of the properties that we posted was on the back of his house. Once again, our project is back in here. And then we also made a concession for the Gordon's to increase the landscaping area along this eastern boundary, too. So we've met with them and put forth effort to do that. But I thought your question was, where is this in relation to the Heath house? There is no house. There is a parcel there that could be constructed. But it does not, he cannot see that. Well, if they put, so I guess your question is difficult to answer because of this, okay? Their properties sit right here. When we looked at it, we looked at typical sections from the agreement. And we looked at the property that was in the house. And we looked at the property that was in the house. And we looked at the property that was in the house. And we looked at the existing residence. Snudden is here. Gordon is here. Here's the properties, once again, in the town of Stephen City. And we ran cross-sections to determine where the buffering would be effective. And as an example, we ran a profile based on what a seven-foot high berm with six-foot high trees would be at a ground-level view from the property elevation. And as you go out across the field, you can see that even the property elevation is not as high as the property elevation. And as you go out across the field, you can see that even the property elevation is not as high as the property elevation. And as you go out across the field, you can see that even the property elevation is not as high as the property elevation. And as you go out across the field, you can see that even the property elevation is not as high as the property elevation. And even when the panels are fully inverted for a distance out, they're not visible on the sideline because of the break. But eventually, you do get to a point in the property, which is about 500 feet away, where you are going to start seeing them. And then the property continues to climb, and you are going to see them. So they're common about view shed. Yeah, there's not going to be the ability as the lamb rises to ultimately screen every panel from view. But once again, this is what we're looking at. And this is why we're trying to impress upon you the intent of buffering is for a certain distance to give a ground level break, which is what we've done with our design. So I hope that answers your question. I just hope it answered theirs. And once again, I just want to keep impressing the fact that all this is above and beyond what the town code requires us to do. I just wanted to follow up on the landscape. I mean, I do think that, you know, at the time of planning, I think the scheme, you know, in terms of the evergreen plantings on the berm, you know, that makes sense. I mean, I think that that's, you know, a good approach. I do think, you know, the one key thing is that it's six feet of time of planting, not six feet forever. You know, I mean, the plants will grow. That being said, I didn't know to what extent you all have had conversations as a team with the property owners about, you know, the species. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think we'll have to have your comments be directed at staff after this meeting, if that's all possible. We can, we got what we have in front of us tonight and thank everyone for speaking. Do the planning commission have any other comments, discussion? I see Mr. Jewell's hand go up. Mr. Chairman, the county will receive between $112,000 and $182,000 a year for this project. It'll be the elimination of 64, five acre lots. It also takes out this by right's 100 acres, if that's with Steven City. It also takes out the 200 plus acres that's up for sale currently over there on Middle Road. It also helps the agriculture, the West Oaks. It stays, the area stays rule and allowing agriculture use in the future. Let's take this back to agriculture. agriculture so it's an opportunity i understand the solar panels it also frederick county is doing a good job i think of trying to work with alternative power alternative solutions and um i think that you know we've heard that the the acreage is actually 705 acres most of the area mr marston and i have driven and walked this and it's it's back it's like mr thomas pointed out from marlboro road you are not going to see this from marlboro road so i i mean i just think that those are points that really need to be driven home on this project thank you sir any other comments discussion i'm not seeing anything uh we've reversed it no ma'am you cannot speak out from the crowds i'm sorry i'm sorry at this time i'll entertain a motion uh for the condition 05-20 here i would like to make a motion this is uh back creek and opec and so mr chairman i make a motion that we approve cup number 0520 bartonsville energy facility do i have a second second i was forward vote i'd like to make a comment yes make a comment please would you entertain a condition that the properties uh located in frederick county except for the yellow piece cannot be further subdivided oh absolutely yes i would you know if you're asking me uh absolutely i i that should be part of me that was a good point so can i'll before we move forward can we do that i mean i just making sure okay all right so that'll be a condition that will be included into it then okay okay i have a motion and i have a second and i'll start with a vote mr molden would you like to start us off oh and yes excuse me morrison yes moan yes triplet no thomas yes coach yes bernier yes marston yes jewell yes ambrosia yes and yes i had a second yes oh did you make a motion too let me get some clarity real quick we had a we had a moat we had a amendment but i don't think the second was amended but i don't think the second was amended i'll say i'll amend i'll second the amendment second the amendment to make sure we don't have the amendment request that we had to that so just so we're clear on that and i think it was down to me so uh the chair votes no and so this for this goes forward to the board supervisors on september 23rd with an approved conditional use permit 05-20 and the right number of acres and please clarify the acres when you do that thank you and thank everyone for spending the time with us today thank you very much and we'll see you next week and i appreciate your time and patience we'll see the panels from marble road i don't doubt you ma'am all right we've got one more public hearing item on our agenda tonight and it's uh order of the day we're going to go ahead and make a motion to approve the ordinance amendment for daycare facilities and it's mr klein meeting again mr chairman members of the planning commission this is a proposed ordinance amendment to chapter 165 the zoning ordinance to expand the definition for daycare facility to include adult care and to use consistent terminology for daycare facility throughout the zoning ordinance the current definition for daycare facility is limited to the care and guidance of only children and we're going to move on to the next amendment to approve the ordinance amendment for daycare facilities and it's mr klein and i appreciate your time and i appreciate your time and we think that the the the the the the the the the the the the the the deposition and the the the the the the the the ab ab and and room as defined in part 101 as amended as part of the ordinance amendment in the b1 b2 and om zoning districts to ensure consistency throughout the code the proposed amendment would not change which zoning districts this type of facility would be allowed by right or with an improved conditional use permit and adult care facilities like child care facilities are regulated by the Virginia Department of Social Services in addition to those requirements contained in the zoning ordinance further uses such as churches where a daycare facility may be accessory to the principal use such as a place of worship these facilities would continue to be allowed by right as an accessory use this ordinance amendment was proposed by a local engineering firm working in conjunction with Westminster Canterbury to allow this use in property on the RP residential performance property the Board of Supervisors discussed this item on the 12th of August and they directed staff to review the zoning ordinance and the zoning ordinance and the staff to ensure that the consistent use of the terminology daycare facility throughout the zoning ordinance this item is presented to you all this evening for public hearing and staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment thank you questions thank you mr. Klein any questions mr. Klein mr. Thomas so anywhere where a child care facility or a daycare facility is an accessory use to the principal use that would then open this up that they could then use as a facility for the principal use that would then open this up that they could then use as a facility for the principal use that would then open this up that they could then have an adult care facility there that would be this case yes sir and the State Department of Social Services controls not only the health and social aspects of the facility but also the construction and the facility aspects a construction is under the Virginia statewide building code there that for that use type there are specific requirements for accessibility and you know how many restrooms hand-washing stations square footage care would be different than a child care that's it would that is correct that is correct but they're regulated it's very similar in the type of you know accessible restrooms it's covered under the state it's covered in the state code which is implemented by the building inspections department so when a adult care facility came in and applied for a site plan they'd have to go through the review which would include comments from the building inspections department and that ultimately they'd have to do their building permits through that group as well and they would be implementing the Virginia building code would get an approval for you child care or an adult care facility it wouldn't be I have approval for a child care facility so now I automatically have a CUP for an adult care facility correct because I believe those are classified differently there is also the option that they could do an intergenerational type of facility again I'm not for intimately familiar with all the ins and outs of that those regulations but there are opportunities to do intergenerational type facilities as well under the end of the building code the questions mr. Klein thank you sir this is a public hearing I open the public here at this time anybody want to come forward speak for against this matter please come forward please see you know mad rush to talk about ordinance amendments I will close the public hearing and we don't need applicant response so at this time I entertain a motion mr. chairman I move that we recommend approval of ordinance amendment day care facilities I got a second I got a second and I'll start the vote mr. Marston are you still there yes good notion yes thank sir anyway yes yes yes yes exploited is Julia Santa chairboats yes order the amendment passes It'll go to the board supervisors also in their 923 meeting. And with that, we have worked through our agenda tonight. And we're on our other, I believe we have a meeting scheduled for September 16th. Is that correct? Or do we have one on our book yet? Mr. Chairman, we do not have a meeting on the 16th. So we can motion to cancel that? Yes, sir. Second. All in favor of canceling the September 16th Planning Commission meeting? I'm getting ready to go in November. All right. Chair votes aye, so it's all approved. There'll be no meeting on the 16th. And with that, I take a motion to adjourn. So moved. Second. Second. All those in favor, adjourn. Aye. We're adjourned.
