Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-05-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=224
========================================================================

Good evening. I'll call the May 15th meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. Planning Commissioners, I'll remind you to turn your mics on before speaking, and I ask that everyone in the audience please silence your cell phone. Mr. Thomas, will you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, please? Please rise. Face the flag. Please remove any cover you have. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next item on the agenda is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. Do we have a motion? Is there a second? Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Likewise. And the motion carries. Next is approval of the minutes from our March 6th meeting. Those were provided with the agenda packet. Is there any discussion, corrections, or deletions that are needed? None. We have a motion for approval. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Likewise. Motion carries. We'll also take up the March 20th, 2024 meeting minutes for approval. Is there any discussion, corrections, or additions that need to be made to those? Move for approval. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Likewise. Motion carries. Moving on to item number five is committee reports. Do we have any committee reports? Any discussion? None. Any discussion? Nothing from Frederick Water. Transportation hasn't met yet. I know CPPC doesn't meet until tomorrow night, so I think we're good. Then we'll move down to Ms. Lacey Burnett from Winchester. Lacey, welcome. Pardon me. Thank you for having me. We did meet for a public session on April 16th where we had three items that we discussed. All were approved. We moved forward to the council. The first one being O'Reilly Auto Parts is going to be putting in a new location on Cedar Creek Grade. And because it's coming into the city, we needed to approve some architectural changes that were happening there. The other two are green space waivers, which we approved all in the Old Town District. We did have a working session this past Tuesday where we talked about green space in general downtown and what our limits should really be for the green space downtown, as well. We also have a new building that we're going to be building in the city, which is going to be a new building that we're going to be building in the city. We're going to be building a new building in the city, as well as a corridor enhancement, also kind of architectural change that might be happening on Berryville Avenue. We will not be meeting and having a public session at the end of this month, and we probably will not the following month as well. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you very much. We have Mr. Bob Lero with us from the Board of Supervisors. Mr. Lero, Supervisor Lero. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since your last planning commission meeting on April 17th, we've met twice, so we have... So we have... So we have... I'm going to just give you a quick summary of those board actions that we did. The first meeting after your April 17th meeting was on April 24th. We took up five planning actions there. CPA 02-23, Jordan Springs, was denied. The second one was a removal of two parcels in addition of one parcel from the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District. That was approved. The third item was South Timber Ridge Agricultural and Forestal Edition for CKW Rentals LLC. That was approved. Fourth one was an ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 165 on zoning on home and cottage industries, which was approved. And the fifth one was an ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning on accessory dwellings and master development plan definitions. That was approved. That was approved as well. The next meeting we had was on May 8th, and we took up three planning issues there. The first one was subdivision administrator decision to not approve the rural subdivision for the Heflin parcel. PIN 40-A-129 was upheld, so the appeal was denied. The second item was the ordinance amendment on places of worship and nationalities. The third item was the ordinance amendment on the National Charter for Fraternal Lodges, etc. That was sent forward to a public hearing. And the third item was an ordinance amendment on definitions and corrections for conference event centers, data centers, etc. That also was sent forward to a public hearing. And that's all I have, Mr. Chair. You've been busy. Thank you, Supervisor Lira. One planning commission update that I'd like to provide, we're glad to have with us this evening, Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. Mr. Kevin Sneeden. The seat has been empty since Roger got redistricted out of the Opecan District. So, Kevin, welcome, and we're glad to have you here. With that, we'll move on to our citizen comments, item six. If there are any citizens here who wish to speak to anything that is not on a public hearing agenda for tonight, you're welcome to come to the podium, state your name, Magisterial District, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Would anyone like to speak to the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I'll close the citizen comments. We'll move on to public hearings, item seven. First item up, Mr. Kline, rezoning number 0424 for C-Store Town Run, LLC, Stickley Farm, LC. Mr. Kline. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is rezoning application 0424 for the C-Store Town Run, LLC, and this is a request to rezone approximately 8.298. We're going to be looking at the application materials for the C-Store Town Run, LLC, and the B-2 General Business District, and to the IA Interstate Area Overlay District with proffers to allow for the construction of a convenience store with fueling stations, indicating the application materials that is for the Wawa Corporation, and the subject property is located within the Opecan District. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject property is outlined in blue. It is south of Fairfax Pike and west of Town Run Lane. It is located east of the Interchange Exit 307 ramp and due east of the town of Stevens City. It is surrounded by other B-2 zone property along Stickley Drive and Fairfax Pike. What does the comprehensive say about this property? It is identified on our future land use map with a rural designation, and the proposed rezoning does not implement uses typically associated with a rural land use designation, and it may have a potential use case. It may have a potential use case. have a potentially negative impact on sensitive environmental areas that are identified in your comprehensive plan however the rezoning to the b2 district and the I a overlay district may otherwise be appropriate given the location of the subject properties to the exit 307 interchange the proximity to the commercial areas of the town of Steven City and to the route 277 277 commercial corridor if the impacts are properly mitigated this is your future land use map again subject property is outlined in blue to the east is all business future land use identified properties it also continues to the south in the area that's identified on your southern Frederick area plan as the interstate commercial area at exit 307 this is a screenshot of the southern Frederick area plan you can see the subject properties kind of right here with this green environmentally sensitive areas designation on it and you have this big stretch of commercial area that's identified as the interstate commercial area at exit 307 that goes down towards what is identified on our plans as a future interchange south of exit 307 and it's a area plan for commercial uses the interstate commercial uses at exit 307 policies within our southern Frederick area plan is located highly visible locations on an interstate interchange it's designated specifically to accommodate and promote highway commercial land uses particular effort must be made to ensure that access management for the supporting transportation network is a key priority and building in site layout and design of the project should be at the high quality should you want to consider moving forward with this application we think it may be appropriate to apply the policies for the land uses that are immediately around subject properties in regard to the interstate area overlay district this is something I'm sure many of you may have not may not be as familiar with this is a overlay district on top of the existing b2 zoning it's to provide commercial businesses with a identified area the ability to utilize business signs that are in excess of the limits of specified in the sign ordinance this flexibility is provided to inform the traveling public of business services opportunities at a specific interstate interchange area think about this as a you know it predicts permits additional signage for establishments that are within those designated areas to exceed the maximum height and size which is the square footage allowances permitted elsewhere in the ordinance so if you were to approve the rezoning which includes the interstate area overlay district designation the property would be permitted two signs that interstate sign and a monument style sign which is enabled in the zoning ordinance providing a little bit of comparison of the different sign types in our ordinance for your consideration the first line is the maximum sign allowance allowed in the zoning ordinance for any property and that's 25 feet or 150 square feet in sign size now we do determine sign size that corresponds to the roadway classification so in this case that Wawa has frontage on town run lane and it is monument sign that it would be permitted would be 10 feet in height and 25 square feet this is consistent with other signage monument signage along town run lane the interstate area district overlay district rather permits a pole sign up to 100 feet in height depending on where it is on the property and the corresponding mean sea level average across the site and a maximum sign area 300 square feet so the interstate area overlay district depending on what interstate interstate exit you are at permits a different sign height above sea level and it ensures that there's consistent sign height across all of our interchanges so the sign proposed would be consistent with the height of the other signs at this intersection or rather interchange including the Holiday Inn Starbucks quality and and then the like so the the applicant has included in a proper statement staff would note that the the applicant has included in a proper statement staff would note that the the applicant has included in a proper statement staff would note that the the applicant has included in a proper statement staff would note that the we incorrectly communicated they are in a legal form there are some minor we incorrectly communicated they are in a legal form there are some minor changes that the county attorney would still like to see on the proper changes that the county attorney would still like to see on the proper statements of those require the attention of the applicant but they are again minor changes the propper provides for conformance with the included generalized development plan it restricts the use of the property to only a convenience store with a service station and fueling stations and it provides for transportation improvements including two full movement commercial entrances from town run lane and making adjustments to the signal splits at route 277 route 277 route 277 ailer road and stickley drive intersection to ailer road and stickley drive intersection to ailer road and stickley drive intersection to accommodate the additional trips this accommodate the additional trips this is the generalized development plan included with your application staff would note that there are some minor changes that are also required to this the monument style sign is identified as the maximum signage allowed but again the signage should correspond to town run lane so they will be adjusting the maximum height and sign area permitted but again shows you the layout here's town run lane there's two commercial entrances and the general site layout there freestanding pole sign for the interstate area overlay district is identified here at the southern portion of the property so in summary the proposal does not implement uses typically associated with a rural land use designation however it may be appropriate to consider the rezoning given its proximity to enter to the interstate route 277 corridor and the town of stephen city if the policies for the exit 307 interstate commercial areas are further incorporated into the proposal this is a public hearing item for your consideration this evening and staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm of course happy to answer any questions you may have and Jennifer Mullins representing the and her team are here representing the applicant this evening and I believe they have a presentation for you as well. Very good. Thank you Mr. Klein. Okay to my left any questions for Mr. Klein? Yeah why why is the area considered environmentally sensitive? A portion of the property the southern part of the Stickley Farm property includes Stevens Run which is a creek. There's also a creek identified across their property running from southeast to northwest that's identified in our mapping system and that's when those are identified in the natural features we designate them in our comprehensive plan as environmentally sensitive areas and that requires a corresponding riparian area buffer and things of that nature. So it does have some potential impacts on the property but those may be mitigated at the time of site plan. Okay. Any other questions? Are y'all aware if they plan on like the creeks will keep flowing and they'll work around them or? Those are site plan considerations. They'll have to address the zoning ordinance requirements. Part a portion of the area the Stevens Run portion which is in the floodplain is outside of their land disturbance area. The other minor tributary creek that we note they'll have to do some additional research to see that's actually a dry creek bed or a wet creek bed and determine if it's a wet creek bed. Okay. Did that answer your question? No, no. Come on, come over here. Thank you. noticed the you just straw it here. We made adjustments for the let's just say we moved forward the picture of this one. Has our staff transportation expert weighed in on their transportation impacts and the study? Yes, Mr. Bishop and I were both part of the VDOT scoping for the traffic study, and VDOT has accepted the parameters of their study and the recommendations, and staff concurs with VDOT's recommendations. That's a pretty horrendous area already. I'm not sure whatever we do there will make it any worse. It's certainly a challenging area of the county. The team that's here this evening includes their traffic engineer. I'm sure they'd be happy to answer any more specific questions about their study and the parameters and what was identified as potential areas. It does have a level of service of C, and it continues to operate at that level of service. Mr. Kearns? Back on one of the early maps that you showed, you had a proposed future realignment of that interchange with the interstate. Could you talk a little bit more to that? That's the first time I'm seeing that. Is that something that's feasible in the near future, or is that something that's unfunded? It's certainly a long-term project. It's been on the plans for a number of years, and it is a very long-term project. I looked at John, and he's shaking his head. So, yeah, that's the current status. It's a nine-figure project, and in terms of priorities that the board has outlined and enumerated, it's fairly low down that list, given all the other needs. So it is, yes, quite far in the future. And the only way to fund that is revenue sharing and profit? It's well, I mean, you know, 100-some, if not 200 million by now, frankly, a million-dollar project. It's well beyond the realm of a revenue-sharing project even. So, yeah, you're talking federal, state, something, a major action. Any other questions, comments? Tyler, just a quick question. Noted on here, the interstate commercial exit 307 plan policies need to conform with site layout, high-quality design. Can you explain what that is? You all will be familiar with that statement. It's similar to your Winchester Gateway application and the SING trucking rezoning that you all have recently concluded, again, looking for commitment to building materials, the design of the buildings, the layout of the buildings. There's some policies about enhancing. It's buffers and screening from the interchange and things of that nature. So should you want to move forward with that, you could ask that they address those policies in greater detail. Any other questions? Mr. Curtis, can you, Mr. Klein, can you talk to the interstate overlay sign height one more time and explain how it is, if I understand correctly, in this interchange area with 277 and 81, the tops of the signs are limited to a height above mean sea level of 800 feet. Correct. So that all the signs are going to appear to be the same height. Yes, sir. And now the poles will vary in height depending on the grade at which they're sat. So some of the signs in that area are 100 feet tall. Some of them are 60 feet tall. It's just going to depend where they're proposing. Their sign is at a relatively low point of their site. It's one of the lowest points in that area. So the pole will be physically very tall, but the top of the sign will align, with the other signs in its vicinity, and that includes Starbucks, Holiday Inn, Taco Bell, KFC, and some of the other businesses that are there that also have that interstate area designation. Okay. Thank you. Will that be a, I don't know if the applicant's going to address this, is that going to be like a lighted sign with the, you know, the price, you know, the gas price on it? It will, yes. Here's an on there general development point. They include a rendering. So you have, again, that sign face is up to 300 square feet, and it includes the electronic display for the current, current price of fuel. Thank you. Anything else? Thank you very much. Ms. Mullins? Good evening, members of the Planning Commission, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate your all's time this evening, and for Mr. Klein's presentation. I'm Jennifer Mullin with Roth Jackson on behalf of the applicant this evening. And again, this is for a rezoning, to be to an interstate overlay as Mr. Klein went through in detail, to allow for the development of a Wawa. Oops. I should have done my PowerPoint dance. I'm going the wrong way here. There we go. As staff noted, the property is about 8.2 acres of the property. So that is the area that is highlighted, that is highlighted here in blue. So that's the northern portion of the property. Given its proximity, it's a little bit more than a mile away. So that's the area that is highlighted here in blue. So that's the northern portion of the property. Given its proximity, to the highway and the surrounding commercial uses, it is appropriate for the area. And consistent with the surrounding uses and zoning, as again was noted by staff with the uses across Town Run Lane, also being B2 and used for commercial purposes. These are just some quick images looking southbound, and that just shows the varying sign height that was just discussed. So they all have the similar top of the sign, but the poles themselves are different heights. I will note just on the environmental, the sensitive areas that was discussed earlier, the tributary that is on site, our engineers have provided that it is, doesn't provide any hydraulic capacity. So we'll be just be working through the permitting process with both the state and the county for that process. And this just again is looking southbound, it shows the site here, that's a shot northbound. And this is basically at the northern first entrance across the street. And this is basically at the northern first entrance across the street. on Town Run Lane, and you can see the Interstate 81 in the background. Again, the proffers limit the uses to the convenience stores with fuel pumps. Thank you. For a Wawa, which locates where there is demand. Again, this location is appropriate given its proximity to Interstate 81, as well as its ease of access. Wawa serves high quality prepared and made to order foods. In addition to convenience foods and goods. It prides itself on exceptional service. This would be a positive economic impact on the county with approximately a $7 million investment. It would create approximately 50 jobs in addition to the practice of employing locally for construction as well as vendors. These are quality jobs with competitive wages, tuition reimbursement, benefits, among other positive factors that the company offers to their employees. As well as the company's commitment to giving back to the community. I will note that we have read the comments that were received in response to the application. And so just want to note a few additional items for you. With respect to the pedestrian crossing, I believe that was a question asked earlier as well. In addition to our requirement to have sidewalks along our frontage, we're committed to having a pedestrian crossing across Town Run Lane. But that would need to be done in a different way. So we're going to be doing that. It would need to be determined at the time of site plan review because we need to work with VDOT as well as the county to determine where that location would be made. But we are happy to add that to the proffered conditions to make that pedestrian crossing across subject to VDOT approval. The second piece was that there may be some confusion if you're not used to the area as to the location to get back onto I-81. And currently there is directions to the right of way of Town Run Lane. There is directional signage about here already within the right of way of Town Run Lane that has, and there's another one further down south, that has a VDOT sign that says 2 Interstate 81 and it routes you around Stickley. So we would propose to add as many additional directional signs both offsite in the right of way as well as onsite to alert anyone who is not familiar that you should take a right, go southbound on Town Run Lane, and then go eastbound on Stickley so that there is not a U-turn being made. With general traffic concerns, again the traffic analysis was prepared by Kittleston, our traffic engineer, and it found that the road network remains at a similar or better levels of service than currently exists today with the background traffic included, and that includes the projects that are planned plus the background growth additional of 1% with the mitigation that is proffered, which is with the timing of the light at Stickley Drive and 277. And that achieves a level of service C or better at build out. And the fourth piece was just a question with respect to EV chargers. The site plan here has future EV chargers. This site will be EV ready, but the EV charging stations are provided by a third party. So EV ready meaning that all the electrical and all the conduit will be there, but we can't commit to the when that would be installed because that is based on the third party that has to go through their own permitting and approval process in order to do that. So it will be EV ready. And with that, I would respectfully request your recommendation of approval. I would be happy to answer any questions. Again, I have the traffic engineer as well as the site civil engineer and members of the development team if you do have any questions for any of us. Thank you, Ms. Mullen. I'll start. Will this site sell down? Yes, it will. And will the diesel and will tractor trailers be able to access the site? Sure. This will not have a high flow diesel, so this is not a tractor trailer. This is not a truck stop. Tractor trailers will come and serve the site, and they expect that to be just on a providing fuel to the site and then providing goods and services to the convenience store, and they expect deliveries to be about two times a week. But this is not a truck stop that would be serving tractor trailers. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Thomas. You said the background traffic was increased at a rate of 1% a year. That area around Stevens City is growing significantly with residential development, and I think the 1% a year is extremely low for an increased traffic amount for that area. I'm not sure where that figure came from. That's probably a standard figure you use, but I don't think that's adequate. I also, since I live pretty close here, I actually avoid that intersection. We go up to 37 if we want to go to Stevens City and come back down Route 11 because trying to go across that bridge is impossible during most parts of the day. I mean, you'll sit there for 10 minutes to get across the bridge. I understand most of your traffic will probably come out of there and either go east on Tuesday, or go north or south on 81. Now, going north will be pretty easy. Going south, though, they've got to go back across the bridge and go south at that intersection. And the stacking on the bridge is only, I don't know, maybe a half dozen cars at most. And I really question your level of sea service after this is built. I think that's very optimistic. And I just think that's a good thing. Thank you. I'd like to hear a little bit from your traffic engineer on where he came up with the 1% and the level of sea service. It just doesn't make sense to me. Sure. And I'd be happy to bring Andrew up with Kittleston. Just as a general matter, the scoping is performed with the county and VDOT, and both departments, both county and VDOT, have reviewed and approved the traffic study, which provided for that growth rate of 1% as well. But I'll let Andrew come up and provide that. Ms. Mullen, let me get through general questions. Yes, I'm sorry. Sure. I promise you we have plenty of questions for Andrew. Sure, absolutely. Are there any other questions to my right? Okay, to my left. Questions? Oh, come on, guys. Okay. Please bring Andrew forward. Great. Thank you. Good evening, Commissioners. I'm Andy Butzik. I conducted the traffic study with Kittleston. So happy to answer any questions about that. I can start with your question about the growth rate. I'm Andy Butzik. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. I'm the traffic officer for Kittleston. So happy to answer any questions about that. I can start with your question about the growth rate, if that's okay. Let me jump in here. Did you include all of the homes at Horton's building and Stevens City in your background traffic in addition to the 1%? Or what have you done in your background? What's included? That's really what Roger's getting at. Yeah. So those numbers are... We actually conducted the traffic study for that as well. That number is captured based on the original traffic study that was done in Stevens City. Those numbers are captured in that 1% growth rate because we're projecting out to 2030. That 1% growth rate came, as Jennifer alluded to, the scoping with VDOT. When we first went into the scoping meeting, if you take a look at the last decade on 277, the growth trend based on VDOT data is negative. It's projecting negative growth along 277 based on historical data, but recognizing that we want to be conservative working with VDOT staff at the residency as well as at the district level, district planning staff. Who helped develop all these models as well as county staff came up with a 1% conservative estimate because we are projecting 1% over a longer period of time. So I recognize this area is growing. It's a little more conservative than what the data would say we should be projecting out to. In your traffic study, and I know your predecessor said that you did not anticipate tractor trailers coming in there. What was the most significant factor for refueling? What about large panel trucks? When you broke down your traffic distribution, was it 80% POVs or what did you include in your distribution of vehicles? Right. So the ITE, Internet Institute of Transportation and Engineers, traffic data that has the C-STOR, this land use trip generation data that's built on a few decades' worth of data collected at various sites around the country. So we're not anticipating a heavy number of tractor trailers, particularly not during the peak hours, during the study hours that we modeled in our analysis. You didn't give me a percent. I'd have to look up the data. It's not something most people memorize. Okay. Did you go out there and actually look at the traffic? Have you seen it? Yes. The exits backed up onto 81 and coming south to get off, coming north to get off, and you still see a level of service. I mean, maybe 50% of the day I could see a level of service C, but not during peak hours. It's just not... Right. I can certainly appreciate that there's traffic concerns in the area, but we collected real world data, developed models using VDOT's timing and their traffic models, modeled that, with the real world timing, real world traffic counts that were collected at these intersections, and that's what it's projecting. And I can recognize that it feels like there's delay out there, but level of service C, there is delay associated with being at level of service C. It's not a free flow movement, and I wouldn't expect any signal to be level of service A anywhere. Level of service A, B is a rare case, and I'd kind of question if you need a signal if you have those operations. I don't think you should put a signal in that area. Yeah. I'm just so puzzled because driving there, I get a whole different picture than what you're presenting. You actually did a physical traffic count with this counter. Did you do that for 72 hours or...? That's collected over a two-day period. But we use one day of data in our actual analysis. We use the peak hour from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m., identify the peak hour within that hour, that timeframe, and then from 4 to 7 p.m., identify the weekday p.m., peak hour, whatever's the highest in the data that we collected over those two days. Okay. Was schooling session when you did the counts? Yes, has to be. Was there any... Sorry to interrupt. Was there any... Just curious if Steven City Fire Department had any calls during those two days? That... You didn't see any fire trucks going by? Not during the peak hours, no. That's a concern I always have because I travel that... Well, two times a day. Every single day for the entire length of the year because my kids go to school over that direction. So it really backs up on the bridge there just to get over to the town of Steven City and then over on 277. So are you done? I'm done. Okay. I was just curious, so there were no level of service Ds at any of these five locations that you studied? Yes. And they were all Cs? After the... Existing... The overall intersection, yes. Individual movements, yes, there are some that are a little bit lower than level of service C, but typically focus on the overall intersection. And there were none that were D? Because I do see some in the weekday PM that were D, but... In opening year, build out year of 2020 for the 2030 projections do have level of service D as the lowest, yes. Okay. I guess I'm just having a hard time comprehending how we can... I'm sorry. I don't know how we can go from that six plus years of development and we can decrease the level of service with increased development. I really just can't comprehend it. Sorry. Just to clarify. So it's level of service C and build out year level of service D when you project six years beyond the build out. Okay. When you did your traffic counts, they were at Stickley and 277? We did... But it was more than that, right? It was a good deal. It was a good deal. And I think you did that at the... And I think you did that at the... That is correct. You did that at the... In addition to the one that was on the street. Yes. We did that as well as at the interchange and at town run lane. And... So you did it at town run lane, you did it at the interchange from 81 off. That's where you put your counters? Correct. How many times did you see traffic backed up from the bridge to Stickley lane? During the peak hours? During the peak hours. Not... It happens, but it wasn't a frequent occurrence during the times that we collected. And I think... Sort of... point I recognize that traffic is a big concern here a lot of the data the trips that we're generating are in the study are passed by trips so these are trips that are already on the road we're not pulling new trips people aren't sitting on the couch thinking oh I need to get gas and then going to the gas station and driving home these are trips that are people who are at work on the way home from work they're going out shopping they say oh let me stop get some gas or they're going to work so it's a lot of the trips that are generated here are already on the network that we're talking about so the trips that are there today will be using this site I totally agree with you my problem is when I come down and turn left at Stickley to get on Fairfax Pike to go across the bridge I usually have to stop at Stickley in the intersection there and wait for 15 minutes to get across the bridge because the traffic's backed up from Stephen City across the bridge and when you come down 11 and turn you, left off of 11 on to Fairfax Pike in Stephen City at the light you sit there and go through four or five cycles of the light before you can ever get to the bridge and I just it totally baffles me how we can get a level C level service here or C level service but I said enough did you do any origin destination types of studies for example did you count the number of northbound exiting vehicles that might take a left and go to sheets or the other station yes we worked with VDOT district planning staff to use their street light data it's a program that I have statewide that can capture based on the origin that they use I believe they did use sheets specifically to capture where their trips are coming from to help set our trip distribution that we just did is used in the study how many of those trips would you anticipate would no longer go to the bridge but instead would come and make a right and come to Wawa yeah that's a good point there there are gas stations out there today so this would probably redistribute some of the folks that are going to sheets or the X on the other side if you're coming northbound on I-81 so it's because it's a much easier movement no one wants that to wait and turn left they can turn right then turn right on the town run so probably a good proportion would be not be passing over the bridge anymore they'd be turning towards the site northbound similarly southbound I don't think we'd be drawing that much traffic coming from southbound on I-81 they would use one of the easier gas stations because gas station is a is a use of convenience really your traffic report indicated that on Stickley Drive the queue is larger than the available storage did it not for under build-out conditions for the northbound left turn lane yes but that's also assuming that zero no changes were made to signal timing along the corridor which isn't necessarily a realistic scenario speed every times or signals roughly every three years so we did it one without retiming the signals just to see what it would look like if you did absolutely nothing if it just came in did nothing and then we did a scenario if you retime the signals as V dot will or the applicant is proffering to do to better reflect the traffic conditions that will be that out there that the movements that will be more heavily utilized out there install minimal change in congestion and levels of delay and which signals are you proposing to return just the since is a coordinated quarter you look at all the signals at a time but since what we took a look at was retiming the one at Stickley specifically with minor changes providing slightly a few seconds more green time to northbound movement from Stickley particularly the northbound left turn towards the interstate has very little impact on the coordination of 277 so we don't think you'd have to retime all the signals along 277 just the one just to take a little bit more green time I mean to nominate I'm sorry anyone to my left have questions Roger and I just left traffic well I have a similar concern Roger has is I hit the road from the opposite side of the two of you coming out middle and to cross that bridge backs up all the way to passage through baseball fields so I I don't think it's going to make it a any worse but I don't see how yeah I don't I don't understand the study that it's it seems like it's D already to me but but I don't I do think this will help that gas station where they have it seems safer to me than what's currently on that side of the bridge because you have to do u-turns on that roads so for that I've I like the idea and I like the idea of tax revenue you have the questions I think it's I think it's a good project I just don't believe the traffic study sorry no I can appreciate it but yeah I mean all we can do is with use the real world data that we have scoped with V dot in the county and rest our laurels on the top Boy can you I know, can't discount that. Did you include any improvements that might be in a VDOT plan somewhere along the way? So we modeled a design year just like it is out there today. When we talked to VDOT, there were no proposed improvements by 2030, which is the furthest year that we modeled. I will state that there is a VDOT pipeline study for the interchange right now. That's pretty preliminary, so there's no identified improvements at the interchange, but I think that interchange form may change in the long future. All right. Thank you. Thanks. Mr. Bishop, with that, can you talk a little bit to what you've been working on with VDOT and others, MPO, to make improvements there? Yes, we have two things going on right now, one of which is the pipeline study, which Mr. Butzik just referred to, and that is something that's been going on for almost a year now. We're actually approaching the end of. And there's a survey, as a matter of fact, coming out on Monday seeking opinions for what are currently the preferred alternatives. You may have heard me speak in the past about potential roundabouts at the interchange. However, through this study process, we have determined that those roundabouts, particularly as relates to the southbound left turning movement to get westbound on 277 from 81 southbound, simply don't hold the traffic. So the recommendation is actually, Mr. Thomas, a five-lane bridge, along with a more traditional interchange design and wider ramps and additional turning movement capacity and that sort of thing. And that's actually encapsulated, or rather going to be encapsulated within a current smart scale application that we have proceeding forward through the MPO. So a five-lane bridge is the preferred alternative. Okay. That's correct. Which is somewhere off in the future and that's not defined at this time? Assuming, there's a few things going on. Assuming success with this current smart scale application, you're still talking probably eight years, seven, eight years before you actually see that project. Part of that success will be determined by how much the board is able to afford to put into the application in terms of leverage funding. If not successful this time, the bridge is actually nearing being in the bottom. I, the beholder, within roughly a decade to 12 years, a life cycle issue similar to what happened with exit 313, where you have largely maintenance dollars covering the actual bridge replacement. And assuming we're not successful in the current application, we would be, assuming board approval, that is, we would be applying again in two years. But we'd be in a different situation to where we'd be more likely able to consider that maintenance replacement. And so, we're looking at that as a way to actually reduce the cost of the replacement of the bridge and actually lower the cost of the application and those kind of things to hopefully make it a little more competitive. Doesn't mean we're not trying this time. We don't think it's something you can wait on. Everything with smart scale is still long term, but that's kind of the scope of the different things we're looking for at the interchange right now. Thank you. That sounds promising. Yes, sir. Yes. Can I ask you a question? What determines the peak hour? Because this is the second project we've heard four to seven. And. By far, peak hours when schools flatten out more like three o'clock. Traditionally, peak hour is related to when, you know, people are going to work and coming home. So, that's how that's determined. Four to seven, as far as a peak hour window, is actually considered quite long. A lot of times that would be like five to 630 or something like that. So, they've already broadened it. As far as going all the way back to when school's getting out, if I'm being honest, it wasn't necessarily. Discussed at the scoping. But that would be unusual for us in a study to look that far outside of your traditional peak hour related to adult working times. Okay. It's just the school system is by far largest employer. You do still capture within that four to seven, particularly our this more specific to the PMP. Cowher. You're you're not capturing the entirety, of course, of the school traffic. But you would still be capturing the folks getting out of the sporting events, practices and all that sort of stuff, as well as people on their way to varsity games and that sort of thing. But but you're correct. You're not catching the actual school release time. Because the bus is stopping at the railroad tracks. Backs up traffic quite a bit. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing. Anyone who wishes to speak to this project is welcome to do so. I ask you to come up to the podium. State your name, your magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Anyone like to speak? Yes, sir. Hello. My name is Vernon Bortz. I live in Opec and district. I've sit here and listen to this very intently. And I am not a public speaker by any stretch of the imagination. So I apologize up front. I respectfully request that this. Resigning be denied. I live in Southern Hill subdivision and off of our main floor deck. I can see traffic. When? Let me back up the traffic impact analysis. Only goes over if everything works. Perfectly. We know in today's society nothing works perfectly. So we've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. We've discussed this evening such things as making. Minor modifications to the traffic signals or or what have you. The fact of the matter is 277 is stressed with traffic. We also have. Shinado. Green going in. We have the Fairfax Downs going in. We're drawing more traffic there. We've got the Marlboro subdivisions going in. The one up on Route 11. We continue to keep drawing and drawing. Vehicular traffic into that area which is already congested. The only thing you can do is widen 277 to keep this flow moving. It doesn't happen. If there is a little glitch as somebody mentioned it a little bit ago. If there's a little glitch in the traffic or a vehicular crash. Traffic will back up at the light at Route 11. All the way across the bridge. All the way to Waterloo. All the way to Warrior Drive. You it comes to a standstill and I can tell you this this happens several times a week. I don't care where they put their data packs to to collect data for vehicular movement in the area. It is just not going to work perfectly. They're not going to be able to resource the amount of traffic and they cannot predict the future. When we talk about truck traffic. We have. The. That has a large yard. If you have to go in in the evenings and you look over at McDonald's. They're parking tractor and trailers all over there when they come out in the morning. They're all over 277. We also have the one go the wild. While we don't know what they're going to do or not. I'll wash sheets down. When. Off of a one that. Down. At Royal. I'm at Reliance. That's going to create. More truck traffic in the area the trucks fathers going in down there is going to create even more trucks. And the tractor and trailers just don't move. Like. A normal passenger vehicle. We have to back up. Take a deep breath and think about what we're doing to the residential areas in this county. I moved out here to get away from this. And I've seen a lot of this. I'm a 25 year old. I'm a 25 year veteran of law enforcement. You just cannot. Throw our Sheriff's Department or state police local state police into trying to move this vehicle traffic. When they're already strapped with other issues. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else care to speak? Good evening. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. I'm a driver. Good evening. I'm Elizabeth Pell-Dunas. I am a two year resident of the Opecan District. And this is my first planning commission meeting in Frederick County. I am a veteran of these types of meetings and looking at traffic studies. And I have to admit, when I looked at the traffic study today, I was quite appalled at all the typos in it in the basic English language captions of some of the graphics, et cetera, et cetera. And that gives me pause right away because if people aren't checking the headlines, the devil is in the details. And then I also looked at some of the level of service for those intersections that will be impacted by Wawa coming. They're already operating potentially at level of service C and D. And as the gentleman before me stated, 277 gets backed up. It's quite congested. And it's not exactly what I expected to find in Frederick County when I moved here two years ago. So as much as I'm in favor of the concept of Wawa, I grew up with it as a kid in Pennsylvania, I would expect that their representatives would do a better job of giving you a report that I would find useful and actually firm and correct, and you would have good details to work with. I'm skeptical. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Anyone else? Thank you. Again, members of the commission. I'm Jennifer Mullen. I do appreciate those comments. Again, just to say the traffic study was scoped by the county and VDOT engineers. It was prepared and reviewed by them and approved by them. And so I can certainly understand the comments that we have heard, but the data was collected. It was based on models that have been performed over decades with data so that you can project future numbers. All of those, again, reviewed and approved by VDOT, and the study does show that the levels of service will remain at levels of service C or better in the 2024 build-out year. And so those reports, again, are part of the process here. The other departments have reviewed and approved the application. And again, I just would respectfully request your recommendation of approval. This will be a high-quality use that is appropriate for the area to bring not only investment in the community, but the company does look forward to working with the community through all their programs, giving back, as well as their investments in their investments. So with that, I respectfully request your recommendation of approval. Thank you very much. Mr. Klein, can you summarize for us, please? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. So again, for your consideration, this evening is a rezoning of approximately 8.29 acres from the RA district to the B-2 district, and to include the interstate area overlay district designation on the property, which would enable them to have a highway commercial sign. As stated earlier in the presentation, the comprehensive plan identifies this property as rural. However, given its proximity to existing commercial areas and the interchange, it may be appropriate for the Planning Commission to consider applying the interstate area commercial areas policies that are contained in your Southern Frederick area plan. This was a public hearing, and staff is, again, asking for a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors on this item. And as in the Opecan District. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, just one addition to Mr. Klein's summary. The applicant has indicated the intention to provide an additional two proffered obligations, one as it relates to pedestrian accommodations, and another as it relates to signage directing drivers the appropriate route to Interstate I-81. As we've done with previous applications, I think those are both clear enough items that we can work with the applicant in between this meeting and the Board to work on how that's articulated in the proffers and ensure that it's binding and appropriate. But we defer to the Planning Commission. Thank you very much for theabethlyn. Thank you. But the proposal allows us to answer the question on the grooves from a committee Short Essay Board about as well as is appropriate the flows made in the circumstances of purely funds and assistance tokład resting structure reasons are�잔 ways out of the B2 zoning review process. I'll pass that over to Mr. Cun♡ Sir, yes. I want to put you on the spot. The 1% growth for traffic on 277, it doesn't seem appropriate to me with all the development that's planned down there with the commercial development that is probably going in down there, especially the residential development and the draw of traffic. Why did we recommend a 1% growth rate to them? Honestly, the 1% is meant to be layered on top of background traffic, so specific background developments that were added into this are the hotel across the street as well as the Sharando Green development. Probably, potentially should have included the D.R. Horton development in the town. I don't recall off the top of my head. If that was discussed at the scoping or not or if it was felt to be a little too far away to pull into this, I'm not certain. I don't recall. However, the 1% is fairly standard. That tends to be what is required on top of any background undeveloped as of yet, known developments that have not yet been built. So it tends to be, by the time you consider those, more than 1%. Whether that should have been higher here is a little bit in the eye of the beholder. The scoping process is. It's only as good as the people and what you know at the moment trying to conduct it. But in terms of the faces around the table or in the virtual table as it was in this particular case, no one spoke up saying it wasn't necessarily enough, myself included, because as I noted, that's been fairly standard on all of our recent TIAs to use that 1% on top of background developments that are not yet built. So the background. The background traffic projections in that area include all of the rezonings that have been done there and for the residential, for commercial, for everything there. The little landscaping businesses we do. I mean, within a certain, you know, you only go so far away from, because we're doing a micro simulation at this point as opposed to a more regional model. But yes, within a certain, you know, general area of the actual property under consideration, we try and pull in all of those. Like I said, DR Horton, good chance that's one we probably should have included and it just got missed if I'm being honest. But I also note what the traffic engineer said about the 1% covering their development, but it's that 1% is normally meant to be over and above. Okay. I would, if you allow me to interject something, your first speaker actually made a very good point regarding the 1% and the 1% is normally meant to be over and above. I mean, you know, yes, we can, the model assumes in general that things are somewhat perfect. And that's true. We have a situation where examples such as you gave, such as Stickley Drive backing up and particularly in terms of left turns or Route 11 itself, particularly southbound, I believe, backing up at Fairfax Pike because in a signal timing situation, 277 is always going to be the highest priority. So it's almost inevitable. That you're going to back up your side streets when you see that kind of volume. And there are some unintended consequences of that. For example, anybody familiar with Stickley Drive knows that left turn lane goes all the way down the length of the Roma shopping center. It's a long turn lane. However, that turn lane does not clear or even almost clear through every signal cycle. It gives, once again, 277 is the priority movement in that case. But that has unintended consequences. And that's a lot of consequences as well because you have people who kind of go through anyway. They're just going to hug the bumper of that person in front of them and potentially end up blocking the box. Or you have people that are going north on Town Run Lane and making that right off of there and in turn making a U-turn because they've found that that's faster for them. But that creates its own consequences and delays. And I apologize. I'm rambling on. So the point is well taken and well made that things do not operate perfectly in the real world. And that's always a concern. We spend a lot of time designing for that 1% of people who are going to do whatever they want no matter what you build. So that's one of our biggest challenges. Thank you. Planning Commissioners, this is the time for us to discuss the project. Comments, discussion to my right? Mr. Kearns? I'm looking at this and I'm thinking there's a lot of B2 zone down that way. And I live up, you know, Redbud. And I live up in the area. So we have a Sheetz up our way. And it's three lights in away from the interstate. And all that traffic that goes to them has to go through three lights instead of just one. So they add to all of that. So I think, you know, we're obviously on the radar of Wawa. We've seen it in the news. They're building in the area. I'm wondering how aggressive and interested they are. If they're just going to pick and if this doesn't go through, if they're just going to find, you know, another place, another B2 area down in that area. That's a couple of lights in instead of right next to the interstate. I just have to think about that based on the experience up where I live. And I see that, you know, easy on, relatively easy off to get onto the interstate there. That's what I just keep looking at. But it, I mean, it looks like a, I mean, you're going to impact traffic. But I also think, and I think that was a relevant comment that was made about traffic being pulled that you made about traffic being pulled. Instead of going to the, you know, the B2 area. I think that's a good point. Yeah. Going to the Wawa instead. So, you know, if you're going northbound, you're not going to go over the bridge. You're going to stuck. Because they're very similar businesses. Sorry. No offense. They're very similar businesses. They're very similar businesses. I can see people going, oh, I'd rather go to this one instead of across the road. So that's my only comment. Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Thomas? No. I mean, I think this is a good project. I don't think it's a bad location. They're not, it's not their problem that the traffic there is as bad as it is. And so. I don't believe the traffic study because I've lived it there too many times. I've seen studies before that we disagree with. I think the 1% growth is very under-projected because that area draws a lot. People in 277 that want to go to Stephen City, whether they live a mile away from Stephen City or 10 miles away from Stephen City, have to come back through that area. I think it's just under-projected, but I'm not sure it's the developer's problem because VDOT needs to put a five-lane bridge in there. Regardless of what this developer would do, we could make 277 10 lanes wide, but as long as that bridge isn't expanded, it's not going to make any difference. I don't know that it's the developer's issue. I'm in favor of it. I know it's going to cause an impact. I'll still... We'll go north to 37 and come back down 11 to Stephen City. Discussion to my left? Ms. Brannon? Things I like about the project is that's an area of the county that's really exploding with houses. We're looking at putting a fourth high school out there at a very hefty price. The idea of bringing in business tax dollars is very appealing to me. I think coming north on 81, it's a lot safer to go to that wall, and it will limit the traffic on that bridge. I think it will reduce it some. I also think it will help 277 because the developments that are up stickly can get gas there and not even go out on the 277. I see a lot of positive. I'm glad they addressed the pedestrian because that was my big concern because everything is on the other side of that street. And that store is going to attract more than people getting gas. People from those neighborhoods are going to walk and want subs or go in that convenience store. So that was my concern. If they'll address that and make that safe, then I really like the project. Any other comments or discussion? All right. Mr. Brannon? Mr. Molden? I think that the reason that the Wawa wants to locate there is because we have the traffic. I don't think they're going to create any enormous amount of traffic themselves. So them capturing the northbound traffic from 81 and those people going back on the northbound I think keeps people off the bridge, lessens that traffic on the bridge. Yes, there is some impact for sure. But I don't think that's going to happen. I think that it's a positive, definitely a positive thing to have. Very good. Anything else? Mr. Marker? Yeah, I agree with what's been said about the impact on the bridge. I am for tax revenue from businesses. I think we need more businesses in this area than we do need more residences, which don't carry the burden. The taxes that they require and consume. So in a pro-business approach, I'm for this project. Very good. Okay, this one is in Opecan. Would you care to make a motion? I'd like to make a motion that we approve number 04-24, C-Store, Town Run, LLC. Okay. Can you include? Those items that Mr. Pearson asked us to include in the motion? I can. And if you need a refresher, I'm sure he'd like to. I do need a refresher. Mr. Moulton, it'd just be appropriate to note that to include the applicants stated changes to the proffers, I don't think you'd need to detail them in specifics. If you care to, it was additional improvements to the pedestrian access, as well as directional signage to improve routing to I-81. Okay. Vehicles leaving the site. And that would be appropriate, yes. Thank you. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. We've discussed this. Is there any additional discussion? With that, we'll begin. Mr. DeHaven? DeHaven votes yes. Curran, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Moulden, yes. Sneddon, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Freeman, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on June the 12th. Okay, the next item is also a public hearing. Mr. Thomas, I'll recuse myself on this one and turn it over to you, sir. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Всё esperando a motion. Mr. — reproMic No2TiWmex. Ah– We thank you. Thank you. Can people be still? A meeting isду services owner. All rise? A pods– Ssaha H 제isän M Thursday, 11 March 2020. Can anyone yield the immunity of 25,797 people? We must washing such a large amount of paper in the water in which there's so much water that it may affect the quality of the Lots and improving our efficiency. A motion 가운데 C ormance S? He. 25 pAF- CORARES- 2 includes different areas, including west полез. 753- G-tK-V-Z-F-S-I-M-A? color over the property is the EM zoning. It's located west of the town of Middletown. It's located at the far southern end of the county near the line with Shenandoah County. And the arrow in red points to the approximate project location where this equipment would be going. And just one other note is that the property has been historically zoned EM, so there are no proffers associated with the property. The application proposes a silo at 72 feet in height, a conveyor at 85 feet, a bucket elevator at 87 feet, and a screen tower at 90 feet. Chapter 165, Section 608.06 for EM height limitations allows the board to waive the 45-foot height limitation and states that in no case shall any structure exceed 200 feet. This graphic shows the proposed improvements at the various heights that were listed on the previous screen. The ordinance contains additional regulations for the height waiver requests in EM, mainly that architectural renderings of the proposed structure shall be submitted for review, and that was shown on the previous slide. The board may require buffer and screening elements and or additional distance. When deemed necessary to protect adjacent uses, and the board may also require additional conditions as they deem necessary. The waiver shall not be permitted to increase the height of any signage, and the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors shall hold a public hearing. So following a public hearing tonight, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this waiver request. I'm happy to answer any questions. L. Thompson with Karamew see is here as well, to address any questions, and has prepared a brief Power Point he would like to share. Just a quick question, can you speak to the existing structure that these proposed structures would be near as far as the current heights and how the proposed structures would equate or line up with the existing structures. Okay, thank you. L. Thompson with Karamew see is here as well, to address any questions and has prepared a brief Power Point he would like to share. heights? Sure I believe that there is existing equipment out there that is currently at the 90 feet but I would ask Logan to confirm that because he would be more familiar with operation. Thank you. Miss Peloquin, the height waiver is very specific. We talked about 72 feet, 90 feet. You know during construction what happens if it ends up being 73 feet and 91 feet? That's a good question. I'm honestly not sure if what would happen. I would assume that they would be bound to what they've proposed in their application. That's my point. I think we're being a little overly specific here. You know and they already have facilities out there at this height they're higher. I'm curious what would happen if they were to have a height waiver that would be restricted to the height of the building. I mean that's why we have to make the height waiver so restrictive. Why don't we just say 95 feet and let it go at that? It's worth noting that planning staff doesn't necessarily impose the appropriate height waiver amount. The applicant prepares engineered plans for what meets their needs and it's upon them to then construct it in accordance with the Mafia code in nerdville. Okay thanks John. Okay the next question is about 50 feet protected both salaries and up**s.bur곤 Absolutely no raising the risk is 100 percent of the science. we already have a height waiver there for other facilities. Once we issue one height waiver for a group of facilities, I think it's a little burdensome when we require an applicant to come back in and get more, and especially if it's because, I mean, construction doesn't always go the way you intend it to. Designs change, processes change, and this is all based on process facilities. I would rather see us say that instead of 72, it's 75, 95, and whatever the other one was. And I know they're the ones that came up with the specific number of feet, but they did that based on what they thought the county wanted to see. You're certainly free to make a motion to allow for a margin of error, if you will. When you initially started speaking, I thought you were talking about some form of like a blanket allowance out there for equipment to set like a new zoning ordinance standard for height on that property, which I would advise against, but that's not what you're intending. No, it's not what I intend. It's more of a margin of error. Margin of error type. Planning Commission could certainly make that recommendation. Yeah. I mean, if we said plus or minus 72 feet or 80 or something like that, I've seen too many. I've seen construction sites where it ends up being a foot off, and I'd hate to have them have to come back and come before us again. Okay. Then can I ask a question? Any other questions for staff? Yeah. Like when I read this, it says the waiver is for 90 feet, but then they list the others, so I'm assuming it's 90 feet. Yeah, 90 feet is the maximum that they've proposed. They did list the specifics of each piece of equipment, but you could all just say the waiver will be set at 90 feet. Since it says the waiver is for 90 feet, those specific numbers are not part of the reason? Right, because that's the highest, right, of them. The additional numbers are for illustrative purposes of the different pieces of equipment that are exceeding the 45-foot height. For all intents and purposes, it's fair to assume that the 90-foot cap could apply if there were material changes to any of those pieces of equipment. They know what they're putting out there, and they know exactly how tall it's going to be, and that's kind of worth noting. The applicant can further provide detail on that during their comments as well. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Pellaquin. Would the applicant like to speak? Okay. Thank you. Good evening, Commission, and I appreciate your time. My name is Logan Thompson. I'm the operations manager, one of the operations managers for CARMUSE in the region, and I'd be happy to just answer a few questions tonight. We have a few photo renderings that show this equipment and where it is. It was included in the application as well. But maybe to start just a little generally to some of the questions that have been asked, 90 feet is, as a reminder, it's the highest structure, that we're requesting to build here. It's the main structure and the reason for the application. I think we just included the others and their heights if they were above the 45-foot limit in that zoning district. Maybe it was overkill. We know things are scrutinized, and we want to be very above board and transparent with this. So that's all that that was intended to do, was to include anything that we're building that will be above that. But the 90-foot height waiver takes care of our needs. Is that? Is that okay? Okay. I'll show a few things here, and then we'll be out of your hair. So this just shows the current Middletown operation as viewed from Route 11. You'll see that's kind of a notable vantage point there. And what's important to note with this is that we're not building this equipment as a new plant set aside or off on its own that will create some new view shed for the area. So you can see the arrow on the right. The new tower in the silo that we're putting in, that will be nested in amongst the existing process equipment, the tallest of which is already 90 feet. So just wanted to kind of level set that the standard, the ceiling, if you will, we're not asking to go above that. But we're here procedurally because we need this to get the site plan done and approved. What we did is worked with a contractor and took a few photos, and then they superimpose a two-scale view of the new screening building and other processing equipment that we need to install here. And so the existing view at the top is from the Route 11 pull-off for the Cedar Creek Battlefield sign. There you can see a little bit of the sign was left on the right, so you can kind of reference where you are. And the biggest compliment I've heard about this when we presented this to the Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation, Bell Grove, and the National Park Service, which was the first audience we presented these to, was, Logan, if you didn't point it out to me, I wouldn't notice it. And so when I heard that, I was like, that's why we do this. That's why we wanted to show these kind of renderings and stuff. But you can see, if you look really closely, right in here is an olive green screen tower, and the other equipment is nested in behind it. That olive green color is not by accident either. We were given a color palette some years ago, previous folks in Carmuse, working. We were working with the National Park Service, and that color palette listed some requested colors for any future building structures, whatever, in this plant. And so we've chosen one of those. It aligns with the manufacturer's color options, and we'll be putting that in. So not by accident that we chose that sort of beige neutral olive color that will not stick out in most seasons. Another notable viewshot. I'm going to show you a little bit of the color palette. I'm going to show you a little bit of the color palette. The blue shed here is from what we call the Western View development. This is south of the plant. If you look on the left of the screen there, you can see the plant here, and then this little eyeball looking towards it. And nothing noticeable from this view. In fact, the vendor even enlarged it to try to give you a better vantage point of it, and really not much to speak of there or talk about. Now we're at Bell Grove Plantation. Bell Grove. The leadership was at these presentations that we did early on. This is a view coming up the back of Bell Grove looking towards Middletown location, and there's nothing to see there. One of the outcomes, though, of the meeting was a request by Bell Grove to take some additional view sheds at places where, like weddings and other people, do a lot of photographs heading that direction, which made a lot of sense. So we accommodated that request. One of those was, let me see if it advances for me. One of the outcomes was here. This is from the barn bank at the Bell Grove barn looking towards the Middletown plant. They had to kind of hatch in where to focus your eyes, and then when you look with the equipment superimposed, no change there. That was also taken in the wintertime. No leaves on the trees. And then lastly, the second request from Bell Grove was from their back porch steps where a lot of photos are taken. Again, no leaves on the trees, which would be even more, make the view shed change even more. Obviously. It would be more obvious if there was one, and there's not. So I think that just kind of sums up. The summary is not asking to exceed what's currently there, view sheds, minimal impact, and we did review this with some of the notable organizations in the area, Cedar Creek Battlefield, Bell Grove, and the National Park Service. Are there any questions I can answer for you guys this evening? Okay, Mr. Chairman, I'll turn it back over to you, sir. May I ask real quick? Sure. Thank you, Mr. Thompson, for coming here. I think the height is covered and just fine. Can I ask, too, the nature of the machinery? Is that going to add to the light or the noise that's impacting the area? Great question. So nature of the machinery, in its simplest form, it's an additional screen just to further classify and separate this milled limestone product that we're making. And that screen is in an enclosed tower, how we typically design those. So sound impacts off-site are not going to be different with this. It's an operation. And lights will be installed according to the mine safety and health safety regulations we have to follow, and then the site plan, down-facing lighting and minimizing view shed impacts. That's some of the things that we'll address in the site plan. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favor or against this application? Please come forward, state your name and your zoning district. My name is Michael Legg. I'm in the Back Creek District. And I represent Garrett Farm, which is the closest adjourning property to the quarry, to the car moose. And my wife is a Garrett, so she was raised on that farm. And since then, we have a house on the farm. Our son has a house on the farm and our daughter. So as far as the view shed, we have the greatest view of this quarry of anybody. They're great. They're great neighbors. They take good care of the property adjoining us. They are constantly taking care of the roads that come out. In the wintertime, they're out there plowing the roads to get it open for employees to come in. It helps us to get out. So all I'm saying is they're a great business, and I think this just helps what they do as a business, and we recommend approval from them. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak in favor or against this application? Seeing none, we'll close the public meeting. Planning Commission members, are there any other questions or comments? The only suggestion I would make is let's not make it too difficult and just come up with one height. If we say it's 90 feet height waiver, just make it two feet. Just make it 90 feet instead of separate for each one of the buildings, unless someone has an objection to that. Does staff have a... No, and apologies if we represented it as if there was individual caps on the different types of structures. For all intents and purposes, we've been viewing this as a 90-foot ceiling for anything that they put out there. So we'll ensure our materials moving forward represent that accurately. Okay. Thank you. This is in Back Creek District. What's your pleasure? I move that we approve Waiver 02-24 for carbon use at 90 feet. Is there a second? I second. Okay, we have a motion and a second. Start down here, Mr. DeHaven. DeHaven votes yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Markert, yes. Molden, yes. Snowden, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannon, yes. And the Vice Chair votes yes. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on the 12th of June. Thank you. I'll turn it back over to the Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Mr. Pearson, other planning applications? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No real noteworthy current planning applications. Carmus mentioned they're already working on their site plan for this, and we'll be working with them on that as long as this progresses through the process to grant them the height waiver. Beyond that, I just wanted to correct. I wanted to check with you on the virtual class in March and May coming up that you can still register for, and there's an in-person. July and late September to October, which is their summer session that's in Richmond. I'll send a follow-up email, so don't feel like you've got to note those down. We can get you registered if you're interested in attending, and thanks to those who have already. I think I sent an email probably a month or so ago about the Virginia APA conference in Williamsburg. We've got some planning commissioners signed up. If any others are interested, just email us. We're going to do it kind of on a first-come, first-served for what we can afford out of our training and development, but it'd be a great opportunity for you all to learn a little bit more about the profession. Lots of planning commissioners from other areas attend, and so it's a good opportunity to also network them and talk about similar issues and discussions. So that's all I have, Mr. Chairman. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. I would just encourage those planning commissioners who have not been to that class to do so. I can tell you I learned a lot about various legal tools and other things that are being used in other localities. That's what was most interesting. One of the things that was most interesting was going to another locality's planning commission meeting and taking notes on how they do things. So it was well worth the time, and I would encourage you to do that. Wyatt can tell you what I learned because, generally speaking, on Mondays I was emailing him saying, why aren't we doing this? And so it was good. Without any further ado, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second? Second. All in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Safe drive home. Thank you very much.
