Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-02-17
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=80
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our first item on the agenda is the adoption of our agenda. If there's no changes or additions to that, I'll ask for a motion to adopt our agenda tonight. So moved. And I got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Our agenda is adopted. Next item is we have our meeting minutes from the December 17, 2020. If there's no changes as the minutes are presented, I'll ask for a motion to approve. Moved. Do I have a second? I have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Minutes from the 17th of December are approved. The next item on our list, zipping right along, we have our committee reports. And I'll start. With Mr. Oates on DERC. Yes, sir. We met on January 28th. The first item was election of officers. I was elected as chair. And Mr. Jewell was elected as vice chairman. Congratulations. Maybe next year you can have my seat. The second item was boat repair in the RA district. We'll be looking at that tonight. And the final item was there was a request about using slats and chain link fence for outdoor maintenance. And I'll ask for a motion to approve. All those in favor? Aye. Moved. Second item was boat repair in the RA district. We'll be looking at that tonight. And the final item was there's a request about using slats and chain link fence for outdoor maintenance. For fencing, for outdoor storage area. The committee, I don't think anybody there was in favor of that. Staff is supposed to take a look at some alternatives and come back to us at our next meeting next week. All right. Thanks, sir. Our next report is from Frederick Water. Mr. Marston. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The board of directors of Frederick Water met February 16th, the last night at 5 p.m. First agenda was Frederick Water's 10-year. The financial year 2022 to 2031 capital improvement plan contains 24 projects. Eighty-seven percent of the total project costs are related to the water system with the OPECA water supply plan initiative leading the way. The OPECA water supply plan will construct a new 8 million gallon per day state-of-the-art membrane water treatment plant utilizing nearly 3 million gallons of water storage in the adjacent. Okay. And that was approved. Second item was adopted the 2021 water and sewer standard and specification manual. The water and sewer standards and specification manual provides developers, builders, and Frederick Water staff with the guidance when extending Frederick Water's water and sanitary sewer infrastructure. Adoption of this manual simply renews the standards and specifications and revisions the past few years. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The monthly water production average is 6.33 million gallons per day. The quarries still stay in excellent shape, thanks to the Lord. Water production, the Dill plant, 3.074 million gallons per day. The Anderson plant, 2.598 million gallons per day. And we purchased from the city of Winchester, 0.658 million gallons per day. The rainfall in December was 1.55 inches, down from December, 3.9 inches. That concludes my report, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next report, I'll fill in for our liaison from Winchester Planning. They sent over some brief notes. They had their meeting on yesterday, February 16th. They had an ordinance repealing and replacing Article 17 of the zoning ordinance of the city of Winchester. This amendment updates and improves. It improves the regulations regarding nonconformities in the Winchester zoning ordinance. Moved to City Council with a 6-1 in favor vote. Their second item was a request from Potesta & Associates, incorporated for a conditional use permit to allow for accessory structures in the front and side yard of 2833 Valley Avenue. And that was moved to City Council with a recommended approval vote. And that's the end of the Winchester Planning report. And I see down at the end of the line, we have a Board of Supervisors. Mr. Stagmeier is here for a liaison report. Oh, my goodness. Well, this is your option. If you don't have it, that's quite all right. If not, we welcome you here tonight. Thank you. I'm glad to be here. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. We'll move forward then. Our next item is our citizen comment portion. This part of our agenda is reserved for anybody who would like to come forward to speak to us, anything that's not on our agenda tonight. So if anyone would like to come forward to speak on any other matters, this is your time. Seeing no one rushing forward, we'll move on into our next item, which is a public hearing item. It's a conditional use permit, number 01-21 for the Hollow Road Solar LLC. Mr. Kline. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I have a statement that I have to make. Okay. Please proceed. Excuse me. This is the Hollow Road Solar Conditional. Anyhow, pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3112 and 3115, I do need to make the following disclosure regarding the Hollow Road Solar Conditional Use Application. I'm a retiree of Allegheny Power, now First Energy. And as a member of that group, I receive pension benefits from First Energy. Electricity, that's a proposal. The new CUP project would generate and would be received for transmission by and possibly purchased by First Energy. I'm able to participate in this consideration of decision on the CUP application fairly, objectively, and in the public interest. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Triplett. Mr. Kline, would you like to move forward, please? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is Conditional Use Permit 0-1-21 for the Hollow Road Solar LLC. This project and the properties that are part of the application are generally located south of Parrishville Road, Route 610, and generally south of the terminus or cul-de-sac for Anchorage Lane in the vicinity of the Gore community. Again, this is in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. And the project identification numbers for those parcels are 27A-8, 27A-11, and 27A-12. Those properties are presently zoned RA, rural areas, and the current land use is agricultural and vacant. And the proposed use, again, is a utility-scale solar power generating facility. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties are outlined in blue. Again, three parcels with Parrishville Road. Forming the western property boundary. Hollow Road to the south, it wraps around. And then, again, Route 50 to the north. It's immediately south of the Whitman Orchards subdivision. The Board of Supervisors added utility-scale solar power generating facilities as a conditional use in the RA District in early 2020. And this Conditional Use Permit, or CUP, seeks to enable the construction of that type of facility, approximately 83 acres in land disturbance, located on properties totaling approximately 326 acres. The site would be utilized for the installation of rows of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, commonly known as solar panels, other necessary equipment for facility operations, access paths for maintenance, security fencing and landscaping. And staff will walk you through the layout in just a couple of minutes. I would note that this project will generate a total of 4,000 units of solar power. The project will be completed in September. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. The project will be completed in December. And the length of the home will be joined with top conos existence by a Agile row and this will be developing high-resource,liquid, transportation and storage facilities in theなる future. that is the yellow parcel that fronts directly onto Parishville Road. The solar panels will be contained in the other lots identified in blue. The 2035 Comprehensive Plan envisions this area of the county to remain primarily rural in nature and for the agricultural land to be preserved for future generations. The project as presented is generally compatible with the Comprehensive Plan and the rural character of the area and with the adjoining agricultural and residential uses. The preservation of the underlying land maintains the ability for agricultural uses in the future. The zoning ordinance prescribes setbacks for this type of use. Setbacks for solar panel arrays will conform to the setback requirements contained for principal uses in the RRA zoning district. You all will recall from other projects that the zoning administrator under the public utilities and utility scale solar power generating facilities section of the ordinance allows the zoning administrator to provide the zoning administrator with the ability to provide the zoning administrator to determine the appropriate setbacks for these types of uses and again we are following the principal use setbacks for the RRA district. For your information that is 60 feet front setbacks from right-of-way streets and roads. 50 foot side and rear setbacks from adjoining parcels six acres or less. 100 feet side and rear setbacks from adjoining parcels of more than six acres and 200 foot side and rear setbacks from agricultural and forestal districts. There are none in the vicinity of this project and orchards regardless of the size. Additionally the zoning ordinance requires that a site plan be reviewed and approved under article 8 of the ordinance when when developing this type of use. The applicant has provided a concept plan with their conditional use permit application and would again proceed with doing a site plan if the application were approved. On their concept plan they depict setbacks ranging in 50 to 100 feet around the perimeter of the project. The zoning administrator will provide the zoning administrator with a plan to determine the appropriate setbacks for the project. They depict the landscape and screening provided through a landscape buffer which would include a mix of deciduous trees, evergreen trees and shrubs. They would also be maintaining existing vegetation where appropriate to screen the view from adjoining land uses and roadways. And they're showing on their concept plan access to to the site through two entrances. One from Parrishville Road across that property that was identified earlier as 27A8 and this entrance would be limited to construction equipment and materials only and an entrance from Anchorage Lane which would be limited to passenger vehicles during construction and post construction maintenance. Here is the cover page of the concept plan and we'll walk through the sheets depicting the layout of the site. This is sheet three of the concept plan which gives the overall layout of that project site and I'll zoom in for more detail. The solar panels are outlined on the concept plan. In blue so again this is that approximately 83 acres kind of centered in the center of the parcel into the western parcel boundaries. Everything shown in green is existing vegetation that will be maintained. So again for orientation this is Hollow Road which forms the southern and the eastern property boundary and then they would be providing a landscape screen behind Whitman Orchard which is shown in bright pink and that goes around this parcel which is where the Gore substation is located and about again for orientation. Parishville Road is here and this is the Gore substation where the overhead transmission lines are which many of you are familiar in the site and then again the entrances. The first is that shared access across the interconnection parcel which is this red line here. Again that roadway would be used only for the delivery of construction materials and equipment and then this lot it's not shown clearly on this but when you zoom in for detail it's actually a pipe stem lot that goes directly to Orchard or Anchorage Lane rather. So they actually have direct access to Anchorage Lane as part of their lot access. Again it's again it's a pipe stem lot. There was a boundary line adjustment done in 2000 in the early 2000s and they have direct 50 foot wide access to Anchorage Lane for their access to their property. And again this is sheet four of the concept plan which includes the panel height details and the and again this is sheet four of the concept plan which includes the panel height details and the and again this is sheet four of the concept plan which includes the panel height details and the landscape screening details that they'll be required to install should this application be approved. The zoning ordinance also requires that any application for a solar facility include a decommissioning plan and the applicant has provided a decommissioning plan as part of their submission. The decommissioning plan outlines provisions for the removal of all equipment and the restoration of the site to the pre-development conditions in the event that the facility is no longer operational and it specifies in that plan that the decommissioning plan should be approved in the second phase of the decommissioning plan. The decommissioning plan outlines provisions for the removal of all equipment and the restoration of the site to the pre-development conditions in the event that the facility is no longer operational. The decommissioning plan outlines provisions for the removal of all equipment and the restoration of the site to the pre-development conditions in the event that the facility is no longer operational. And that is a zoning ordinance requirement but also is a requirement of the Code of Virginia. And estimated cost as part of the decommissioning plan are reviewed on a rolling five-year basis so every five years the value of the facility is updated by an engineer and provided to Frederick County so we know exactly how much it would cost to decommission the facility at that time. In addition to a conditional use permit, the applicant is always 생alted on the faculty and staff. Conditional use permit, the applicant is also pursuing concurrently a permit by rule application or PBR through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality. And the PBR is a state-level administrative review and approval process, including extensive environmental and cultural review and study as part of their application. One component of the state PBR review is jurisdictional approval for solar project siting. And if this conditional use permit were approved by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, that would satisfy that part of the PBR review from the state. Again, the state-level review is administrative. Essentially, if you can check all of the boxes off, you are given a permit by the Commonwealth. So should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff has recommended the following conditions of approval be considered. Number one, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineer site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan would address the additional regulations for specific uses outlined in 165-20426 of the Zoning Ordinance and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the CEP application prepared by the Timmons Group and dated August 28, 2020. Number three, that buffering and screening shall be provided around the perimeter of the project in general conformance with the quantity of the proposed plantings depicted on Sheet 4 of the concept plan, landscaping, and vegetative screen details included with the CEP application prepared by the Timmons Group dated August 28, 2020, and that the landscape buffer planting shall be maintained in good health for the life of the project. Number four, that prior to site plan approval, the owner shall enter into a written agreement with Frederick County Zoning Ordinance to approve the use of the Zoning Ordinance. Number five, that fringe supplement being rising in numbers within и tranverting opportunity for the construction of solar and energy cell and technology in other cases. Number six, that the aancil and pandemic transform andifice and are prohibited as part of the CEP application. Number six, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances, one entrance to Parishville Road, Route 610, and one entrance from Anchorage Lane in conformance with the concept plan included with the CEP application prepared by the Timmons Group and dated August 28, 2020, and that delivery of solar array panel construction materials and equipment shall occur only at the site access entrance off of Parishville Road, Route 610, identified as primary access road on sheet three of the concept plan, and that use of the 50-foot right-of-way ingress-egress from Anchorage Lane shall only be used for passenger vehicle access during construction and post-construction maintenance. Number seven, that the pile driving of poles for solar arrays be limited to 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and that all other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday, and that no construction activities are permitted on Sundays. Number eight, and bear with me, this is a long condition, that a phase one archaeological and architectural survey will be completed as part of the permitting of this project and completed prior to site plan approval. The survey shall document the historic dwelling, barn, and areas surrounding the farm complex barn located on the property identified, with pin number 27A-11, and this survey shall be submitted to the Frederick County Department of Planning and Development and the Department of Historic Resources, or DHR. The phase two survey shall be conducted if DHR determines the areas and resources under consideration are potentially significant. In the event that the above resources are eligible for inclusion on the National Registry of Historic Places, as a result of the phase two study, the structures and resources on the site shall be retained, stabilized, and preserved, and that no disturbance shall occur within 100 feet. And finally, number nine, that any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. Following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed CUP for a utility-scale solar power generating facility, and that any recommendation for approval should also include a statement affirming that the proposed solar facility is in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. I'm happy to answer any questions you have, and we do have Patrick Grooms available. He is the applicant representing Blue Ridge Energy Holdings, and I believe he has a few remarks as well. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Yes, Mr. Triplett. It's my understanding, different than the other couple that we were involved in, this will not be leased property. This will be purchased property. I'll let the applicant, I'll clarify that, but I understand that the applicant will be purchasing the property when they complete all of their review and permitting. And another thing is, That's correct. Is this, I didn't know you, that's good. Is this property then, if this doesn't go through and we decide maybe not, is it, do I have any lots on this property that would be possibly developed? We have 200-something acres in the National Fruit Orchard property, which is the, the two parcels where the panels, so you're looking at five dwelling units per acre. So it's a significant number of homes that could potentially be developed on this lot if we were not to approve a conditional use permit. Thank you. One question, Mr. Klein. What, could you explain a little bit what the environmental studies or the environmental work is that the state does, or what's completed as a part of their review? I understand it's administrative, but what types of, of, what environmental aspects are they looking at? They'll go through like the, essentially the NEPA process, doing a phase one and phase two environmental study. They'll do, looking at the impact to wildlife, water quality, you know, plants, insects, those type of, those type of things. So it's fairly extensive, and then they'll do an extensive cultural study. They've done a phase one cultural study, which is part of the review that was done by the county's Historic Resources Advisory Board, but then they'll likely end up doing, they're gonna be doing a phase two study as part of the conditions for this as well, and that'll be part of the PBR as well. Thank you. Other questions? Mr. Jewell. Mr. Klein, I got a, I have actually a couple. The property currently is agriculture, is that correct? Yes, it's the, it's owned by National Fruit Orchard. It used to be an orchard. If you go out there, it's covered in apple trees. If, and it's, if it's to be purchased, it would stay agriculture, correct? The land use, the zoning district would not change if the ownership changes. Okay. And if, even if this is developed, the underlying land use is still considered agricultural. If something was to happen with the company, and the company was to go bankrupt, and you get into the land being resold, does it stay agriculture? If it's sold, whoever purchases the property can develop it, either as, they'd have a, the conditional use permit runs with the land, so they could go ahead and develop a solar facility, or they could develop houses or any other uses that are permitted in the RA district. There's nothing as part of this that restricts future use of the property from being something other than solar or agricultural. But would they have to come back and ask for it to be subdivided, or to be turned into? No, subdivision is an administrative process. So someone could just simply make an application to the planning office, and we would review that administratively. Okay, that's, that's a big one. I, I want to hear a little bit about the company. How long has the company been? Mr. Grooms will cover that. We'll do that when they, we'll have the applicant, any, any other questions for Mr. Klein? Why is there two right of interest, and are we going to abandon one eventually? Is a 40 foot one a permanent? Yes. Easement, or is it a rental easement? So the, it's actually a pipe stem lot, so that 50 foot right of way to Anchorage Lane is part of the property that's being developed. And then again, the conditions restrict that to be used for vehicle, sorry, passenger vehicle traffic during construction, and for post construction maintenance. The access easement that they have across parcel 2788, which is known as the Anderson parcel, is only to be used for construction equipment and materials, and then at such time that the facility is under operation, they would no longer use that facility. If you looked at the VDOT comments, the concern was having the construction vehicles going down Anchorage Lane. They preferred that they come off of Parrishville Road, and the applicant will do a flagging operation to make sure the entrance is safe for those vehicles entering and leaving the property as part of construction. But both of them will stay active forever? No, only the Anchorage Lane access will be active for the life of the project. The temporary easement for construction is only for construction. After the construction ends, they won't be traveling across the Anderson property anymore. As a second question, what year's, what year spans? Now, you'll have your chance, just a second. Just what year span is it? A third year? Do you want to? No. I don't know. 35-year solar field. I didn't see that stated any worse. Is there an estimated time? I'll let Mr. Grooms address that in his remarks. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Klein? Yes, I'm on. Mr. Triplett? It's storage cells. Absolutely no hazardous material. No hazardous material. As you can see in the conditions, we do restrict battery storage. So that's not something that would be allowed as part of this project. If they wanted to change that and have batteries in the future, they'd have to get a new conditional use permit. Mr. Klein, the screening that you have, I guess, on the northwest side there, the topography slopes pretty severe down from there. How tall is that screening going to be from the Whitman side of things? At the time of planting, the zoning ordinance requires like four foot tall evergreens, 18 inch tall shrubs, and 1.1 and 1 1⁄4 inch caliper deciduous trees. The screening that they're providing is the same screening that was prescribed on the preceding solar applications that have been approved. It's a standard in the ordinance. But again, they're making use of the natural vegetation where it exists. And again, the property does slope pretty significantly over about 200 feet from the high point at Whitman Orchards down towards the creek and Hollow Road. Marginal screening. Well, the panels are only about 6 and 1⁄2 feet tall when they're fully erect. So once the landscaping matures, you won't see them. OK. Did you have a question? Yes, Mr. Thomas. This is strictly a conditional use permit. Correct. So on a conditional use permit, we can add additional conditions that would increase buffers. That is correct. So there's nothing to prevent us from the Orchard Ridge development. I think I have the name right there. Whitman Orchards. Whitman Orchard development. There's nothing to prevent us from saying that on that side of the solar panel area. We want a 200-foot buffer instead of the 50-foot buffer. There is nothing that prevents you from doing that. Again, what is shown is what we've approved on other applications. So we're using that as a starting point. But you certainly can expand that if it's so desired by this body. As we're seeing more of these, we're learning more problems that are associated with it. And I can assure you, when we came up with those buffers, those surrounding buffers for properties, we never anticipated solar panels being, as close to residential or to homes. This isn't a residential area, but there are homes there. Understood. Anyone else for Mr. Klein? All right. The applicant, Mr. Grooms, if you wrote down some questions there, now's your chance to do a presentation and maybe answer some of the questions you have for us. Well, firstly, thank all of you for taking the time to consider this this evening. And I'd like to thank Mr. Klein as well. He's been a tremendous help to us from the beginning. And he's definitely a credit to the county. A couple of things that I wanted to hit were the one thing to clarify the point on the right of way over the Anderson property. We will retain the right to travel back through there, should we ever need to, for issues relating to if we had to bring in heavy equipment to replace panels or something like that. We would still retain that right by the way the right of way is drafted. But we will not use it. We will not use it on a usual basis. Quite honestly, it's tougher to get through there because of the winding gravel road. But I just wanted to clarify that point, that if we had to do some construction work later down the road, replace some panels, do some other work, we would come in the same way. So that point. I think something that hits a couple of points that all of you have spoken to is, again, in speaking with Mr. Klein very early on in this process, he was, the very first thing that he focused on was your and the board's focus on the interest of the existing landowners there. And we began speaking with them very early on. And I believe we provided you with different forms of support letters from almost all of the landowners in that area, and certainly most of the ones along Anchorage. MR. Thank you. Great. gitti-inter advantage necessary to likelihood which you want to talk more about is enjoy the summer. that you have, the old original numbers are in there. So I just wanted to point that out. I'm happy to go back through the project again, but Mr. Klein did a very good job of describing it. I'm certainly happy to answer any questions about the project. And actually, maybe the question that was put forward about the financing of the project and the nature of Blue Ridge, I'm happy to go on to that. If you would like me to. Yes, sir, if you would. Was that Mr. Jewell you had that question? Do you want to ask that question, please? Can you give us some history on your company? I'm sorry. Can you give us some history on your company, and do you have any existing projects currently that's going on? Sure. The company was formed in 2019. I set the company up. And over time have brought in people. My background is I spent about 25 years in the U.S. energy industry, first as an analyst and then 20 years as a practicing lawyer, focused specifically on the electric power industry. And through that time, I've worked with a number of clients and professional service firms and developed some relationships with people where we thought we could go out and do this. And particularly focus on areas like this area of Virginia and West Virginia to bring the benefit of some of these projects to those areas where maybe some of the larger companies aren't focusing. To give you some background on the other individuals in the company, our CFO has about 25, 26 years in this industry. He spent a lot of time working for private equity firms. He currently is a member of the board of Vistra Energy. I would say don't hold that against him given what's going on in Texas right now. But our chief engineer has spent, she spent 17 years at Burns & McDonnell, which is the top electric power engineering company in the country. Our head of project finance came from a number of top investors in this area, including Brookfield, RES. And more recently, Macquarie. So that's kind of the top level management of the company. I think there was an angle or part of the question was focused on the financing of the project itself. Am I correct on that? My question was description of the company. And do you have any existing projects currently going on? We do not have any other operating projects. We've got two more in development in Virginia. And we're... We've got some very... Two very early development stage projects in West Virginia. We are working with a... Got to be careful here because this is a public company issue. We've been engaged by a large natural resource company to help them reevaluate their portfolio throughout the country for developing them not just into renewable resources, but energy and infrastructure. And they're probably... They're probably... They're probably... They're probably... They're probably... They're probably... Probably encompasses about 200,000 acres. The two projects that we're currently looking at are in Texas, which I'm guessing everyone can imagine given the events of this week is becoming very topical. But we do not have any operating projects yet. The company is relatively new. Thank you. Thank you. Is that it? Any other questions for our applicant? Mr. Thomas. Yes, sir. The solar arrays that are... That are on the western border of your property with a 50-foot buffer there, they can theoretically be 80 feet or so from the back of those residents there. So if you're sitting on your deck in those residents adjoining a nice barbecue as the sun's going down, how much glare should they expect from the solar panels if you have, you know, a couple hundred feet there facing them, facing them, facing west, which I would assume at that time of night be the primary focus for your arrays? How much glare should they expect coming off those panels coming back toward those residences? Well, I don't think a substantial amount because the panels are going to track essentially southwest. So they will be pointing as the sun declines. They will generally be pointing in the direction where they are aimed at the sun during its apex and then track sort of up and down throughout the day. But as I see, as I'm looking at this layout, the majority of the tilt is going to be to the south-southwest. Okay. That's what I assumed. But when I look at it, I would think that would be... It will provide the most glare to the backs of those houses at that point. So I'm sorry, but which houses specifically are you referencing? Yeah, south-southwest is here. And the houses are here. Dude. Yes. I'm saying the south. South-southwest here. We got our compass and map out, so we're looking at it right now. Yeah, I was looking at the houses there off Parrishville Road. Oh, you know, so the two... The tilt would be away from those houses. Those houses are about west. If I'm looking at your compass right on your drawing, they're west and a little... Those houses are northwest, are they not, of the lot? I'm looking... Based on what I've got from the Timmons group, I'm looking at the bottom of the slide with the panels on it. I'm assuming that the area at the bottom is north. Right. So those houses are northwest. They're southwest of the project. The panels will be tracking south-southwest. And there'd be no glare coming off of the lateral sides of those panels? To the houses, no. If they're looking at it, can they see it? If they are elevated above the vegetation, I suppose they could. But the panels will be pointed away from their back decks. Okay. Okay. So you're saying it'll be about... About a 90-degree tilt away from their decks. I don't know if it'll be 90. I mean, if you can look at the cover, those panels are slightly tracked on the cover of our presentation. So it really depends on what time of the day. And then when they're not tracking, they're just going to lie flat. And when they're lying flat, they're about four feet. And if you look at most of the natural timber around that area, maybe... Maybe not to the north, because that's going to be orchard trees that are there now. But most of the natural timber around that property is mature hardwood. It's fairly large. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions for the applicant? Mr. Morrison. Yes, sir. I have two general questions. One is on the construction entrance. After the project is complete, you don't intend to use it unless you need to bring... bring in some specific heavy equipment, et cetera. Would you be willing to gate that entrance when it's not in use? It's already gated. We would be happy to leave the gate up. But the entrance doesn't belong to us. It belongs to... Well, right now it's in trust for a misdender, but held by the Anderson's daughter. But we'd be happy to gate it. It already is. Or gate it at least at your property. Sure. And that's where the gate is. And we have an obligation to maintain her entire driveway there. So we will have to bring in a gravel truck to regravel her driveway every year. But, yes, we'd be fine with gating it. Okay. The second question is more... You're the third of these projects in Frederick County that have come before us. You are the smallest one. Okay. I'm sure you're marketing... The marketing plan has taken much of this in consideration. But with the property we have, we have potential of maybe six, maybe seven at the most sites in Frederick County. You're being the third one. I'm concerned a little bit about saturating the demand for this area here and having a project either half completed or not used at some point. How confident are you that you're going to get this project up in a reasonable amount of time and it's going to be useable? going to be viable so a couple of things there um the way these work uh we don't drive we don't start driving piling one until we have construction financing in place construction financing will not come in place until there's permanent financing in place so everything that you're concerned with the banks actually won't close on the construction financing unless it's all there so construction doesn't even begin unless all of our ducks are in a row um as far as the viability of the project this is a because it's a smaller project under federal law it is a qualifying facility um odek is obligated by law to take the power and the capacity so we're pretty confident it's going to go forward did anyone did we i think there was a question also asked mr rooms uh do you are you purchasing the property or is this a lease we are um the the discussions i mean i i talked to mr klein about this as well um essentially uh national fruit decided to abandon the property for economic purposes um they found that they couldn't at least as explained to us um that that it was not economical to operate that as part of their orchard operations any longer um and so it was just going to get sold and our thought process was to get the property sold and to get the property sold and even go back and again all of that information had to accompany that there's nurses discussed numerous times I do think this helps you advance your you know your county plan. Did I hear an answer in there? Are you purchasing the land or leasing the land? We are purchasing the land because they do not want to operate as an orchard. Okay thank you. Mr. Marston, what is your anticipated length of service of this solar field? 30, 35 years or have you come up with that figure? The standard approach that we do to these is 30 it'll be 30 or 35 years that will be determined probably as we get a little longer into it and usually we put two ten-year I'm sorry two five-year extensions onto that. So it can range from 30 to 40 years depending on the nature of the the offtake predominantly by ODEC. And I'm understanding that your company has not built one of these period but yet you say you're going to do it in four months. Well it's because of the size right so we're engaging the same professionals that everyone else is that you have come before you is engaging right. Timmons Group, Burns and McDonald as I said is one of the largest engineering firms in the country and you know our team is made up from some of the top firms in the industry. Thank you. Anyone else? Any other questions for the applicant? Mr. Thomas. Would it be possible for you to have a consistent hundred foot buffer on on that west side? You have it for the majority of the area but there's one two three four little panels that stick out there that are 50 foot buffers. Could you make that whole area there a hundred foot buffer moving it a little bit further away from those couple of lots there and those houses? Yes. It's certainly something we could take under consideration. I would have to ask our engineer if it's technically feasible. As you as you know some of this property has a severe incline on it so the orange and white areas that you see are to some degree unusable and then we have a number of water features that we have to avoid but if that is something you would like us to consider I'm happy to talk to her about it. Thanks sir. Anyone else? Thank you sir. Appreciate it. We'll move on to the next thank you this is a public hearing at this time I'll open the public hearing for anybody would like to come forward and speak to or for against this item so if you would like come to the microphone state your Magistral district, your name, and you can speak. Anyone? Seeing no one coming forward. Oh we do have one I'm sorry. My name's David Alter. live up on Perryfield Road it's 605 I mean the heights of these panels one chart says six foot eight or six point eight feet no so seven foot eleven and a half that's almost eight feet I mean it getting up there I guess what I'm concerned about I don't want to look up my back deck and see Sun reflecting I got the map here it's gonna reflect I don't you can say north southwest whatever I can see the panels and I can see my house it's directed right at my house I just I don't want to see that I might not but I just would like some guarantee though I'm not sure about you know what's the height of things gonna means they're gonna be any tires you know carrying electricity or is that all gonna be underground okay just some concerns I just don't want we just purchased our house with per life savings in that a year ago we plan on retiring there and the views while we moved there we just don't want the view to be you know marred by something that's that's our concern thank you sir thanks anyone else see no one else I'll close the public hearing and we'll go to some discussion concerns questions anyone I have mr. Oates yes my only comment is well saw this come in was I was kind of surprised for the location because it's mainly coming down the east side of the ridge so basically everybody to the West's either won't see it because it's gonna be over the ridge or it's gonna be dropping off so fast it's gonna be out of view yeah when I saw this thing about well looks like they're only gonna be able to use sunlight for probably two-thirds of the day maybe three-quarters at best once it approaches sunset it's gonna be on the other side of Timber Ridge so I don't think reflection or glare to the neighbors to the West is gonna be an issue because by then those panels are probably in shade that's it all right anyone else mr. Thomas Mr. Oates? I don't I'm a little concerned about the viewshed about the reflection I'm not sure if they'll see it with a topography or not see it with the topography not just on this application but I think we need to look at our buffers as related to solar fields solar panels because as I said earlier when we did those buffers we never anticipated having 90 or 100 or 700 acres of solar panels behind a bunch of five-acre lots. And to have them be required to be 600 feet or 200 feet away from lots larger than six acres, but only 50 feet away from lots smaller than six acres that are going to have a house on them, I think doesn't make logical sense to me. So I'm not sure what we can do on this. I would like to see us add a condition that on the western side we have a consistent 100-foot buffer, the full length of that western side instead of 80% of it where there's a couple spots where there's a 50-acre buffer. So I would like to see us make that as part of the conditions, that we would have a consistent 100-foot buffer on that side and then have the Development and Review Committee look at, is 100 feet? Or 50 foot? Or 200 foot? The right answer for behind five- and six-acre lots. I mean, we could have a two-acre lot back there if it was next to another type of a development. So I think we need to look at our buffers specifically for solar farms. Of course, that doesn't apply to this one, but I would like to see us change that buffer on the western side to a consistent 100-foot, full length of that western side. Mr. Rhodes? I guess I may consider that. However, none of the neighbors or those adjacent lots are asking for it. And then the other thing is, if I was living there, I'd much rather see a six-, seven-foot-tall solar panel than a house 50 feet off the property line. I mean, it's all in between that. It would be older. I guess panels, there's no noise, no kids, no music at 11 o'clock at night, no lights. So as far as a neighbor, solar panels don't seem that bad. Well, the previous one, we had some neighbors complain about it. Yeah, but they're also all in Stephen City. Let's stay on topic here. We won't shine too hard a light on our southern borders. So if I'm here, and you're right, Mr. Thomas, you really don't want to address the 100-foot buffer change on this one. Well, yes, I'd like to see it as a condition. You'd like to see it added to the conditions there? We have a 100-foot buffer consistent on the whole western. Okay. I just wanted to be clear, so I'm going to do a motion. Anyone else? Mr. Triplett? If they're going to follow through with that before I have to make a motion, go ahead. Well, no, they don't. Yes, Mr. Jewell. I got two hands up over here. I'll come to you, Mr. Marston. Mr. Chairman, I have concerns. We've already approved two solar projects, and we have not seen anything happen yet with these projects. And, I mean, as Mr. Thomas pointed out, as we've gone down this road, we're learning, and we're adding, and we're adjusting, and, you know, it's my understanding there's even more in the pipeline here. You know, I think that we need to be smart about this and maybe slow things down a little bit here. I don't know. I really have some concerns about that, and I think that's something we really have to take in consideration here. This property right now is agriculture. This property is not subdivided, so it's not set up for houses right now. And that's one reason why I asked Mr. Klein that question about what would happen to the property if something were to happen to the company. So I think that we really need to be smart about this one and think about it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Marston? I somewhat have the same concerns as Mr. Jewell. I'm number one for solar. I think it's a great way to preserve some of our rural land done the proper way. The only thing, the thing that concerns me, here we have a third one already. We have 1,700 acres approximately of screens already proposed to be in place in Verbeck County in the next probably two years. We have a brand new. We have a brand new company that has never built a solar farm ever. My gut feeling is that I think we need to slow this thing down a little bit. I think I would like to see, and I don't want to be penalizing anybody or any landowner, but I would like to see us slow this thing down and see what kind of happens here in the next few months with the ones we already have voting in place before we got these things popping up. We're going to have a lot of land over Frary County, and before long we'll have more solar screens and we're going to have farmland. So that concerns me. And again, I don't want to penalize anybody with this statement, but it's just my gut feeling that I think we need to slow this process down and take a hard, long look at how many of these things we approve. Appreciate it, Mr. Marston. Anyone else? Mr. Moan. Just a quick comment. I certainly appreciate my colleagues' concerns about, you know, the number of these and everything. I generally feel, though, that, you know, if they're meeting the ordinance and, you know, this is what we have outlined and if we feel that the conditions are appropriate, you know, for this particular location, I'm not sure that there's much in terms of slowing down, you know, that we're really empowered to do, you know, number one. And I'm just not exactly comfortable because you could literally say that about any type of project. You know, we start. We're going to have a lot of people that are going to be in the building and they're going to be seeing lots of extra convenience stores or something. And then it's like, whoa, that seems like it's too many. I think that the concerns about how they're going to develop, whether we're comfortable with the standards, those types of things, which I think others have said, that's legit. And I think that it makes sense when we've had a few of these and we're seeing more on the horizon that it probably is a good time for the committee to take a look at it and determine, you know, is there a standardization of certain things so it's not, you know, a case by case if it's a buffer or screening issue or whatever it may be. This one, relatively speaking, is pretty remote, you know, compared to some of the others. So I kind of feel like some of those buffer and screening issues are much more significant, you know, the closer in that we start getting some of these. But just to say I appreciate, you know, the concern personally. I have no objection to what Roger was suggesting in terms of kind of equalizing, you know, the buffer, you know, where it dives in at 50 feet. I don't think it's a huge issue, but if they're amenable to it, I'd like to see that. But I'd certainly support, you know, some additional discussion and consideration with staff, you know, about how these things are regulated moving forward. But, you know, I appreciate that. Thank you, Mr. Moan. Anyone else? I just might add that that's my sentiment too with Mr. Moan. I don't think we should necessarily try to correct, perhaps, the wrong thing. I think we should try to correct the highest mistakes tonight, if they were in fact mistakes. Seeing no one else has any comments, this is a Gainsborough district. And I do think we do have to add some verbiage in there when you're making your motion that we're going to consider increasing the western buffer to 100 foot minimum. So make sure you include that verbiage when you make your motion. With the revisions, I will make a motion to accept this conditional use permit. This is permit 01-21 for Hollow Road Solar LLC. I have a motion. Do I have a second? Second. And let me understand. That includes another condition that sets the western boundary buffer at 100 feet. Yes. We also need the statement about conformance with the comprehensive plan. That it conforms to the comprehensive plan. You've got to add this to the agenda. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Morrison. Morrison, yes. Bohn, yes. Thurford, yes. Thomas, yes. Goods, yes. позволer, yes. Morrison, no. Jule, no. Kozo, yes. All right, Matt. And chair votes yes. This will go to the board of supervisors with an approval vote for the March 10, 2021 meeting. Thanks, everyone, for participating. One thing I would ask staff is to start looking at what the appropriate buffers around these would be. You know, the buffers we set for around five-acre lots were really set to preserve farmland around them and farmland around them. It wasn't to set a buffer between them and a solar farm. So I think we really need to look at what our buffers should be and should we have other ordinances in place for solar farms. I don't think we're ready. I think we're ready right now for what's coming and what we have already. Absolutely. And the comment that we can't correct our past mistakes tonight, you know, I agree with that. But we can correct it for any future ones coming in. And we need to do that before we have another thousand acres of solar panels coming in. We need to look seriously at what the ordinance should be. And we're not prepared right now. I bet, Mr. Thomas, I'll get with staff and we'll put that on our to-do list coming up real soon. So thank you. Our next item. Patrick, we are going to drop off and end the meeting for you now. And I would like to appreciate the applicant for participating tonight. Our next item on this is an information discussion item. It's an ordinance. Visit our website at www.webex.com. She has a better voice than mine, so we'll go with her. Our next is an ordinance amendment for boat repair in the RA zoning district. Mr. Kline. Yes. Good evening again, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to add the use of boat repair shop as a conditional use in the RA rural areas zoning district. The Frederick County zoning ordinance currently allows boat repair shops only within our industrial districts, our M1, our light industrial, and our M2 industrial general zoning districts. A comparable use would be automotive repair to boat repair shops. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and it provides some additional regulations for specific uses for boat repair shops in Part 204, and I'll walk you through those additions. In Part 101, Definitions and Word Uses, we have added a definition for boat repair shop, and that is a structure or portion thereof designed for or used for serving, repair, or equipping boats, but not including boat sales. In Part 402, the Conditional Uses in the RA District, we've added boat repair shop as the use. And in Part 204, those Supplemental Use Regulations for specific uses, we've added for boat repair shops that all boat repair uses shall meet the following requirements. A, all repair activities shall take place entirely within an enclosed structure. B, that all exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view of surrounding properties by an open source. C, that all interior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view of surrounding properties by an open source. D, that all interior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view of surrounding properties by an opaque fence or screen six feet in height. This fence or screen shall be adequately maintained. And that in C, in the RA M1 and M2 zoning districts, the sale or resale of boats shall not be permitted as an accessory or secondary use to boat repair. Again, these supplemental uses follow the same restrictions that we've placed on our public garages for the RA District, so there is some consistency among uses that are very similar. The development review and regulations committee, or DRC, discussed this item on January 28th, and they agreed with the text amendment as drafted by staff, and it's been forwarded to the Planning Commission for discussion this evening. And following your discussion, staff will take any comments from the Planning Commission, and those will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have, and thank you for your time. All right. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Any discussion? Any discussion? Speak amongst ourselves. Anything? Do we have a, is there a particular person in mind that we've got, this is going towards, or? It's a good question. A citizen and a business owner has, currently operating a mobile boat repair business, has inquired through their Board of Supervisors number to address their inability to have a permanent location. So the hope would be that if this text amendment was passed, they would be able to submit a conditional use permit application to the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors is going to go to the Planning Commission, the Board, for consideration of a boat repair shop. I can imagine we'll have a rush of these. But I would. We'll have a rush. But this is the remedy where we don't have a use listed in the ordinance to add a use that is not currently permitted. All right. And it should be the same as vehicle repairs. Yeah. A lot in the same areas. Okay. All right. I think we're all in favor of moving on. So that's great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To the next item on our agenda is our, we're down to the bottom, our other. Anything, anybody got anything to bring forward to the good of the cause? Mr. Chairman? Mr. Jewell, let me grab it. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to, as we're going down the road with these projects, and I mean, right now it's solar, who knows what it's going to be tomorrow. I really would like for us to be able to get information sooner so we can do our homework. I mean, I sat here tonight just going through checking this company that we were talking about sitting at the table. I'd rather be doing that two or four weeks before the meetings. I think that these projects, they don't just happen overnight. It's a period of time, and I think we could get more information sooner. Okay, I'll talk to staff, see what we can do. Anyone else? Mr. Oates? Yeah, well, following up on one thing, Mr. Jewell just said, the city of Winchester, they have a work session and then an actual meeting for the second meeting of the month. It's been discussed here in the past of doing that, although there's been times we've had so many items on the agenda, we just couldn't have the luxury of only having the one meeting a month. But obviously right now we're lucky to have one a month. So possibly we could look at doing a work session ahead of time for these type of things before we get to the public hearing. The second item is mentioned last time about the size of the Planning Commission. And after that meeting, Roger mentioned the reason we went from seven members to 13 members back in the day was because there's so many items coming in to address. And then about 10 years ago, the state of Virginia, the courts ruled that a Planning Commission cannot grant waivers, exceptions, etc. Our sole function is to call a plan and making a recommendation to the Board. And since then, a lot of times we might go two or three times without having a meeting. So I think this Planning Commission, I mean, like I said before, it's probably the biggest Planning Commission in the state. So I would like to make a motion that we send to the Board for them to consider reducing this to seven members over time and possibly put on some term limits. So people can get in here. We can get some new blood and possibly get some people that can learn here and then become a supervisor later. Make a stepping stone. Re-evaluate who we are and what we're about. I appreciate it. So it's a motion to send to the Board a recommendation to consider reducing the Planning Commission from 13 to seven or what they recommend. Okay. And then looking at term limits as well. Okay. I have a discussion. On that. We will. Okay, good. I have a motion, but I need a second. Got one. Got one? Fine. Mr. Klein. So I got a second. Now we can have a discussion there, Mr. Moe. Okay. Yeah, I don't disagree necessarily with some of the things that you're saying, Gary. I think my rather than just take a vote and send a recommendation up, I think what I would prefer before doing that is actually having staff. You know, provide us with a little bit of an overview, you know, some comparisons of some other planning commissions. Because, yeah, a lot of them are smaller. There are some larger ones that are out there, you know, too. And not just in the state of Virginia, but kind of in a look at a region, you know, at our regional kind of makeup. And just so we can actually kind of talk about it in terms of, okay, here's what's there. Here's the work program. Here's what we're looking forward to. We're getting ready to, you know, update at least. The comprehensive plan, things of that nature. So I think it's just being sure we're all on the same page about, yeah, if the timing's right, if that's what we think is the right thing to do, that's good. I personally just like a little more information. I know enough to be dangerous about what is going on in other jurisdictions. You know, not that I don't trust, you know, what you're saying, too. But that would be helpful for me before I could say, yeah, I'm good. I'm 100% on board. Especially if, you know, Mr. Dunn reaches out and asks for my opinion. And, you know, I want to be sure that I'm fully informed. Just to be clear, I'm not making a motion for us to reduce right now. Yeah, I think it's just the board, basically, whether or not they're even considered. If they say no, you're staying as is and just know you've wasted time. Well, that's fair, too, because I guess that's my opinion. It's kind of a weird thing for a planning commission. I might get some clarity here. Well, I was just going to say, it just seems like a weird thing for the planning commission to send up to the board. I mean, I kind of feel like if it's a board. Concern or a board issue, I'd like to hear the board initiate it. But I'm good either way. Thank you, Mr. Daniel. Policy goes back to the Ken Stiles era. And when there was seven members, they were having some problems with a quorum. And that was one reason. And then the second reason was that there's two from each magisterial district. So if one is absent. You still have coverage with the other one being there. So I just thought I'd submit those two reasons from the past. Mr. Thomas? Whether I disagree or agree with Mr. Oates' comments here, I think it's rather presumptuous on the planning commission on our part to tell the board whether they need us or not. If the board feels they need 13 people or the number that we currently have in a planning commission, then they should. If they don't feel they need 13 people, they would cut us to seven people. They don't need us to ask them to look at whether they should, the number of people that should be on a planning commission. I think the board certainly is a bunch of adults that know what they want. And if they don't feel we're doing what we should do, then they don't reappoint people. They change people. If they want other people on a planning commission, it's very easy. They can ask someone to resign partway through their term. They can reappoint them when their term's up. They have a whole lot of other options. I think it's really not our purview to send them a motion telling them to look at what we're doing. Now, if we're not happy with how we're organized, we just had an organizational meeting where we talked about our bylaws and everything. And the second meeting, and we're, you know, in January, I think we should be talking about if we're unhappy with ourselves and we need to talk about that with ourselves. If the board's unhappy with us, they already have the options and the ability to reconfigure us. I mean, we're a committee serving at their pleasure. So if they want to change us, they can change us. They don't need us to tell them, maybe you should look at changing us. I think that's very presumptuous on our part. And I, I really think it's out of our purview and it's kind of out of our concern. It really makes me feel good since I was just reappointed. I don't think anyone's we're not telling the, uh, the board supervisors how to do or not do their business. It's just, it's one of those procedural things. I think that, uh, one of those things that, uh, has been, we've been asked to present tonight and that's what we did. And I don't know if I need anything more from my secretary, or anyone else tonight, but I do have a motion and I have a second. So I'll just ask for all those in favor that we send that we send. Let's let the board, you know, take a look at it and, and welcome. That's, that's where we're at. So I'll just ask for a majority vote. All those in favor, just say aye. Aye. Aye. All those against. Aye. Aye. All right. So we'll go to that with that in mind. I think that it's probably middle of the road. It may be leaning more towards the nay, but that's what we'll send back to the board. If we need anything more than that, I think they'll task us with that. Is that be the correct way there, Mr. Secretary? I'm not sure. My status is supposed to wipe out the court. I don't know that you need to. I mean, I guess that's the other question is if there's a call for a division. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if it was voted down. Is there anything that should be sent to the board? Cause it was voted not to go to the board. So I don't think unless I do a roll call, vote, but that'd be the only way. But I just don't think that's necessary. Mr. Mr. Chairman, I just to clarify, this wasn't something on our agenda. Nope. This is something that was brought up. Not an item. Nope. It's not a vote. There's nothing we have to approve or nothing. It's not, there's no expectation. Nothing. By the board. That's none either. I mean, if individual members want to call their board of supervisors and say, Hey, we think you ought to look at this. That's up to them. Perfect. Perfect. Purview. So I think we have served our function on this item tonight. So I think what we'll do is we'll listen to the motion. If, if I could have the floor again there, Mr. Triplett, thank you. If I could have the floor, I'll take a motion to adjourn. Do I have a second? All those in favor? Aye. We're adjourned.
