Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-03-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=332
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good. Good training. Good goal. Good job. Good job, baby. All right. Oh, yeah. Christ. That's where they sent me. You got your own. I got mine. Sorry, I can't do it. Keep my hand on the buzzer. Oh, that's funny. You did not own the dustbin. Bill, how you doing, buddy? Bill, you're busy. Hey, Gary. Wow. Chasing numbers. Hello, doctor. Hello. Wow. Mr. Chairman, Ms. Seiberg just texted. Hey, Gary, you made it. Perfect. A little traffic problem. We'll just have one. Great. All right. I'm going to call this work session to order. Everybody's here. So, thank you. Hi, Sharon. How you doing? Missing? So, Mr. Bolhoffer, do you want to kick this thing off or? I will kick it off and start out with a few just quick cleanup items just to make sure we're on the right pace. We've made a lot of changes as we go through this process. When we were talking outside agencies, I think we understood everything the board wanted. The one question we had from staff was, did they want to fund the Blue Ridge Legal Services and Surcap? Those are the last two items on the outside agency sheet and historically they've requested and the board has not funded them in the past. We currently have both those items in the budget because no one actually stated to remove those. And Blue Ridge Legal Service is requesting 17,000 for the outside agency sheet. We're requesting $5,219 and Surcap is requesting $5,000. And these are a standard in at least four years I've been here. They've made the same request every year. Fellow supervisors, would anybody have any? I thought we were going with those that had been funded in the past we were going to fund and those that we have not. That was my impression. And these two were not funded in the past. Yes, and that was our impression too, but we wanted to verify that. I'm on the same page. Okay. I agree. I would leave it where it is. Yep. Okay, there you go. All right, the next clean up item is we did make, as you realize, we sent out our five scenarios. The first two, the A and B were based on what we discussed at the last meeting. In all of them we did make one correction and I have this up. I'm up here now, scenario A. If you remember originally under here we had fire and rescue reduce overtime because it was under the assumption that overtime was related to the additional aid firefighters. It's actually the built in overtime for all the firefighters, so we took that one out. Okay. And then just to show you, we had a lot of people who were in the area. We had a lot of people who were in the area. We had a lot of people who were in the area. For the tourism tax at the 2%, this is the 630, but obviously when you do it just 2%, that would all go to tourism. Another scenario was discussed where you would add another half a percent where that would go actually into the general funds. And just for your information, that number I believe is 210,000. You'll see that later on in some of the other scenarios. All right, but we're going to talk about that later. Is that okay? Yeah. Okay. All right. All right. All right. All right. Yes. As we go through all of these, the one question I've been heard continually is that what will be our capital fund balance after we do each one of these scenarios? So just for your, you can write this down. We'll come back to this spreadsheet. Based on all the scenarios, the starting number you're going to get on every one of the scenarios is 7,443,600. So that's the starting number. And then the starting number is 7,474. Each one of these amounts will change based on how much you increase revenues because that will add more money. And that's based on the assumption that as you increase revenues, what you would do is those revenues would be used to offset any money you were taking for the capital funds. So in effect, those increase in revenues would all go to the capital fund. So for instance, under A, you would have to pay for the capital fund. Under B, it would be 10.3 million. And under E, which is the last one where we sort of combined all these, it would be 8.1 million. Now, when it comes to those surplus, and I use surplus because for the definition of accounting, surplus just means the excess of revenues over expenses. You could actually handle that surplus in different ways. One thing you could do is you could actually just put it right into your account. Your general fund is a contribution to the general fund. If you deal with it in that respect, if you wanted to spend it during the year, it would not be appropriated. So you'd have to go back and appropriate the funds. And any funds left over at the end of the year based on our formulas would be rolled over into capital funds. Another thing the board would have as an option, they could actually take those funds and put it into a fund and they could call it contingency for board of supervisors. And that way the money could be. Appropriated with the board throughout the year would have the option of spending how they so chose if they decided to spend any. And then the easiest way is just to take any surpluses, reduce what you're taking out of your capital fund to spend on items. All three ways are acceptable and in effect they all end up about the same way when you finish the next fiscal year. Accounting wise, the easiest way is to roll it right into to offset capital fund spending so it goes directly into the capital fund. And then I wanted to talk about another big issue, not a big issue, but an issue that has come up subsequent to the last meeting. If you remember the last meeting on here, you see the board had agreed to increase the share of sworn staff, an additional 7% which brought it to 10% total. Subsequent to that, we had a meeting with the board. Subsequent to that, I know several of the board members have been approached by members of the fire department. I know I was approached by them who were not happy with that, who felt in the past, as they told me, is that generally when they increase these wages, they usually did it in unison with the sheriff's department. And I believe they may have submitted documents to some of these board members showing that they are significantly underpaid compared to other locations, just as the sheriff's department are. So in a later scenario, you will see that we've actually made a change, where it'd be add an additional 4% to fire and add an additional 4% to the sheriff's. So they would be getting equal amounts of raise, which would increase both their salaries. It would just mean a little less for the sheriffs. And when you get to scenario E, you will see that. Now there was some talk also that there was some concern about the fairness, about everyone getting different amount of wages. I just wanted to clear up to make sure everyone had all their information correct. It was under the. Some people believe that. It was under the. Some people believe that. That the school employees were all receiving a 5% or 5.8% raise. That's not correct. What's going on in the schools, their average raise is 5%. Their employees are receiving wages, some of them are going to receive 2.8% and some will receive 6.5%. So in the schools, those increases vary throughout the whole structure of the organization. And the largest group of employees in the schools will be receiving 2.8%, not a majority, but the largest group in those blocks. Just to clear that up. All right, I'm going to jump in on that one because, you know, we appropriate money to Dr. Hummer, to the schools. He runs the program. That's how his call is. It's not up to us to tell him how he should be putting doing raises. That's his job. So that was my thought all along. It's not. We you know, when you get into this. Yeah. This is a really murky thing because I mean, and you know, my background, I've been there. You don't we didn't give raises equally across the board. We just didn't do that. You know, and it's so you work with what you've got fund wise. So I appreciate, you know, we're going to appropriate whatever we're going to appropriate. And Dr. Hummer is going to make that decision as it should be. That's my two cents. And what I would like to do, because as you know, we've. We've had both the sheriff's department and the fire department have been approaching several elected members of this board about issues, perhaps with their benefits and their and their wages. And it's been brought up in the past doing a salary survey. We initiated a salary survey about six years and we implemented it about four and a half years ago. I would like to make a request that we do a salary survey and take a look. But I would like to do it. Last survey we did, I don't think it was the greatest survey. It was sufficient. And it. Was it a great survey. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know how we got the job done, but I'd like to do a survey of all the employees. But I'd also like to look at all the benefits, the total fringe. So this board going forward in the future have an idea of how everyone's being paid. So going into the next budget year, you'll have more facts. You will hear from fire and you will hear from the sheriff. A lot of times they will come to you and tell you that they believe their fringe benefits aren't, you know, on a par with other locations. Just say you'll have all that information. Plus. You'll also have the. Yeah. Yeah. You'll have to look at the benefits packet and see if it's set up correctly. Maybe you want to shift it around or maybe employees want something. But we would like to recommend doing that going forward to have better information for the next budget. Mr. Chairman, I think that's a great idea. The we need to be competitive in the marketplace for all of our positions. But we're operating in the dark without knowing exactly. And having a study done is probably a good idea. Anybody else. Okay. I agree. Well, I was going to make a comment that when the sheriff came in and asked for that bump, he did give up two positions in order to get that. So I kind of felt like we met him halfway. If the sour grapes out there that they're getting more than other departments and we do it to fire and rescue, then what are we telling the rest of the county employees when they're only getting three? So if it's that much of an issue, then take everybody back to three. Okay. So that's just my two cents. I think if we do a salary survey and readjust it next year, that's fine. I'm fine with leaving the sheriff where we're at on this one. But that's it. Well, I walked out of here with the impression that we agreed for the sheriff to do 7%. I didn't walk out of here thinking 10. I thought we were giving him four. That's what I thought too. Yeah. So you thought the same thing I did. Three and four makes seven. Yeah. So we all. I mean, that was my impression. I don't know if it was the sheriff's choice. I don't know if it was the sheriff's choice. I don't know if it was the sheriff's choice. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I didn't want to give him 10. I thought we were giving him four. That's what I thought too. Yeah. So you thought the same thing I did. Three and four makes seven. Yeah. So we all. I mean, that was my impression. Anybody else can speak up. But I wasn't going with seven. I was going with four for the sheriff's department. So with that piece, I'm fine with when it comes to public safety, I'm fine if we go forward with the Fire and Rescue. I really am. But we'll have that discussion with the board. And with everybody, I also, the survey, absolutely. But I'd do it across the board. Anybody that's receiving a salary, they should be looking at, do it the right way and let's see what we got. And we also believe it may make sense to ask, excuse me, the jail if they would like to participate. Obviously, if they do want to participate, they would pay their share of the study. However, as you know, we pay the total cost allocated between all the jurisdictions, so the county would cover a portion that way. So right now at the present time, I just met with the personnel committee with the jail. They're the last salary survey that we did. That's what they're working on right now. That's what they're, I don't know whether anybody else departments are doing that or not. You could tell me that, I don't know. But I know they- They are looking at that and saying that's what they're trying to adjust their salaries to. That is correct with some exceptions. We went through it. Over the last four or five years, we've made several adjustments based on department heads coming in, if you remember DSS and several other ones. So I know in the jail, they made salary adjustments, some salary adjustments. But the core of what they're being paid now is based on that salary survey. On the last one we did. The last salary survey. The one you said. The one you said wasn't the best one in the world. In my opinion, it was not the best salary survey. What did we pay for that salary survey? We paid $80,000 for it. Okay, that's $80,000 down the tube. Yeah. We did implement all those changes, but I think it could have been better. We need to do a better job. Yep. Waste of money if it doesn't do any good. That's the oversight. We're doing those salary surveys. The companies are coming in. You have to participate. Yeah. You have to participate and make sure it's going the right way. And if we don't participate, shame on us for not doing our job. I might be jumping the gun here because I don't think anybody's asked us about scenarios yet. But I like scenario E with a 4% real estate tax increase and 4% each for sheriff and fire. In terms of the schools, correct me if I'm wrong, Dr. Hummel, but after we pass our budget, and we're not going to have to pay for it. We're not going to know what the schools give the teachers until after we pass our budget because the school board will have to go by and take that budget and sign the raises. Do you want me to come up here and just stop from here? Yeah. So what we're going to have to do is we're also waiting to hear how much money we're going to get from the state. Now, the silver lining with that is we're anticipating more revenue, but we're also anticipating them being done next week, which is it will help us get ahead of this. So once you all make your decision, we'll have that number, and then we have a work session with our partners. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll have that number on our board on the 14th, and then we have them approve the budget on April 21st to know what the pay increases will be. We'll have a good idea on April 14th, though. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, while we're talking schools, I have a question for Dr. Hummel. Yes, sir. During your presentation, you mentioned that the sweet spot was $11.6 million, I believe. With that, if that's where you end up, will there be any staffing cuts of existing staff positions? Yeah. So if we get close to that 11.5 and we're anticipating hopefully an additional $3 million from the state, that will get us closer to a $15 million number to get all the items that we need to avoid hopefully cutting some positions. But we're looking at about a $1.5 million shortfall from $15 million, so we'll have to talk with our board about where we want to potentially cut some of those positions. We don't — well, actually, I'm not going to ask you to answer that question. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. We're on the board. At this point, or at any point, we don't like to cut positions with people in them. That's why we're trying to avoid that. But we do have some vacancies as people leave those positions through retirement and attrition where we're holding that so that we can essentially uphold our end of the deal, which, like we talked about, where we can tighten up our end of the budget. Then we'll more than likely hold on those positions and cutting in other areas. Because remember, the initial ask was 18.2. And every time we get more or less than that, based on what the board wants us to do, we're going to have to cut in other areas. Does that help? Yeah. Yes, sir. So we have given you four scenarios. We've added. Thank you. I am going to call me. We've given you the four scenarios, plus we added scenario E. Scenario E, we tried to combine as best we could. As you know, we're working with individual supervisors. We're working with supervisors individually. Requests from supervisors. Changes based on what we heard. And we also added in there $150,000 if indeed the board wanted to do the salary survey. We believe that in today's market, if you wanted to do a good salary survey, it would probably be $150,000, knowing that six years ago it was $80,000. So that's in scenario E? That's in scenario E. We built that in. In scenario E, we also. If you look at it, it was based on a $0.04 real property tax. I know some board members in the past talked about they would like to advertise at $0.05 and then possibly drop to $0.04. So if you wanted to do that and you're looking at scenario E, you would add $1.8 million to the line where it had taxes. And then you would add $1.8 million to the grand total. So I keep on going back to last year, Bob. Yeah, go ahead. And we can come down, but we can't go up once we advertise. So I really, I like scenario E, but I think it would be prudent for us to go ahead and advertise it at $0.05. And if we don't get any last minute surprises, then we can drop it down. I agree with that. Mike? What's not used in the $300K for EDA fund balance? Is that? Yes. What we did was we sent out some early items. We determined the fund balance in the EDA. And a portion of that fund balance is not money that's been put in there for any purpose. I believe most of the funds they have in there is because they sold properties and such. Right. There's a $300,000 amount in the EDA fund balance, which really is the difference each year between what we give them per budget. Right. And what they actually spend. The total fund balance, we believe at this point in time, we're still reconciling it. The total fund balance in the EDA that's available for spending is about $3.2 million. So you can leave the, we pulled it out and just left the $300,000 in here. Because I know the board talked at many times of maybe using the EDA funds for site readiness, properties or different projects. And it's really a board policy. Did you want to take it out of the EDA? And actually you wouldn't take it out. You would reduce your contribution to the EDA by that amount, which would have the same effect of taking it out of there. So you put that in scenario E, but where does that appear in CD and A and where do I find the EDA money? I'll show you. Let's see. Right here. In the other four, as you know, we've gone through this process. We were looking for sourcing of funds and we found that $300,000. So we put this in an option. Oh, okay. Thank you. But in scenario E, after some discussion with board members, we actually pulled it back out and just left the fund balance in the EDA. And that's, you know, policy. And in case not everyone on the board knows, when it comes to EDA, any funds spent by the EDA have to be appropriated by this board. Sure, sir. And whatever this fund gets in the redahan fund, the total will say our guy that bought from us I appreciate it. The balance has already been put back in here. And I'm not going to hold it. That's our here, there's a reason that has to be blinked on. That's a sir going to get a perfect at Gold's Elm. The 800,000 doesn't mean anything to our EDA money there. I think that's your answer to this. I think we owe you a second chance to pay that money. You hook an old, old wife, or whatever. But I was getting past the truth of what you're saying about friendspmrn, which is that people leave them the money because they never had money. four cents for fire and rescue. The salary survey, we're doing a 2.5% for the lodging, and we're not using the $300,000 EDA. Correct, and that's a four additional percent for fire and police. So that would mean they would each get 7%. Yeah, we're walking out here, everybody clearly knows that would be 7%. And it does include in there the additional, correct me if I'm wrong, Sharon, half a cent tourism tax because once you get past five, you can use it forever if you want. So this includes a 5.5% tourism tax, and you don't actually see it as a line item, but it gets buried in this total number here. It's actually six. Oh, excuse me, six. Yeah, it makes it six because when we originally were talking about it, we kept on talking about two, but we're already at 3.5%, right? Correct. And just so we'll make that clear, too, we've done some more work working with Justin Kearns, and the average has been 6.4%. Is that correct, Jason, for this tax? Yeah. In the Valley, it's actually eight. Is that right, Jason? I think it's eight. 6.83, if my memory serves me right. Yeah. So we're still staying below, but it gives us room to work with. So just to be clear on scenario E, on line 123, under projected there, it says 4 cent real estate tax increase. So that's going to, if we select, scenario E, that's going to be a 5 cent real estate tax. That's what we're advertising. Yes, sir. Am I correct? So we're all on the same page. Yes. So I would change this number here to 9 million. Okay. That's what I say from the 7 to 9, right? Okay. Sorry, I didn't do 90. I did 90. Okay. I just want to be sure I'm correct with that. Okay. All right. And that changes your surplus. I'm all right with that. That changes your surplus, then. So I'm going to go ahead and add that to 2818, which would be added depending on how you wanted to do it. And like I said, the easiest way is to just reduce what you're taking out of capital funds so it would go directly to capital fund. Well, again, my thinking is I just don't want this last minute to surprise us. So if we get to where we have the public hearing, then we can actually take that back down to where we'll have 700. How much was it? 743. Yeah. 743. 743,000. Yeah. You know, that leaves a little bit of a cushion. I mean, if we can, we do not want to take money. It's not our job. Our job is just to balance this budget. So yes, sir. Two-five roads. Yeah. I've got one thing here. We had moved the school buses down to capital, the 1.650. But up at the original request expenditures, we're still showing that 266 million, which is what we had day one. We've got the 8% for school funding, but we never deducted the 1.6 from up there at the county at the operating. So we're double dipping on school buses. That could be. Let me clarify that. So that basically would kick it down another penny on real estate and get us down to three cents instead of four. Boy, that would be fantastic if we knew that. Yeah. I remember that came up two meetings ago. Yes, it did. We were looking at what we tried to determine. Yeah. Nowhere down through there did we show that 1.6 coming out. And that 8,900,000 was based on deducting that from last year's budget of 113, bringing it down to 112. Yeah. I think it's correct. So the 8% is correct. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. So let me. Wait a minute. I think that 8.9 is what we agreed to do for the schools. Right. After we pulled the school buses out. I think that's where the question was, is that after the school buses are pulled out or before. Because if we do it after the school buses are pulled out, that only gives the schools 121 million versus using their original amount, it gives them 122.8. So we need clarification. And I think. Yeah. If you add that 1.6 to the 8.9, now we're giving them 9.33% instead of 8%. Yeah. I think he's correct. Because if what you're saying is when you look at this in the original request, these are the expenditures. Yes. The schools had in their operating expenditures the 1650. So what you'd want to do is subtract that out up here. And hang on. So we're still giving the school the same amount we were planning on. We just had 1.6 floating in our operating that wasn't accounted for. It'll increase what you would be going into your surplus. Right. Correct. I agree. And like I said, that could get us down to 3 cents instead of 4 cents on real estate. Yeah. And just for convenience, I'm going to just put this number right here and put a minus on it. It's a great catch because Cheryl brought that up on February 1st. Yeah. And I think that's what we're going to do. We're going to put that number right here. And then we're going to put that number on the next one. Yeah. And then we're going to put that number on the next one. Yeah. And then we're going to put that number on the next one. Yeah. And just for convenience, I'm going to just put this number right here and put a minus on it. It's a great catch because Cheryl brought that up on February 27th and shot us an email on it. And it just must have been oversight on the various reiterations that have been done. So good catch, Gary. Thanks. That was Cheryl's catch. So that takes us. You have an E. Yeah. That gets you at $4.4 million for your surplus. But if you change that to 3 cents instead of 5, that still gives Fred a good surplus. Hang on. That would be 5.4 instead of 9. Yeah. I'll leave the verbiage over here. That gives you 3 cents. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's still good. That's still good. Yeah. That's a good surplus. Yeah. That gives you 8.6. That still gives 8.68 thousand. Yeah. Is that correct on there? Is that the surplus line there? Yeah. So the surplus, if you do 3 percent, is 593,000. Okay. Well, still we got a surplus, plus we managed to keep real estate down. Yeah. If we do 3 percent, we still have a surplus. Yeah. Yeah. So that's the surplus. Okay. All right. Okay. So, we're going to put that on February 27th. So, I'm going to put that on February 27th. Yeah. And I'll leave this up for everybody. Yeah. keep real estate down at three cents to four or five and it's what was the original at four it was 743 190. no no up to 72. so that and like i said that doesn't change the dollar amount we still have in the budget that we were allotting to schools it's still that 8.977 correct anything there let's see yes so at three well finally you still have that two six six or women did you yeah all right i see where you put the one six hundred yeah yeah i just put it there just just there was a blank spot and that takes you to your revenue over 868 i think it says and if you put in just just so you can see if you had it at four cents yeah yeah it takes you to right there right no down a little more there you go it takes you to two three nine three so you have a four cents two million 2.2 million and the other one was 8.8 i believe or 883. okay mr chairman i just like to make a comment about go ahead if if we go lower then my question to this board is what are you gonna do next year we're gonna be next year we're gonna need more revenue again and so then we're gonna advertise for another rate another tax increase or decrease depends on what the assessment's coming up we don't know we don't have the magic ball we asked commissioner revenue last time and apparently it's tied up in computer program or something yeah so i just i just i'm just a little nervous going in the next year if we're going to be right back where we are sitting here today i like going from five to four that's that's a nice move but i i get nervous going to three with that said does that take you yeah it keeps the schools the same amount as what happened was by not subtracting the buses out we were actually giving them the money twice then if that's the case i gave it to them it was still it was been operating like that yes yeah yeah um then i mean we're i i still would like to go one penny up and then we can and during the public hearing we can drop it i just want a cushion just in case there is something else that we don't proceed i think all if you look for consensus i'm good with advertising the five but right my line in the sand is going to be three so i i'm good with the five um i know we have the uh real estate assessment coming up but i still i think we need to stay with four yeah that's just me yeah i'm thinking like you are so i you know i i'm for me i'm good with the five with the idea of going forward yeah we'll work on the consciously what do you think we will have we won't have to go back to the buckets as badly next year if that's if we stay there i agree with you chairman we want to do the same thing last year with the unexpected uh issue with personal properties on debt service, $4.4 million from schools, an additional $4.4 million. Excellent point, sir. That's the exact point Al was going to make, and thank you, Al. Because we have scraped every bucket of every grain of sand that we can find for this year. And I'm in the camp that $0.04 is probably the way to go, but advertise at $0.05. All right. Okay, so do we have a consensus with scenario E, and we're going to go advertise with $0.05, and we've all got it in our heads that hopefully we can land at $0.04? I'm looking at everybody. We've got one, two, three, four. Everybody? Mr. Browse-Roads? And that's without the $1.6 for the buses, correct? We've made that adjustment. You've made that adjustment. I just wanted to make sure. No, no, no. It still goes a month. In capital. Right, right. In capital. And that's it. That's already there. Yeah. Right. So we're not going to give it to them twice. Right. Yeah. Right, but I don't think we were going to give it to them. No, no. Right. We're still hanging out there and operating. Right. It's a line correction more than anything else. Everybody in agreement? I'm good. All right. So just, the ad has to go to the paper tomorrow, so I just want to make sure I'm clear on what's happening. The surplus or the amount of revenue. Yeah. The surplus over expenditures. How do you want that in the ad? Like, do you want that to reduce the amount we're taking out of the capital fund, or do you want it in a contingency fund, or a contingency line item? Because in my ad, my revenues and expenditures have to equal. Sure. So I have to do something with that surplus. Sure. It's a great question. I go contingency fund. That's what I go. And that's what we've done in the past, but I just wanted to make sure. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. And in effect, if you don't spend it, it gets rolled over into your fund balance. Yes. Mike? I'm looking at you. You good? Yeah, I'm good. Gary? Okay. Everybody agrees. Okay. Contingency fund. Thank you, Sharon. I appreciate that. All right. And do we need to have a meeting added between the public hearing and the adoption? Because we currently don't have one. I don't think so. I think we've done our homework and actually. Okay. Just wanted to make sure. Well, you tell us. Yeah. We're not. We need. No. Oh, sorry. If. No, I don't want to add a meeting if you all don't want it. I just wanted to make sure that you didn't want to make any adjustments after you heard from people at the public hearing. No. Okay. And in an emergency, you could always call one if for some reason you needed it. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think we've done a good job. Like superhousing. We've been sifting through the sand. We're all in the same boat. We're all we're supposed to be doing. So thank you. That's it. That's it. Yes. Mr. Chairman. I have a couple of comments. Sure. Reflection back on this process. With regards to each department was asked to, and I assumed the 900,000 that was put in here as savings from the county administrators cuts was a part of that 5%. We asked departments to make adjustments. Okay. And we did. We asked the county for that. And then we turned around and spent it in salaries for two departments and didn't include everybody in the county. And I can tell you it's not being received well amongst the county employees that were not included. Out of the general assembly, you're going to have an issue with collective bargaining. It's still alive. That process and typically the first two groups or three groups comes through that is teachers and public safety folks. Okay. So you might want to keep that on the radar in the ad. All of them. It says sworn positions for the sheriff's office. Is that sworn positions? Correct. Okay. How about for fire and rescue? That does for the actually, yeah, it's sworn, not administrative as the administrative would be treated as all the other administrative. Technically the only folks in fire and rescue to my knowledge, it's technically sworn is, you know, fire marshals. And that's 644 is a lot of money for about five, six people. So I think you're either your verbiage is wrong or you're doing something I don't understand. No, my verbiage is wrong. It's not sworn. It's actual firefighters versus administrative staff. As far as I'm concerned, it's going to be all the professional firefighters. Is that administrative too? Because you're splitting it or are you splitting it in the sheriff's office as well? Because it has different definitions. Yeah. We're giving the sheriff's department 7%. We're giving the bottom everybody. We're giving the fire department 7%. So how that's worked out. Yeah. Our understanding is for the sheriff it's sworn and for the fire it's for all the firefighters, but not the administrative. And we include the fire marshals and their staff as firefighters. Yeah. These calculations include non-administrative. These calculations include non-administrative. These calculations include non-administrative staff in each of the departments. We pulled out the admin staff. Thank you. Just to clarify, the verbiage is getting mixed up. No, no, no, that's perfect. I believe some of the other things with the buses was resolved. And as far as the county staff, that's why I totally agree with doing the salary survey. I think it's appropriate. And Bill, we're going to come back next year and we'll see where we are. But this is a very important step. And I think we're going to do a great job. I think we're going to do a great job. I think we're going to do a great job. And I think we're going to do a great job. And I think we're going to do a great job. And I think we're going to do a great job. And I think we're going to do a great job. And I think we're going to do a great job. But this is a very important step. And I believe some of the other things with the buses was resolved. And as far as the county staff, that's why I totally agree with doing the salary survey. I think it's appropriate. And Bill, we're going to come back next year and we'll see where we are. But you've watched this process. You've seen how we've worked through it. And, yes, public safety is getting more money. I will share with you, for those that either was not on the board or was not made a part of the process, and I know there's a lot of money that went into it. about 18 to 24 months ago we did a half-year adjustment for the Sheriff's Office so there's a couple dips there that everybody else has been left out of and I mean that draws prerogative but history kind of aligns itself to the part of the process that you may know or may not know and that's important oh that's good we need the history so I will say one thing on that last salary survey I was on the Finance Committee back then as a civilian but I think the biggest part of that salary survey was the way it was received by the current board at the time that everybody was in denial of all know we shouldn't be paying that much even though that's clearly what was needed and the sticker shock scared the board it took several years to implement it so that you I really didn't see much problem with the salary survey itself but more of the reception and there's even board members saying well if the current County staff wants to leave comes not getting paid enough we'll pick people up from West Virginia even though we tell every developer coming in here pay hot salaries to keep the locals working so I'll just throw that out any other comments are we good I think so yes everybody good all right work sessions ended everybody have a great evening or till seven o'clock you you you you you you you you you you
