Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-05-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=225
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for being patient with us. We were in closed session and we need to record properly coming out. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I move that the Board of Supervisors come out of closed session and reconvene in open session. Second. We have a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Aye. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County certifies, to the best of each member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law and only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed session meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by the board in the closed meeting to which this certification applies. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a second. Second. We have a second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. second we have a motion in a second do we need a roll call to certify this very good supervisor Lea oh hi supervisor Lockridge hi vice chair hi supervisor Wells hi supervisor Don hi supervisor jewel hi the chair votes aye we are at a closed session mr. chairman and we are does anyone need a moment or are we available to go right into the next item very good so we are here for the service-learning mr. Tibbs good evening mr. chairman members of the board I mean it's my pleasure to welcome everyone to the annual Frederick County Public Schools government service learning community forum this is the 27th year of the government service learning partnership between Frederick County government and Frederick County Public Schools service-learning government encourages students to study and apply the Virginia and United States government class content through participation and thoughtfully organized experiences that address actual community needs students study in a blended learning environment which includes the traditional classroom setting virtual collaboration through Google field experiences and internships the student internships allow the students to solve real community problems through the application of their government content knowledge combined with the experience of their placement supervisors The culmination of their work is tonight's community forum where the students' projects are presented to the Board of Supervisors, school board members, school staff and administrators, superintendent and parents. On behalf of Frederick County Government, I want to express our appreciation and thanks to the service learning placement supervisors, the school system and the James Wood High School students for their hard work in reaching tonight's goal. And last but certainly not least, a huge thank you goes out to our service learning government teachers and Mr. D.J. Cavalier, supervisor of social sciences, health and wellness education. So with that, Mr. Chairman, I will now turn it over to our first group for their presentation. Thank you. Welcome. So you can bend the mic as needed. And do we, I guess we want to ask you to state, you're probably planning on it anyway, your school and project name. Yes, sir. So we are the James Wood High School Service Learning Government Class and we, this is for Parks and Rec. So good evening to the Board of Supervisors and community members. We are part of the James Wood High School Service Learning Government Class. To start, we would like to introduce ourselves. My name is Chase Arras. Hi, I'm Abby Frazier. My name is Kateria Powers. I'm Grace Newman. I'm Hayden McDowell. For this project, our group partnered with our local Frederick County Parks and Recreation with the guidance of Mr. Almarod and Mr. Keufauer. Like many government agencies, Frederick County Parks and Recreation faces difficulty supporting all customers with requested services. Due to limited funding, they aren't able to expand as needed. With growing population, Parks and Rec services are currently at 100 percent capacity and there are more than 30 families currently on the waiting list, meaning there are 138 children that are not in a basic rec program. One major future need is a community center that would allow Parks and Recreation to host different activities and programs. Some of the major facilities that Parks and Recreation has are the pools and concession stands at Clearbrook and Sharando Park. Parks and Recreation has tried to handle the concession stands in many different ways. In the past, the concession spaces have been rented out to various businesses. Some years ago, Parks and Rec had a concession stand at the Fairbrook and Sharando Park. In some years, it was hard to find vendors and when they did, there were difficulties with communication and staffing. Last summer, Parks and Recreation had vending machines open to customers instead of having active concession stands. There were parent complaints about the foods offered and the availability of vending machines. All of these issues pointed out to one obvious solution. The Parks and Recreation centers would take the responsibility of supporting the concession stands. After Parks and Rec decided to take on the concession stands, our group was asked to help start the process. Our service learning group began by creating a Google form for families to complete. This was to gather insights as to what parents would like to see offered at the pools. Questions about food, snacks, pricing, desserts and further suggestions used in this survey. The survey was emailed to the current Parks and Rec customers and we received about 40 responses. We used the suggestions to start the summer menu. As you can see, this pie chart, the majority of the customers would be willing to pay $15-20 for each visit for their child's life. We've also seen the number of customers who would be willing to pay $15-20 for each visit for their child's life. We've also seen the number of customers who would be willing to pay $15-20 for each visit for their child's life. We've also seen the number of customers who would be willing to pay $15-20 for each visit for their child's life. We were surprised at the high dollar amount from the survey. Clearly, the concession stand could be a successful addition to the pools. On the next slide, we have the favorite snacks to be offered for their children. No surprises here. Finally, we have the pie chart with possible entrees. You can see that it is pretty much among these three classics. Due to various limitations, there were three product providers Parks and Recreation could partner with. These providers were Costco, Walmart, and McDonald's. We were surprised that the pie chart was among the three classics. We were surprised that the pie chart was among the three classics. We were surprised that the pie chart was among the three classics. We were surprised that the pie chart was among the three classics. We were surprised that the pie chart was among the three classics. More at the end of the slide. Next slide please. Moving forward to our next slide we заявmed snacks,uy. We earlier compared w we other, MO, protein from the list that left $2 of prices We also looked at a simple chart for amount of snacks that we wanted to sell tej next day but our company approved that process by останов because of these Large Box SMARTrixly, notこれ Guidance meet and see is that it actually That Para shoulders, however, are going thirds. On the right are significant retail companies. Check the bar here on the right hand side is clothing brands. Here we are at Baysh clerks. With no one here today recording. pliers for that and combining forgot that in 2016 or 2017, avoir сильно seen changes to opia Boston. I stitch made clear that she fell for it. and it also provided delivery the downside of that was that we could not have pizza but we were able to have hamburgers and hot dogs our concessions like I said can't offer pizza but shakes is also a local chain and even though shanks was a little more expensive we had delivery after choosing shanks we started to create two different menus we started with a horizontal menu that can be used for banners and signs to that we can put up at the concession stands then we made a vertical menu that placed into a bi-fold stand at the front sessions the horizontal and the vertical menu will be displayed at both of the pool concession stands the prices were determined by the survey results regarding how much parents were going to consider spending and covering the costs and using unit prices they were slightly raised to ensure money was being made from the concessions as you can see from the prices on the menus the concessions will be under the 15 to 20 dollar range that parents were willing to pay in our survey our concession stands have many different payment options from cash Apple pay discover a MasterCard and other various payment avenues you can see that we were able to offer fair and inviting prices and the products we selected many options from our low personal information planning presentation and so you can eyes foravior and citizenship fees are a tough step the concession stand included features like Louis and Neem where you can buy on the store's app any materials and carton you can create your own?". Let us review some decisions with AB% Greyback Valley Ten foliage sales or don't go there in your P ataque discussion bag let's go again back to store owners but here comes the typos for cost coaster Our groups found집'll a list of options, such as air fryers and the liners that would go in those air fryers and small items like napkin holders cloves, tongs, that can be overlooked. The profit margins It will help offset the overhead costs of the products will harm offset the overhead costs of these items. were a major help and led the way to a successful project. Our group thanks both of you for supporting us and encouraging the group each day. We hope to see our project make a change and a great impact this summer at our local parks and recreation pool facilities. We would also like to thank our teacher, Mr. Reed, and the coordinators of the service learning program, Mr. Cavalier and Mr. Tibbs. Can we answer any questions for you? Thank you all very much. Very smooth presentation. You used the mic right, so you could teach many commenters how to use the mic. Any questions from the board? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. We are so excited to be here with you tonight. We are representing the Jameswood High School service learning class. My name is Hannah Lilly. Hannah McCullough. It's Selman Goza. Haley Harvey. Evelyn Grosbeck. And Brian Combs. For our project, we worked with the Commonwealth Attorney's Office, led by Investigator Derek Kreider, to analyze the drug trends in our area over the last five years. Looking at the popularity of certain drugs, the data set we analyzed was restricted to felony drug convictions in the Frederick County Circuit Court. The Commonwealth Attorney's Office is headed by the elected Commonwealth's attorney, Mr. Ross Spicer. It is a local government agency that aims to ensure public safety within your community by prosecuting felonies and misdemeanors, holding people accountable for their actions. The Commonwealth Attorney's Office prosecutes in circuit courts and juvenile and domestic relations. According to the Controlled Substance Act, there are five schedules of narcotics. We exclusively focused on cases with Schedule 1 and 2 infractions because they both result in felony charges. A Schedule 1 narcotic is classified as having a high potential for abuse and no accepted medical treatment, with the exception of marijuana, and having no benefits from using it. From our cases, the Schedule 1 narcotics we most commonly saw were heroin, LSD, and fentanyl. Excuse me, ecstasy. Schedule 2 narcotics are also defined as having a high potential for abuse. There is an accepted medical treatment in the United States, but abuse can lead to psychological and physical dependencies on the narcotics. The cases we looked at had cocaine, morphine, fentanyl, and methamphetamine from the Schedule 2 class. Concerning narcotic cases, there are two cases. There are different charges that you can get based on the details of the case. You can be charged with either possession or distribution. Possession is possessing a controlled substance with the intent of personal use. Distribution is the act of manufacturing, selling, as well as giving of a controlled substance. This can conclude getting money or a product back in return and gifting. When classifying, if there was attempt to distribute, you would be charged with a controlled substance. When classifying, if there was attempt to distribute, you will see signs such as large quantities of the narcotic, baggies, scales, and excessive cash. Possession is covered under the Code of Virginia 18.2-250, while distribution is covered under 18.2-248. A certificate of analysis is a document that communicates and records the weight of the narcotic, identifies the drug schedule, and outlines the purity of the specimen analyzed. The Department of Forensic Science Drug Lab, in which these documents are sent from, is located in the Department of Forensic Science Drug Lab, and is located in the Department of Forensic Science Drug Lab. The Department of Forensic Science Drug Lab is located in Manassas, Virginia. We first reviewed the convictions from the past four years. When reviewing the cases, we collected data such as possession versus distribution, type and weight of the narcotic, incarceration sentence, and the gender of the offender. We then recorded the data in a spreadsheet and separated it by year. We analyzed the data we gathered to look for any drug trends in our area. These are the trends that we have seen in the past four years. These are the trends we saw in the community. We looked at data over a four-year period, 2020 through 2023. There were less cases in 2020 because of COVID and everyone staying indoors. In 2021, we see a rise in cases because people were receiving stimulus checks. As a part of the data we collected, we tracked if cases were distribution or possession of narcotics. Since the number of cases in each year are not even, we can calculate the percentages of each total distribution and possession charges each year. In some cases, people were charged with both possession and distribution of narcotics. As we can see, there was a rise in distribution charges from 2020 to 2022, and then a decline in 2020 through. On the other hand, the number of possessions had a decline from 2020 to 2022, and then an increase in 2023. The main drugs that we saw through the years were methamphetamine, fentanyl, etizolam, heroin, and cocaine. Out of all the years, we analyzed that methamphetamine was seen the most in the group of cases. We were able to see a significant decrease in the amount of heroin cases from 2020 to 2021. Since 2020, we have seen a steady rise in etizolam. We were able to also see a rise in the amount of cases involving cocaine between 2021 and 2022. Also, between 2021 and 2022, we have seen a significant decrease in the amount of cases involving cocaine between 2021 and 2022. Also, between 2020 and 2022, we have seen a significant decrease in the amount of cases involving cocaine between 2021 and 2022. We saw a significant rise in cases of fentanyl, but from 2021 to 2023, we see a steady decrease. We decided to track the number of males versus females who were convicted with crimes related to narcotics. We found the number of cases of each male and female per year, and then calculated the percentage of cases that were male or female. In our data, we can see that the number of cases with males has had a slight crease, but still more than females, until 2023, when the number dropped significantly from 67% in 2022 to 39% in 2023. The number of charges of females has had a steady increase from 2020 to 2022, until 2023, when the number shot up to 61% of charges were female. We would like to thank everyone that made our experience possible. Thank you, Mr. Spicer, for welcoming us into your department. Thanks to our teacher, Mr. Reed, the service learning coordinators, Mr. Cavalier, and Mr. Tibbs. And a big thank you to our mentor, investigator, Derek Crider, for the experience and knowledge that he shared. That concludes our presentation. Are there any questions? Thank you very much. Questions? I do have a question. It's concerning the rise in female populations with the use of drugs. Do you have any thoughts on why you think there's been such an increase in the female use, female population use? Just curious if you all, I mean, I just, I'm just curious if you identified anything that in your work that would maybe explain that, because it's, I also thought it was a little bit odd, but that's what, and I don't mean to put you on the spot. You all have done a great job. I mean, the statistical information is pretty amazing, what you've collected. We will get back to you with the correct information. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Anyone else have a question, want to put them on the spot as well? Thank you very much. Thank you. Wonderful. You didn't change it. You were supposed to change it. Hi, I'm DJ Cavalier. I'm the social studies supervisor at Frederick County Public Schools. Just a couple quick thank yous. Mr. Reid does an awesome job with this class every year, their teacher. None of the kids would agree with that, correct? Yeah, OK. Mr. Gross, the principal at James Woods, always been a great supporter of our program. Mr. Tibbs, we couldn't do it without him. Every year, he guides us along, working with everybody down here. The Parks and Rec and the attorney, thanks to those departments and their sponsors who work with the students for the past few months. And thank the board supervisors for your time and inviting us down here again this year. And a big thank you to the students who did a wonderful job. And they're getting ready to graduate in five, six days. So they're ready to move on to new adventures. And they didn't have to come to school today. And they came to Mr. Reid's room of practice one more time, even though they're out of school. So their dedication to this program has just been great. And they both, groups just did a wonderful job. So thank you. Thank you. So if this is complete. I just want to thank you. Thank you all again for all your hard work and efforts. This is a highlight for us every year. It's so refreshing to see our next generation coming forward and the wonderful projects that you do, the work that you've put into this. As Mr. Cavalier said, going back to your class today to make sure your preparation was just perfect. And you did such a wonderful job. So thank you for taking the time to present to us. And I hope that you'll continue to do so. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions or questions? Supervisor Jewell. I echo that. I also want to thank you for, not only for the presentation, but the time, even putting in with the slides and everything. I mean, the work you put in, it's pretty amazing. I've been to several events at the high school. And you know what? We have hope. We have hope. Thank you. So. Any other questions? So from there, no need to come forward. How many hours did each of these groups or each of these students put into the project typically? Well, they did their government course first semester. And basically, since the new year, we moved to second semester, an hour and a half every other day. They're either in the classrooms with Mr. Green or working with the departments. And they probably spent a lot of time outside of that time putting the presentation and all that stuff together. They came down here and practiced one day. Then they went back to their room. Mr. Green practiced. Ms. Green used her spaces for the time. Mr. Green used the green for a long time. I think the ситуations that he had key an hour to a second because theica? She was working at aаться Harry White and Hubbard,
