Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-03-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=179
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Vice Chairman Dunn. Vice Chairman Dunn. Can you bow your heads in prayer for a moment, please? Laura, let me just thank you for the opportunity to be here. We're in a free country where we can worship as we please. And that's not something that we can take for granted automatically. We ask that you give us all wisdom as we deal with each other. Give us all discernment as we deal with each other. Recognize that we're all trying to achieve good things for this county. So bless this effort together. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. You want to rise, please? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lowe? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Citizen comments? Miles Adkins? Welcome, sir. If you could share your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. All right. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm up here advocating for a full school board budget this year. You know, we've done a lot, kept a lot of campaign promises as far as transparency in our budget. It might not be perfect yet, but we're working toward getting it there. As you can see, we've put a lot of stuff online where the mom and dad working down at Hood can go in. If they've missed our school board meetings, they can come in, they can watch that school board meeting, they can go out. They can see the... Finance committee meeting, it's all published online. We're working toward that transparency. We've provided y'all with our full budget, and so I'm just up here advocating for our full budget at this point. So anything that you guys need from us, please reach out to us. Please reach out to me. I've been in contact with my board of supervisor. We've went out and toured the schools together, and we look forward to any kind of comments, questions, or concerns y'all may have. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Thank you. Consent agenda, how would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. That will bring us to Supervisor's comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn? I just want to reiterate, we're in a free country, and that is something that you shouldn't take for granted. If you criticize the government in some countries, you disappear. If you criticize the government in the country north of us, your bank accounts are frozen. So I'm just saying that we're fortunate to be here, and it's a real privilege to have a government. I have a country that's this free where you can criticize people and make a case known. Thank you. Anyone else? Hearing none, we'll move on. I don't think there's anything but information in the appointments to boards and committees and commissions. There are vacancies on the following boards and committees. Planning Commission Redbud, unexpired four-year term. And we'll fill that in next month, Mr. Chairman. Thanks, sir. Board of Building Code appeals, an unexpired five-year term. Board of Zoning appeals, Shawnee District, unexpired five-year term. Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Board, vacant two-year term. And Conservation Easement Authority, a vacant three-year term. This is for information. If there are those in the community that would be interested, we'll fill that in next month. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I received an email from a person interested in what they said was a vacancy on People, Inc. That's a board that we don't operate, but we have, I understand, it appointed in the past. They have in the past asked for an appointment. If you have someone who is interested, you might forward that. I can forward it to the asking organization. Very good. I'll do it that way. Thank you, sir. Or you're welcome to forward it to them. I'll get you that information. Either way, we'll talk. Okay. All right. Thank you, sir. Well done. All right. That will bring us to 10A, Renssarn Strive. Is this a report you wanted to make, Mr. Bishop? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is an action item from the Transportation Committee, but I guess I would call this Action 1A. Because a key point is this is not the last time you as a board are going to see this. As we assemble the full financial picture and needs for the board to act on, that's going to be coming forward through the Transportation Committee. The action tonight is allow us to continue working with the current low bid, which is from W&L Construction. For just under $2.9 million. For reference, I'm trying to sort of repeat some of the questions I've got leading up to tonight. That's actually a lower construction total for that portion of the project than we expected as of last August when we had come to you as a board and warned you that we could be perhaps asking for additional board funds for the project. So that's about $300,000 below the number we were at at that time. However, that's still not the full financial picture, which as I noted, we're going to be bringing forth through the Transportation Committee. I would also note this is, we did have significant variability in the bids. The lowest bid was the just under $2.9 million that I mentioned. And the highest bid came out in at $5.4 million. And we had four total bids. However, this bid is from a reputable firm and has been vetted through our folks in Public Works as well as VDOT. Questioning for Mr. Bishop, anyone? Mr. Chairman, I do. If I could clarify with Mr. Bishop and then we'll come to your question. You're looking for an authorization this evening? Are you going to wait for it to come from the Transportation Committee? Simply looking for a head nod. I don't even know that we need a formal board action simply looking for to make sure the board is comfortable with us continuing to proceed. A motion and a vote is typically how we accomplish that. accomplish that however that work for you it's fine with me yes i'm just letting you know that there will be a further action ahead supervisor graver please thank you mr chairman my question to you is and i'm sure you've looked at the bids um is there anything additional that we get on some of the other uh bids for this project that would be beneficial in other aspects of the project that would save money down the road or is the work apples to apples for much different dollars it's apples to apples for for different money they bid to our plan set fantastic thank you others anyone entertain a motion to authorize mr bishop to proceed mr chairman yes i make a motion that we continue the uh proceeding with renaissance drive as stated second and a second any discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no we'll move forward mr bishop thank you sir all right next for at 11a is a public hearing opposed real property tax increase required by the virginia code how would the board like to deal with it it's a public hearing mr chairman we have a few folks signed up excellent thank you molly brannan welcome my name is molly brannan from the back creek district i understand that things are getting a lot more expensive in the county but it's also getting a lot more expensive for us to live here and when i moved to frederick county one of the charms of the county to me was when i went to church i saw four generations of people living there now fast forward i'm going to go ahead and start with the first one and i'm going to go ahead and start with with the first one and i'm going to go ahead and start with second second folks second that's a whole lot of folks this is a good night tonight is so hard to move food around the country. My gas to put in my car is outrageously higher than it was. The state of Virginia recognized that and cut back the sales tax on food. I hope that you all would consider this as well. Thank you. Thank you. Richard Kennedy. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Welcome, Chairman and members of the Board of Supervisors. I'm with Shawnee District, and I'm here to propose that we keep the 61 cents for 100 for the real property valuation. I've gone back and looked at, for the past 33 years, and our property tax rate has been anywhere between 58 on average for the last 33 years. It has also, at any point in time, gone anywhere from 57 to 59 during that time period, on an average basis here. I'm also looking at the... I did talk to the assessment office a little bit today, and I understand that they do this every two years. The property tax rate at that point, given the increase in evaluations, would amount to about, on an average, about $325. And that's over a two-year period at this point. So I also want to say the reason why we look at keeping that rate the same is that we are one of the... In fact, over the last two years, we have been the fastest-growing metro area in Virginia. Therefore, we also have to have and keep up with the services we want to serve. We want to serve the public. At this point, there are various other reasons other than also keeping the public school system up to where we need it to be. Just, for example, over the last 10 years or so, our population has increased nearly 22%. And our students have also, over that same time period, increased approximately 22%. So we do need to keep... We need to keep up our facilities and our services to the public as much as we can. I understand that the property tax is one of the major components of the budget at this point. So... And let me see here. One other thing to... Excuse me. One other thing, too, that we were talking about that I found is that during... In support of the FY 2020 budget that was adopted, here is a... Here is a... Here is a... Here is a statement that the board at that time indicated. It said, however, this is where they were talking about possible reductions to the rate. At that time, it was 61 cents, and they proposed to down to 57.7. But they declined on that for this reason. It says, however, in light of the continued growth in the area, which in turn impacts our public safety, our education, and infrastructure, the Board of Supervisors... unanimously decided to keep the rate at 61 in order to continue to provide and improve these vital services to county citizens. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Jody Yeagey. Welcome. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Supervisors, for hearing from me this evening. My name is Jody Yeagey, and I'm a member of the Redbud District. I'm here speaking through this... during this streamed meeting that has an option for community input during this public comment period. Earlier this year, Supervisor McCarthy had to step down from the board due to him moving out of the county. Many of you spoke up during that time at the importance of holding a special election so that Gainesboro residents could have a voice in the budget process. Despite the upcoming November election that was already set, there was an option available to appoint a Supervisor, that would have had no financial impact to the community. But Mr. Graber and Mr. Ludwig, you were both very adamant that it was necessary for residents to have a say. That evening, you voted to spend $28,000 of my tax dollars and everyone else's tax dollars to hold this necessary election. The county has to advertise a tax rate. The advertised tax rate is the highest rate possible that can be used during budget season, but you can come down off of it. Thank you. You just can't go above that. Last week, I attended the finance work session, where I watched Mr. Graber and Mr. Ludwig try to reach a consensus and push other supervisors to advertise a tax rate that would essentially deem the entire budget process a moot point. Instead of advertising at our current rate, Mr. Ludwig and Mr. Graber pushed to advertise a rate significantly lower prior to having any public input and prior to having an election that two months ago you had just voted to hold. Mr. Ludwig and Mr. Graber, you voted to spend $28,000 on an election that you're now suggesting that we don't need. Why are you wasting our tax dollars? To all the other supervisors, including my supervisor, Mr. Dunn, I appreciate your recognition of the importance of community input during this process. Your support for advertising the current rate, I appreciate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The budget decisions have a significant impact on our schools, our fire department, our police, as well as our county staff. I urge you to advertise the current tax rate of .61, fully knowing with that knowledge that you can come down off of that number during the process. As you said yourselves, Gainesboro citizens deserve a voice that they will have with their newly elected representative, and Frederick County taxpayers deserve a full budget process. And all of the fact-gathering, input, public comment, and interaction with our supervisors, which that involves. Thank you for your support of a fair and transparent process. Good evening. Thank you. Sonia Morfattia-Gude. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Sonia Morfattia-Gude, and I live in the Back Creek District. You have to admit, the county is growing. That is a fact, and there's no getting around it. The county has not planned accordingly for this growth. Our infrastructure does not allow for this growth. Our infrastructure does not allow for this growth. Our infrastructure does not allow for this growth. Our infrastructure does not allow for this growth. Our infrastructure does not allow for this growth. We do not support it well at all. And like Mr. Dunn said at the last meeting, there is a delay in services. If it takes longer for fire and rescue to respond to your house fire, or if it takes longer for EMTs to respond to your heart attack or worse, is that worth the tax cut? Our schools and buses need maintenance. I get a text message, email, and phone call at least once a week about a bus running late. I'm sure you can imagine how disruptive it is to our schedule. We need more bus drivers and newer buses, not lower taxes. Our county has a lot of funding to support the construction of a bus. We need to build a bus system that will be able to support the construction of a bus. I'm sure you can imagine how disruptive it is to our schedule. We need more bus drivers and newer buses, not lower taxes. Our county has a lot of funding to support the construction of a bus. So the federal government is including a very largecreative budget for Link, with a fee of to $1 million per hour must be provided in order to every vehicle andbye services. We continue to work with federal government Feed luxury vehicles toへ can be used in every place regardless of Saudi Arabia ever milk milk them. bruk milk them as a substitute quality of arena mix  cultivation buy umm. We're happy to provide you with a few quick tips andご best practices give you a pretty good got you.ball.com. You $39.5 million. So what is your plan for the other $33.6 million? We pay our taxes, and we deserve to know that these funds are going towards our needs as a community, our schools, our fire and rescue, our sheriff's department, Parks and Rec, etc. A revenue-neutral solution should not even be an option. A decrease in services is inevitable if this option is adopted. Our schools won't be able to keep the lights on. And I don't know about everyone else, but I tried homeschooling. My daughters love me as their mother, but not as their teacher. They love their school and would prefer to stay there. I understand that hard decisions have to be made, but this shouldn't be hard. The way we are going as it is is not sustainable. We need to keep the tax rate at 61 cents. Our schools need a fully funded budget. We do not have another option. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. All right. Thank you. All right. How would the board like to handle this one? I'm sorry? It's not an action? I can't hear you. It's not an action item. Okay. All right. Purely information. Don't know how I missed it. All right. We'll go to 12, Planning Commission Public Hearings, resigning 0123. Ms. Plyne, thank you, sir. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is rezoning application 0123 for Car Credit Nation. This is an application to rezone approximately 1.345 acres from the RA Rural Area Zoning District to our B2 General Business District on a property totaling approximately 3.96 acres. This would allow for the expansion of the existing automotive dealership and the properties located in the Shawnee Magisterial District. Directing your attention to the screen, this is the subject property as outlined in blue. It is Front Royal Pike here. You all are quite familiar with the existing Car Credit Nation property. They did acquire a parcel to their south, and they consolidated the lots. And this is the reflection of the current property and the existing zoning and the Super Bowl Water Service Area are shown here in orange and green, respectively. The Comprehensive Plan of the County identifies the subject properties with an urban center land use designation. This urban center designation envisions a mix of uses with economic performance that enhances these communities. The designation of urban center is consistent with the existing and proposed B2 zoning of the property. Staff would note that while the proposed rezoning does not include the mix of uses envisioned by the plan, that is challenging given the relatively small size of the property at 3.96 acres, that a rezoning may be appropriate to change the land use designation. This urban center designation envisions a mix of uses with economic performance that enhances these communities. The Comprehensive Plan of the County identifies the existing land use designation. This urban center designation envisions a mix of uses envisioned by the existing business that is looking to expand. And again, this is our future long-range land use plan. The polka dot hatching is representative of the land use plan for mixed use. In addition to their application materials, the applicant included a proffer statement. They did restrict the use of the property to only the automotive dealership. The Comprehensive Plan of the County identifies the existing land use designation dealership and general business office use that is consistent with the existing business on the property, car credit nation, and the existing use of the property. In addition to that use restriction, they have included a contribution to our fire and rescue services, and they have proffered to include a full screen buffer along any property that adjoins residential to mitigate the impact of the business expansion to those existing residential uses to the south and the east. So the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on February the 15th, and they recommended approval. And following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed rezoning. Tim Stowe is here representing the applicant this evening, and the applicants from car credit nation are here as well. And we would be happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Hearing none. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Is there anything you'd like to add, Mr. Stowe? Good evening, Mr. Chairman and Board members. This is a great story. This is the kind of business that we'd like to see grow here in Frederick County, grow organically. This is a business that has been here, the current owners have owned it for eight years, and they are combining some of their resources together, their various funds, and they're trying to get it to grow. So I'd like to ask Mr. Stowe to speak to that. So they can operate more efficiently and continue to grow the business. So I'm delighted to be a part of them, and I'd be glad to answer any questions you may have for me. Any questions of Mr. Stowe? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All right. Is there anyone who wanted to speak to the proposed rezoning? Seeing no one, we'll move forward. How would the Board like to handle them? this one is Shawnee mr. chairman yes sir I toured the site and at the Planning Commission we did hear from neighbors the neighbors who spoke were unanimously positive they appreciated the business they thought he was a great neighbor and they were in favor of this expansion so on that basis I move that we approve this rezoning second and the second any discussion hearing none supervisor Ludwig aye supervisor slaughter aye supervisor well supervisor done hi supervisor Graber hi the motion carries the rezoning is approved as requested that will bring us to ordinance setting fees welcome sir Thank You mr. chairman I have my slides out of order there we go mr. chairman members of the board this is an order of the board this is an order of the board this is an order of the board this is an ordinance to modify your development review fee schedule and to update three items in particular an increase on the postponement fee for when a public hearing has been advertised but the applicant requests to cancel it from 500 to 750 which is more representative of the costs of advertising and the adjoiner letters but still likely less than the total cost the decrease in our bond replacement fee from 500 to 300 is more representative of the staff time and the cost of the advice and the guidance that we've received as we look at the settlement and the according to that specific function and the implementation of a fee for short-term lodging which is the real onus for an update to have a $200 fee and then a $100 fee for renewals after the two-year permit is up for renewal. Your Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this on January 26 and agreed it was a necessary change. Planning Commission held a public hearing on February 15th and recommended approval and we are seeking action from the Board on this proposed ordinance amendment to set your development review fees. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you, sir. Questions Mr. Pearson? Anyone? Hearing none. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All right. Did anyone come who would like to speak to these proposed fee changes? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. Now would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the proposed ordinance amendment. I would like to move for approval of the ordinance setting fees for the development applications with the recommendation that staff has given us that is before us this evening. The motion is our second. Second. And the second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That'll bring us to 12C. Ordinance amendment. Mr. Klein? You'd be seeing a lot of me this evening unfortunately. It's a good thing. This is an ordinance amendment to amend our OM Office of Manufacturing Park District to a desk stated concerns regarding the implementation of this zoning district and to better implement the county's identified targeted industries and probably most importantly is to remove the link between our zoning Office of Manufacturing Park District and the zoning office of the park district. district and our land use designation mixed-use industrial office in the comprehensive plan. The zoning ordinance text amendment originated from discussions related to the update of the county's Northeast land use plan which you all are well aware of is underway at this time and within that plan there are a number of nodes identified as mixed-use industrial office or MUIO which is a planned land use and which are intended to be implemented with the OM magisterial districts. They're sorry zoning district. The current zoning ordinance standard, I won't read the whole thing but Office of Manufacturing Park District was designed and implemented at a time to have mixed-use industrial office land use classificate implement that classification of the comprehensive plan and to provide areas for research and development office parks kind of being a key component and minimal impact industrial uses. As you all are quite familiar the current OM zoning has not been well utilized or implemented in practice. There's one property that contains the OM zoning in the county. There's one property that contains the OM zoning in the county. There's one property that contains the OM zoning in the county. And they are in a conservation easement presently. So it will not develop as that district. So this this text amendment has been worked on quite extensively by staff and the Development Review and Regulations Committee and within that text amendment we have removed again that stated link between the OM district and the mixed-use industrial office land use designation and the comprehensive plan. We've amended the district name to Technology Manufacturing Park District. In our early discussions with the district we've moved the name to Technology Manufacturing Park District. In our early discussions with the district we've moved the name to Technology Manufacturing Park District. Because we saw that in the dual Technesya so that's gonna be your food and beverage manufacturing, your specialized manufacturing, your flex tech type uses. We've also amended and removed the design requirements, which we understand from the development community has been prohibitive to developing this district. Those included things like building design and materials. We've also added an allowance for outdoor storage, which was previously prohibited in this district. Outdoor storage, again, for manufacturing operations is important to have space on the property to store raw materials and finished product. One change that has occurred since you all discussed this item, we did receive some additional feedback from the development community, and they advised allowing the height waiver that is permitted in our M1 and M2, our industrial districts, to also apply to the Technology Manufacturing Park District. So we have amended that section of the dimensional intensity requirements to allow for that height exemption. That waiver is actually a Board of Supervisors waiver, so if someone wanted to develop in the TM district, the new TM district, they would need to come to the Board for a rezoning, and also for a waiver to allow that height waiver, and they could tell you what type of use they're doing and why a height waiver would be necessary. We think that is a good change and does make this district even more attractive to development. So what does this look like? We're making a fairly significant change to one of our zoning districts. What does that do? It provides a greater allowance for warehousing uses, accessory to the primary uses in this district. We know that warehousing is a desired industry, in the county, the nature of our location, the major transportation networks, companies looking to locate here need to have a warehousing distribution type component to their use, and that is now allowed in this district. Properties also rezoning to this district would not be required to submit a master development plan. We've removed that requirement, and what that does is it expedites the time for market for potential developments, those targeted industries that are desirable by the county for employment creation and tax revenue. It gets them into our county faster, it gets them under operation, and again, it also allows for a board waiver to the underground electrical requirement. And what we again have heard from the development community is not only the cost of doing underground utilities, but the availability of the materials to do underground utilities has been prohibitive to the type of targeted industry development that we'd like to see in the county, that those industries that have a high electrical need, our data centers, specialized manufacturing, food and beverage manufacturing. So by allowing the board to consider on a case-by-case basis, a way to do that, we've made a significant change to the waiver of the electrical, the overhead utility requirement. Again, it makes this district attractive to future development. So again, there's been quite a bit of work on this by the Development Review and Regulations Committee, the Economic Development Authority, their board also reviewed and endorsed this proposal in February, and the Planning Commission recommended approval at their February 15th meeting, and staff is seeking a Board of Supervisors action this evening following a public hearing on this ordinance amendment. I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Klein, yes sir. Supervisor Dunn. You made a comment, Mr. Klein, on the height. And in a previous item, it was 60 feet. I thought it was included at 65 feet. So my question is, on the 65 feet, is that included in what we were gonna vote on, or does that have to be then a vote by a future board when that occurs? Second question that relates to that is, if it's 65 feet, and if there's a need for something higher, 70 feet, arbitrary number, does the board have the prerogative to do it, or is this capped at 60 feet? 65. The current standard for the district is 60 feet. Within the dimensional intensity requirements, we have proposed an amendment that would allow you to consider, that would allow for a Board of Supervisors waiver at a later date. When a particular project materializes and they're coming forward with their rezoning, they would in turn, as part of that rezoning request, ask for a waiver of the height, and they would specify at what height they'd like to be at, and hopefully provide sufficient justification on why that's appropriate. For example, we, we have a, we have a, we have a, we have a, we recently met with a development group that was looking to potentially do a data center in the county. They informed us that 60 feet as a cap was short of what they needed. They actually needed 68 feet, and they, they in turn asked us if we could include that height waiver as part of that. So that's the kind of conversations we have, kind of in the background on these developments, and understanding what particular industries need. So it would enable the board to consider on a case-by-case basis what the appropriate height would be at that time. So if we vote yes on this, then it's 60 feet, with the option to go higher if we so choose. Yes, sir. Other question then would be, was there any reason why you just did not raise it to like 70 feet? That means your 68 foot requirement would just be done with it? Was there a thought process behind that? I would hate to throw out an arbitrary number. I'm not familiar with every industry in and out. Food and beverage manufacturing has sometimes as tall, you know, kind of mechanical equipment. I would hate to put a number out there that would otherwise ostracize a particular industry that might be beneficial to the county. And one other comment for the record. My understanding is that the 60 feet or 65 feet would be where the top of a building, it would not include the roof. So if you had a building, here's the second floor, and then you put a roof on top, it's where the wall is, not the height of the roof, or the air conditioning unit on top of the roof, et cetera. Is that correct? Correct. Our height section of the ordinance, which is a separate section from the industrial and business districts, does allow for things like parapet walls and mechanical equipment to actually exceed that height requirement. That's already written in another section. Thank you. Other questions of Mr. Klein, anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? Rick Till. Welcome, Mr. Till. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and board members. My name's Rick Till, Opecan District and chairman of the Frederick County EDA. As Mr. Klein mentioned, the EDA's been involved in reviewing this. Wanted to make a few comments regarding position on approving this. Our mission, as you're aware, is to facilitate economic development efforts through retention, expansion, attraction of businesses that create high quality jobs and new capital investment. Obviously, we want to become a premier business location for folks to, and improve the quality of life for our citizens. Recently, we've completed a study, completed an updated study on target industries. Frederick County, we've identified bioscience, information technology, advanced manufacturing as targeted industries that we're seeking to have them located in Frederick County. The proposed revisions to the OM zoning district will significantly enhance the county's competitiveness for these target industries. In addition, the revised ordinance reduces design standards and the master development plan requirement, which, in fact, is a very important part of the project. The proposed revision will also increase the cost of the construction of the M1, which equates to reduction of time, in terms of these development costs, accelerates the time for a company to become operational. So, we also support providing the OM uses for the Board of Supervisors height waiver, which just talked about, that currently exists in the M1, as this reflects today and tomorrow's construction patterns for many of the targets. In a very competitive world, where site selection for high value industries, and the M1, and the M2, and the M3, and the M4, and the M5, and the M6, and the M7, and the M8, and the M11, and the M12, and the M13, and the M14, and the M15. If we have any additional questions, we can take them to the board. Mr. Chair, I'd like to move to adopt the staff recommendation to include the Technology Manufacturing District, and also to include the height waiver as a part of an amendment. Thank you. Second. Second. Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Nunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye. And Mr. President? Aye. the motion carries planning Commission business other information discussion ordinance amendment signs mr. Klein last one I promise this is a proposed amendment to amend the county sign ordinance to implement changes as a result of the Reed versus town of Gilbert ruling which was a case between before the Supreme Court of the United States specifically we are amending our sign ordinance to ensure that it is content neutral in its regulations we don't want to regulate signs by their message type we want to regulate signs by their type and the physical attributes of them not what is on the sign the majority of the sign standards in our ordinance remain unchanged as a result of this proposal the size height number and location of certain signs remains unchanged this is our current zoning ordinance standard for signs and again it's the section is intended to regulate the signs in the ordinance and the regulations that are required to do so the section is intended to regulate the erection number area height location type and maintenance of signs to promote the health safety and general welfare of the public again protecting the image in the county making sure that we have a harmonious kind of sign uniformity throughout all of our districts and things of that nature there was one change that the the staff did propose is a relate source on ordinance which we think is a benefit presently all walls irregardless of if they're split up into different condo condos for individual businesses we allocate 200 square feet or 20% of the wall area to assign what that is done in certain cases where there was an anchor tenant and they went out of business and the smaller tenants got bigger signs and then someone comes in with the anchor tenant they were they are prohibited from getting a signs proportional to their frontage and they get the minimum sign size which is 25 square feet which in some cases looks way out of place with what their frontage is so we have done and we looked at other ordinances is where we're proposing to permit a one-half square foot of sign area for each linear foot of the building front edge and when you look at the diagram you can see that the sign would then be proportional to the tenant frontage and again it would be a minimum of 25 square feet or up to 200 square feet whichever is greater so we think that that change to do signs for multi tenants proportional to their wall front edges is an improvement that should be made into our ordinance so this item was discussed by the Development Review and Regulations Committee at their January 26 meeting and the Planning Commission discussed this item at their February 23rd meeting both the committee and the Planning Commission were supportive of the proposed changes and the inclusion of that allowance for multi-tenant wall signs so this evening staff is asking that the Board of Supervisors consider sending this item forward for a public hearing at a later date to be determined and of course I'm happy to answer any specific questions you have as it pertains to the ordinance and the changes that were made in the ordinance and the changes that were made on the building front edge so we'll be happy to answer any questions that are there as well so let's move on to our next item so the next item is the first item on the agenda item number one this is a new item that was sent to us it stated that the sign could not be greater than 50% of the total sign, being the electronic sign board of it, and that it had to be positioned whereas the rollout wouldn't change any sooner than two minutes. Is that a state requirement or is that a Frederick County requirement? As far as I'm aware, that is a Frederick County requirement. Certainly, we look at best practices. I know that it pertains to electronic messaging signs. They don't want, like major roadways, you don't want to have something flashing constantly that could be a distraction to motorists or things of that nature that could cause an accident. The sign size, that size has not changed. We've included that in the ordinance going back to 2008, as far as I'm aware. Certainly, you all could direct staff to go back to the committee and change that requirement, but we have not had anyone challenging us on that to date for clarification. The reason I ask the question is, as I've seen in some other localities, some churches and organizations, that is their sign. The electronic sign is the intention. You have a nice, solid foundation, and it is a very attractable sign. I believe that we need to change our rules and our ordinance to reflect that the entire sign board can be, the electronic sign board can be the sign, and I believe we need to look at the amount of time in which the message can be displayed. I think that it is over-regulation on the county's behalf to require someone to not be able to change what is on their sign board and restrict it to every two minutes. I think 15 seconds. I think 15 seconds is more than enough. It could even be less, but I understand the thought process of not wanting to have things flash on a major roadway to draw folks' attention from driving, which is what they should be doing. But on the same token, private businesses should have the opportunity and the ability to advertise their wares, advertise their business location in a tasteful and respectful manner without having county interference. And so those would be the suggestions that I would pass along to you. Thank you. Other questions? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Klein, could we see the figure again of the frontage? Is that to scale roughly the square footage of sign versus per linear foot? I can't speak to the scale on the drawing. I've pulled that from another example. Maybe I'll do some experimenting. It would be nice to see what we're signing up for in some graphical format. If people put signs up at the maximum, I agree in the general principle of not over-regulating, but it would be good to see exactly what rule we're setting. I had another question. I have spoken to at least one business owner that I remember, and I think some others that I don't recall, that did run into the problem you described. They moved in. They were a later renter in a space, and they were given disproportionately small signage space compared to everyone else. It looks out of proportion. They can barely be seen because other people had already used up the strip mall, if you will, the larger buildings, assignment of space. So I very much appreciate that we have created an actual rule that would apply uniformly according to frontage. My one question with regard to that would be, for someone who already has a business and has a sign already up, I know they're expensive, that is larger than one and a half square feet, per one foot of frontage, would they be grandfathered in, or would they have to reduce their signage to be compliant with this? We would allow existing signs to continue to be there as long as they maintain the sign on the wall face. If it went away for a period, I believe it would be a two-year period, then they would not be given that larger sign allowance. But if they had a sign and then, say, another business moved in, they could put their sign up and replace it one for one, and we would allow that. So it would not affect existing business owners, but in the case that you described, if a business owner had a disproportionately small size to their frontage, they would be given the allowance to get a larger sign that is more reflective of their frontage area. So their neighboring large sign would no longer affect their sign. Thank you. Go ahead. Mr. Klein. So Mr. Graber made some comments, said, if I hear Mr. Graber, I'm going to have to go to the next one. If a church or a business has an existing electronic sign, it looks nice. I'd concur with his comments. I mean, if it's there, it's not distracting. If it's not blinking, I think it would probably be appropriate. So as you work through this process, I think that that would be most appropriate. Well, this is not going to affect existing signage. I understand that. I think the percentage of frontage is a very good way to do it. It happens all the time. People move. People move in and out of retail, rental. It creates all kinds of issues for everyone. All right. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? Thank you, sir. So the request is, is this ready to send forward to public hearing? How would the board like to react? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would make a motion that we send it forward to a public hearing. So motion to send forward to public hearing. Is there a second? And a second. Any discussion? Yes, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to see some of the revisions come back and have a little discussion from the Planning Commission before we go forward. The revisions that I asked for was for the sign to be not just less than 50% with the electronic, but full 100%. And I think, I mean, there's a couple revisions that may affect some public comment, as it could affect some residential communities or other communities with lights and brightness therein. I think it would be fair to let it go before the Planning Commission and come back to us would be my personal thoughts. But maybe the county attorney can enlighten us a little bit on the process, if those can be added without a major... Mr. Chairman, in response to Supervisor Graber's comment, I think this can be expedited to a degree. If it is the board's pleasure tonight, the board can direct staff and the Planning Commission to go ahead and consider the... the ordinance that is before it, plus the amendments that Supervisor Graber's identified, which I think are straightforward enough that they don't... It's the board's option, but I don't know that they have to come back to the board to be vetted. I think they're clear enough and staff would have clear enough direction that it could go through to public hearing to the Planning Commission and get that public comment, just as Supervisor Graber's indicated, and then obviously to the board for public hearing and consideration of the plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Chairman, we're in discussion, so I'm going to make it a moment, unless you don't like it, and I'd like to amend my motion simply to say to incorporate Mr. Graber's comments that were just discussed with Mr. Klein, my comments, Mr. Ludwig's comments, et cetera, into the proposal that comes before us before a public hearing. Second concur. Does that work? Yes, sir. Thank you. Okay. Any further discussion? Okay. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We'll forward that to public hearing. Okay. Board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue they'd like to bring before the board? Did anyone sign up? Molly Brannon. Welcome. I'm Molly Brannon from Bat Creek. I could not believe the diatribe of Vice Chairman Dunn on February 8th during the Board of Supervisors meeting concerning Ronnie Ludwig. A private citizen that happens to be the wife of Supervisor Ludwig and a personal friend of mine. I was also perplexed that Chairman DeHaven allowed this to take place. I've always known... I'm going to stop you right now. Okay. I do not have the authority over elected, duly elected folks. Okay. Thank you. I understand. Thank you. I apologize. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Since Vice Chairman Dunn was not at the Republican Canvas on February 7th, the appropriate response should have been to contact Josh or Ronnie Ludwig to see if this could have been resolved. Neither of these options occurred to Vice Chairman Dunn and said he embarrasses citizens of our county. It is very obvious to me that political views are greatly dividing our county. I do not understand why. You would think that we would all want what's best for Frederick County even if we don't have a vote. I think that the Republicans have completely disagreed on how to accomplish those goals. Both sides of the debate need to live by a motto of civility and be respectful. My tagline is just be nice. I want to be perfectly clear. When I heard the charges against Ronnie, I knew without a doubt that she would not disparage the military because I know Ronnie Ludwig. I was at the Republican Canvas that night. I was at the Republican Canvas that night. I was at the Republican Canvas that night. From set up through the entire canvas. At first, I did not believe I had heard what Vice Chairman Dunn was referring to. But after reading several items in the Winchester Star, I realized that I was an eyewitness to what had occurred. Since Vice Chairman Dunn explained that he received a call from Mr. Crane and a couple of emails from anonymous sources, it was believable to me, since there were two, additional people outside that would have heard what Ronnie said that evening. Mr. Crane explained in the paper that he was hard of hearing, so I can understand his misunderstanding. Though I have to add, Ronnie did not say the war hero lost, and she did not say Weber lost. I'm sorry, you've used your time. Okay. You all can take this out in the parking lot if you want to continue. Okay. Thank you. No other questions? No, others have signed up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Board of Supervisors. Yes, sir. Please sign up next time. Thank you, sir. I was a minute late. My name is Robert Galloway, and I live in Bat Creek. The first thing I want to talk about is that there seems to be just one property in Frederick County where the zoning department is regulating which kinds of livestock can be kept. Horses are fine. Seventy horses are fine. Seven hundred horses are fine. But if on that property there's just one chicken, zoning will issue a fine. They might have to fly a drone because they can't see through the thicket of horses to find one chicken. But if they do, they will issue a fine. Anybody else in the county that can have horses can have cows or goats or chickens or llamas or sheep. But on this one property, only horses are allowed. There's a word for that, discrimination. Limiting the property rights of one landowner when anyone else who can have horses can also have any other livestock they choose is an exercise in tyrannical control. The second thing I want to say is that I moved my 87-year-old grandma to Winchester. Winchester from Arlington. One day she told me that whenever she goes out in Winchester and approaches a door, a man will open and hold the door for her to go through. She said it had been many years living in Arlington where that had become uncommon. Just to be quick, I'll say that if we raise the property taxes in Frederick County, someone like my grandma on a fixed income who moved here could afford her house, she might have to leave Frederick County. Somebody like me who provides for a wife and five children, I don't have any money. I won't be able to afford higher taxes potentially if they keep going up and up. And so just in closing, I just hope that we can find a way, find money somewhere so that the citizens of Frederick County don't have to pay for growth. Because to me, growth isn't when the citizens that are here have to leave. To me, that's not growth. That's regression. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comment. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to make a couple comments. But before I do, I'd like to just ask Mr. Gallilee if he is able, after the meeting today, I'd like to speak with him a little bit as he is from my district. Thank you, if that works. I'd like to share about some comments that were shared earlier at some of our public hearings regarding the schools and spending they're in. I received a pamphlet tonight. Tonight's the first time I got it at our work session from Dr. Hummel. I'll hold it up here because it's public record. Everybody can see it. Anybody can get a copy. And if you go to slide 11 of that presentation, I'd like to just highlight a few numbers here so everyone has the opportunity to see. In 2017, I'll read actually from the paper here. In 2017-18 fiscal budget year, the local operating contribution, which was the funds that came from this locality, was $77,273,630. Present year, 2022-23, the local operating contribution is $95,453,000. What does that represent? Well, if you subtract $77,000, $77 million from the $95 million, you see that there's a difference of $18,179,787 different from 2017 to present. That's his figures. That represents a 23.5% increase in contributions to our school system. Not my numbers. This is what was presented this evening. I also went back. I went back to Dr. Hummer's slide. And if you go to slide number 11, I encourage you to foist this. Get a copy of this. I'll make you a copy if you'd like a copy. The 2017-2018 student population, as according to this document, shows 13,577 students. The current year, as he shows, 2022-2023, current student population is 13,997 students, which represents a total of 420 student growth over the same time period. What am I getting? There's been 3.09% growth in student population, according to Dr. Hummer's numbers. But there's been a 23.5% growth in contributions from this locality to the school system. We have done a good job of funding our schools adequately. Any conversations that we are inadequately funding them or have not kept up is simply does not hold water. Secondly, I'd like to share a couple conversations that I hear or heard this evening. The conversation that this board, Supervisor Lange, Ludwig, and I did not take into account or consideration the Gainesboro residents is simply not true, and I would like to explain why. At our first board meeting work session here of the new year, where Supervisor McCarthy was here, and he was the elected representative of the Gainesboro District, there was conversation on a consensus on what the budget should be advertised as, is what the rate should be set. It is recorded. Just by the way, if anyone would like to check me on this, I did a FOIAs with this last week, and I have that recording. The recording is very clear. Board of Supervisors, by consensus, agreed to advertise a 51 cent tax rate. That is in the recording. How we continue to advertise or discuss a 61 cent rate after that point, with no additional discussion or changes or anything sent out is beyond me, and I'm looking at it a little bit further. Additionally, there was also some conversations in February from a particular board member on this board. I have also FOIAs a copy of that recording. That recording is not a complete recording of the Board of Supervisors meeting at that night. There is a supervisor's comments who are edited, in my opinion. How would I know? I sat directly beside that supervisor. I heard it, as did many other supervisors and people at home that listened to that recording. Where am I going? Am I saying that there's something underhanded going on within local government? I don't know. But I have pulled the recordings, and I am recording a lot of the meetings that we are having because things have appeared. They have appeared to have changed after they have been settled. Mr. Chairman, we need to look into this. I have had a conversation with Mr. Varner. I've had a conversation with our County Administrator, and I'm not the only supervisor nor member of the community that has seen this occur, and it is something that we need to get a handle on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Vice Chairman. Mr. Chairman, we retire. Mr. Chairman. Jordan. Yes, sir. I'd like to make a comment. I'm going to adjourn. But go ahead. One citizen tonight noted that the County is holding onto tens of millions of dollars in taxpayer funds, which are not reserved against any use and are not in our required reserve fund, and asked what we're going to do with those funds. I agree with her. However, she then stated that failure to raise taxes would necessitate lowering services. Given her observation on the unallocated capital fund, I believe she has the answer to that. Thank you. Thank you. I believe she has the answer to her own question. One answer, in fact, to provide increased services without raising taxes is to use some of the tens of millions of dollars we have already taken from the taxpayer to provide these increased services. Why should we raise taxes when we are holding more than enough funds to meet all of the proposed increases in services? With that said, that would not be my first choice. I believe our first choice should always be to closely examine the financial situation of the County and the state. I believe the Department of State must consider how we can address the problems that we have with our state's financial situation, and how we can avoid any unnecessary costs that may be in the way of our government planning spending and eliminate any waste or inefficiency that we find. The Lieutenant Governor was here last week, and at Winchester Regional Airport, she made a great comment. She said, speaking of Richmond, that our job is to overturn the couches and search for loose change under the cushions before ever raising taxes. I agree, and I believe we have the same job here in the County. The Department of State must consider how we can raise taxes on the property of the County, and how we can avoid any unnecessary costs that may be in the way of our government planning spending. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Second on the motion to adjourn? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Second.
