Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-13
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=267
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Supervisor Lear, are you there? All right, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I call this meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors to order. One day late due to snow. I hope nobody showed up yesterday. I apologize in advance if anyone didn't get the message and did when we were unable to meet. We are very pleased to have Pastor Don Capps here to present our invocation. God, we come before you and we acknowledge you as almighty God, supreme ruler of the universe, the great lawgiver, the one from whom all true and just law is derived. Father, we just humble ourselves before you tonight and we ask for you to bless this board of supervisors with wisdom. God, you said in your word that if anyone lacks wisdom, they can ask. So, Father, we ask for divinely given supernatural wisdom to rest upon those. Who are in leadership in this county. Let them handle the affairs of this county wisely. May they recognize that all the monies that flow through us, whether it be state monies, federal monies, local monies, it is all taxpayer money. And, Father, help them to govern wisely and to use that money in the best way possible to further. The things that we have. The things that we have. The things that we have. The things which are needed in this county. Help us to that end. In Jesus' holy name we pray. Amen. Thank you very much, Pastor. Vice Chair? Yes, would you all please stand and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. We have an administrative item to take care of. Vice Chair? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors approve remote participation by Supervisor Robert Liero for medical reasons. Second. We have a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Supervisor Liero, you've been permitted to join. Can you hear us? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. We move on to the adoption of agenda. Board, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the agenda? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Item five, citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? No one has signed up. Is there anyone here tonight who would like to come forward and speak? You would have three minutes on some item on this agenda that's not a public hearing. Seeing no one, I will close citizen comments. Item six, the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. There are some items of financial impacts. So this requires a roll call vote. The one item I believe that requires it is 6F, a request from our Commissioner of the Revenue for a refund and supplemental appropriation. We do these when a business deserves a return on their taxes. Do I characterize that correctly, Commissioner? I do. For item 6F, the request from you for a refund? Yes. That's for a business in the county that needs to have money returned to them? Yes. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments. Any? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, last week, or at our last meeting, Mr. Bishop made some comments about Route 37. And I'd like to show a couple of slides here on the screen just as a follow-up to those comments. Staff? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have you addressed those? I separate the questions after. You can pull over to the right by making clear with your power-up and using the camera the orchestra while you speak. Thank you. For now, can I ask that because we'd John Galbraith with the equipmentロ you can côve the one on the right Semester discussing. And then also to please listen. Mr. Pearson a couple more times, any feedback? That's how it got formatted. Do you want me to? Yeah, that's fine. So I know that this is hard to see, but what you have on the left and the right is the left is the current roads that we have today, and where it's yellow and red, that's where we have issues, meaning you have congestion. The area on the right is that if we do nothing for transportation, you can see how things get worse. And this is available for anybody that wants to read it, but basically I'm just going to point out a couple items. Route 522, Route 7, Valley Mills, Sensity Road, Jubal Early all get worse if we do nothing dealing with the transportation issue. Mr. Pearson, then show the next slide, please. This is a slide that shows the area on the left without the bypass. And if we build a Route 37 bypass, which initially was going to be an interstate, but now is probably going to be something along the lines of a parkway. You have a significant improvement on road flow as this area continues to grow. I know you can't see this, but basically on Sensory Road, if we build a bypass, you have a traffic projection going from 13,900 trips per day to 9,000. Route 50 goes from 21,000 to a much lower number. Route 81 drops from 90,000 to 81,000. Route 7 from 46,000 to 28,000. We can go into further details on Greenwood Road, et cetera. The purpose I make to all of us on this board are we made a commitment a couple years ago to try to fund something to deal with the transportation issue, and I'm going to encourage all of us to go and say that we need to put money into this. We're doing a budget right now, and we currently have about $7 million designed for transportation. To start to build this as a piece of leg, by, leg, is going to cost additional money. And so when you take a look at this, if you want to build legs, you want to build legs that go from road A to road B. Basically, you want to have a segment of independent utility, so when you do build a road, it doesn't end nowhere, but it ends and connects to something else. And so, Mr. Chairman, as we go through this budget process, I would encourage you all to take a look at where we are here, how do we build this road? We're going to have to build a piece, piece by piece. The difference between a cost of an interstate and a parkway has dropped significantly from someplace in the neighborhood of a billion dollars to someplace in the neighborhood of $300 million. It's not going to occur overnight, but everybody on this board has been around 20 years ago, and some of you have been around 40 years ago, and you've seen how the area has grown. This is to try to alleviate that growth. So again, as board, as we go through this budget, I'm going to encourage all of us to consider putting in funding, for some type of bypass to alleviate the road traffic we have. If we do nothing, we're still going to have traffic issues. And the question is how to address them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? Any supervisor comments? Supervisor Liero, do you have any comments to make? No, thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate it. That. Very good. We close what I've got open here. We now move on. To item eight, county officials. So we're going to have a discussion, Mr. Ballhoffer on the draft RFP for the fire and rescue system study. This is something we began discussing a year ago. Yes, a little over a year ago, we began discussing this. It originally, I think, came up in a workshop and then there was follow up discussions and other meetings. And the board directed staff to create an RFP for review and a, and analysis of the fire department. So we brought this item to the public safety committee and they reviewed this and worked over several meetings and created a very comprehensive RFP, which we have sent you an example of. And they made the recommendation to move forward with this RFP to take it to the board. But they also, at their very last meeting to ask that this be submitted to the chief's association for their review. We've included with this, a copy of the RFP, a copy, of the comments from the Chiefs Association Board regarding the RFP. From staff's perspective, we would like to state that if the board decided to go forward with the full RFP as presented, that it may make sense to break out a few components of it. If you move forward with it as it is in this full form, we would say it may make sense to pull out fleet maintenance because in fleet maintenance, it's quite a bit different and you could actually include the Sheriff's Department, other county vehicles and take a comprehensive look. We would also suggest pulling out revenue recovery and expenses because that may be an item better looked at by an organization that's more attuned to finances, some group that's a financial group with familiarity with finances, the fire departments. And the last one we would suggest if you go forward with the full RFP would be to pull out the communications department because although they work with the fire department, they also work with the Sheriff's Department. And at that point, I am here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Board. Any questions on this subject? Supervisor Liero, any questions? No, I don't, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn? One question just for the record. So if we did the full RFP and we had a conversation earlier, Mr. Paul Hopper, you would indicate to me the price tag would be someplace in the neighborhood of $150,000 to $200,000. Is that correct? Yeah, I discussed this with Missy. And if you look at these studies now, they're very expensive. And the cost of that we would expect to be $150,000 at the most, $200,000. Of course, this is just an educated guess. You never know until you go out to RFPs. And then we also looked at breaking them out, looking at some costs that way. If you were looking at a comprehensive look at fleet maintenance, we looked at that. If you broke those out, that could be anywhere from $50,000. I have no idea what impact that would have on the full study. The separate look at revenue and expenses, because it's simply financial, doesn't take as much work. Looking at all the fire departments, it's probably in the neighborhood of between $20,000 and $30,000. And a comprehensive review of incentives for recruitment and retention. We had a better idea of that because we not too long ago did a salary survey three and a half years ago. And I know that cost $80,000, being the fact that this is smaller than the county at large. However, we've had three or four years of inflation. We guessed that amount would be about $50,000. Thank you. If the board opts to move this down to a month for more study, does that have any negative effect on the request? I don't think there's any. There is nothing pressing on time on getting this done. Okay. I would be in favor of myself personally. I just haven't had. I haven't had enough time to really in depth look at all the different areas. And you brought up some you felt should be extracted. I'd like some time to look at that. That's just me. Are we having a discussion, Mr. Chairman? We're still asking questions. That's fine. Mr. Ballhoffer. Any questions on this side for Mr. Ballhoffer? Do we already ask Mr. Lierro to go first? Supervisor Lierro, did you have questions for this? No questions, Mr. Chair. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Now we can move to discussion. So, Mr. Chairman. So, Mr. Chairman. The price tag on this is relatively high. I've talked to Don Jackson, who is chair of the Chiefs Working Group. I've talked to Steve Myshak. I've talked to the administrator. The Chiefs Working Group has a 10-year plan, which includes about 80% of what's here. And so, from my perspective, I'm thinking, perhaps, that we ask the Chiefs Working Group, who are ongoing people, to go, and if there's items here that have to be addressed, such as how to go and replace equipment, that that be addressed by them, that they come out with a solution, as opposed to spending someplace between, you know, $50,000 to $150,000 or $200,000 on that. The Chiefs Working Group is comprised of professionals, some of whom work in other counties. They have expertise. And so, I'd suggest we use our own expertise. And if they are not able to solve some of these problems, then they can come to us and say, this is a problem that we think you should go forward with. But at this point in time, I'm just inclined to say, let's end this RFP, and if there are issues that the fire and rescue have to deal with, for them to address it. The key issues are being, how do you go and replace equipment? Yet, that is in one of the proposals that the Chiefs Working Group is working on, where they have a plan laid out, year one, two, three, and what is needed and when. So, at this point in time, I'm thinking that they can do the work for us. They want to do the work for us, according to Don Jackson, the Chiefs Working Group. And we can save the money for this RFP, which at this point in time, I think is duplicative of what the Chiefs 10-year Working Group plan is. Thank you. So, Supervisor Dunn, we took this up over a year ago. This county is in a natural tension between what the county provides overall for fire and rescue services. And what our great volunteer services, who have the history of creating our fire system many years ago, provide. With the decline in volunteerism, we've seen two stations that had to be taken over by the county. And the county provides professional staff now that makes, correct me if I'm wrong, well over 90% of the calls. So, as the county grows, and we're building another fire station, as we become, as we naturally move, it's nobody's fault, but the change in the nature of the county and in volunteerism, as we move toward a more centralized system, there are some benefits to be gained that we haven't had before. And purchasing equipment is just one of those. We've had a lot of ideas floated that haven't necessarily been pursued. For example, when you standardize equipment, you could also train all the volunteers. And that's what we're doing. Thank you. And I'm not sure if the professional staff is running almost all the calls, where we should continue to chart our future station by station, even if they meet together with the volunteer chiefs. I've also been at those meetings, the volunteer, as well as meeting with Chief Marksman, and I've been at those meetings, and I've been at those meetings, and I've been at those meetings, and I've been at those meetings, and I've been at those meetings, and I know he's in support of getting an outside fresh view to tell us where we might save money and improve responsiveness. We did an internal study some years ago. This would be an outside look from an entity that has experience in exactly this, transitioning a county from a volunteer to a professional service. My opinion is we should at least look at it. It has a potential for improvement. It has a potential for improvement. It has a potential for improvement. It has a potential for improvement. It has a potential for improvement. But I don't know when we can do that? It won't be enough. It's not enough. The Do-It-All Committee protectance is much more expensive entering on campus. And, the PID, the пере-classed study fee, you cannot raise that fee, whether you're trying to send back a questionnaire to the logistics�� 3 makes thathan be zero the tax credit orsen at all. In addition to that, students who complete their IT Orientalıtem is fr typing internships to the first office, and that's a wide option and you can look to get the two門 de стар that is going to make money. think that's more productive. So this is a question of how much money and what you're gonna get for it. Having said that, we'll see what other board members want to say. Certainly. Any other, anyone else for discussion? Mr. Chair. Supervisor Jewell. I'm in, I agree with Supervisor Wells. I'd like to review this more and I'd like to talk to several of the fire chiefs that I, that I close ties with, as well with this, and both on the volunteer side and the pay side. I just, if we can save money, yes, I understand. That's, that's right. But at the same time, I just want to understand completely if we should be breaking part of this off with the RFP. So I really would like to have a conversation with them and get their opinion on that because I value their opinion. They're the ones that are dealing with this day in and day out. So I certainly respect your opinion. interest in thinking about this further. I'd hate to abandon this altogether. Anyone else? I'll chime in for just a moment. Supervisor Lockridge? I also spoke with Don Jackson. Although the entire scope I don't think they are in favor of, but certain ones such as the fleet maintenance, they're having a lot of issues getting their equipment done in a timely fashion. And I think with this, within this RFP, would be looking at other county vehicles. That could be the sheriff's office. It could be as far as going to the schools, the buses. But looking at it from an outside approach and vehicle maintenance was something that they are admittedly struggling. So there are pieces that even they are in favor of. But I'm in support if you guys need another. I think it's a I don't want to abandon this. We've been working on this for close to a year. It's gone through public safety several months and we have gone to the Chief's Work Group. Well sorry, the Volunteer Association. And I guess the Chief's Work Group we actually did as well. So I'm in favor of if you want another couple weeks, but I do think we need to address it and come back to it. So I would add it's not just that our fire and rescue system is having trouble. It's not just that our fire and rescue system is having trouble. You know every vehicle that sits out for months or even years before it can get serviced is one less vehicle available to respond to an emergency call that anyone in the public may have. And we have the same problem with the sheriff's office. They have difficulty obtaining vehicles and getting them serviced. So that's the kind of thing that this study could help us with. And again, when they're short vehicles, they can't get them. You know we pay for a new officer to come on. But if we can't outfit them, then we're losing that. As is the public. So Mr. Chairman, so Mrs. Lockridge, the question is the gap $50,000 to $100,000 for fleet maintenance. My question to all of us is if we can go to the Chief's Working Group and they can say, you know what, we can solve this problem, save the money, that's worth it. Or if they come back and say we can't, I'd like to see from the administrator if we can get something that's a closer figure. Because Mr. Byshak did say to me, if you're going to put $100,000 into this, I have better use for it elsewhere. So maybe it will use something differently. But that was his comment to me last night. And so for that reason, I'd like to see it maybe more refined on what you want to specifically do, what the Chief's Working Group cannot do, because they're dealing with the same issue, and if they need a supplement to go from there. Very good. But I don't think the Chief's Work Group can look at other departments. So they're very skilled in their area of expertise. But if this were looking at standard or looking at all of our fleet. For the whole county, then that may be a very different view than what they can look at or their area of expertise, I guess I should say. Well I also like the thought of bringing in outside expertise that has experience forming or adjusting the performance and the structure of, let's learn from other counties. We're becoming a larger, more urbanized county, and we're not built to be that way. So that's the kind of, I'd love an outside view with a fresh look. And then of course we would take, if we did do the study, we would take those recommendations to the same groups you've mentioned and see if they agree in adopting those recommendations. It would always come back to us before anything, any changes would be adopted. Any other discussion? And then we need a motion either to postpone or otherwise. Sure. My question would be, Supervisor Lockwood, at the time, I was a member of the Board of Directors of the Safety Meetings. Is there a dollar amount? I've heard various and sums. Is there a final amount? If you said, okay, we're going to do this. How much taxpayer money are we spending? If I may, Chairman, what I can do is I can actually contact various departments and various studies that have been gone out for proposals recently and I can always come back and give you ideas of the cost of similar types of safety meetings. Well, I've been in the newsroom of a number of studies over the past six months or so. Obviously you'll never know the amount until you put it out in RFP, but I could at least come back with some figures that are more actual figures than just my ballpark guesses. Thank you. Based on that knowledge there, and I don't want to do away with the program, but I would certainly make a motion that we postpone this until the second meeting in March. That gives us an opportunity for Mr. Ballhoffer to give us some figures. And then as a and also for the board members to spend some time with the fire department, fire chiefs, and get some more information. I'll second that. So we have a motion and a second discussion. I'd like to ask a quick clarification. Mr. Bauhoffer, do you need four weeks to get some dollar figures, or perhaps could it be done by your next meeting, or do you need that four weeks? I believe I could get the dollar amounts more than likely in two weeks, but I think it would take at least two weeks to get those dollar amounts. Thank you. Any other discussion? Mr. Chairman, it's been going on for a year. Four weeks is not going to hurt. Supervisor Guglielmo, any thoughts in this discussion before we go to a vote? No, I concur with the ask for extension on time. I'm there so we can look into it in a little bit more detail. Okay. If that's all discussion, we'll move to a vote. The motion is to take this up again in two meetings hence. He said the fourth. Second meeting in March. Second meeting in March. So three meetings then from now. Very good. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and we will take this up again in the second meeting in March. Excuse me, my computer went to sleep. Yeah, I have it here, but I'd like to see the notes. Thank you. So we're on item nine, appointments to boards, committees. And commissions. We have none to appoint today, only an information item. Ms. Phillips? The board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Conservation Easement Authority, unexpired three-year term ending August of 2027. And the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee with an unexpired term ending in August of this year. Thank you very much. These are opportunities. If anyone is interested in serving their county, please go to. FCVA.US and look around. If you need our help, certainly send us an email and we'll help you find it. Look for the boards and committees under the Board of Supervisors. So you go to the menu, go to the Board of Supervisors Division, and there you will find the boards and committees. You can read all about them. That was item nine. We move quickly now through our agenda. We're at item 12, public hearing of comprehensive plan amendment number 011. 1-24, Apple Land Properties. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is your comprehensive policy plan amendment 0124 for Apple Land Properties. You all recall that back in August of 2024, you all joined the Planning Commission for a joint work session where you were presented three comprehensive policy plan amendments to our comprehensive plan. Apple Land Properties was selected by the board as the only plan amendment. We have been actively working on evaluating this proposal in the time since August. This is a request to change the land use designation from 96.83 acres of four properties from a business designation and within the limits of the sewer and water service area to a residential land use designation within the limits of the SWASA and also to include the properties within the limits of our UDA or our urban development plan. We would like you to sponsor our Yugoslavia cycle road transition plan in 2017 to 만들 theinski plan in our operations, providing student internships with the directly owned capital development plan in order to attract our students. And as we all met upon this description from all till now, I'm truly grateful that Apple would hereby pass a吸ic pг at the investigation's date on how we can improve the user experience andtransfer from local to local. We're really thankful that you all took part in this panels, so we'd like to extend our duekre Kigmanthe And as you can see, the FuturWeb site is Buildings, and this project is being promo hopefully a game changer and we're asking that our challenging housing builders continue to work on is well how this could be difficult for them as well. And as you can see, this actually counts as a mentioned and as I mentioned earlier, we've decided will never agree to the tea drop that can be used in a type area near of Route 11 and encompass and rather surround the Appleland Park. This is our current adopted long-range land use plan contained in your comprehensive plan showing the existing designation of the parcels as business that is that orange designation that you see there. There are also some significant planned roadways along the subject parcels you can see the dotted line moving from Stephen City north towards Springdale Road and Shady Elm Road is that what is known as the Stephen City bypass in our plans and then there's an east-west connection primarily to Route 11 and then across 81 back towards Tasker Road. From the applicants request they are seeking a change in our adopted land use designation from business and environmentally sensitive areas and within the limits of the sewer water service area to residential and within the limits of the UDA and the SWASA. They intend to request that the UDA be expanded to encompass the subject parcels and then across the road from Springdale Road to Jackson Road to Westfield Road. The UDA is currently the only one in the state with a plan to expand the subject parcels to enable residential development and they have agreed or they are proposing to limit the property to age restricted development. Staff would note that the existing urban development area as it's presently present boundaries is with 81 so this would be a significant expansion of the urban development area which we'll get into in later remarks. This is the proposal from the applicant showing the designation of their subject parcels as residential which is that yellow color on the screen. The proposal we have proposed amended text to your adopted Kernstown area plan which is a small area plan component of your comprehensive plan contained in appendix one. We made two key text revisions to that Kernstown area plan. The first was the addition to the Bartonsville South sub planning area section and we specify that future residential development envisioned in this area should be age restricted and interconnected with the residential development in the town of Stephen City to the south. We also included a revision to the general description of residential development in the Kernstown area subsection and that would be as residential development in the Bartonsville South area should include a mix of age restricted housing types. Extensive buffering and screening along the Opec and Creek should be provided to protect the historic and natural resources and these natural and historic resources should be further highlighted in their incorporation into recreational amenities for prospective developments in any community at large. This is your revised or future plan long-range land use plan you can see from the change in the designation it mimics what the applicant proposed which is to designate those four parcels as residential that is that yellow designation. We also made a change to the plan transportation network in this area of the county which we'll discuss in a subsequent slide. Given the details of the proposal as outlined the proposed comp plan amendment and resulting development may have the potential to harmonize with the existing surrounding uses expanding the urban development area to include the subject parcels would enable residential development and this was deemed otherwise appropriate given the adjoining uses planned and existing to the south and the north are residential uses including plan text to ensure age restricted development limits the potential capital impact to county services particularly public schools if and when every zoning would be submitted for these parcels to change the zoning from rural areas to residential. Staff and staff members, please stand by for the next presentation. Staff would note that in our time since the joint work session we have worked extensively with the applicant with the Virginia Department of Transportation in the town of Stephen City regarding the proposed future transportation improvements needed in this area of the county and along the subject parcels. The applicants proposal includes eliminating the planned transportation improvements on the subject parcels. While staff initially supported that request giving some additional thought following the planning Commission public hearing staff has included a modification to the future transportation has included a modification to the future transportation network to preserve the conclusion of the Stephen City Bypass by showing that the existing plan connection back to Red 11 was sustained across the subject properties. I want to highlight what that change looks like on the left hand side of your screen is your existing plan roadway network again which included a north-south connection from the town of Stephen City to Shady Elm Road and an east-west connection going to the west across the railroad and terminating essentially in areas and then to the east towards Valley Pike and ultimately across 81 towards Tasker Road. On the right is what we are proposing, what staff is proposing as a modification to this planned transportation network, showing that connection going across the subject properties generally around the Applelands Fun Park and back towards 81. This provides a meaningful conclusion to that planned roadway network. Staff would note that we understand that there is impracticality with constructing the existing planned roadway network as it is shown on our plans. Going north, you have to cross not only the wetlands and Opec and Creek and the floodplain, but you also have to make a railroad crossing, which was recently closed to accommodate our Renaissance Drive project to the north, and then you're directing traffic back onto Springdale Road and Shady Elm Road in this part of the county. Those roads are not intended to handle heavy vehicle trips, so there's additional improvements that you need to make. Continue on the roadway network as it is shown on our plans. Going north, you have to cross not only the network. But we also note that, you know, Stephen City has been working for a number of years to implement a north-south bypass that alleviates congestion at the intersection of 277 or the interchange of 277 and 81 and Route 11, and this should be a joint planning effort with the town and not to just leave it essentially be an end without an appropriate conclusion. Tigney Way, which is identified on your plan, which is the green road at the bottom of the screen, the applicant notes could serve as the conclusion of the bypass. Staff would point out that it's not intended to be a limited access. There's already a number of existing intersections with the plan development going on in Stephen City, and there's proffered commercial as part of that project as well that would ensure that there'll be more points of access onto that otherwise collector roadway. Staff would note that the applicant has disagreed with our position in the proposal that we are presenting to you all this evening. So, I'm going to go ahead and take a look at that. So, I'm going to go ahead and take a look at that. And they can share the reasons for their disagreement in their presentation. So, again, for your consideration this evening, this is a request to amend the adopted Kernstown Area Plan contained in appendix one of your comprehensive plan to change the future land use classification for four parcels totaling 96 acres from business to residential and to include those properties within the limits of the county's urban development area or UDA, and there are modifications proposed to the plan transportation network across the subject properties. As noted earlier in the presentation, you all did hear the initial discussion of this at your joint work session in August. And this was selected for further study. So, we have done that. It has also gone to the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee. They discussed the application, the revised plan text and the maps at their November 18, 2024 meetings and they did endorse the proposal as it was presented that time. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on the 15th of January, and they also recommended approval. Staff would note that the Planning Commission's approval did contemplate removal of those projects, and they did not approve them. Staff would note that the Planning Commission's approval did contemplate removal of those projects, and they did not approve them. The Planning Commission's approval did contemplate removal of those projects, and they did not approve them. The Planning Commission's approval did contemplate removal of those projects, and they did not approve them. Although those were discussed by the Planning Commission as concerns, this item is presented this evening as a public hearing item, and staff would be seeking a decision by the Board on this proposed plan amendment. Ty Lawson and Chris Moen are here this evening representing the applicants, and I believe they have some remarks for you as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We'd certainly like to hear from them, but questions for you first? To clarify, if I might start. So, we have the, what the Planning Commission is forwarding has the road changes, or not the one that staff had added at the last few weeks? The Planning Commission had recommended approval of the proposal at the time, which did not have a planned road across the subject parcels. Staff, again, following up on the public comments that were made by the Town of Stephen City at the Planning Commission, and some of the discussion by the Planning Commission went back kind of to the drawing board following the Planning Commission public hearing, and we believe that this may otherwise serve as more appropriate conclusion to the Stephen City bypass, as it's intended to be a north-southway. So, we're going to go back to the south alternative route around the Town of Stephen City and back to Route 11 to alleviate those interchange congestion issues. So, the Planning Commission originally approved this without that road change? Yes, sir. Have they voted again with your recommended change, or this is what staff? No, sir. This is just for consideration by the Board this evening. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? I do. Can you go back up to your pictures right there? So, in the subdivision, single access entrance and egress in the subdivision, or do you have a back door? They have two points of access in the subdivision. There is the, what is otherwise the Stephen City bypass, which runs to the south towards Marble Road 277, and then you have an access from Tigney Way, which connects back to Route 11. It's just off the screen on your map. Let's see if I have a map with it. Tyler, I think he was asking about the proposed subdivision, which would have an access on Route 11 and then an access to the Stephen City bypass. Correct. So, if I live in that development, I come out of my house and I go back towards the bypass, that would be my one access to stay off of Route 11? Correct. So, once that's completed, I would be able to get out of town, if you will, without coming out on Route 11? Correct. Okay. So, I would have to get out of town to the south, but to the north? To the north, yes. You would have to get on 11 going north. Yes, you do. Yeah, south would be the bypass. Correct. The southern portion already currently exists. Got you. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn? So, leaving the same screen up there, what you have on the left is existing planned roads, those dotted roads north to south, east to west, correct? Correct. And what you have on the right is elimination of the northern half of that road, the elimination of the western half of that road. You just simply go through. That's then considered to be the quote unquote bypass for Stephen City? Yes, sir. And the advantages of that over the existing planned road are what? There are a number of existing design challenges to complete that connection to the north. You would have to cross a flood plain. You would have to make a cut. You have to cross a railroad, which we recently closed that crossing on Springdale as a result of the Renaissance Drive project. And then you would need to upgrade, obviously, this intersection of Springdale Road and Shady Elm Road to accommodate that connection. The connection to the west actually just terminates here. It never, on our current plans, it doesn't contemplate connecting to Springdale Road. These properties that are to the west of the town of Stephen City and west of the subject parcels are intended to remain rural. We don't anticipate that they would be changed to some other kind of land. We don't anticipate that they would be changed to some other kind of designation. So there's really not a need for this. We find in our plan, previous iterations were very generous in drawing different lines and roadway, planned roadways around the county, and they're not always feasible. And when you dig into them, like on this type of exercise, you can see where it may otherwise be impractical given topographic hydrologic planned land use challenges and the like. We do think, again, that that connection back to 11 is meaningful and Tigny Way may not otherwise satisfy. What was intended to be a bypass for the town of Stephen City back out to Route 11. So that on the right side is to solve a problem. And I'm going to ask Mr. Wells here in a minute, who's from Stephen City, what his thoughts are on that. But that's to solve a problem. Second question is, what's the thought process behind going from business to residential? The applicant can speak to that. You all will recall or may recall that there was a rezoning done a couple years ago on this property that ultimately was not successful to change the design. So, it's a rezoning from rural areas to a commercial or industrial zoning designation. It's been planned and marketed as business for a number of years and not had a lot of interest. Their current applicant has some interest to do residential, and they can explain their reasoning. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other questions for the presenter? I have one more. So, if you continue that road to the south, the bypass, how much of that is complete? It is complete essentially up to this roundabout here. Okay. And then it would continue on to the subject parcels and then around in some manner back to Route 11. So, Stephen City has completed most of the bypass they want? They've made a significant investment to complete that. It's been on their plan and a big part of their planning efforts over a number of years. So, I believe they'll speak at the public comment, but they do have interest in what the termination of this bypass looks like and how that affects the work that they've been doing. So, if you get off 81 at the Stephen City exit, which is challenging. Okay. So, if you get off 81 at the Stephen City exit, which is challenging. Okay. So, if you get off 81 at the Stephen City exit, which is challenging. And you go into Stephen City Newtown, the old part of the city. Right now that intersection is challenged with traffic, right? So you have to turn left at that narrow intersection if you want to go to the drive-in theater. You have to turn right, no right turn on red. So you got to wait if you want to go north. So they would hope to push some of that northbound traffic. It would be able to go straight through that intersection. So alleviate some of the turns. Correct. And then join the bypass. Yes, sir. It would go straight across down, and it turns into Marwell Road. You would turn right, go behind the Newtown crossing, and you'd end up back on Route 11, just north of the Dog Kennel and Wild Bill's Western Shop. And there are a lot, I certainly appreciate the traffic problems they have. What about to go south on 11? Are they doing anything for that? Or you're still going to have to wait at that light? It's ultimately planned to continue south, but nothing has been done to this point. Okay. Thank you. I don't see any more questions. So if the applicant can come forward. Mr. Lawson, welcome. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, Ty Lawson. I'm here along with others, and I'm going to hand it over to Kevin Sitzman here quickly. But you all have focused on the issue. This is a comp plan matter. And the focus is on the future roads. And in particular, the future road running through what we've agreed to texturally and otherwise will be an age-restricted community, which will wrap around the existing golf course. We're here in support of what the Planning Commission unanimously recommended, and that is that the bypass is accommodated through Tigny, which is a 90-foot right-of-way, which then connects to the bypass, which D.R. Horton has already constructed on the south end at Westwind. And as soon as commercial comes along in the Horton area, there's a profer and a requirement to build that segment. And we believe, and Planning Commission believe, that the bypass is actually accommodated quite well with that connection to Tigny. Okay. So, what's the plan? Well, the plan is that Tigny takes you to commercial. There'll be commercial on the right side and the residential on the left as you come in. The key, though, is this planned road across an age-restricted community. We do have – there was a question. We show connections to Route 11. We have connections that will connect to the bypass. And there'll be residential streets running through this community. Our issue – and I'll let Mr. Sitzman talk it through and explain the reasons more in terms of uses and impacts – is that we don't think that a comp plan, a higher-speed road running through an age-restricted community accomplishes anything. It certainly harms that community, hurts the text, revisions for calling for age-restricted, not commercial, things of that sort. And again, we think it's much more desirable to focus the trips coming off 11 and the bypass to where the commercial is on the north side of Tigny. So, I'll turn it over to Mr. Sitzman and then I may get up at the very end as well. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. For the record, Kevin Sitzman with Grove Slate, transportation planners and engineers. Generally when we're looking at adequacy of transportation, we're looking at the use of transportation networks. What we're really looking at is to see whether there's harmony between the land use and the transportation elements themselves. And so, to aid that in looking a little bit broader scale, I put together a couple of exhibits here that overlay some older plans, some current plans, and I'd just like to walk through those real quick. I was going to point to the road. I'm going to point with that. Now I've messed everything up, haven't I? I will in fact instead point with this. Sorry about that. So in terms of the, so the bubbles that are shown here are the land use elements from the old Route 11 land use plan. What those show on the left hand diagram, the red areas are business, high intensity, commercial areas. As part of the application materials that were submitted with the Comp Plan Amendment, it was noted that just on the site itself, that level of intensity could accommodate up to 56,000 trips per day. That's very high intensity. That is employment over top of retail space. That's very high intensity. Instead, what we're looking at is in the neighborhood of 1,700 trips a day for age restricted areas. So that's the number of trips that are restricted residential. What you see on the left hand diagram is that overlay of the high density employment areas to the north with residential areas to the south. And then the whole grid of streets that Mr. Klein did a very good job of going over. And those two things sync very well, right? Lots of trips need lots of lanes of road. Instead, what has happened, right? Is there's more residential development than there is residential development. So, the city has a lot of residential development that has occurred within Stephen City and the Stephen City area. There's the newer plans from the county include specific labels for the rural areas to the west. As Mr. Klein noted, that stub of a road going west of the Stephen City bypass just dead ends into a farm parcel. And then also there's some other changes that aren't necessarily in the city. So, that's a lot of things that we're looking at. And then, of course, there's the urban development that has occurred within Stephen City and the rural areas that are not necessarily reflected. So, down in the south, right, the Stephen City interchange, that's not going to happen. The Route 37 and Shady Elm intersection that's been removed from the plan, sorry. Interchange has been removed from the plan. There's still a concentration of potential business areas, but that's served well with Renaissance as was noted. But, I think, as you said, there's more business areas that aren't. And so, then there's more residential development. Tigny has been built and again the challenged the feasibility of doing this section here of the shady elm extension is right that's that's very difficult to do and so both of these legs that the staff recommendation have removed make a lot of sense so the question then really is moving to the far right diagram is the last tail that's shown on on the particular site in question today is that really necessary and really you get the same the same connectivity right with the Stephen City bypass that is built outside of Valley View or Newtown Cross saying Tigny that is also built generally outside of those homes and I'll note that as was mentioned the intersection of those two is is planned as a roundabout right and that tends to level out the conflicts between the movements it makes turning left just as easy as turning right and that tends to be able to make those movements between more effective and easier to do the other thing that I will point out is the that is elsewhere in the Kernstown area plan is that there there are several areas that are defined in there as needing to be reviewed for traffic calming measures and I don't know that that we would want to push a high-speed rather straight roadway the the collector roadway that's shown on here through a an age-restricted residential area without trying to then add traffic calming measures on top of that right those are those are incongruent incongruent at some point so what we what we have at the end here and I guess click to that is is an overlay that shows a little bit more context in terms of the of the area and and detail because it's because it's an aerial area so you might have a receiver truck somewhere talking across the roadhead or oiest right is replicated from the driving angle out on the next county field so that's an overlay that's being implemented and again that there is this sense of that you do want to keep up to date — this is the new地 floor and it's being Scout terminated and notCloud that looks exactly like it is in the full town area yet from across the avenue is the interesting thing about the city when you have an útil gorgeous community CBS uniforms we'll go back to that very quickly but definitely not Since COVID-19 was a real thing I already scenic this ANDY DO WEhost has some two key issues we cannot forget about coronavirus and the ones that Tara measured the space for the proved that there can be recommendation. The last point that I'll make is when we build these these larger roads and again I think staff recommends removing most all of the all of the ones that are problematic in this sense but we don't want to telegraph the wrong things. When there are large roadways with high capacity that's an invitation for higher intensity development and I'm not sure that that putting that kind of a road through an age-restricted residential area is necessarily the the message we want to telegraph. So Mr. Lawson did you have other things? Can we ask questions? Sure. Okay so we have Tigny coming down there. I understand you don't want to come through the community so I'm trying to figure out what's the best way to get the road through the residential area. I'm not sure if that's the right way. more where Tigny is and and why I guess I'm wondering why staff recommending that we move that up and not use Tigny and your recommending we use Tigny and not come through the other. I don't think staff is saying move anything. I think they're saying Tigny's there. I understand. They want to add another one. They want to make an F. They want it to go up. That's what I'm saying. and that's the way I got it. to go up and then go across and actually the way it's and why and why why is that that they want to do we're we're in europe um we're not sure um because we went through the planning commission and we presented this and everybody went through the old drawings from 03 and so on and one by one they knocked them off remember there was a connection to that wonderful glorious interchange that we're all going to build on 81 just south of the existing one where lowe's bought all that property it's gone we all know that and then and then they have the thing going parallel to 11 across the opecan as tyler pointed out to tie in and cross over the railroad and so on and things happen and and i mean this in a very positive way we're we're working from a plan that's over 20 years old and you're trying to guess what's going to be in the future and things happen differently so all that went away the road to the west nobody could figure that one out it just dead ended somewhere and actually the f that we're talking about that's before you it doesn't just hit 11. it goes over 81. somehow there's money to build a bridge over 81 and then it wiggles across that undeveloped tract and intersects right around the bowman library i don't know if you've ever heard of that but it's a really interesting story and i think it's a really interesting story and i think it's a really interesting story and i think it's a really interesting story and i think it's a really interesting story the history of the and i will say the other and i will say the other is the aerial helps a lot. Stephen City has grown quite well. It's decidedly residential, and the one tract in the middle is left. That's the Hollis tract, and that's zoned to be more residential. And as Mr. Sitzman said, this bypass goes around it, and it frames it very well with the commercial. And assuming we're zoned, we will connect, and we believe our rooftops will help support and drive commercial there. But we really don't see an advantage of people cutting through our neighborhood and, frankly, see a lot of disadvantages, especially with age-restricted and traffic-calming ideas. In the middle of your neighborhood, you've got this 45-mile-an-hour road that you've got to navigate across when you're walking down to get on the golf course. But, no, things have changed from the original drawings. We all agree, it seems, on the roads that are now there that need to drop off. The only one that is at issue is the... Instead of a C, it's an F at the top. So is Tigney the red line? It's the red one. It's a nine-foot... And staff would like it to continue and... Tigney exists. No, no, it's proffered, and... And dedicated to hit at a roundabout right there. And then the bypass town was very forward-thinking. That's all dedicated, and it's proffered to be built as soon as anybody pulls a commercial permit. And then the one on the south side through west, or right on the side of Westwind, you can drive that today. That stops. It stops at the Hollis property line. And they actually, again, thinking ahead, it's dedicated right away across the Hollis track. So the land is there. And it's being built by the property owners. The connection to 11 exists today. You can drive that. And it's an extra-wide right-of-way. And we're fine with that. We want to connect to it. Just to be clear. So... So... I'm going to ask you the differences there. You said you don't have any idea why they want to come through the property. That's what you just said, so I'm assuming that's where we are. Have you had any meetings with Frederick County Planning over why they want to bring a second entrance? It apparently occurred after our Planning Commission meeting, and it was a result of some questions that were raised by... by the Town. And in your report, it says, the Town expressed a desire to maintain the connection across the subject parcels. So across the Gregory parcels directly to Route 11 in accordance with what they view as furthering the Town and County's joint land use planning, if feasible. And so it's not to apparently make a better connection to Route 11 in the bypass, because that exists. That's already planned and built. But it is to run across the Gregory property. And as we've all discussed, when you comp plan the Gregory property to be age-restricted and slow, and slow it down, and not that big commercial industrial thing, that desire to put a large comp plan road through it is not a big thing. It's a big thing. It says, if feasible. We don't think that's feasible. And frankly, we don't think that's desirable for this Board with a comp plan to say, no, no, no, we want to have a big boulevard through that area. That speaks of we want the more dense activities, as Mr. Sitzman said, the 50,000 trips a day. When definition for you of a big boulevard is one-lane road, two-lane road? What we're doing now is... The bypass that's built there is a dedicated 104-foot wide section. Two lanes. With two lanes built with the ability to put four in there with turn lanes. The 104, and I always forget the acronym. VDOT's got so many of them. But it's a type of road that will accommodate a higher speed, more limited access, limited crossings road, similar to what you have. You have with Warrior, similar to what was mentioned before about the future Route 37. It's a big road. And it... Our concern is you've got this quiet neighborhood, age-restricted neighborhood, and you've got this boulevard running through it. Those are inconsistent thoughts. And again, there's... And activities. And there's no real need for it here. There's no problem with what you're saying. I just... No, thank you. I have a planning department that's saying one thing, you're saying one thing, and then I know where Stephen City is on that. So I'm just trying to figure it all out. I understand. And this is the only issue. We agreed on everything else. We agree. This agrees with what your planning commission recommends and would just strongly suggest that this fits. This works. For all of the issues that have been brought up. Thank you. Thank you. Any more questions? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Jewel. Mr. Lawson. I want to address three things. First of all, Springdale. This project will not... Nothing will go on Springdale. Right? Correct. I want that stated because that's one thing... The citizens are fine with this in the neighborhoods. The golf course is staying, right? Correct. That everybody's very adamant about. Your connection, you are going to have a connection there. It'll be a regular road, V-DOT road connection at that point, but you also will have a road that goes out on Route 11, correct? Correct. Okay. So we're not talking roads very similar to Lake Frederick that are private and much narrower. We're talking of standard V-DOT road. 50 foot right away, but a neighborhood street. Not a 104 foot divided thing. And then I'm going to address Mr. Pearson here for you to answer. Mr. Pearson, what about the... Would this be in the comprehensive plan TDRs? Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Jewel. And Mr. Chairman, with your pleasure, after I answer the question on TDRs, I'd like to answer a couple questions about the planning department's opinion on this matter. Well, Mr. Lawson is very eloquent in espousing the applicant's belief. I'd like to touch on a couple of things, Mr. Lawson. I'd like to touch on a couple of things Mr. Wells was alluding to, but specifically, Mr. Jewel, TDRs, the applicant's proposal did not contemplate amending the receiving area map in the comprehensive plan, so they could not land TDRs on these properties. They're bringing it within the urban development area, but they haven't ticked all the boxes to use TDRs on these properties. So it would have to be a rezoning in order to implement the comp plan. They could not use the TDR program. Mr. Chairman, with your pleasure, is it all right if I explain a couple items as well? I mean, I'm sure in discussion we're going to ask you anyway, so might as well do it now. Yeah, all right. Sorry for going out of order. Just a couple of clarifications. The Route 11 South land use plan was replaced by the Kernstown area plan a number of years ago. Many of the exhibits that the applicant provided were based upon that. That's an older plan. And also, most of the exhibits the applicant has shown is showing the Apple Land Sports Center property as either recreation or residential, but they have not included that. And so, we're not going to include that in this rezoning. It's still 34 acres of business. And as they refer to their business, it's high density business, as they say, right? So there's still a material traffic impact that could come out of the parcel that is not subject to this. That's worth noting. Additionally, we had suggested to the applicant when we brought this issue to their attention to propose a lesser road standard than a major collector that fit within their community and to show us an exhibit that worked with their project. They elected to argue that the road was not necessary altogether in addition to the other two comp plan roads we took off their property through mutual agreement. And the only conclusion that I can arrive to in evaluating that is they simply don't want to build any regional transportation networks or have to deal with any of that during the rezoning. They want to build a neighborhood with neighborhood streets and not facilitate any additional traffic to come through there. And that is a key decision point in a comp planning exercise that I just think the board should be aware of. And then lastly, the notion of an existing comp plan road cutting through a neighborhood that we're comp planning right now seems backwards to me. The neighborhood is going on top of an existing comp plan road, and we need to figure out a way to facilitate that and mesh those two things together. Rhetoric that says that we're putting a road through a neighborhood that doesn't exist is not helpful in these kinds of decision-making processes, in my opinion. And that's all I had, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I think that's all I have for my notes. Mr. Jewell, did I answer your question about TDRs appropriately? All right. Yep. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Thank you. So were there any more questions for Mr. Sitzman or Mr. Bosk? Oh, this is either going to go to staff or to the applicant. But if you take a look at the slides up there, you have a red line that goes north, and then it makes a right. The proposal, Mr. Pearson, that you're laying out would continue to go north to the left of that yellow area and then go right. Is that correct? Yeah, that's right. Or Mr. Sitzman? Or Mr. Klein can basically show us where the proposed item is. And we certainly don't disagree with the applicant's suggestion that Tigny Way does serve to provide a material benefit to the Stephen City bypass and facilitating traffic flow through that area. Our concern is I think there's three bays of commercial located along it and then numerous neighborhood streets that connect to the other side of it. And we've seen time and time again that when commercial develops on roads like that, it quickly eats up the capacity with the access. Cuts that get made into it. Mr. Lawson, I think, was hopeful that they may eventually have a grocery store or some other user out there like that. And it simply won't serve the function that Stephen City has planned for for a long time if it has significant commercial develop occurring along it. So the portion of it that we think is prudent to explore further and find something that meets the applicant's intentions for their project but also preserves a logical conclusion to the Stephen City bypass is to come up off of that traffic circle and take a right through either the Apple Land Sports Center property itself or through the applicant's property and provide a direct connection back to Route 11. Really, the only thing we want to see out of that that's different than a typical neighborhood street as they're proposing is to have some amount of limitation on driveway access. I know they'll be fortunate if they can double load both sides of the streets with driveways. And houses in order to pay for the cost of the infrastructure. But when you do that, the capability of moving traffic efficiently is greatly diminished. So looking at this, Mr. Pearson, on the right-hand screen, you have a dark purple line. If I make a 90-degree right turn there, that's Tegeler, correct? Yeah, Tegney Way, right down at the very bottom where the notes are for Valley Pike and Stephen City. And then if you continue north on that and then make the swing, that's the area there on the previous slide. The applicant had was that yellow area. Is that correct? Yes, sir. Thank you. And then lastly, Mr. Chairman, the only other thing is, you know, I don't think many people on the Board, if any, and very many staff were around when we had land use debates with the Town of Stephen City that resulted in court orders and joint land use plans. But there's certainly merit to being cognizant of the incorporated town's opinion. I say that as somebody who comes from an incorporated town. And trying to give some weight to what it is that is occurring in immediate vicinity to those incorporated towns. And with that, I don't have any more comments for you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other questions for the presenters? Thank you, sir. I have just addressed a couple of comments. I actually did read the order and stuff. With Stephen City. And it addresses land use plan within the Town of Stephen City. This is outside. It also incorporates the comp plan that you all have seen going back to the 90s and in 03, which had the connection on 81 and all these other things. Which have just changed. Things have not happened. Development has happened differently. And so on. And the key for you all with this road is where do you all want to direct traffic? And we believe what the planning commission did and recommended unanimously is the correct decision. And that is that if you're coming off 11 to get to the bypass, you go on Tigny on a 90-foot right-of-way. And on your right as you're coming in is commercial. And on your left is residential. And that there's nothing gained. And there's a lot that's lost by making a large 104-foot road running through not only a residential neighborhood. But actually if you look at that, that's running through the golf course. And then it keeps going. It hits 11 and it keeps going. And it flies over 81. And then it runs through that undeveloped area. And then connects with Tasker. And I don't think that's where you all want to direct traffic, number one. And never say never, but I don't think there's a lot of money to build another flyover over 81 just south of the one that you've got at 37 and Tasker. So we submit that what the, what the, what the plan is. We submit that what the, what the planning commission recommended is appropriate. And to the other issues and the more details of we need to see your road and designs and so on, this is a comp plan. That's all we're talking about. We would very much like to be able to file a rezoning. And as part of that process, you all will get to look at the plan. Staff will make comments. We'll show all the roads. Show all the proffers and so on. So those items will come out of a rezoning. And that is, as you all know, a very public process. So we look forward to that opportunity. So Mr. Lawson, I have a question. Yes, sir. I realize to everyone I opened a can of worms by letting us go back and forth. Normally we have. I apologize. Only, well, but we had a lot of questions. And so I think everyone's nodding. It was helpful to us to let that go on for at least some time. So. The road that you don't want to see, the comp plan, that is, you talk about it as 104-foot-wide right of way. Would it be burdensome to the applicant if it was still in the comp plan but it was a smaller road? So, in other words, we don't have the future possibility of this bypass, at least in our comprehensive plan, being that big all the way to Route 11. But instead it would diminish in two places. It could connect to Tigney, which is a smaller road, and continue through the applicant's property as a smaller road. But nonetheless a thoroughfare. Well, I would submit that the rezoning is going to have a connection to Route 11, a connection dropping down to the roundabout with Tigney, and interconnecting streets for the neighborhood. It's going to wrap around the north and the east. Okay. Thank you. And the reason that there's no intersection is it's going to create a lot of freeway for others. And again, we're not talking about just the west side of the golf course. And so folks that live there we'll certainly be able to go both ways or if these are public roads. So if somebody wants to I want to turn more quickly and get off 11 and wiggle through the neighborhood and come down, you certainly could do that. But by doing a larger road. and channeling those trips, the volume trips, to come in Tigney, which is a bigger road. It's a 90-foot road. But, no, we'll definitely have the connectivity, and you could drive through there. It's not gated or anything like that. It's not proposed. Could you show me with the pointer where the commercial area that exists is now? It's adjacent to Tigney, right? Yeah. Is it south of Tigney? I'll show you on the aerial. Am I going the right way? No. Dang. Tyler. Tyler. Thank you. Can you just get us to the aerial to see? No, no. It's probably best shown on this map. Where's your pointer? Green. Thank you. It's a tan. Where am I? Oh, here you go. Tigney is there, and that strip is commercial. The houses are in, and I believe this is industrial. And I'll do this for Mr. Lero's benefit, because I'm not sure he's going to be able to see. Okay. But it's these three lots. Oh, there you go. Those three lots right there. Commercial. Commercial. I think these lots, Mr. Lawson correct me if I'm right, are industrial, and then this is the rest of the residential development. And then what is that? I think that's commercial. The strip here is also. I'm pretty sure that that might be a space in there. This piece right here is, I think this is actually a dedicated school site to the town of Steven City, if I remember correctly as well. So the applicant would like traffic to use Tigney, which is? I think that's the one that's going to be used. Okay. So that's the one that's going to be used. So that's the one that's going to be used. So that's the one that's going to be used. Okay. So that's the one that's going to be used. Okay. So the applicant would like traffic to use Tigney, which is commercial to the north of it, but residential to the south. And if we're approved, we'd be residential to the north. We're intentionally leaving Apple Land as is. We've heard a lot from our neighbors, don't change it. And so we're leaving it as is. Okay. That's helpful. Everyone got that? Any other questions? Thank you, sir. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. This is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? No one has signed up. Is there anyone here today who'd like to speak about this Comprehensive Plan amendment? Very good. Please come forward. I would just say this Comprehensive Plan Amendment won't mean anything. It's not the final stage in having anything built. It just changes our plan and what we'd like to see there. If you'd like to start with your name and Magisterial District. Yes, sir. Mike Major, Town of Stephen City. a pecan district i'm also the town planner for the town of stephen city so the town's position on this proposed amendment is that we do not have an issue necessarily with the change in land use but what we do have an issue with is a change to a planned road that the town has worked for over two decades to acquire the two and a half miles of right-of-way to provide a bypass to alleviate traffic at the 307 interchange and to facilitate the commercial growth within the town's boundaries the tigny drive was not designed to be the primary inlet and outlet on the northern end of the western bypass and the people who live in that subdivision would certainly not feel that it is one additionally the properties surrounding the northern part of the bypass are also commercial so if you if the concern is that by adding commercial to the bypass you're creating more trips it's going to happen whether it's a neighborhood road through this proposed development or whether it's a two lane with a multi-modal trail which is what the bypass has been built as in the town of stephen city we have over a hundred foot of right-of-way but it's being designed and built as a two lane with a walking trail the town's position is that the northern final section of the bypass is essential to its function and we appreciate the assistance that we've had from county planning staff in in negotiating and evaluating the future development of this property and how it interacts with our planning purposes i'd please ask you to consider our position on that thank you thank you is there anyone else who'd like to speak i see one more and again start with name and magisterial district please thank you i'm david griffin i work with the town of stephen city um i have been working on this for a number of years and i'm actually the first person to work on this property as of this year and i've been working on this for a number of years and i'm working on this for a number of years and i'm working on this for a number of years and i'm working on this for a number of years and i'm working on this for a number of years and i'm for the town of stephen city for over 25 years working with county staff working on this for a number of years and i'm working on this for 16 years working transportation plan we're discussing in the working on this for 16 years working comprehensive plan portions is something for 16 years working the county and the town have for 16 years working the county and the town have worked together on collaboratively for the the town have worked together collaboratively for many many many years that's why we are part of a collaboration part of a inaugurationDIEGE right into its program we all work together to make programmingparticulation there's no division in the this work roads don't work if they don't there's no division in the to connect that takes teamwork and a to connect that takes teamwork and a gathering. You have an excellent planning staff. We've worked with them for many, many years on this. Mr. Lawson referred to the comprehensive plan when this was put together about, oh, that was in the town of Stevens City. Actually, no. So this is before and part of the final annexation agreements that were incorporated into court orders. Most of the properties we're talking about were not in the town of Stevens City at that time. And this bypass was not something we came up with. This started with Frederick County staff. This started with Frederick County planning. We thought it was a terrific idea. It's been modified a couple of times, but this is a long-term collaborative effort. These types of roadways work. We just watched another flyover put on over to Washington. And then we saw the Winchester, the, what's it called? Crossover Boulevard. Yes. That's something that had also been talked about for a long time. It's very close to other interchanges. But what a change that has made in the traffic. I would sit for a very long time on 522. Now we get where we need to go. Transportation planning is the basis for comprehensive plans. It comes first. Not after you've decided where you're going to build more residential. This is what makes things work. This is what makes things tick. Concern that you need to be aware of is all these other landowners have investment-backed expectations that this road's going to be built, that it's not going to be a road to nowhere. All these other landowners put their land, dedicated the land, dedicated some portions of even building part of these roadways, not to have a road that just goes to nowhere, which is what is being proposed here. They're not going to be able to build a road that's going to be built nowhere. They're not going to be able to build a road that's going to be built nowhere. They've all complied with the joint land use plan. The joint land use plan adopted by both localities that has been the basis for all this planning. I urge this board not to flush away the financial commitments of 25 years of work just so more residential housing can be built to their convenience. All these other landowners, all these other property owners, I call it paid their dues, they put what was needed. They put what was needed. This Sorry, are the нед Metal, Dietrich, so you know, are men trying to ngay say we are? it because when we deal with in and executive system effectively to be high quality Τοat that that structure is part of diversity. This .. Politicians the part of Hierarchy. Toe this place. that work. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Seeing no one I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board how would you like to handle this? This is in Opec in is that right? Back Creek. It's right on the border so excuse my mistake that was not intentional. It is right on the border. That's right so let's get back to this is for the comprehensive plan. This is not for building residential. This is for just the first step in this process. Mr. Pearson am I saying this correctly? That's right sir. Rezoning would follow this prior to any entitlements or any development. So as far as I'm concerned obviously there's work that needs to be done here but I really think that talking to the neighbors and talking to to folks in this area, it makes perfect sense for it to be 55 and over. We've had guarantees that this will be a 55 and over community. We'll have the TDRs, make sure the TDR is taken out of it. So I'd like to make a motion to move forward with making the change in the comprehensive plan. So just to be clear, you're motioning that the comprehensive plan be adopted as the Planning Commission suggested, and it leaves the right-of-way for that northern road. It doesn't take that out, or are you taking that out as the applicant wishes? No, I'm not taking that out. I'm leaving it in and then let the applicant and the Planning Commission, because that still is rezoning. I mean, this is just the first step, and let them work it out. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, before you even have a second, is that clear? Yeah, and I think if I understood Mr. Jewell correctly, the staff recommendation, which was in your packet, shows a major collector road remaining on the future transportation network, which does not match the Planning Commission's recommendation or the applicant's request. But he's recommending the staff recommendation that was in your packet. Okay, so that is the motion. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Okay. No second. Okay. Let's continue discussion. We're going to continue discussion. My question to you, Mr. Jewell, is the item that was on the left and the item that was on the right, which were you proposing? Which were you supporting? Were you supporting the planned that the staff had put together, or were you supporting the one on the left which had a north, south, east, west? I'm just asking as a question. Here's the thing. Everybody keeps on. They said there's going to be a connection. There's going to be a connection. There's going to be a road connected from that collector over to Route 11. It needs to be determined where it will land. But there is going to be a road going through that property eventually once they make that determination. I mean, to me, it's separating the two. We're talking strictly comprehensive plan versus rezoning. This is not a rezoning. This is for the comprehensive plan. So that's what I'm trying to do is separate the two. So, Supervisor Dunn, I think his motion was for what the staff, the staff recommended. So there would still be the traffic circle, and traffic would have the option of using TIGME as I understand it. But they want to leave in the comprehensive plan the original roadway that cuts through the new applicant's property and extends up to Route 11. So they want to leave in what staff had planned was that bypass, which eliminated the relationship. I think this is the attribute of the okay. Don't need to go over. But we can't even get Renaissance done. not even gonna talk about you over roads. So your comments Mr. Jewell were a motion to support what was on the right-hand side on this. If that's the case Mr. Chairman I'll second it for discussion. And Mr. Chairman if I might just quickly clarify what's on the left is the existing comp plan as adopted. What's on the right is the proposed staff recommendation. The only variation between the proposed staff recommendation and the Planning Commission recommendation which also coincidentally matches the applicant's request is the removal of this major collector road from this area right here. Just for clarity. So removal was what the Planning Commission had voted on originally? That's correct and I would like to apologize for the confusion for bringing this to the board with the staff recommendation not matching the Planning Commission we'd be happy to vet this option back through the Planning Commission. We've been working on it for a while. for months and figured it was prudent to keep it moving forward and at least impart our opinion on it but I realize now that it's created more confusion than than is necessary so I apologize for that well I understand my I think I understand where the planning commission would be on this but I guess we could benefit if it goes back through them the other thing I hadn't done is spoken to the city myself I'm happy that two representatives of the city came and spoke to give us some of their feelings because I hadn't done my homework in that regard maybe others had so mr. chairman just for clarification and the people from the city can not there is yay or nay but for what I see here the people from the city are saying that they are in favor of the plan on the right and are opposed to the plan on the left now just as I again so they they think that the plan on the right is a positive situation for Steven steady from their perspective thank you mr. chairman you know what let's let's I you know what let's let's I agree with mr. Pearson because it really has gotten muddled and I think I think that because we're talking two different things are talking comprehensive there's been a lot of discussion about rezoning here so I think I would like to withdraw my motion if I'm permitted I think my robin's rules I'm allowed you can and I'd like to make a motion that this goes back to the Planning Commission for them to have their say worked with the plenty as as this has been put forth Okay, so we have it. That's a motion. You're making a motion to send this back to the Planning Commission. Do we have a second? Discussion. I'd like to put out there, do we also want to, is there any action we should take to get a formal feedback from the city? We've had two of their planners speak, but their council has not said anything. I know Mr. Wells and I both have been talking to the city staff, and I know that they've been working very closely with our planners. So, I mean, there's open conversations going on. I just didn't know if we needed to go back to them. We could always do that individually. John and I are both from that territory, but I live in the town. I'd be happy to facilitate any kind of meetings you might like to have with the town of Stevenson. City Council or Planning. I don't want to lengthen this or have more meetings. I would just like their formal recommendation. I'll make sure they get that. With any pros or cons they should choose to add. I'll ask them to do that. If I could, I apologize for being, I'm out of order. We're way out of order, but if you're really quick since it's the last item on our agenda. We're out of time. And so, if the choice is go back through the Planning Commission and spend more time on it, or the thing on the right. Do the thing on the right. Because otherwise, we're out of clock. Okay. Thank you. And then you won't have to worry about any of this, but you may. That might be very helpful. Thank you, sir. You'll have a big road and some future something else. Okay. So, the applicant's willing to go forward with your original motion. Your original motion. And we think the city is in concurrence with that based on their speaking today. Speaking with the city, we've had this conversation. He's back there shaking his head. Yes, sir. We. So, please. We've all talked about this and yes. So, withdraw your motion to delay and then restate your motion. Go back. I want to move forward and make it that this be, that we change the comprehensive plan accordingly. Changing this from business to residential. That's the comprehensive plan, right? Mr. Pearson, I'm saying it correctly. As recommended. As recommended on the right-hand side. Okay. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any more discussion? Supervisor. Only to say that back to Supervisor Dunn's original question. And that is, why would we change business to residential? And you clearly see that we have business already mapped on here. And I heard your argument, but I can't support it. No, I can answer that. We. We've heard that from the beginning, but I still can't support it. No. I'm talking about the business. I can answer that. Mr. Gregory came before this board, wanted to move his business to that property, and was denied. So, this board has already denied the opportunity for that business to move forward. So, I think this is very appropriate for the comprehensive plan. That's why. Supervisor Lockridge. That's similar to Vice Chair. And I don't like moving from business. To residential. And I don't like expanding the urban development area. And I think back in August, I was a no on this. And I still remain a no. Supervisor Lero. You and I had talked earlier. I'm not trying to put you on the spot. You don't have to share your comment from before. But I wanted to give you a chance, at least, if you had anything to say. No. I had one specific question was, if a road is not built across the north end of that property connecting onto 11, what would be the answer? And I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. What would be the impacts on Springdale Road? And then Chairman Ludwig and I spoke separately where I expressed concerns about more residential over and above all the residential that is already approved in the county. That's all I have. Thank you. Do you want to answer his one question? I'm assuming, Mr. Lero, you're talking about the. The portion of it that staff agreed should come off, which is in this vicinity here. I don't think it would have any taking that off would not have any impact on Springdale Road. Actually, the opposite. It might prevent there from being additional trips moving in that general vicinity. Okay. Thank you. So the motion hasn't been seconded. So the motion is to approve the switch from business to residential. In accordance with what the planning commission's proposal on the right is. Supervisor, done. So, Mrs. McAnciller, just going through a thought process here. The motion was to go and make it residential because they were unable to do business there. Do you think that business is a way to attract businesses there? So I gather that your position is you want to keep the business there. Is that right? Okay. So I'm open to hearing your arguments because I'm on the edge on this. The only thing I'll say is we have prepared a comprehensive plan, the Kernstown plan in 2017. I frankly don't see what's changed between now and then. Okay. And if you look at all of this surrounding area. You've got business, industry, and so forth. And so I just can't support any additional residential. So basically you're saying that you think that the current zoning over time will attract the businesses necessary. And if there's existing lots, they can be built elsewhere. You're not saying that, but okay. I don't have a crystal ball, but I'm not in support of more residential. Okay. I'm not trying to put you on the spot. Thank you. Any other discussion? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Then it's time for a vote on the motion, which is to approve. Which side am I on? Supervisor Liero. No. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair votes no. It had already passed. Now it's on the house. it's 5 to 2 and that item is complete. Board liaison reports, do we have any? Nothing on the boards, very good. Citizen comments, Ms. Phillips do we have anyone signed up? Dana Brunn. Seems to have departed, that's it. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Seeing I see one, anyone else they can queue up otherwise we'll be done after one. Closer to the mic, there we go, say your name. Tim from the Back Creek District. Thank you. Tim from the Back Creek District. Thank you. Thank you. I understand, I don't know if this was brought up already, but if you've seen the social media post, I believe it was, that showed the Frederick County School District is $150,000 in the hole for meals that they've not collected from the parents they're supposed to pay. I don't know if you've seen that yet, but it's a little if they're not going to go after people that owe money for food for their children, how can we expect them to do what they're supposed to do with the money we're going to give them? You know, I don't know if this is a good thing. It's kind of a scary thing, but it kind of scares me a little bit. The other thing I would bring up is that the school ends up being the country's building anyway. Why can't the country build a building and then give it to the school? It would clear up a lot of, you know, where's this money going, where's this money going? We know where the money's going because you're giving it out. So that should be something that should be taken into consideration. Let the county build it. The rules are the rules. Who swings the hammer is who swings the hammer. That doesn't matter. But I think that should be taken into consideration to allow the county to see where all the money is going. Mr. Dunn, you're always looking for a way of bringing up new revenue. Just a thought. Everybody that works in the county, that lives in the county, doesn't get hit with this. But if you live outside the county and you come into the county, then you pay maybe a $10 fee a week or a $5 fee a week. Because you are using our facilities. You are using our parks, our roadways. I had to do that a long time ago. I paid $13 a week to use six miles of roadway. So that can be done as well. I mean, it's not an additional tax. It's a commuter tax, I guess you could say. So it would be a tax. But it only affects those that come into the county. It doesn't affect the people in the county. So I'd like to take a look at those things. That's all. Thank you very much. Thank you. Seeing no one else, I'll close public comment or citizen comments. Rather, Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? None to my right. None to my left. Supervisor Liero, do you have any comments? No comments. Thank you. Then that is concluded. Mr. Chairman, I do have one comment. I did hold a town hall meeting last week. And so I really want to thank the residents who came out to talk about that. I also want to thank the Chairman of the Planning Commission and Dr. Erskine, the school board member who also came to attend. Thank you. I appreciate all your input. Thank you. With no other comments, Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move for adjournment. Do we have a second? All in favor say aye. Aye. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Very soon we will have session. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you heroin addiction. Thank you.
