Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=317
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bullhofer? Doesn't even look like it's worked. Thank you. He works for the schools. He knew that. I just want to give you all, when we go through this meeting tonight, it's very important to turn your mics on, but just as important to turn them off. We're having some systems with feedback, so if you leave your mics on, it may cause problems. We are currently bringing in an outside consultant so we can fix these systems, but that's going to be very important tonight to make sure we try to remember that. Obviously, people will forget. I know I do all the time, right, George? And just want to let you all know that, and with that, it's all yours. All right. Well, good evening, everyone. It's so great to see you all. We always look forward to this time together every year to discuss budget and our needs. I don't know what's up there on the screen, Mr. Bullhofer, but if we can get that off there. There are, if you saw this presentation before we presented, I know there are 64 slides on here, and there's a lot of information, and as Mr. Jewell has mentioned, and with permission from Mrs. Caruso as well, I'm only going to highlight. I'm only going to highlight specific aspects of this presentation. Everybody has seen this. Everybody knows that our request currently as it stands with my needs-based budget is $18.2 million, which we're currently working through with the board who will be adopting this in two weeks. So we wanted to come together today to get feedback, answer any questions you had, so the board can mull over those items and mull over those questions and feedback so that they can adopt a budget that they will be presenting to you to take into consideration for adoption. And of course, we're going to be doing that. So thank you so much for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. As we go along, Dr. Hammer. Sounds good. Thank you, Mr. Jewell. So before I dive into those three highlights, I want to make sure that we all, as you mentioned earlier, Mr. Jewell, and we greatly appreciate your support. We greatly appreciate all that you all have done over the last couple years for our school system, and we can't thank you enough, and we have had a lot of conversations about that. But I want to make sure when it comes to our budget proposal that we do not lose the focus on why we make these budget requests to get the right people in front of our students, because our students are our students. Our students are our future, and our students are the future of this community, and we want to make sure that we continue to provide them with the best resources, the best teachers, so that we can continue to provide them opportunities and pathways to replace everybody in this room. So I want to make sure that we continue to focus on those areas. As you mentioned earlier, one of the highlights that I definitely want to talk about, and this is just for as a matter of fact, it's as you mentioned, Mr. Jewell, it's not to call out any specific board of supervisor or school board. This is just where we have been. And this is why our budget request has been so high this year, and that was the whole intent of sharing this information. So I kind of want to highlight this and go through this just so everybody is aware. So if you look back from 2016 till today, we are funded at the state through what's called a local composite index. And that local composite index looks at income and property values in those specific counties. So every county in Virginia is funded through this LCI. And as you can see, since. 2016, that LCI percentage has gone up, which means that the county is getting richer and it's less money that we are getting from the state. Now, we do not establish this. This is what the state establishes. So we want to highlight this to show that we are getting less money from the state every year because of this formula. The other aspect is this is how we've been funded from the county. And again, this is not to make people feel bad. This is not to point anybody out individually. This is a matter of fact in regards to the funding that we have received from the locality. And as you can see, it was up and down starting in 2013. But here recently, it has steadily declined. So not only are we reducing funding that we are receiving from the state, we are also receiving less funding from the county. And that is just an area that we want to continue to highlight as to why we are asking for such a large dollar figure this time around. Here is also just a history in regards to how we've been funded by the locality over the last 10 years. And in the blue is a mitigated number. And what I mean by mitigated is the process for how we determine my needs-based budget as we gather information from our principals, from our departments, from our school board, from our staff to determine how much money we need to ask for for the upcoming year. We also look at enrollment numbers. We look at needs. We look at enrollment numbers. We look at the number of our students. So the number that is presented before you is always a number that has been mitigated. So, for example, the 18.2, which I presented to the board back on January 20th, was originally $25 million. So we took a look at all the requests from all of our principals through our staffing standards, through our meeting with our departments, and we determined that we needed $25 million, but we have mitigated that over the next three to five years. So these are things that we needed, but we knew with where we were coming. And so we're looking forward this year. We knew that 18.2 was a reduced number, and we felt was a palatable number to process. But I share that with you because if you look at over the last 10 years, the requests we have received less than every year since 2017. So the reason that that 18.2 is a high number is because it has been compounded. And again, to keep reiterating, it's not pointing fingers. It is showing a matter of fact in regards to what we've received versus what we've received. And that's what we have asked for. And due to those reductions, as I've mentioned to you, we have a phenomenal group of teachers and staff that show up to work every single day wanting to do what's best for our students. And we want to take care of our people that have passion and heart to do what's best for our kids. We got support from our board. We got 110 support from me. And we need to be better with how we are funding our teachers. So if you take a look. Since 2010, there have been five years where they have received 0% increase. And that is a significant impact, especially with inflation going up every single year. Also, if you take a look at the numbers that are less than 4%, that is also an impact because that is where you also see the issues with the compression of our pay scales. So anytime we give less than 4% to our teachers, that is where we get less than 4%. So anytime we give less than 4% to our teachers, that is where we get less than 4%. And that is where it adds to additional compressions to our scales, meaning that we have numerous years where teachers are making the same exact money, which is impacting. Now, to what Mr. Jules said earlier, we are very grateful and thankful over the last couple years where we're making gains. But our compression of our pay scales was a five-year project, and we have three more years to fix our pay scales. So that is something that we want to fix. Mr. Lear, it looks like you have a question. Yes, sir. Can you go back one slide? Absolutely, we can. I think there may have been a slide, one or two before this, where you made. So just a little reference to the fact that funding from the county went down in the past couple years. I'd just like to point out, if you look at the increases here, FY17, $3 million and so on. 2.3 is we're up to $5 million. The next year, we're up to $10 million. The next year, we're up to $14 million, up to $16 million, up to $21 million, up to $24 million, up to $33 million, up to $38 million. and up to roughly $42 million over that time frame. So I'm going to disagree a little bit with the fact, well, the same with that funding went down from the county over that time frame because you see in that one slide with the – This one here, sir, yes. Going down. When, in fact, I think that's just a little bit misleading in my opinion. Okay, sure, sure. We respect that. We're just basing this off of where our needs were, what we've requested, and what we were provided from the county, and that was the sole purpose of sharing this slide. Yes, sir. But in no case did funding ever go down in any of those years. The operating budget went up every year. So, right, the percent – yes, yes. The percent increase went up. It was less money that we received every year to match the increases we were asking for. Fair, fair. Yes, I hear you. Yes, sir. That is correct. That is correct. Okay, so the next area that I wanted to focus on because we did receive some questions, and please, I'm flying through this because of time, and I know we want to dive into questions, so if there's a particular area you want me to focus on from school board to board of supervisors, please tell me to stop and go back. So the second area that I wanted to focus on is where we came up with our pay increases. Okay. So as you can see – Okay. So as you can see, across the board, we are 5.8 for teachers and classified staff. And as a reminder, classified staff is our bus drivers, our custodians, our instructional assistants, so on and so forth. Other professionals and administrators was 5.6. So other professionals are going to be our diagnosticians, our nurses, our psychologists, and, of course, our administrators and our supervisors. So I always use the joke of we don't turn the lights off, throw a dart at the board and say, all right, this is the percentage we're going to move forward with. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So let's see. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. up so we have clusters on our pay scale that we need to fix. And when you compare us to other school divisions, they do not have those clusters. And that is where we are falling behind in regards to providing them with incremental pay increases. We're also taking a look at additional incentives to support the different aspects of folks on our pay scale. So for the one example, we talked about two years ago as we're trying to build this out to get to 20 years, is we're trying to recognize our teachers and their years of experience. What we've recognized is that a lot of our, I don't want to say a lot, I want to take that back, but we do have quite a few teachers that go to other school divisions to make more money. So they get that three-year average on their VRS. So we're trying to keep those veteran teachers here. So one strategy that we utilized was to add $5,000 to the salaries of those teachers that are 25 years or more. Last year, thanks to the Board of Supervisors, we did 24 years or more and we want to get down to 20. So we're going to do that incrementally. So that is how we've gotten to that 5.8% across the board. So if we get anything less than that 5.8% average, we are going to fall further behind with our pay scales and they will continue to be compressed and it will add one more year in order for us to fix that. The other thing that we look at, and it was previously in his presentation, I'm more than happy to go back to if you would like, is we start with comparing ourselves to neighboring divisions. We take a look at Winchester City. We take a look at Clark and Warren County. We also look at Loudoun County because that's where we lose a lot of our teachers. And that is where we get a basis of where we landed in regards to our pay scales and pay increases. And what I will share with you is that neighboring divisions are looking between a 3% to a 6% pay increase. So if we land anywhere less than that, we will run into the areas and the issues of teachers leaving to now go to divisions where we typically don't compete with because they are paying their teachers more than we are that we're able to pay them. So that's just an area that I wanted to focus on because I know we received a lot of questions about this. Any follow-up questions in regards to this? Just a comment. It would be helpful if you prepared a sheet showing current beginning salary and the valley divisions that you look at. And also Loudoun, which I'm sure you're still doing that. And then 5, 10, 15. 20. Just to look at it. And then on that sheet, what your neighbors are telling you that they're asking beyond what we're reading in the paper. I think that would be helpful. And while I've got the microphone, another point to make, again, putting context, there was one year during the recession, 2008, 2009, 2010, that $11 million were cut from the budget. And so you have what two or three years there were. Teacher teachers were all pay scales were just flat. That's right. And to be honest, we were fortunate because even before then it was the first time in the history that county administrator called superintendent and in the middle of the year in November and said we've got to cut two million dollars out of your budget but we kept people whole at that time so that's a unique period of time also the pandemic is a unique period of time so that does help put it a little bit in context but the reality of it is it does cause those clusters and it's a noble effort to try to break those up but I can tell you every superintendent has looked at that and tried that and it's such a big pill to swallow that is correct yes sir and that is why we spaced it out five years and we've determined to fix it all to mr. Orndorff's comment is that it would cost us about 16 million dollars to fix it once and we know that there will be no way for us for us to do that so we spaced it out so thank you and in this presentation we do have a breakdown of the average of each of those divisions mr. Orndorff we could definitely provide you guys with the actual comparison we'll be more than happy to provide that to you absolutely we can do that okay all right so the next area that that I wanted to focus on is our staffing standards and we received a lot of questions about our vacancies we received a lot of questions about what is a staffing standard and how we came up with these positions if we have vacancies why don't we just pull them from those vacancies to create these positions here so let's let's back up about three years when I initially presented to you all for my first time one of the things that we are very pleased to have is that we have a lot of vacancies that we have to do and we have to do a lot of things that we have to do to help with determining how many staff are in each of our buildings is we created a staffing standard and that staffing standard was a way for us to determine how many staff we had at each building and and it was based on needs of our students and it was also based on the size of the school so for example we had all of our three high schools had the same number of custodians well James Wood just had an expansion you have modulars at Sharando so there's a lot of work that goes into that so we base that off of a square footage so we were able to make some some changes there last year with adding some custodians at some of those schools with larger spaces so before we present to you any level of needed positions we work with that staffing standard and we move those positions around so as you can see our request is 16 positions but we're only asking for 13 because we found three within our budget now every year we always get questions about well we know that you have a hundred vacancies of those a hundred vacancies roughly about sixty we do have long-term subs in those positions so that's 40 vacancies that that sit there unfilled sometimes they vary in regards to filling those positions so they don't remain vacant all year and some of them do remain vacant all year so for some of those positions they are associated with a compliance so for example we are required by state code to have a specific number of special education teachers regardless if there's a person in those positions and if we go any less than those positions we would potentially be losing state dollars which would then impact locally so we're trying to avoid that. So there are areas that we definitely take a look at that and as I explained last year we also budget for cost and savings so for example if you have a teacher that's in a position that's making $60,000 or $160,000 and they retire and then we fill it with a new teacher that's making $80,000 that difference is a cost and savings and then we always present that number to you guys at the end of the year in regards to using it towards capital projects or you guys can absorb that money back into your budget so we always take a look at those vacancies every year that is something that we are going to be looking at even closer this year with the potential shortfall so that is something that we are always looking at and it's a fluid process so there isn't a strategy to beef up the number of vacancies to move that money somewhere else and I just wanted to clarify that question because I know that had come up but more than happy to answer those questions. Dr. Hummer, can you share some of the positions that the building leadership requested in the initial $25 million that you cut and took just to kind of show the potential you have is a huge cost that that is that younger generation has thoughtもう a of this and tells us what it is in our vendors so how do you all deal with that speaking of the back of the the that the self-employment project? Is there anything on the%, or is there anything that you. in any of this as Mr. Hummer? wanted to do about our expenses first I just have our08 If you could please go back to your presentation and answer the question as well, you're on a publicから pull don't you pleaseHook But as I mentioned, we were trying to take a look at where we thought we were going to land with the budget, so we wanted to space this out over the next three years. So that's why it started with 37, but it reduced down to 16. Thank you, Mr. North. Dr. Hummert. Yes, sir. I come from a world where I had vacant positions. And, you know, I understand you may have 100, and I understand you may have a certain amount you have to have for compliance. And actually we have personal friends, a lot of personal friends, who actually are long-term sub-free and they're helping you out. But the only ask I'm going to say is go back and look at those positions that are not currently filled that would not impact your compliance and see if you can repurpose them for your requirements. I had to do it. I mean, I had to do it with the federal government, and that's what my boss would call me and say. You've got this much. What can you do to adjust? And, you know, I just think I would like to see the school at least take a look and see. And I understand about the compliance thing. Yes, sir. I get that. But I'm also thinking there's got to be some positions there that you honestly could go and reassign to fill with the needs if at all possible. So that's my ask. That's all I'm saying. Absolutely. And I can chime in on that, and I know Mrs. Anderson can chime in on that as well. Please know that we do that. We do. We do repurpose positions. I'm going to give you a prime example. We had a student that transferred in a couple months ago that required a one-on-one aid. It was part of their individualized education plan. We have no say because it's in there. And we don't have just vacant positions just sitting in a closet. So we had to take a look at our positions, take a look at ones that were not compliance, and we had to shift that position over. So we do that. But to your point, absolutely. And that is something that we are currently doing to take a look at to match that shortfall. But I'm going to take a look at that. I want to be clear that it's not a plethora of positions that we can continue to do that. But we definitely do that every year. But absolutely, we will do that. And it's actually marching orders our board gave us as well so that we can continue to be good stewards of the taxpayer dollar. So absolutely. Thank you. And three are actually on this list right here where we're repurposing those positions. Thank you, sir. Any other questions about this? Okay. Okay. The other one that I wanted to talk about, I know there were some questions about this. And this goes to show the level that we are trying to think outside of the box to collect more revenues. And this is an idea that I stole from another school division that was very successful. And we right now have over 1,000 students that are being homeschooled. And when students are being homeschooled, they are disenrolled, and we do not collect ADM for those students. Now, the parents are required by state code that they have to collect ADM for those students. So we have to continue every year. Let us know how much progress the student made or hasn't made, that they are continually certified to teach their child. And we have to track those parents. So it's one of those unfunded requirements because we have to track these families. And whatever the prerogative is to homeschool their child is totally up to them, and we have no qualms with that. However, if you poll a lot of these parents, which we have done, you will find that a lot of them use an online program. So we wanted to see. Well, what if we provide that online program? And we pay for that program, and then we would collect ADM for those students. So roughly this program is about $3,500 to $4,000. It's a state-run program called Virtual Virginia. We get about $7,500 to $8,000 per student. So that's about $4,000 we would get per child. The other aspect, because, of course, we're looking at getting additional revenue, but the other aspect is now the student is enrolled. So what does that mean? They could play sports. They could act. They can access CTE. They can access after-school programs. And we have a lot of parents that's something that they are interested in. So if we are able to make this work, eventually it will pay for itself. We just have to start it off to pay for the program, and then eventually we will collect ADM, and then we will continue to rise. So this is a way to meet our public where they are, meet the needs of our parents and our students, as well as collect additional revenue. So it's a way for us to think outside the box. I appreciate that. I will, as a parent. I love homeschoolers who went through the program, and we actually did use an online service. My suggestion to you is don't worry about the money. Tell them what they can get out of it so that the parents understand that the opportunity is there for your kids to be playing sports and doing the things. And that will follow. That is my suggestion. Because up front, you're talking about this is what we're getting money-wise. I don't, you know, that's fine. But what are we going to do for these kids? That's more important. That's right. That's my opinion. Thank you, Mr. Jewell. Okay. All right. The last area, unless you all had any follow-up questions. Sorry, I wanted to review this really quick. So keep in mind that our requests are in three levels. So the initial request that I have made to the board, which they will have their final decision on February 24th, is 18.2. And 1.1 for debt. And 2.1 for capital projects. And 3.1 for debt service. And our capital projects. And I know that that question has come up every year because operating capital projects and debt service are three separate funds. So we want to make sure that we continue to emphasize each of those individual areas. Of course, with our capital projects, these areas are objects and aspects of our school that continuously needs to be adjusted and fixed and replaced. So it's on a replacement cycle. So if we do not replace them and they eventually break and we didn't budget for it, that is where we might have to move money around or we will be coming back and potentially asking for wanting to fix some of these areas. And we do have a process and a standard in place to determine when these aspects need to be replaced. All right. The last aspect, which I'm sure is going to be the majority of the conversation, was, as I've mentioned earlier, Mr. Jewell, is that we have gone through a lot of work to get this done. We've gone through and have done a deep dive into our current budget to plan for what potentially will be a budget shortfall from the $18 million that we've requested. So we're already looking at every aspect of our budget from staffing to programs to operations to determine where we can land without impacting our teachers and staff and not impacting the classroom and our students. So the three initial scenarios that we are looking at. That are not set in stone. This is just for conversation purposes. And this is if we only got the $6 million that was initially presented. Okay. So I know that potentially can change. The other aspect, which has been our promise, and that is my recommendation for the board, is right now we are at the initial preliminary stages of how much money we believe we're going to get from the state. And based on what we've heard from the governor and the General Assembly is we are anticipating potentially getting more money from the state. So if we get more money from the state, we're going to be getting more money from the state. That is less money that we are asking from the locality. And that has been my promise and from board members I've spoke to, that will continue to be our promise. We want to take care of the taxpayer dollar in Frederick County. So the first scenario would be if we were to fund health insurance and fund the compliance position. So as we just talked about earlier, these are positions that are per SOQ state code. We would need to essentially cut and find money in each of those red areas. So there would be zero salary increases across the board. And right there we would lose $1.5 million from the state because the initial proposal was they were giving us a 2% raise for all of our staff. If we do not give them a 2% raise, we lose out on that money because the state gives us a match. We would also be looking at no new positions, no new programs, no additional school buses. This is a big one. We would have to reduce. All of our school and department budgets by 10%. So what does that mean? That means that if a teacher needs some new glue sticks or scissors or paper in the middle of the year, we might be scrambling to try to find that. Or unfortunately, the teachers might have to pay for it themselves, which we do not want them to do. If our band went on 10 trips to perform and showcase their skills to 10 field trips, they might only go on five this year. So this is a reality that we all need to be prepared for. And we all need to make sure that we understand the impacts that it has on our students and that it has on our community. We also will be potentially cutting 11 positions. Now, what the areas that we are currently looking at and reviewing to not cause too much hysteria is we are taking a look at non-student facing positions, as well as positions that do not align with the staffing standard. So math teachers, special ed teachers, nurses, psychologists. Those are the positions that we are required by staffing standards and required for student services. So those would not be the positions we would be cutting yet. I want to be very clear on that. Because right now, this is just to get insurance and just to get those positions and zero pay increase. I want to be very clear that this is our goal. Our goal is to take care of our people so we do not lose good staff to neighboring divisions. Scenario B would be for us to take care of the health care. We would have to reduce our health insurance, 2% pay increase, and take care of those positions. That means that is more money that we have to try to find in our budget. So we would have to reduce school budgets by 15%. And we would have to find 29 positions to cut, which is going to become harder and harder to find those positions that are not student facing that we need, as well as positions in our staffing standards. We put on here assessment of school programs because we want to show that everything is on the table for consideration. We do not agree with that, but we also agree with we want to make sure this budget works to take care of our people. So everything is on the table from sport programs to bands to all extracurricular activities that we know is needed for our students but is on the table for consideration. Scenario C would be health insurance, a flat 3% pay increase, and then funding the compliance positions with all of the aspects there with two additions. Unfortunately, we would have to reduce our 11 buses by four. We have 11 buses in our operating budget every year. And as Mr. Orndorff has mentioned, and I'm sure he experienced this, is there were many years where we weren't able to add any buses. So we have buses that have been on the road for 20 years with 300,000 miles that we have no business putting on the road. And we are very far behind with getting up to where we need to be with our replacement bus cycle. So if we were to cut these buses, it's going to impact routes. It's going to impact students being on the road. It's going to impact kids getting to school on time. So it will have an impact. We could do it, but it is going to be an impact. And we're also looking at cutting budget by 15% school budgets. And then we're looking at 40 positions to cut just to get to each of these three areas. I've been having conversations with different members of the school board to talk about potential other scenarios. Like if we looked at 5% or if we looked at just getting the 5.8 to the 5.6. The more we add to this, the more we will have to find areas to cut. If we were to decide on a sweet spot number, again, our need is 18.2, but the closer we can get to 11.5, the easier it will be with each of these areas. I want to be very clear that we are continuously looking at our budget because our promise is to be good stewards of our dollar. So there are areas of our staffing standard, and as Mr. Jewell mentioned earlier about our vacancies. Where we have areas that we can continue to improve. So we are anticipating that even if we get closer to that 11.5, there are still going to be areas that we will continue to tighten up on our budget. So if we can get as close to that 11.5, that will get us to a 3% across the board for all of our staff, health insurance, and these positions. So the closer we get to that, the better. And as well as if we're getting additional money from the state, it'll be less money that we will be asking for from the locale. So those were the main highlights. Thank you. Any questions? Again, I'm available for any questions. I know there's going to be discussion between the two boards. So I'm here to answer any questions and then hear from both boards. I wanted to get through this, because again, I know I wanted to cut out some of the presentation. So if there's things that I missed or things you want me to address, I'm more than happy to go back to it. And then as always, I'm more than happy to provide you additional items if you are requesting that. We have one from Mr. Orndorff, which we will provide. But if there's other items, we're more than happy to do that. Okay. Dr. Harward can I ask you to go back to slide 13 roughly absolutely sir what was the slide so I can't see about a teacher pay oh yeah sure raises yeah that one yes sir I just wanted to emphasize what Chairman Jewell had said at the beginning of the meeting here the four supervisors to my right are brand new to my left is me and John are grizzled veterans at two years each and Bob is Bob's a senior man but I'd like to point out that it from FY 22 23 24 25 and 26 if you add those numbers up 6.4 5.0 6.8 6.6 and 4.9 that's a 29.7 zero percent raise for teachers over those five years of course we didn't do that specifically at the board of supervisors level you you allocate that at your level but we've supported that just in the few years that we've been here so I want to point that out I know that we were emphasizing the years that there were no raises and there was four in a row or five in a row and then one in 21 but over the last several years we've been pretty steadfast to trying to help you with your recruiting and retention and all those and we greatly greatly appreciate that Mr Lero always appreciative thank you sir I've got a I've got a litany of things here but absolutely but I'll try to make this quick um so on that slide yes sir quick numbers and then we should leave this alone because we've talked about it enough but the 17 17 year average on coal is 2.48 Frederick County um as a whole has given the school district a 3.15 percent increase so we're staying above from a from a cola level um it may not be a huge amount and we may not be achieving the goal of having more competitive salaries versus Loudon County and that kind of things but we are exceeding coal I just want to make that point on slide slide 51 I didn't understand um yes sir let me go to that to the buses question and I just don't understand how the question works sure excuse my this one here my ignorance yeah if you got 44 spare buses explain that yes yes I can start and then Mr Thompson can can go ahead and chime in so as I mentioned we have not been able to replace our buses on a regular rate to replace them so that we have other buses that are truly usable on the road so what we do is since we we have those buses we we have replacement parts that we pull off of them because these other buses that are very old we need to replace certain aspects of them so we do have a what we call a Boneyard of of buses just just sitting there we also have buses that are not to be on the road on a regular basis but if a route's missing or a bus breaks down we have a reserve bus that we we utilize again that's not to be utilized on a regular basis but it is sitting there and I'm more than happy to take any border supervisor out to our bus um Department to kind of take a look at that but that that is why we we have those spare buses and parts they're not buses that should be on a road on a regular basis Mr Thompson you want to continue on the topic Mr Thompson please please we will hear from you at the end of today's session thank you Mr Thompson thank you Mr Thompson thank you Mr Rauch for that amazing presentation um thank you Mr Thompson uh thank you Mr Thompson uh Mr Thompson to add to that? Sure. Uh, and what I would also add is just with the age of our fleet, um, what I will tell you is there has been several days just this year where we have zero spare buses available. So literally we are sitting, our, our transportation folks are sitting on the edge of their seat because if a bus breaks down or, or something goes wrong, um, you know, that there were double or triple and quadruple in a run, which we already do to begin with just to get our kids to school. So it's a, it's a razor thin margin. The other thing I will share is, you know, there, even the routine maintenance, such as like an oil change or things of that nature that takes a bus down for at least a half a day. And so, uh, with the miles our buses, uh, drive, you know, that that's what we're looking at. Another thing I will share and not to go too far down in the weeds, but obsolete parts are a real problem for us because the age of our fleet, most recently we had a little plastic part that was costing about $500. And I'm talking a little piece of plastic like this. We, we went to a custom machine shop and had it machined for $47 a piece. And so there's things like that is the reason we keep the bone yard, so to speak, so that we can pull as many used parts off of a buses as we can, uh, to, to be as fiscally responsible as we can at the same rate, though, I'll share. These are daily drivers that we really want to be pulling parts out of the scrap yard. I'm with you. I was just looking for clarification. 20% of the fleet in spare. I was just like trying to understand it. So I appreciate the clarification. Yes, sir. If I may, yes, sir. Just to add a little context to this, um, at the beginning of the year, and I can't remember if it was bus 45 or 54, whichever one is sort of a Shawnee land. Um, I, I take my, my boy down to the bus stop and I started noticing that like every other day there was a different bus every other day. And I, and I emailed the superintendent nasty and what's going on with this bus and it was transmission problems and all these other things. And it was like it would show up one day and it'd be like two or three weeks. It wouldn't show up. And then it would show up again. So it was off and on. They finally ended up replacing it with bus 83. But even bus 83 from time to time doesn't show up. So that's where they're getting with the 44 buses and the spare parts. It's just they're wearing out. That's right. I'm with you. I support the need to replace a fleet. I mean, I've got my own fleet of my own company. You need to do it. I just wanted to understand the question. And then the last thing in this, due to this being, as my fellow partner here pointed out, that we're the rookies on this side of the table, the $11.7 million from the capital. Yes. Is that in your $254 million number? No. It is not? No. That's separate capital. There's a separate fund for that. Correct. Correct. And historically, if I can, for both the boards, that number. The number fluctuates between, since I've been here, $19 million and $15 million. And we've typically received about between $3 to $5 million every year to chisel that down. And then for our cost and savings, we use that money to chisel away some of these projects as well. So we know we're not going to get anywhere close to that $11 million. But the more we can get, the better. Because as I mentioned earlier, if we can replace some of these, it'll help us more in the long run. All right. Thank you for the clarification. Yes, sir. Thank you for the questions. Anybody else? Supervisor out. Yeah, I guess probably more statements and questions. But one of the things Dr. Hummer said during his presentation is at the end of the year, whatever's left in the budget, they bring it back to the board. And either we can take it back or they can use it for capital funds. I think we ought to make the policy of the board that whatever they can save throughout the year, they use for capital funds, period. We don't take it back. That'll give them more incentive to save throughout the year and work on these capital projects. I will say the $6 million figure. That came out. That popped up last week. There was no sign-off by this board of $6 million. That was just a number thrown out there. The other thing is you have about $4.4 million in proffers right now. It could be applied to that 11 million. Then it's growing. So I would encourage you to take a look at that. Maybe as a board, we could make a policy to get the profit money over to that to help fund capital improvements. I guess that's about it. Yeah, I'm going to look for all the money we can to get to you. Whether we make $18 million, $11 million, $9 million, I don't know. But we're going to try. Thank you, sir. That means a lot, Mr. Oates. Thank you. Can I just make one more statement? I would just urge you as much as possible. I know I'm trying to stay in my lane here. We don't do board supervisors does not do categorical funding for the school board. But. As much as you can prioritize to give those teachers those raises in the two scenarios that you had, the higher the raise is better. Because, again, I keep looking at that fourth high school. It's on the horizon, but that horizon is getting closer and closer every year. And we're three and a half years out from opening. We're going to have to staff out that high school at some point. So we need to keep our folks working for us. Thank you. Couldn't agree with you more, sir. Thank you, Mr. Leroy. Supervisor Guvermont. I'm going to make a statement as well. Going back to the time I was the president and CEO of the Chamber of Commerce. The critical thing in any business community is the quality of the schools. When companies which we want to recruit to come to this area in the economic development forum. They. In order to get them here. You have. They. They research. The quality of the schools. Parks and Rec. Crime statistics. All of these things. And the schools are a major priority. If you. Let the schools. Degrade. And. And fall apart. You don't fund the schools properly. You start a spiral of economic distress. To make it where a community. A community cannot attract. New business. You have to understand. Why does a business move to a community. And you put those pieces together. And education is a major component to that driver. We talk about. Wanting to attract businesses. They have to have. Students that come out of the schools. That are. Going to be great future employees. If you don't invest in the schools. You don't have great future employees. There's just a lot of. What we should be thinking. About. That attracts business. That falls into the school system. And it's not always. Black and white. So. I'm just saying. From a business standpoint. That. The great educational system. Helps attract new business. Which is we know. We need for tax revenue. That's my statement. Thank you Mr Chairman. Anybody else on this side. All right we're good for now. Madam. Madam. Chair. You have any of your people. Or you want to. I just want to thank you. For echoing our sentiments as well. That's how we feel about our local economy. And our taxpayer dollars. Going towards the schools. And our employees. As the largest employer in the county. And yeah. Madam Chair. May I? Good afternoon. Good evening. Not good night yet. I'm sorry. Good evening. Good afternoon. My name is Darryl Bell. I'm with the Opecan District. This is my third year on the board. And my third go around on. Talking with the Board of Supervisors about the budget for the schools. First I'd like to say thank you to all of you. For listening. To Dr. Hummers presentation. And for understanding what it is that we're trying to achieve here. I truly appreciate it. But I also want to give. perspective um from the ground i guess from those on the ground the teachers and the students um we're putting forth a budget that is cutting something very near and dear to me that i would most definitely like to include and i still haven't made up my mind if i'm going to put it forward or not but we have the opportunity to add the ability for our budget to cover all lunches and breakfasts for the students it's 900 000 in some change to do so and we aren't doing that we didn't put that forward because we wanted to be better stewards of the dollar and to give you the most bare bones budget that we possibly could now just so you understand we have 21 schools yeah that is correct 21 schools i better know that we have 21 schools and we have a large number of students that require reduced or free lunches and then you have that gap of those who just sort of fall through the cracks i'm not going to argue the politics of it the bottom line is it's something that would truly benefit our community especially with students who rely on food banks that are in the schools and around the community but we've removed that 900 000 and so we're only adding two additional schools and it's at no cost it's not going to increase the budget one way or the other so it's it's it's flat the second thing i'd like to bring up to you is the fact that next year my daughter is going to be a junior in shirando and she's being forced to take a study hall that she doesn't want and would more than likely be taking another class if she could but unfortunately we don't have enough staff as it is right now to cover the classes for students who don't want to be in a study hall and i had a conversation with the principal of the school and this is what she shared with me is that she's going to have more people of all ditter the reasons why is it that she'll have more students if they don't want to attend because i kind of know that she's such an important member of the public part of the community but i wanted her to share that with me as well thank you thank you thank you for having me i think the reason i've i've reflected on a number of reasons is that you have this opportunity and when i added another teacher and i want to remind you that as teachers the goal is for the students to be là students of color in this school so you're that they desperately would like to take. Because my daughter's college bound, as are so many others, and it's strength of schedule that really attract universities to them. She wants to be a doctor, which is great. And her strength of schedule needs to be extremely strong for her to be able to get into a good university to study that. And so as a parent, you know, I'm looking at two potential possibilities here, and I'm not trying to step on your toes or tell you what to do, but we either have to raise taxes or we have to bite the bullet and invite data centers into our community, which nobody wants to do either, right? But something's got to give. And I can tell you that we are losing teachers. I have a large number of friends that teach in the Frederick County Public Schools, and they're losing. And I'm looking to see if Clark is going to raise their rate, which it is by 5%. They're looking to see if, well, Loudon, they throw money at everything. But they're definitely raising their salaries. But even within the community like Warren and Shenandoah. And I don't want to start losing teachers to those communities because we want them right here. So I'm sorry I'm very long-winded, but I just want to implore you to, to take a step forward. And I'm going to try and help us find and get us as close to that full number as you possibly can, because we're not giving you a budget with fluff or pork. We're giving you a budget of what we need to operate successfully. And to your point, Mr. Gouverneur, to provide the best possible product of student that we can so that we attract businesses who want to hire those students. Thank you. Thank you. If I may, two points. I want to make. First one, to piggyback off what Mr. Liero said, trust. Trust is important, right? And I think maintaining the trust or earning the trust of the staff, the teachers, is critical. We get that through meeting the minimum COLA increase for their salaries, meeting the promises and decoupling the pay scales that were made by previous boards, and then maintaining a level set on their out-of-pocket cost for health insurance. This board member, that's the number one priority, is ensuring the staff is taken care of and kept whole in that way. The other thing I'd like to reference, we didn't talk about it at all, but House Bill 334, the 1% sales tax increase that goes directly to capital projects for the schools. I would encourage everyone on the other side of this table to take a good hard look at that. I would love to see that come to fruition and be on the ballots in November if everything goes well. Thank you. This board's already asked for the resolution to be drawn up. Our county attorney is working on it so that once we understand what the language is, so we're already in front of that. But I also want to make sure that 1% has got a lot in it that we don't know yet because it possibly could go towards debt services. It possibly could go towards capital. So we just don't know. Once we get the final... the final language, then we have a better idea of what we can do working together as boards with this. But yes, we have already asked the county attorney to start working on that for us. While I've got the mic, I've already met with a couple of the board members, and I thank you. I'm open to anybody else who wants to meet. I know the board members, our fellow board members are as well. We can't do... It can only be a two-on-two. We don't want to go breaking any rules now, or God forbid, you know, so... Not basketball. Yeah. But that's open. So if folks want to meet with us, just reach out, and we'll work on getting something together here. No, I'm fine. Thank you. Okay. Yeah. Anybody else? Oops. Anybody else? Anybody else got anything? Just one more closing thought, Mr. Chair and Madam Chair. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Greg. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Hummer, thank you for not running through 80 slides. Very welcome, sir. You did a great job. Thank you. Summing it up. Succeeding in getting us in there. Thank you guys for your time. Appreciate it. You know, we've got folks listening. I think it's very important for all the constituents in this county to understand this board and our school board are working together. We really are. And it's just a nice way of communicating, and we will continue doing that. And I just appreciate how civil everything has been. Anybody else got anything? All right. Look at that. 625. That's how you do it. Thank you. Work session is adjourned. Thank you, guys. I wish you could. I know. I know. Give it one more piece. Thank you.
