Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-09-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=239
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. The next item on our agenda is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption as presented? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Likewise. The motion carries. The agenda is adopted. Next item is committee reports. Are there any committee reports? No committee reports to my right. Ms. Bruback, yes. I have Frederick Water. We had a meeting yesterday. The area does remain in a drought watch, even though we've had, I think it was 10 inches of rain in August. We're still slightly under where we need to be. The groundwater is actually in a drought emergency, and that's monitored by the DEQ. And that's... All those folks that are on private wells, which is 50% of our population in Frederick County, that is considered a drought emergency for the groundwater, and we need to continue to conserve water as much as possible. Let's see. The monthly water production average was 7.35 million gallons per day, and currently there's 18,589 water. That's a total of 17,589 gallons per day. And that's a total of 18,589 gallons per day. And that's a total of 18,589 gallons per day. And I think I had written down they have six projects they're working on right now, and they're all pretty much in a state of some level of work. So they're pretty busy. Okay. That's all. Very good. Thank you. Hopefully the rain we received last night and this morning will help that situation. We have Ms. Lisa Mayfield with us from Winchester Planning Commission. Good evening. Good evening. Can you turn your microphone on? Thank you. Hi. I'm happy to be here. I have a pretty simple report in that we had a work session earlier this month, and we approved a site plan that we had seen before. It was just going through its final approval. We do not have any public hearings later this month, so our session yesterday was canceled, and we were warned October and November are going to be very busy. So there will be more reports soon. Okay. Thank you very much. Supervisor Leo Rose here from the Board of Supervisors. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chair. We had a Board of Supervisors meeting last Wednesday, the 11th. We looked at the update to the 24-25 Frederick County Primary Road Improvement Plan, and that was adopted 7-0 vote. We also had a discussion on Ordinance 165-204.30, to specify appropriate surface materials for parking areas at special event facilities. That was sent forward to a public hearing, I believe, back to your board. And that's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, sir. That leads us to Item 6 on our agenda, which is the citizen comment period. This is a time for citizens to address the Planning Commission about any item they wish that is not on our public hearing list for this evening. If you do have something to say, we ask that you step forward to the microphone, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comment section, and we will move into public hearings. Our public hearing, only public hearing for this evening, is a Conditional Use Permit 05-24 for Byrne Boot Camp, Wisteria Garden of Winchester. Submitted for Commercial Recreation Fitness Center. And Ms. Felder, good evening. And ma'am, your mic's not on. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. This is an application for a Conditional Use Permit for an Indoor Fitness and Recreational Sports Center. The 3.72-acre property is located at 250 Independence Drive. In the region, it is a 3.72-acre property. The property is currently located in the M1 Zoning District. Turning your attention to the screen, the property is outlined in purple. It is located east of Winchester off of Route 50 on Independence Drive. The existing facility has two existing commercial entrances and an existing parking area that contains about 80 parking spaces. Staff would like to note that the items in red were modified from the previous slide. The items in red were modified from the previous slide. The items in red were modified from the previous slide. The items in red were modified from the previous slide. In consideration of the applicant's future business plan, the maximum group size was increased from 50 to 75. This prevents returning to modify the Conditional Use Permit in the immediate future. The increased group size has prompted requirements for shared parking agreements and hour of operation limitations, which have been added to the recommended conditions that you'll see later in these slides. Additionally, the stipulation for the quantity, in the child care area or the child child care operation was removed the maximum quantity will be governed by the building code and it will be governed by the room size which is currently unknown right now and it will be it would be governed by other requirements from other agencies staff would also like to note that the items you see on the screen before you is taken directly from the applicants narrative and are not conditions so the applicant is requesting the use of an existing industrialized building for a fitness and recreational Sports Center operated indoors proposed hours are Monday through Friday 445 until 7 p.m. and Saturday 745 a.m. until 12 noon with no more than 75 attendees or employees at any time the childcare area is for patrons only and an anticipated smoothie bar is for future fitness centers and recreational sports centers are permitted in the m1 zoning district with an approved conditional use permit the ordinance further limits the operation to indoor operations only other ordinance requirements address parking customer access to the facility and the safety of the patrons while entering and exiting the facility as previously mentioned the facility the parking and the entrances are in place and are adequate again the conditions in red or modified from your initial staff report so should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate staff would recommend the following conditions all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times a change of use permit through the building department shall be acquired and approved prior to conducting the use the child care operations shall serve the patrons only hours of operation Monday 5304 for schools and congregations in school performance will require either surgery or clicrat Blues finalization office employee senate currently between ут Friday 445 a.m. until 7 p.m. and on Saturdays from 745 until noon with a maximum of 75 attendees and employees at any given time. A shared parking agreement is required to be submitted to the zoning administrator for review and approval prior to the conducting of the use. And any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. This item is presented for public hearing and staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Staff is available to answer any questions that you may have. And Tori, the applicant, is here and would like to address the Planning Commission briefly. So the occupancy at any time in the facility is 75 combined patrons and employees. When it comes to the child care, is that, that says for the patients, I mean, would the employees be allowed to help their children out there? There is a child area that is, there are required to have one adult in there for every 10 children. So that's going to vary. And that's another reason why we didn't put a cap on it. Are you going to have employees? Yes, the employees can bring their children. The Planning Commission can make that adjustment. No, you're fine. You're fine. That's correct. There's an existing trucking and warehousing facility in the rear of the facility. And then the new area of 10,000 would be up front. Okay. But if there's only 80 parking spaces, is there going to be, I realize we're talking about shared parking. Is there going to be, is that adequate for both uses? So initially when we had discussed this with the zoning administrator, the warehousing facility that is to the rear only uses roughly six to eight spaces. And they have two loading docks in the rear. Once we made that modification from 50 at any given time for the fitness center, that's when it prompted the shared parking agreement. And so Mark is going to look. The zoning administrator. Is going to review that once that is submitted and approved. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. All right. Good evening, members of the Planning Commission. My name is Tori Furphy, and I'm here to ask for your approval of a conditional use permit for 250 Independence Drive for a burn boot camp gym here in Winchester. I'm incredibly passionate about this project because burn has not only transformed my life and my family's life. But as the potential to bring tremendous value to the Winchester community. Burn boot camp is far more than just a place to work out. It transforms lives and communities through challenging 45 minute cardio and strength workouts that lead members feeling stronger, more confident and more empowered in every aspect of their lives. This is something I've experienced firsthand since my husband and I became founding members of the Leesburg, Virginia location nearly three years ago. Since then, we've been attending camp six days a week. And the positive impact. On our physical and mental health has been undeniable. Our kids. This is my daughter, Morgan. Our kids love coming with us to child watch and they get to witness the hard work, discipline and dedication we put in every day. It's inspiring for them. And I'm thrilled to be setting such a strong example for their future. Earlier this year, I quit my full time job in video production to pursue this passion through franchise ownership because I believe so deeply in burns mission and what it can do for others. Burn boot camp. Elite trainers work with members one on one to help them achieve their goals, whether that's improving fitness, building strength or gaining confidence. The workouts are all conducted on our floating floor that you see here on the slide, which is essentially like a gymnastics floor. The equipment consists of dumbbells, medicine balls, a pull up rig, battle rope, soft boxes and hurdles. We are not using large barbells or any sort of electronic cardio equipment. And we're not flipping tires. We are not CrossFit. Our weekly protocols consist of three strength days and three cardio days per week. Our 45 minute high intensity interval training workouts are designed for all fitness levels and every workout can be modified up or down. Whether someone is a seasoned athlete or just starting their fitness journey from the couch, burn provides a supportive environment where everyone can feel challenged, engaged and capable of success. Burn boot camp offers more than just physical fitness. It gives people the discipline and focus that transcends their time. It transcends their time in the gym and carries over into their daily lives, maximizing their overall quality of life. I believe this is something Winchester will benefit from deeply. One of the aspects that makes burn so unique is the strong sense of community it fosters. From the moment someone walks into burn, they are immediately welcomed into burn nation. An inspiring and motivating community of people who support each other through every challenge and celebrate every success. This is what makes burn so special. It's not just about intensity. It's about individual goals. It's about lifting each other up and achieving greatness together. One of the reasons I'm so excited about 250 Independence Drive is because it's the perfect location to bring burn's vision to life. This space is ideal for a gym. It's large warehouse layout offers the flexibility we need to transform it into the perfect environment for our members. The space will accommodate our strength and cardio workouts as well as provide ample room for our child watch program, which is so valuable for families like mine. The ample space will also provide ample room for our child watch program, which is so valuable for families like mine. The interval parking and easy access make it convenient for residents throughout Winchester and the surrounding areas, whether they're coming from downtown or the outskirt. The interval parking and easy access make it convenient for residents throughout Winchester and the surrounding areas, whether they're coming from downtown or the outskirts. The interval parking and easy access make it convenient for residents throughout Winchester and the surrounding areas, whether they're coming from downtown or the outskirts. The interval parking and easy access make it convenient for residents throughout Winchester and the surrounding areas, whether they're coming from downtown or the outskirts. In contrast to many of the retail spaces we've looked at in this journey, which either don't offer enough space or come with restrictions on gym operations, this location gives us the best opportunity to serve the largest number of people. space or come with restrictions on gym operations, this location gives us the best opportunity to serve the largest number of people. With its central location and size, we'll be able to help more members achieve their fitness goals and build the kind of tight-knit community that Byrne is known for. With knowledge in our heads, love in our hearts, strength in our bodies, and passion in our souls, we change lives, and I'm incredibly excited to bring this energy to Winchester. I believe this city is the perfect place for Byrne Boot Camp's mission, and I'm confident it will have a profound impact on the lives of those who live here. The entire trajectory of mine and my family's life has been changed by our involvement with Byrne, and I look forward to helping others find that same sense of belonging, strength, and purpose that we found. Thank you for your time and consideration. I'm excited about the opportunity to contribute to the health, happiness, and well-being of the Winchester community by making Byrne Boot Camp a cornerstone. Thank you, Tori. Any questions for the applicant? Mr. Triplett. Yes. So this is an open door, not a membership? Correct. There's camp times throughout the day, so roughly seven to eight different camps throughout the day, so everybody would be coming in for 45 minutes. So the operating hours are long, but really it's like a 5 a.m., 6 a.m., 7 a.m., maybe at 8.30 and 9.30, noon, 4.30, 5.30, so kind of broken down. Throughout the day into seven or eight different camp times. So not a drop-in facility. You do not offer a membership. It is a membership-focused gym, yes. So people would be paying a monthly fee, and that gives them unlimited access to as many camps per week as they want to go to, but those camps are at designated times. It's not just popping in whenever you can throughout the day. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Would you like an application, Mr. Triplett? Yeah, we would love to have you. We love you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All fitness levels? The equipment is not strong enough for me. I have a couple of their photos here that I did send over if you wanted to see the inside of some gyms. So just to give you a better idea, you know, we're not a CrossFit facility. We're also not like a Gold's Gym or an Anytime Fitness with a bunch of equipment on the floor. This is an example of our child watch rooms where that's probably our biggest value add to membership is being able to drop your little ones off. And get 45 minutes to yourself as a mom of little ones. She's my oldest. That's been a huge thing for me. And then just some exterior signage. You know, we want this place to look nice and be, you know, a great view in the city. And then this is some of our other equipment, just our medicine balls and our dumbbells. But again, no big huge barbells, no big, you know, we're not climbing ropes to the ceiling or flipping tires. So, so yeah. Any questions to my left for the applicant? Thank you. Is Morgan going to speak also? Yeah, would you like to speak for me? She's like, I'm not ready for that. But she might. I don't know. Do you like Byrne? Yeah. All right. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Okay, this is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this conditional use permit, this would be the time to do so. Please come forward, state your name, magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anyone like to speak to the Planning Commission about this? Anybody? Seeing none, close the public hearing. Comments, questions, discussions? I think we ought to change the third condition from children operations shall be limited, child care operations shall be limited to 20 children and shall serve as gym patrons. We ought to put slash instructors only. Employees. Employees, right. Instead of just, you know, the staff. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. naive in the audio No, not to add to 20. But to add the employees, not just patrons, but patrons and employees. Yeah, not the number, yeah. I agree. Good. Any other comments? Nope. Comments? Discussion? Okay. Mr. Marker, this is Redbud. I do have just one question. If there's a change, like, in our hours, like, if we say we want to do a camp earlier, does that mean that it's another? Can you come up to the mic? Sorry. I was just thinking about that with that language change. If there is a change in our hours, I know we had, like, Saturday, 745 to noon. Well, let's say we want to offer a 7 a.m. camp. Do we need to change that now, or would that be another CUP? So should we just, like, shoot for the moon and say 5 a.m. to noon? Like, should we, what's your recommendation on kind of expanding that? If you want Saturday classes to start early, if you think you're going to do that, this would be the time to make that change, yes. Okay. Because, yeah, that's kind of. That's the only reason for having hours on this one, because if it's an industrial district where they're really concerned about disturbing neighbors, is they're going to have a shared parking equipment, so we have to have some bearing on when we're going to be in that location, so we can know when the parking space is going to be free. In this case, I think the plan was well, you're basically entitled to 95% of the proper parking spaces that are set up right now, like, wherever we ever do it. So we certainly don't have any concerns about the parking... hours or the hours of operation being drawn in because it's not in a reference. Okay. Thank you. Lori, what do you want to do? What do you want to change? I mean, I guess, and this is what Amy and I were speaking about, is if I'm shooting for the moon in 10 years from now, I mean, there are some gyms that offer a 4.30 a.m. camp on weekdays, which would mean we'd want to be in there at 4.15. That's kind of crazy, but maybe we should put it. And then for Saturdays, we could have a 6 or 7 a.m., so maybe just to be safe, putting 5.30 to noon on Saturdays and 4.15 to 7 p.m. or 7.30 p.m. on weekdays. Maybe 8. I don't know. I'm trying to predict a business in 10 years. Yeah. So, Mr. Chairman, just to recap that. Once that. Saturdays, 5.30 a.m. to noon, and on weekdays, Monday through Friday, 4.15 a.m. to 8 p.m. Yeah. That's fine. Given the location, I think that's. We were just trying to ascertain if Mr. Triplett gets up that early. I'll see you later. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a motion that we approve conditional permit. Turn your mic on. I make a motion that we approve conditional use permit 0524 for the Byrne Boot Camp and include the additions, corrections as made by the commission tonight. Second. Okay. We have a motion and a second. Is there any additional? Discussion? No. Ms. Brumback, would you like to start us? Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Triplett, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on October the 9th. We wish you very best. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next item on the agenda is current planning applications. Any updates there, Mr. Pearson? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nothing related to submitted site plans or anything of that nature, but we do have some ordinance amendments working their way through the process. I just wanted to inform the Planning Commission that we've slightly handled how we process those. So it used to be Planning Commission discussion, Board discussion, or sorry, Committee Planning Commission discussion, Board discussion, Planning Commission public hearing, Board public hearing. Now we're starting at the Board with a discussion and asking them to authorize the public hearing. Then we'll go to Committee. Come to you all for a public hearing and then finish at the Board. So your one discussion period is getting cut out of it, but while you're hearing it at public hearing, you can still choose to table it if you have any further thoughts or information that you need on those ordinance amendments. So just wanted to make you all aware of it. The first one you'll hear I think will be from Amy on the special events standards, and that will come to the Planning Commission in the next couple months after it gets through the DRC Committee. So happy to answer any questions on that change. Very good. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Hearing none, that leaves us with an adjournment. Is there a motion for adjournment? So moved. All in favor say aye. Aye. Have a safe drive home. Thank you very much.
