Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-04-16
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=280
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I call the April 16, 2025 Frederick County Planning Commission meeting to order. Please stand and join us as Mr. Thomas leases into Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next item on the agenda is the adoption of the agenda. Do we have a motion for adoption? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. That leads us to item four, which is committee reports. Any committee reports this evening? Yeah, I have one. I attended the Frederick Water meeting last night, and two major items they covered was establishment of the budget for next year for fiscal 26 of $88 million with a capex of roughly $38 million. And the three board members that were present, Vice Chair and Secretary of Treasury, were reelected in the same positions. That's Gary, Martha Dilge, and Tom Simon. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Board. Any other committee reports? I have the City Planning Commission report. Mr. Kearns? Ms. Burnett was not able to be here, but I will read the report that she forwarded on for us. So they didn't have anything new, I don't think, from their work session, but I'll just go over what they had talked about last time. They had a CUP request for Fremont Street Day Nursery to add an additional classroom, a CUP request for the Youth Development Center to operate a youth activity center on Loudoun Street. A CUP request for the Studio Lounge in Karaoke to operate an entertainment establishment on Berryville Avenue. A CUP request for key construction to construct attached dwellings at East South Work Street. And then also a CUP to request for key construction for a ground floor conversion of non-residential use to residential use on South Indian Alley. And I believe all of those were forwarded to Council recommending approval. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Committee reports. Mr. Liero. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chair. The Board of Supervisors met last Wednesday, the 9th. We had three issues to deal with in the planning arena. First one was Conditional Use Permit 02-25 Russell Farm LLC for a special event facility in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. When the Planning Commission approved that, they put restrictions on no amplified music whatsoever. There was a discussion last week in the Board meeting that was approved 7-0 with conditions. The condition was made a little bit less restrictive for wedding ceremonies to have amplified music during wedding ceremonies. So that was approved 7-0. Second item was Ordinance Amendment to Frederick County Code. Additions and revisions to define and provide specific regulations related to data centers and power generating facilities. That was adopted 7-0. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the last one was Shawnee Representative Liz Kozel on the Planning Commission was re-approved 7-0 for another four-year term. Congratulations to her. Congratulations. And thank you. Thank you very much, sir. That completes our committee reports. Next item is citizen comments. If anybody would like to comment on anything that is not on our agenda tonight for a public hearing, this would be the time for you to address the Planning Commission. I would ask you to come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I will close the public comment period and we will move on to public hearings. Item 6A is a rezoning number 3-25 for Royal King Truck Trailer Parking, Royal King Truck Stop, LLC. Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. Yes, good evening. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the Planning Commission. This is a combined application request rezoning 03-25 and conditional use permit 04-25 for the Royal King Truck Trailer Parking. This is a request to rezone 4.35 acres of property zone B-2 and B-3 to B-3 with proffers. They are also seeking a conditional use permit on three parcels, including the application subject to the rezoning, totaling $3. 13.64 acres to develop tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking. The subject property is located at the terminus of Hopewell Lane in the Stonewall Magisterial District. There is a previous rezoning approved for this application from 1996. This is our countywide locator map showing the general location of the subject property in the northeast part of the county right along Interstate 81 and Route 11. This is our zoning and locator map showing the subject parcels outlined. The parcel subject to the rezoning is shown in orange, which denotes the existing B-2 zoning. And then the entire assemblage of three parcels outlined in purple is for the conditional use permit. That includes two existing lots zoned B-3 and the parcel subject to the rezoning, which is currently B-2. It joins Freightliner, which you all may be familiar with on Hopewell Lane, and the Animal Hospital, which is at Hopewell Lane and Hopewell Road. This is exit 321 on 81. This is exit 321 on 81. Your Northeast Land Use Plan and your Comprehensive Plan provide guidance on the use of these parcels. They are identified with a business long range land use designation and within the limits of the county sewer and water service area or SWASA. The plan, specifically the NELAP plan, provides policy about the use of parcels along the interstate, noting that they should be recognized that viable commercial uses in that area will likely need to meet the needs of interstate travelers as well as surrounding residents in the context of the land use plan. This is exit 321 on 81. This is exit 321 on 81. The proposedLa la la facility is stink facility. This design is made in 2013 for the the proposedimaginas city of which is that business land use designation, you can see that parcels to the northeast and west of the subject parcels are identified with that business land use designation, reflecting the highway commercial aspect of those uses along Interstate E1 and at the interchange. In regards to transportation and site access, there are no planned identified transportation improvements adjacent to or on the subject property. Hopewell Lane is an existing public roadway, and access to the site will be from that terminus of Hopewell Lane. The applicant did pursue and receive a VDOT commercial entrance plan approval in December of 2024, and use of the property, specifically the property subject to the rezoning, is proffered to be restricted only to tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking, which has the potential to generate less traffic on a daily basis than by right B2 or B3 uses that would otherwise be developed on the parcel, including gas convenience or restaurant with drive-thru, for example. He did include a proffer statement. It was dated March 10th. It did provide three key components. The first was to restrict the use of the property only to tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking, reflective of their desire to pursue a conditional use permit application with the rezoning, and they specified that any development of the property would be in general conformance with their generalized development plan, or GDP, that was provided dated January 2025. Further, they proffered to make any VDOT-required improvements. Again, they did pursue and were approved for a commercial entrance permit, as required by VDOT. In their comment letter. This is the generalized development plan and conditional use permit exhibit, included with the application showing the general location of the assemblage and also how they intend to lay out the tractor trailer truck parking on the subject property and also meet the other zoning ordinance requirements for open space and landscaping from the frontage with Hopewell Lane. In regard to the conditional use permit and the consideration of tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking, that is an allowed use, requiring a conditional use permit in the B-3 industrial transition zoning district. The zoning ordinance also includes additional regulations for specific uses, which staff will cover in subsequent slides. Again, tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking are not permitted in property zone B-2, which is why the applicant is doing a combined application to rezone a portion of the property and then do the conditional use permit for the entire assemblage. In regards to tractor truck and tractor trailer truck parking, the additional regulations, particularly in the B-3 industrial transition zoning district, are not permitted in the B-3 industrial transition zoning district. The additional regulations, particularly in the B-3 industrial transition zoning district, are not permitted in the B-3 industrial transition zoning district, and they do not provide guidance on how these uses are developed on certain properties. It is permitted as a primary use in the B-3 M-1 and M-2 district with a conditional use permit, and it should not be located to adjacent residential uses, which this property is not. In addition, it will be required to meet the following conditions. Areas utilized for parking of trucks and trailers shall utilize a gravel or paved surface. All paved and gravel surfaces must be properly maintained to ensure that dirt, mud, gravel, or the like are not distributed to the public. All paved and gravel surfaces must be properly maintained to ensure that dirt, mud, gravel, or the like are not distributed to the public. All paved and gravel surfaces must be properly maintained to ensure that dirt, mud, gravel, or the like are not distributed onto roadways. They are not allowed to store inoperable trucks or trailers, or damaged or salvaged trailers, or unlicensed trailers on the property. Fuel sales are not permitted. They does not permit maintenance of trucks or trailers, and they require to landscape that front yard area and side yards with various landscaping treatments depending on the road frontage. And then they would also need to submit a site plan for approval prior to the establishment of the use. So in regard to the conditional use permit, we typically offer conditions of approval. Staff would recommend the following conditions should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate. Number one, that a site plan be submitted to in accordance with Article 8, and it be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan would address the additional regulations for specific uses contained in the zoning ordinance, and would also comply with all agency comments, including the comment from VDOT for a commercial entrance permit. And finally, number two, that any expansion or modification of the site plan be submitted to the Board of Directors. And finally, number two, that any expansion or modification of the site plan be submitted to the Board of Directors. Another condition of this use would require a new conditional use permit. So as is typical, I'll provide a summary of the application. This is again a request to rezone 4.35 acres from the B3, sorry, from the B2 district to the B3 district with proffers, and a request for conditional use permit on the property subject to the rezoning plus additional property totaling 13.64 acres to develop tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking. This item is presented as a public hearing item this evening and following a public hearing, staff would be seeking two recommendations from the Planning Commission. Again, the first is a recommendation on that rezoning request and the second would be a recommendation on the request for a conditional use permit for tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking. Should this application move forward this evening, it would go to the Board of Supervisors on May 14th. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Are there any questions to my left for Mr. Klein? No questions? To my right? Mr. Kearns? Yes, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. When I was at this site yesterday or the day before kind of taking a look at it, I noticed the property immediately across from Hopewell Lane on the north side. So it's not on this map. You can't see it here, but on the other side of Hopewell. And it looks like it had kind of started to be developed. There was, I think, a for sale sign in there. Can I ask if there's any plans? Because my biggest concern... My biggest concern from this is that intersection right there. And I think any change in use on the other side of Hopewell might affect this intersection. So can I ask if there's anything planned on the other side? The property you're referring to is north of the Sunoco at the intersection of Route 11 and Hopewell Lane and the intersections with Brewstown Road and Hopewell Road. Correct. There is a... The owner of that property is seeking a rezoning. They are working through preliminary comments with the county and also comments. With the Virginia Department of Transportation to develop a truck stop at that location and rezone that currently rural piece of property to B2. They have not officially submitted the application. They're still working through some of the key elements there, but they are pursuing that at this time. And staff would note that there are long-term plans to realign Brewstown Road and Hopewell Road and how it pertains to the interchange. Those have been on the county books for a while. There is some money that came out of the car moose rezoning that's part of that. But the plans are still a long way from being kind of finalized and construction starting up there. But there is development activity in the vicinity of this development. And it would be at that intersection, right? Correct. It would impact that. It would be directly across the street from where Hopewell Lane meets Hopewell Road. Got it. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Thomas. How many tractor trailers could park in there? Their proposal, their conditional use permit exhibit notes that they would intend to develop 158 tractor trailers. And they would be able to park in the trailer truck parking spaces. And maybe I missed it, but I didn't see anything that limited the length of time they could park there. There's not restrictions, but certainly you all could offer conditions to restrict overnight parking or the like if that's so desired. Okay. Would we require lighting? We don't typically require lighting on these sites, although a lot of the tractor trailer truck parking approvals that you've done in the past, they've ultimately done site lighting. Site lighting is a requirement of the zoning ordinance. It would be handled at the time of site plan. Now, would this just be for the trailers, or could they park tractor trailers connected here also? They can park the cab and or the trailer together or separate on the lot. And I'll let the applicant speak. I apologize for not introducing them. Amon Sandu is here this evening representing Royal King Truck Stop, LLC. I'm sure he can speak a little bit more about how they intend to operate the facility. What is the closest residence? There are residences on the far side of 81 on Waverly Road. You can kind of see in this image. Again, they're across the highway, across what is a farm field, and then on the far side. And then there's some residential on the opposite side of the railroad tracks along Route 11. It's not directly adjoining the subject parcels. You done? Yes. Okay. What is to the south? The parcel? That is not colored there. Yes. Between the railroad and 81. Whoops. You're referring to this parcel? Yes. That is owned by the Frederick County Rural Town. It's part of the fairgrounds and that ownership group. Okay. And then, obviously, directly across the railroad kind of to the southeast of the subject parcels is Stonewall Elementary School. Okay. That would be. So, can you just give us a Reader's Digest review of the 1996 rezoning and what that involved? The 1996 rezoning did not restrict uses or anything like that. It only required a monetary contribution for any development at the time of the first certificate of occupancy. They've otherwise satisfied that proffer when they developed the animal hospital and freight liner. So, essentially, all the proffers associated with that rezoning have been satisfied by the county. Okay. And this is? It is in the Swazza and it is zoned B3 and B2. Yes, sir. It is zoned B3 and B2 and is in the limits of the Swazza. Are any buildings being proposed with this? The applicant is not presently proposing any buildings on the property. They certainly could develop a small building for like a maintenance shed or if they have an employee on the site. But, again, I'll let the applicant speak to their kind of current and future intentions for the site. Okay. On the GDP, I didn't see anything that indicated stormwater management. And if you're going to park, what was it? 150 something? Trucks. And I assume it will be paved. I'm not sure how that would be done. Yeah. The GDP is conceptual. Certainly, it's subject to a final engineering, which they would need to do a site plan as part of the conditional use permit. Staff would note, again, for clarification, that the rezoning proffers out all of the other B3 uses and restricts it only to tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking. So, there's other uses that, you know, warehousing and some of the other intensive B3 uses would otherwise not be allowed to develop on the parcels given their voluntary proffer. But the rezoning only pertains to the one of the three parcels. That is correct. Do the other two parcels have uses that are allowed? The other two parcels certainly could develop any of the other B3 uses that are allowed in the zoning ordinance. Although, again, it's not the applicant's intent. And given the access and how they're laying out their site, I don't think that's necessarily their intention. But I'll let them speak to that. Okay. Thank you. Come on. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening, all members of the board. This is Amandeep Sandhu. I'm representing my client, Harpreet Singh, over here. Thank you, Mr. Tyler, for going over the content of the COP application and the rezoning application. I think we gave a good overview of what the intent was. So, our intent is to rezone one of the parcels, like Mr. Tyler said, B2 to B3, and use that for a conditional use permit for tractor trailer parking on those three lots combined. And it's going to be a phased approach. We're not planning. We're not going to use that right away. We're not going to park 150 trucks there right away. It's going to be a phased approach. We're going to develop one section of the, clean that out, put gravel on that, make a VDOT-compliant entrance plan, and have probably, once we go a little further, I'm going to put a little office over there just so we can manage the trucks being parked over there overnight or not overnight in a matter, whichever matter, they're parking over there. So, that's going to be a phased approach. Like Mr. Tyler addressed the traffic concerns and some committee members, I mean, some fellow members from the county had some concerns about the truck traffic. So, you know, like I already said, there's an exit already there from 81 Hopewell Road already has traffic for Freightliner. There's a Snowco gas station there. Martinsburg Park is right there. So, there's traffic already there. And establishing our cup or our tractor trailer parking is on my, from what we learned. So, as we look at how it grows in a future date, probably introduce three or four trucks in a day coming in and out of the facility. I don't see that as a big impact of adding another two or three trucks in a daily route to the roads. The other thing is that once we, once this conditional use permit goes in place is that it's going to eliminate a lot of truck parking which is on the street throughout the county. There has been an article published in the West Winchester. It's a lot of traffic. And it's been published in the West Winchester newspaper that there was some concerns about how tractor trailers were being parked on the street and residents and complained about it. So, that tractor trailer parking that we're proposing will reduce that impact on the streets and eliminate trailers being parked over there. And that will affect the local residents when traveling on Martinsburg Pike, Hopewell Rain or throughout the entire 81 corridor which is on the West Winchester County. So, this is one of the articles that was published concerning the traffic. And it's been published in the West Winchester newspaper. And it's a lot of traffic. And there is also an article that we're making about the restriction on how people are parking, how the tractors are being parked on the streets. That being said as Mr. Tyler already said the zones are already B3 zone. We're just three zoning one of the zones to B2 to comply with the, comply with the zoning ordinance for conditional use permit. There were some concerns about the kind of the traffic, the traffic that was being parked on the streets. And I think that's why we're not really working out. the Stoneville Elementary School, how the location is close to that. So towards the end of parcel number 165, we are proposing a rainwater retention pound. And that's the area over there is going to be untouched. It's going to remain as it is, but there will be a rainwater retention pound over there that will connect all your rainwater or stormwater which will be generated once we lay down gravel on the entire site. So that answers, I mean that will also answer your question about storm rainwater management or stormwater management plan. So these are the two. There's one rainwater retention pond at the end of 165 and one is at the starting of 164C, which is already a low zone there. So there's already a lot of rainwater or stormwater being collected over there. So having gravel or pavement over there is going to, we're not putting pavement over there or asphalt on that. Asphalt will be restricted to the ground. So that's going to be restricted to only your entrance. Everything else will be gravel and normal, topological cycles and geological layout will propose the water to go on to those low-low-low-line areas, which will go on to your, the stream that is over there right now. I forgot the name of the stream, but there is a stream actually which runs across the parcels right now. Moving, yeah, so going back to the Stoneville Elementary School, it's on the other side of the parcel. So there's already a lot of rainwater on the road tracks and there's already, like I said, with the rainwater retention pond and what's being, what's existing over there, I don't see anything impacting Stoneville Elementary School with the traffic which is going to be introduced at this conditionally used permit facility that we're proposing. And that's, and then like what Mr. Tyler said, there's already a truck facility there. There's a gas station there which uses temporary tractors parked over there right now on Hopeville, on Martinsburg Pike and Hopeville Road. So there's already traffic, tractor trailer traffic right now on the, in the area. The reason why I'm saying that is because there was some concern about, from the community members about the zone being used as a conditionally used permit for tractor trailer parking. But I want to just bring it to everyone's attention that we're not doing anything different than what's already there. This will actually help the community and the entire, not entire, but some part of the traffic to mitigate and come to a rest point at our facility that we're proposing. And that's all I have for today. Any questions for me? Any questions to my right, Mr. DeHaven. Good evening. Yes, good evening. There was a question earlier about lighting and security on the site. Is there, are there any plans for how that would be done? I'm just curious about the hours. I assume this is a 24 hour operation, people coming and going at all times? Yes, once we have a site trailer on, we'll build, we'll propose a building structure over there, a small building structure. Yes, we can see this being as 24 hours, but currently we're going to just run it from our home office. The requirement about lighting, I'm not sure if there's anything in the conditionally used permit for tractor trailers. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We will have security cameras over there that will monitor the site throughout 24 hours a day. There will be office over there in the future development once we get the condition permit approved. If there's a requirement to have lighting, yeah, sure, we can definitely provide that. Thank you. Any other questions from my right? Mr. Thomas? Oh, I'm concerned with the amount of tractor trailers, the cabs and the trailers that could be there, up to 150. You say you're planning on putting a gravel surface down? Yes, that's what the intent is. With the proximity to the stream there and the potential of polluting groundwater, I would think with that density of a parking and with the potential for fuel spills, even though you're not refueling there, cabs leak fuel sometimes, trailers leak oil. I would not be in favor of doing this without having that parking lot with a hard surface asphalt paving on top and have it drain into the stormwater management plan with some kind of a plan on how you're going to make sure you take any pollutants, any oil, oil drippings, any acid drippings out of that stormwater management pond before it gets into the stream bed. I know this isn't 10 tractor trailers being parked. It's 150 potentially. And that's too many to hope that it doesn't, nothing is spills. So that's my number one concern. And I would be against this without having a plan on how to prevent the pollution, and hard surface on that parking area with drainage controls. Also concerned about the length of time you could have cabs and trailers parked there. Whether you'd end up with people sleeping there overnight. There's nothing in the plan that says you can or you can't. You're very close to an elementary school. Things happen in parking areas that you wouldn't necessarily want to see, or you'd probably want around an elementary school, even walking distance away. So I'm a little concerned that there's not enough specificity on this, and it hasn't been, there's not enough detail for me to move it forward with a positive approach. Yeah. So to answer your question, yes, we can do asphalt on there. And the intent of the use is just for parking. Overnight parking. So this is not a truck stop that we're planning to build on that site. This is someone who has access trailers. Someone needs to park their truck over there for a length of time. Yeah, use the facility, park your truck over there, park your trailer over there, and leave it there. You're talking 30 days, 60 days? It doesn't matter whatever. They want to leave there for five years, two years. That's up to them. This is not a 24-hour parking. It's just a parking. It's just a parking. That you're providing to have the trailers parked and it's not come and go. It's obviously parked there. Amazon is there. There are a lot of warehouses out there which are being requested. They requested us for that site to be used as their trailer storage basically. So their trailers are parked over there when they're not being used. Okay. I guess I was a little confused when you said it was, one of the purposes was to get the parking off the streets and out of residential areas. And I would think that would be pretty much, you know, in and out every day. It wouldn't be something that you would, I mean, I don't think we have trailers parked in residential areas for 30 or 60 days, but without being moved, but could easily be wrong on that. I just misunderstood what you said maybe. Maybe I need to refine my statement more to address your concern about 24-hour parking versus daily parking versus restricting it to a, a termed parking. Right? But you have no plan to do any of that right now, right? Right now the intent is to have tractors parked over there. Okay. And there's no environmental control aspects anywhere in this other than having a storm water management plan. Is that right? So this was reviewed by the engineering team, racing engineering, and they found out no impacts. Currently, even though we have a lot of parking, we're not going to have a lot of parking. Okay. So, you're looking at the concrete and the gravel approach impacting your storm water management. Well, everybody can disagree. I agree. That's why you're here, too, to agree on it. Okay. Questions to my left? Any questions? Yes, just to me, how would you regulate who is able to park there and who isn't. You mentioned 24-hour monitoring, but how do you control who can go in there and who cannot? So, right now, since we don't have a office over there on site but once we have the office that they will even call it to our office but someone will be there or there'll be a gated it's once we get the Curtiss Pro conditional permit approved it will be a gated property will have a gate on it so before you enter you will be calling us to enter the property and that will never relate to your people coming in failures coming in and out of the facility so the the plan which is approached shown over here just a concept plan what we intend to do the other questions to my left miss Brandon I'm trying to understand you have an engineering firm check into environmental things because there's a stream on the property how is it not going to affect it right if you understand if you have a property that's not going to be affected by the if I can pull up the plan for you they're going to be required to do a site plan the site plan requires review by Public Works by planning the fire marshal the building official all these technical details will be answered at that time this is a conceptual exhibit it's their generalized development plan he's assuming that they're engineers assuming they can get 158 parking spaces on that might be less than that but they will have to do a stormwater management plan they'll have to get Public Works approval they'll have to give the land disturbance permit the county will go out there and inspect any facilities that they build will go out there and inspect the parking lot if they do site lighting their signage their landscaping certainly the ordinance allows them to do a gravel surface or a paved surface you all could condition it to be a paved surface you all could condition it to be a paved surface if you would just they'll need it or some апbセ화 it to be a paved surface if you so desire obviously they would have to build it that way if that's if that's the desire of the committee but that's what the ordinance requires several years ago we had a paved surface requirement for tractor trailer truck parking some of you may have been on the planning commission at the time when we loosened that restriction and allowed gravel the reason for that was tractor trailer truck parking was seen as an interim use in some cases and at some locations so they were allowing a gravel surface so that in the future if someone wanted to construct a building there they could do so in this case they've proffered themselves to tractor trailer truck parking so if they wanted to ultimately down the road build a warehouse facility or some other type of use they'd have to come back to the planning commission seek approval to amend their permitted use list but that's kind of how it works so all the again the stream riparian area the stormwater management would all be handled at the time of site plan but where is the stream on the plan it's not showing it and none of these areas are going to show you the stream channel there is a stream channel that kind of runs across the site it's identified in our GIS map however when they go out there and do the engineering if it turns out to be dry and not an actual stream channel and they can demonstrate that to us we won't require them to do a riparian area so that's why it's kind of an uncertain thing because a lot of these streams get identified in our GIS mapping but they're not actually streams and Mr. Thomas if you look or go back to there there if you see how the dog leg of the B2B is going to be identified through the guard flat the amendable issue completely this is a nice approach to assessment between the parcels and the Hopewell Lane. It's not directly on the problem. Well, it's on the problem. I have a couple of questions for you. I think you said you're expecting three to four trucks per day at the intersection of Hopewell Lane and Hopewell Road. Is that correct? That's correct. There's a good possibility. Okay. So have you done a traffic study of some kind, or is that a guess? What's the basis of that number? There's no traffic study done. Okay. And security, you're going to have people on site at full build-out, but not until full build-out? Is that what I understand? We have security cameras right now, which are monitoring the property. Okay. Okay. And if something... If something goes wrong out there, what do you do? Call the Sheriff's Department? Call... What's the plan? Yeah, that would be the approach to call the Sheriff. Okay. Will there be restrooms on site? In the next phase, when we do the site plan, yes, there will be restrooms in our office, which will be located on the site. Okay. And this will be available for the drivers? Yeah, people will come and park over there. Yes. They will be able to use the restrooms. Okay. So if I want to park my truck on your site, I'm going to call you, give you my credit card number, you're going to bill me, and I'm going to park for however many days it is we agree to? Is that how this works? I'm still fuzzy on how it's working. So that is still in planning on how we're going to approach that method. But that is... How do you do it? Yeah, this is... Depending on how they want to pay. Okay. Yeah. I'm not sure. Like, people, you know, they want to pay cash, they want to pay card card, they want to pay, like, if we have, like, an app or something, then they can pay an app or something. But if there's nobody on site, they're not going to pay by cash? Because there'll be nobody there to collect? Yeah. I mean, we'll figure out a way to get the payments. Okay. Yeah. I don't think that that's a difficult process once we establish that. Are there any other questions? Mr. Kearns. Thank you for coming this evening. I do have one last question for you about potential screening. Would you be amenable to a small screening buffer along the I-81 side, along the northwest, I guess, northwest side of this property? Because the zoning does... I mean, the long-term plan does call for some sort of screening for a property, like this. And I don't think I'm worried about it on any of the other sides. But just from the interstate side, you know, I think it would be appropriate to have a screening buffer on the I-81 side. And if it was 25 feet, 10, 15, 25 feet, I don't think it would affect your site plan much. Yes. So to answer your question, there's already a hedge right now that runs across the entire corridor, entire properties. And there, I believe, is a screen already there, which is also running at the freight line, at this area where the freight line is, in this area also. So it pretty much runs across the entire property. There's already... The hedges are there, the trees are there, and then there's already... You know, something is there already in place. But we can definitely provide that if that's a requirement. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing, and I will open a public hearing to anybody who'd like to speak about this rezoning. I would ask that you come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak to this rezoning request? Good evening, Ms. Spencer. Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro district. I really appreciate the call for more screening on all sides and even facing the school. That would be great. I would just hope that this is the most beautiful parking lot we've ever seen. That would be... It's a beautiful county. There are a lot of trucks in the Hopeville intersection. I'm pretty sure that there's a truck every time I drive through it. They come swinging. They come swinging around. So I know that's a little bit further on than likely would enter into this parking lot. Clearbrook Feed and Supply just began selling fruit trees, and it's one of our favorite stores. So I'm not sure that more... It's sad to hear that there's another truck stop on the plans across the street. I'm not sure. I understand there's the flying jams, and there's the traffic. I understand that there's a lot of traffic in these places, but I'm not sure that growing more tractor trailers is a good thing, even in any of the areas. It could be very hard on our roads, and our traffic has stopped. I understand, but I can tell you there's still a lot of traffic here. We really wish we had, not enough traffic here. and able to transport the truck sozusagen and be able to reach the place. vo is, but ask it to the car and it certainly says that there's a lot of downtown traffic have to be overdue. That's true. Of course, uneisen jinjrolling, space is approved between their two conditional use permits that they saw it and it's operational there's also a second facility that has did you say 1800 to 2000 100 to 2000 trailers could park there and then there's a second facility at the end of lenore drive in the stonewall industrial park that's uh known as trailer drop and they have a equivalent amount to this application about 150 trailer parking spaces there both of those existing facilities are graveled they're both properly screened they are both have security fencing around them and i do not believe either of them has uh site lighting as part of their proposal they operate um with overnight trailer storage but also just like daily drops i think the one on lenore drive you know the the capped weight with the trailers and then they proceed to their final destination or drop point with a industrial user they're both unmanned and they have similar to what was described where they the drivers call the number on the sign and then they pay and they're given a code to enter the facility they wait and then they depart okay and have there been any concerns raised about those facilities um no the one on ebert road was a violation and they came into compliance with a conditional use permit so they effectively resolved the violation that they had but we've not received any complaints about either facility since they've operated okay that i'm aware of very good thank you would you uh like to summarize this for us sir yes again this is a two-part request the first is a rezoning request on a 4.35 acre parcel from b2 to b3 and the second request should you all act favorably on the rezoning would be a request for conditional use permit on three parcels totaling 13.6 acres for tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking thank you for the planning commissioners we've got to address this with two different public hearings so we'll take up the rezoning first obviously the rezoning um being being the the one of the three parcels for which the cup has been requested so this is time for planning commissioners to discuss before we do that can i ask tyler another question tyler what would prevent somebody from using this parking area if a cab and a sleeper cab and a trailer came in there uh i see no nothing in the uh submittal or in our uh cup that would prevent them from sleeping there overnight that is correct the additional regulations don't contemplate that now again it's not a truck stop they're not providing you know restaurant there's no fuel sales there's no maintenance facility truck wash any of the things that are typically associated with a truck with a truck stop in the commercial sense but the requirement the supplemental use requirements you know specify you know that there's no fuel sales there's no maintenance and you know they can utilize a paved or gravel surface so there's nothing prohibiting them from overnight you all certainly can condition that as part of your discussion and action on the conditional use permit that is so desired again you heard the applicant's intent on how they would like to operate so you you take all that into consideration yeah well the the other truck stops or the trucks drive at 100 feet and we forthwith call furμεy parking there's not a national road station in chicago enough parking areas that in the campus capital there are no pdc or 1380 parking areas we had at the office there are no parking areas we haven't had any area Ken yeah below this in the geen in the parking areas we have i don't think we have any facilities here and when the gentleman was talking he was talking about in the future if they have up to 150 there they might put an office there with the bathroom in it uh what you put a bathroom there or even if in spend the night there I do not I do not recall those were conditions that were part of those actions I know that they did not have like our restrictions or anything like that I think they're pretty pretty wide open so but certainly if you all would like to condition it as such you may do so as part of the conditional use permit discussion and recommendation and in the other cases I don't remember that we had a whether it was active or inactive water flowing through the site to a stream or to fields I think mr. Pearson articulated it well you know there is there is a drainage basin that runs under the highway between the east and west side of 81 again it's an engineered site plan requirement so we will get into all of that information again they may ultimately you know need to you know move the asphalt off of that riparian area is in fact a riparian area I don't believe it's a riparian area I don't believe it's a riparian area I don't believe it's a riparian area I don't believe it's a riparian area I don't believe it is having driven down there it's just a it's just a ditch more or less yeah my concern is once we if if we would choose to approve this tonight we have little leverage after that's done we have a site plan requirement requires the zoning order zoning administrator signature and requires approval by the Public Works Department so if they don't meet the stormwater requirements for quantity and quality management on site they're not going to get an approval from the zoning administrator so those are the requirements that we have to typically those type of concerns are handled at the site plan requirement we have sites all over the county with streams on them with more intensive uses that create more pollutants and we seem to manage it fine as far as I'm aware with the Public Works Department okay thank you mr. Thomas the the Ebert Road one had a similar situation and when the site plan got processed they were mindful of that and did riparian buffers off of it I while you all been talking about it I've been looking into this one and I think Tyler experienced it during the dry spell but it is the same stream that feeds Clearbrook Park and the lake there so they'll likely be very much required to do a riparian buffer off of it thankfully for them it really skirts their parcels it comes under Hopewell Lane in a culvert and then goes across the interstate there that's where it flows from so really I think that the consideration for the commission is gravel or paved as it relates to potentiallynesolvingsthebill.com pollutants, gravel would seep into the ground surface there, paved would channel it towards whatever stormwater retention facility that is provided as part of it a little bit better. So I hope that helps. Certainly a legitimate concern for discussion amongst the commission. This is a time for commissioner discussion. Any comments to my left? Ms. Bruback? Yes, I just had a question for Tyler. And this is probably more for, I guess, the CUP. But the entire, for the fencing, would the entire property have to be fenced or just the entranceway? There's not a fencing requirement, although the existing facilities that we have have put up fencing. I believe Mr. Kearns offered an idea about doing some screening from 81, so that may require a fence depending on what level of screening the commission would like to see it done. Again, there's no supplemental requirement for fencing, but these facilities tend to be fenced and have gates, just given the nature of protecting the investment and prohibiting people coming in that haven't paid to use the facility. Right. I was just thinking more of like Stonewall Elementary having the back part fenced so that no one can. You all certainly could offer a condition to have the facility fenced with like a chain link fence or something to that extent. The railroad crossing is there, I believe. There's a fence on the school side from the railroad, but there's not, there's certainly not a fence on the other side that I am aware of. It's just going to be scrub and distance serving as that barrier between the railroad and their parcels. Any other comments to my left? Seeing none, to my right? Yes, sir. Mr. DeHaven. Mr. Chairman, thank you. I've got some concerns with this project. I certainly have an appreciation for the need for trucks and the commerce and a place to park them. But I have some concerns about how it really fits into that Clearbrook-Brucetown Rural Community Center area that was kind of identified for businesses that support the surrounding residents in that area. This use really feels to me more like it fits in an industrial zoning. And what we're looking at is a conditional use permit on the lower side of the zoning, the B3, versus more of an M1. And I've got some real concerns about. If you're taking all oh-oh-oh, I kind of come to the conclusion knowing that down here you'll find this square предложy not well organized, then you'll have, of course, numbers that really that there's going to be a workforce fallout. that when a the folks in the horrible", to your right? the should've been the ground floorítulo's job. If it does涛 If a better passenger vehicle is looking. And so right now, I'm marveling at that graph right there on the door. runoff. That area has a lot of shallow fractures in the ground which would allow pollutants to get down into the aquifer. This all leads close to the quarry which Frederick Water draws from and I noticed that the quarry that they're drawn from none of those fractures were grouted out to stop any kind of that shallow pollutants to come in. So that would be a great concern of mine. Thank you. Any other comments? I want to share. I am concerned about giving up land that's already zoned for business and in the swaza for truck parking. To me that just seems to go in the wrong direction that we want to go as a county as we develop and seek to develop additional businesses in our county. I realize this would be a business at some level. I understand that but certainly not what was envisioned in the comprehensive plan. So that is a concern of mine. This is in the Stonewall district. Gentlemen what would be your pleasure? Mr. Chairman I'd make a motion. We got to do one. Are we gonna do one for which one? We have a motion. We have a motion. I'm gonna say that we are going to do one for the first. We're doing the rezoning public hearing. We're doing rezoning. So this is the rezoning first? Yes. So not the CUP? Correct. Rezoning 03-25. From B2 to B3? That is correct. For 4.35 acres. Mr. Chairman I'd make a motion to deny rezoning number 3-25. For the Royal King truck trailer parking? We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any additional discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Whitaker can you begin the voting for us please? Sir this would be a motion to deny the rezoning request for 03-25 Royal King truck trailer parking from B2 to B3. Whitaker no. Excuse me sir. Let me make a motion. A no would mean? To deny. Okay. A yes means you are in agreement with the denial. A no means you are opposed to the rezoning. Excuse me. Yes to deny. Okay. Akins yes. DeHaven yes. Kerns no. Kozol yes. Thomas yes. Markard yes. Botworf no. McKay yes. Brumbach yes. This is tough. Brandon no. Chairman Jessen the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on May the 14th for their consideration with a recommendation for denial. Next we will open the public hearing. I will open the public hearing for the conditional use permit. However without the rezoning in place the conditional use permit... The Planning Commission is only offering a recommendation on the conditional use permit so or on the rezoning right now recommendation for denial so still offering one than the conditional use permit that mirrors that would be important but I think you're right in pointing out that you can't really support the conditional use permit if you're not gonna support the rezoning because it's not in compliance with the ordinance. We've had the presentation. We've had the presentation. Thank you very much. then i will open the public hearing for the conditional use permit 04-25 royal king truck trailer parking uh would if you would like to speak to the cup this would be the time to do so please come to the podium state your name at your district and limit your comments to three minutes or less please can i speak yes all right uh appreciate everyone giving feedback on saying no to the rezoning application uh you know just concern i've such concerns you said no to basically some one was rainwater management overnight parking uh then uh having a oil contamination and a little different things that you guys all discussed if i cannot park trucks over there what else can i do over there anything that i do what's going to introduce traffic on the road anything i build a small office or build a small restaurant over there and build a small storage shed a store a warehouse anything that we do it's going to introduce traffic on the road and you're concerned about all contamination and the streams it's still going to exist it's not going to improve it so any any improvement on that road is going to introduce traffic on the martinburg pike hopewell road and anywhere in the corridor so your rejection it's good you reject it but i'm not inclined to the rejection it doesn't hold a valid reason for rejection basically i'm not sure what the caveat is for you rejecting that i don't expect you to say yes to it but the underlying statement from your rejection are not helping me proceed to any future improvement i'm not helping me proceed to any future improvement i'm not helping me proceed to any future improvement to that zone i'm in a zone b3 for a business to come over and do something over there but if the community is going to tell me oh there's all contamination over there there's stormwater management over there you got a fence you got to do this you got to do this what can i do then if i build let's say i go to chick-fil-a or i go to a mcdonald's or i go to subway or i go to donkey donuts to tell them to build a facility over there is it still a requirement to have the zone fenced have security over there have lighting and have a storm water management plan i'm sure that's going to be the plan but it still comes down to the same script where we started off at it's not going to improve anything that's all i have to say thank you would anybody else like to speak anybody else seeing none i will close public hearing we are still in stonewall is there any further discussion i'd like rakeens yes i got it kind of seek to share with you because it's my bias and i do want to set up some kind of culture for a project but!" i cannot say that i identify with bullying or change i've been inji for a long time you know at this point where health care's impacted for middle school and i was locked up inδα the nghĩa waar microwave can we do more Rogier maybe i would prefer some other language with perspective in theоньしまeg 우리 auf anders� mit 화 digitizing it compara portion of the on todas mesleio request which should drop by and show I understand your position. But the way the traffic is on that right now and the way that whole interchange with Brewstown and all the trucks, it's just not good. And I know that's not what you want to hear. I'm not looking for a response. But I felt like as a developer that I just needed to get that off my chest for you of how you could use your land in the future. Yeah, that's future growth. But at the moment, currently, we've got to pay the bills for the property that we brought. We have already invested close to a million dollars on the road improvement on Hopewell Lane, which were recommended by what we said to do, to do any future improvements on that zone. I understand. Not looking for additional comments. Just letting you know. Right. Someone has to pay it back, right? Because we don't have that. We're stepping in over there and reimbursing us for those improvements. We made a very clear line statement. Make that Hopewell Road Lane, pave it before you do any future improvements. Come on. This will go to the Board of Supervisors, as I mentioned. And you'll have a chance to make your case there. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Any further discussion on this among commissioners for the CUP? We're on a CUP now. If not, we're back to Stonewall. Gentlemen. Mr. Chairman, I'd make a recommendation for denial of the conditional use permit number 0425 for the Royal King truck trailer parking. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion that's been seconded. Any further discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Whitaker, would you like to start us off again, sir? The motion is to deny. So an affirmative is agreeing with the denial. Agree with the denial. Okay. Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, no. Kozell, yes. Thomas, yes. Margaret, yes. Aadharff, yes. McKay, yes. Brombeck, yes. Brennan, no. Chairman, yes. And the motion carries. This, too, will go to the Board of Supervisors on May the 14th. Thank you very much. That'll go on May the 14th with a recommendation for denial. Okay. Thank you. This moves us to Item 6C, an ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code. Addition to define chicken coops and provide additional regulations for backyard chickens and chicken coops in the RP residential performance, R4 residential planned community, and R5 residential recreation community zoning districts. Good evening, Ms. Pelican. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you just stated, this item is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to allow backyard chickens in RP, R4, and R5 zoning districts with some additional regulations and add a definition of the term chicken coop. This amendment was initiated at the request of a member of the Board of Supervisors. Currently, backyard chickens are not permitted in any of these suburban residential zoning districts. RP, R4, and R5 chickens are permitted in the RA rural areas zoning district under the general agricultural use, and they are not subject to any additional regulations in the rural areas district. The proposed ordinance would allow backyard chickens and coops in the suburban residential zoning district subject to the following regulations. Roosters and other species of fowl are prohibited. Chickens shall be permitted accessory to a single family detached residence only, and each single family detached residence would be allowed a maximum of six chickens, and those would be hens only. Chicken coops and pens must meet the... The setbacks for accessory structures in the RP zoning district, which is five feet from the side and rear property lines, and the front setback still applies, which is typically 35 feet, although that can vary. Chickens would not be permitted to run at large. Chapter 48 of the County Code on animals and fowl already has a section stating that animals and fowl cannot run at large, and that is enforced by the Sheriff's Department. Chicken waste shall be stored in an enclosed container. Chicken waste shall be stored in an enclosed container and properly disposed of by composting or other means to not create a nuisance. And chicken feed shall be stored in an enclosed, vermin-proof container. And finally, should this amendment be approved, HOA, Homeowner Association regulations would still apply. The proposed amendment also adds a definition for chicken coops, which is a fully enclosed and covered structure, permanent or transportable, that provides a living area for chickens with adequate protection from the elements and predators. Chicken coops may include an outdoor running space. The Board of Supervisors discussed this amendment on February 26 and authorized public hearings. DRRC, the Development Review and Regulations Committee, discussed this item on March 27 and was supportive of the amendment moving forward. This item is presented for public hearing tonight, and the Board of Supervisors will be presenting it on February 26. The Board of Supervisors discussed this amendment on February 26 and authorized public hearing tonight, and the Board of Supervisors discussed this amendment on February 26 and authorized public hearing tonight, and staff are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed amendment. And that concludes the presentation, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Are there any questions for Ms. Pelican? Yes. I just have one question. The couple that came to our DRRC meeting, we keep saying Homeowners Association, but if they have covenants on their property that says that's enforced, that's also cannot have chickens because of this, correct? Correct. Any private covenants or Homeowners Association's regulations would apply. Yeah. I just wanted them to know. Thank you. Any other questions to my left? Yes, sir. Mr. Markert. Yes. Can you explain to me better the acreage that is allowed to have chickens? Is there a distinction on size of property to have chickens? Or not? There is not in this draft a minimum acreage. So the maximum of six just is across the board. Lots in RP can, R4 and R5 can vary from around a third of an acre, I think is typical, but some can be less, some can be more. So it would be up to us to add a restriction to that if we wanted to, because right now the way it's written, any of those in that zoning category can have chickens as many as they want. They could have whatever the lot size is, they could have a maximum of six chickens across the board, is how it's written now. In the past, lot size minimums and sliding scales of allowing more chickens for bigger lots and that sort of thing have been considered, but for this draft, we've just gone with a maximum of six across the board, regardless of the size of the lot. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. That answers. Any other comments, questions? No. To my right. Mr. Carras. Yes. Thank you. This is more for people listening from home or in the audience. Can you explain or someone explain how many homes we're talking about here that are in the, like what does R4, R5, and RP cover? Is this a couple of housing developments or is this the overwhelming majority of housing developments? I would say it's the overwhelming majority of housing developments in the county. I believe around 75% of the counties are a rural areas. The RP is predominantly all of the subdivisions east of 81. R4 is simply just Snowden Bridge at this point. And R5 is Shawnee Land, Wild Acres, and Lake Holiday and Lake Frederick are those communities. So arguably more population lives in them, but yeah, it represents about, you know, 25% of the county. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? Okay. Mr. Thomas, go ahead. Okay. In your write-up, you have a, in the write-up there in the last paragraph on the, I can't get it to move now. It says that about requiring a permit, it says those require permits typically do not have a high level participation. The vast majority of complaints regarding chickens were for properties that did not have a permit. Why did the, why did we come up with an ordinance recommendation that doesn't require a permit if it seems that that's when you don't require a permit is when you get most of the complaints? Well, we felt that typically with, as with anything, there are going to be people who are going to do it the right way and then there's going to be people who aren't and regardless of there's a permit. If there's a permit or not, we have an enforcement process of the violation process that would handle the people who aren't doing it properly as, as it already is. Right. And Mr. Thomas to, sorry to interrupt, but to clarify the situation for the data you were describing, the county that had a permit was saying that the most of the complaints they got were situations where somebody didn't have a permit. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So it's not like we talked to a bunch of different counties and those that didn't have permits all said, yeah, we get a lot of complaints. It was a county that required a permit and they said all the complaints they get are for those who haven't gotten a permit and then they make them get a permit. So that, that, but Kayla's description of whether or not we should consider an administrative permit process or not, that was probably the, the very beginning of this conversation. And the conclusion was that, um, you know, it would have been an extra, you know, it would have been a loop and it would have made the enforcement process kind of a little bit easier on staff because we could have determined when we got a complaint, the only question we have to ask ourselves is do they have a permit? Not how many chickens are there, what's the property zone or anything like that. And if they don't have a permit, that's the citation. You need a permit and then they go through a process. But um, we did evaluate that. I just want to make sure that data came across clearly. Yeah. Mitch Kearns. Oh yeah. I've got another one. This is about the enforcement side of this. Should, should it go through the way that it's written now? Can you talk about what that enforcement process would look like if someone, if I were to complain or one of my neighbors were to complain that one of their neighbors had chickens in the backyard, um, and they were, they had a rooster, they had seven chickens and a rooster in there and they didn't, they weren't disposing of the waste correctly and they, they call up and complain. So what would they complain to and how does that get, what does that process? It would be our office. We would take the complaints and then the zoning inspector would go out to the property and see what he's able to see from the public right of way. Or if a neighbor has complained and invites them, invites him onto their property, he's allowed to go to their property to see, to get a better view if, if for some reason the neighbor is able to see it, but there's a fence up or something and it's blocking the, the public right of way. Um, and we would. If he's able to find any. You know, evidence, then a letter will be sent to them giving them 30 days to fix the situation and if they don't, then it goes to the, through the court system. Okay. Thank you. Mr. DeHaven, did you have a question, sir? Yes. Thank you. Um, if I understand this correctly, um, if this is approved, the, there would still be additional regulations by HOAs if they so chose or property covenants of the affected zoning. Do we have a feel for what percentage of those properties are covered by an HOA? Nothing data driven. Um, and I know Mr. Stowe had asked if we could figure that out and it would just be a massive lift to get you anything that's at all accurate. But generally speaking in the R5, you have Lake Frederick, Lake Holiday, Shawnee land and the other mountain communities. Lake Frederick and Lake Holiday. Have covenant. And functioning HOAs. Um, the mountain communities may have certain covenants, but they likely don't address this and their HOAs are a little bit less organized sometimes for adopting new, new covenants. Um, when you get into RP, it's an entirely mixed bag. Uh, there's typically covenants on most subdivisions. Um, but the real variety is whether there's actually a functioning HOA enforcing them. And one thing I want to be clear about is the county will not enforce any covenants on those properties. Those are civil matters that either the HOA enforces or the property owners figure out via civil litigation in the court system. But um, yeah, I wouldn't even speculate at a finger in the air percentage of how many of our suburbanized subdivisions have both covenants and an HOA that can validly enforce those covenants. Thank you. Yeah. Any other questions? Ms. Pelquin, thank you. Thank you. Ms. Cosell, uh, your committee reviewed this. Do you have any other questions? Um, the only thing I would add is this is probably the fourth time we've looked at this type of ordinance amendment. So I don't know. We're kind of, it keeps coming back and I don't know if we do nothing and then it's going to go another year or six months or two years and then it comes back again. So we kind of thought it was maybe time to give it a shot and see if it sticks, um, to appease a lot of those, um, homeowners that want this. So that's kind of all I can add. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. This is a public hearing. Um, and this would be the opportunity for anybody who wishes to speak to this matter to come forward and address planning commission. I ask that you state your name, magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak to this? Okay. So we'll move this ordinance. Yes, ma'am. Please come forward. Good evening. My name is Christiana Marr. I'm from the back Creek district. Um, I would really like this to be approved. I live in Shawnee land. I have a 0.75 acres. When my husband and I were first looking at property over here, um, our budget was about two 75 and, um, while there were some houses available, there were none that were, that were not in the property. So we're going to move this ordinance. I'm going to move this ordinance. Yes, ma'am. Please come forward. Good evening. Um, my name is Christiana Marr. I'm from the back Creek district. Um, I would really like this to be approved. I live in Shawnee land. I have a 0.75 acres. When my husband and I were first looking at property over here, um, our budget was about two 75 and, um, while there were some houses available, there were none that were zoned to allow chickens. And we are among many Americans that are discovering what's within our food, that there's not as much nutrients in our food as there was 20 years ago. Um, that there's a lot of chemicals and just things you don't want, um, your family to be consuming. So we really wanted to be able to, um, grow our own food. So we're going to be able to grow our own vegetables and of course having, um, a protein source, um, on our, on our, um, or within our home. So I'm definitely in favor of this. Um, in case you're on the fence, I did want to share some of the benefits of having chickens, um, which can be done with, with a maximum of six regardless of, of property size. So they do provide nutrient rich eggs, which, um, the large commercial industries don't always have those nutrients since the feed that they provide the chickens is not adequate. Um, they do provide food. They do provide food. They do provide food waste management, which would mean we'd have less waste going into our landfills. Um, Virginia's landfills are actually used by other, um, uh, states as well, including New York. They send all of their garbage to Virginia or the majority, I should say. So that would reduce the amount of waste going into our landfills. Um, in addition, that would help us create compost on our, um, our, within our homes that we could use within our gardens. Um, additionally, that would reduce the need for a chemical, um, fertilizers. So that would, that would be, that would be, that would be, that would be, that would be, that was the bottom line of our Um, fruit, fruit, fruit, branches. And, um, their hydrogen femin SRW 2 and alpha, um, utilize a, an Boddaite and Maack reincarnation that they, they we had, um, we made, I think um, that there, there, they would not need oxygen and they would not often miss out on these mucusideoids. Um, so that would reduce it. would reduce the likelihood of your children getting Lyme's disease when they're just playing out in the yard. They also are the top two predator of lanternflies. The top predator is praying mantises. And lanternflies are known for sucking the sap out of maple trees and killing your maple trees. My husband and I had to actually chop down three of our 60-year-old trees because they were all dying from this invasive species. Chickens can also help improve the health of our soil because with the added natural fertilizer, that's going to help promote your soil health, which the microorganisms in your soil can help aerate the soil. This allows water to percolate much faster and help recharges our aquifer. They also do help provide routine for people, which can be really beneficial for mental health. They're an educational tool for families, especially those families that want to homeschool or participate in the FFA. And they help provide us with independent care. And they also help provide us with independent care. And they help provide us with independent care. And they help provide us with independent care. And they re liters of transportation. We've you can use the A marker, we need For neighbors to find peace among themselves, if one doesn't want chickens but someone else does, I think that this would really help with with that. My last comment is on Facebook when the post came out I think on the Winchester Times that we were discussing this there was a lot of approval amongst people. I did ask them to email, I don't know if if those came across but I noticed a lot of happy happy comments and happy reactions on that. Thank you. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak to this proposed ordinance amendment? Good evening Ms. Lipkeg생er. Mr.undy Lepkegser I live in the Gainsborough district, I'm so excited. This is a meaningful step we can take for so many children to discover where their food comes from every time we grow food every time my family grows food I am connected deeply to my creator and I thank you for that. Will everybody else remember the code blue light time 14 30 I was I just wish so much that other families could see that, have that in their homes. All these forest schools and preschools are adopting all of these practices. So to imagine more of our county opening up to that, it would feel so much nicer to be in your backyard and grow fruit trees and grow food and have chickens and be able to say, this is enough for me. You know, I don't need a large property or farm on the west side. And I think that that is incredible joy. So please adopt this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak to this? I don't have anything prepared. And you've probably already covered all this. I'm Diane Colson, Opecan District. And we live in a subdivision, a very old subdivision. It has covenants in place. And I want to see those covenants stay in place. I don't want, they can't be broken. They've been there for 50 years. I've lived there for 48 years. And I do not want chickens in our neighborhood. Our lots are not that big. So I do want the HOA and covenants to stay in place. I want that in the policy. Thank you. That's all I have to say. Thank you, ma'am. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Anybody else? Anybody else? Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing. I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Thomas would like to make a statement. Go right ahead, sir. And I didn't ask this to staff because I know they, they, I really am not looking for an answer. I just wanted to make sure that we are aware of what this would open the county and the residents of the RP area is up to. Obviously, the previous administration, the Biden administration considered bird flu a significant risk. They killed over 16 million chickens nationwide, killed and destroyed and buried, which made the price of chickens go up, price of eggs go up considerably. So for them to do that, they must have thought that bird flu causing disease in the country, a pandemic, was a fairly significant risk. When you go through a number of CDC reports on backyard chicken farms, you'll find that backyard chicken farms are rated moderate to high risk for spread of bird flu. They are the same as a large commercial organization as far as a spread of bird flu. The big concern with backyard chicken farms in residential areas is that there's no inspection. Most homeowners who get chickens. Get them so they're fun for their kids to play with, to look at, and they go out and collect the eggs from six chickens. They have no idea if the chickens are healthy or sick. Bird flu is spread from foul, flying, migrating and droppings that would get into a chicken, backyard chicken area. Once those chickens are infected, a backyard chicken area is different than a rural area where you have a lot of land, a lot of space. You have a. Higher density of mice, higher density of squirrels, rabbits running around in residential areas. Those animals can easily be infected with the bird flu from chickens. That are sick. If those animals. Are then consumed by domestic pets, cats and dogs in a residential area. That spreads the bird flu to those domestic animals. Those domestic animals can be brought inside. Of house. And then they can be spread to humans. And I don't know. I don't exactly remember the time frame. It was in some of the CDC reports I sent around. To the staff and I think was forwarded to the Commission members. In the last. And I'm not sure if it was two or four years. There was over 1200 cases of bird flu spread to humans. In those those cases, there were over 400 people died from it. So it is. A serious thing to consider. And it's much more serious in RP areas where you have small lots. You know, if it's out on a 50 acre chicken farm, that's one thing. But when you're talking half acre, third acre lots. That are close together and you end up with 100, 200, 300 of them in a development. It it's just the it's a danger that I don't think is worth taking. That doesn't even consider the obnoxious smell that chickens produce. And the amount of work that's involved with taking care of backyard chickens. The other problem that I see with this is if it starts spreading. The county requires no permits. So we have the county would have no idea. Where to start looking for bird flu in backyard chicken ranches. That could also spread to local farmers. I don't know what the local farmers would think of if they get. The bird flu. Spread. Spread. To their cattle. And it easily is spread to farm animals. So it's something that I don't think is is worth the risk. And I don't think it has any place in small lots. If you want to have a 10 acre lot of five acre lot and have a backyard chicken ranch. I think that's that's a different situation. But when you're talking about high density half acre third acre lots. I don't think there's any place for chickens. Or other farm animals and chickens are a farm animal. To be on those areas in those lots. If we would. Recommend. This to move forward. I think we should require permits put a minimum acreage. On the lots. And. You know if we want to restrict it to our five. Where they have a chair ways that can handle this. I think this would be an unnecessary burden on the planning staff. And on the county. Staff and on the courts when we start getting all these complaints. From chickens running loose and. Noise from chickens it's just. Against it. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Thomas okay. This is an opportunity for us to discuss this. Among planning commissioners obviously. Mr. Thomas has said what he thinks about it. And. I'm guessing hasn't left any question in your mind. Okay. Mr. Whitaker did you care to. Say something sir. You look like you're poised to speak there. Yes. Just because. A bird has. Bird flu and it doesn't mean it's going to die. There is such a thing in all creatures called the immune system. And we farmers. Are divided by those who believe in. Letting that take over. Letting that take its route. When we have a sick animal. We isolate it. If it's losing the battle we have to treat it. Just like humans doctors would tell you. Don't use your antibodies are being overused in this country for decades. You should not use antibodies until you are losing the battle. You reach a certain temperature and your doctor will intervene. If the body. Or creature or animal or anything can fight it off on its own. And survive. Then it has in its genome. To transfer that ability. It's great for this animal to have an open herd policy. And that animal will always have. That in their blood. Just because they have it in the blood don't mean they're going to die from it. It could have survived. To slaughter millions of chickens was a bad move. And it's a fear hype by the big farmer. To control the industry. Don't fall for none of that. Listen to your old doctors. Who warn society about the overuse of antibodies. In humans and in animals. Thank you sir. Okay any other comments to my right? To my left. Any comments? Mr. Markert. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I like chickens. I like roasted chickens. I like eggs. Especially fried in bacon grease. To me that's a great breakfast. I have it every day. But at the same time I am on a quarter acre lot. And I think there needs to be a limitation on the amount of food that is served. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And then there is a limitation on the smaller lots to not do this there. Even if it's only three quarters of an acre is the bottom line. Or two acres. Pick a number. And to me that's that would help make it more palatable for a lot of people that are living close together. Are concerned about what's going on with their neighbors. And but another idea. And another idea would be to add a zoning type because the impact of chickens in the backyard up in the mountain community is a lot different than the chickens in the backyard of Pioneer Heights. It's just, and it's kind of unexplainable. And the people that talked to me, I told them, we have no way to write that down on paper to be able to know that your three quarter acre lot up in the hills is a lot less impactful on your neighbors than it is when you're in a gated community or a close community or in town. So my suggestion would be let's create another zoning ordinance. Call it, what are we at for the, oh, R5. Make it R5 for the reasons that you mentioned, but make it R5C for chickens. And let any community apply for that zoning so that they could have chickens. And if we're down to not wanting chickens everywhere. And so. And I like the idea of having permits because if you don't have any permits, you don't know who's doing what where. So that's my comment. Okay. Any other comments to my, yes, Ms. Brannan. We're matching bookends. I'm very pro chickens. I have chickens. I think the eggs are very nutritional. I don't see a big problem with disease. I wash my hands before I go out there. I wear shoes only there. I don't. Then take them off. I wash my hands after I deal with the chickens. If they were as disease ridden killing, the schools wouldn't hatch the eggs and raise them in the schools. That's why this keeps coming up. They hatch them in the schools and the teachers say who wants to take them home and everybody wants to. I don't think there's going to be a mad rush of everybody in the county wanting chickens because as a chicken owner, they are a lot of work. But I enjoy it. I enjoy the work. I enjoy the healthy food. She was 100% right. They eat slugs. They eat ticks. They eat mosquitoes. They eat spiders. They love lantern bugs. I've watched them snatch them right out of the air. They fertilize the lawn. They cut down on pollutants like pesticides, the fertilizer. And we're saying that they can't be free range. Chickens don't fly all over. Leaving. This bird flew around. That tends to be birds flying over where they can fly over the cattle now. Chickens are not going to be a big danger to cattle because you have to keep them in your property. So I'm 100% for the chickens. I hope people eat healthy eggs because there's no comparison between a store-bought egg and a chicken that you've raised. Any other comments from my left? Yeah. I just. I. I live in Lake Frederick and I did after the DRRC meeting the other night. I did go back and look at our HOA does specifically prohibit chickens and coops. So it's not. There was one. Some discussion is about whether we needed a delay. So HOAs could. You know, address that if they needed to. But I. And, you know, our HOA has only been established since about 2001. But there's obviously been revisions. But. And I will admit I drive. My wife drives the car. I drive. So, and that's really what I'm talking about. We get eggs from our. We get eggs from our family over in Clark County. So thank you. Very good. Mr. Pearson, did you want to add something, sir? No. I was just saying to Mr. Markert point about like our 5C. A similar option could be achieved through what Mr. Bartoff mentioned and what they spoke about at the DRC, where you do a delayed adoption of the ordinance. And then we have a list of the HOAs. We know about. And we could. you know this is coming if you do want to adopt covenants here's when it'll go into effect or something like that so that's all I wanted to offer for the Commission's consideration okay very good thank you sir okay we have completed public hearing our comments it's time for us to vote so this is a not district specific so would anybody like to make a motion concerning this ordinance the way it is written now it can be in a RP zoning district with quarter-acre Lots you know that is correct we are voting on the ordinance as it was presented in our packet that is correct okay we could change that before we vote on it we we can change that if someone would like to make a motion doing so that is correction I'm not sure we pass it as is the only item I wanted to put in the motion was that the district would like to make a motion regarding the permit paint on assembly land yes we have made this motion respectively that's not in the aussie act on a synchronous the to fight the authorities thank you very much John okay so now through your motion sir we will reveal that you're heart should cooler solution that we more of an r5 district but we can we can bypass that but the permitting aspect of it might be something we should we should 100% consider would you like to offer a amendment to miss Brandon's proposal yes sir I can offer we amend the current zoning ordinance for backyard chickens to require a permit application in the RP or for our five districts we have a we have a proposal for an amendment to to the original proposal is there a second second and we have a second okay discussion on the permit okay I would like to offer another amendment hang on we're gonna do one at a time okay okay I want to know what the permit will help hang on hang on hang on okay okay okay okay, we got a motion in the second what would you like to do mr. Thomas okay I would like to eliminate the RP in general from this and just limit it to r5 and r4 which are larger Lots and have HOAs to protect their citizens okay we have another amendment to the original proposal to eliminate RP and limit it to r4 and r5 is there a second to that amendment I'll second that and we have a second to that okay now mr. Thomas this motion and work backwards mr. chairman yes I've got an amendment I'd like to restrict it to three acres three acres or more three acres or more okay second okay we have a Additional amendment here. Mr. Pearson, you're keeping track of all this, right? Very good. Yes. Okay. May I? I'm sorry. To go back. May I ask where we talked about the notifying of the HOAs. Have we covered that yet? Or right now that is not included? That resting period is not included right now? No, it's not included. And all that I think you all would need to do is in whatever recommendation you forward to the board, include that you think the board should consider establishing an effective date, six months, one year out, and then task staff with notifying the HOAs about the timeframe for it. It doesn't need to be written into the ordinance, but we can talk with the board about how they adopt the ordinance to make it effective on a certain date and write the resolution that way, if that makes sense. Thank you. That was going to be my. Okay. And then for the. Commissions. I know we haven't done one of these in a while where we have multiple amendments, but from a parliamentarian perspective, and Mr. Stowe is already heading in this direction, I can tell. We'll take the most recent amendment and act on that one. If it gets adopted, it gets added. If it doesn't, then we'll move to the next and just sequentially go back to the original motion that Mrs. Brannon offered. Okay. The motion, the most recent amendment is to limit the lot size to three acres or more. That is a motion that's been seconded. Is there any discussion on that motion? Okay. Then let's start. Ms. Brannon, you want to start us off, please? Brandon, no. Brumbach, no. McKay, no. Bothworth, no. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozell, no. Kearns, yes. DeHaven, no. Akins, yes. Whitaker, no. Chair votes no. And the motion fails. Now we move to Mr. Thomas's amendment, which is to eliminate RP and focus on the R4 and R5 where the chickens would be allowed. They would not be allowed in the RP zoning district. Is there any discussion on that? So the motion is to eliminate RP. Ms. Brannon. I have a question for why did he want to knock out RP? I thought they had. They had homeowners associations. Very few of them do. Very few of them do. Most of the homeowners associations are in R5 and R4. So in RP you would have a lot of lots that do not have any type of homeowners association or covenants or anything in them. And you also, that is your majority of your smaller lots, the quarter acre, third acre lots. So you would have a lot of those. Okay. Any other discussion? Okay. The motion is to eliminate RP. A vote of yes means you're in agreement with that. Mr. Whitaker, can you please start our voting? Whitaker, no. Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kerns, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Botthorpe, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Britton, no. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. So RP is to eliminate RP. Mr. Whitaker, yes. Ms. Brannon, yes. Ms. Brannon, no. Ms. Brannon, yes. Chair votes yes. No vote of yes. Mr. Whittaker, yes. DeHaven, no. Karen, yes. DeHaven, no. Alex? No. Ms. Whittaker, yes. Ms. Whitaker, yes. H3, Ms. Whittaker, yes. Ms. Warren, yes. DeHaven, no. Karen, yes.anie, yes. Dehaven, no. Karen, yes. Ms. Warren, yes. Okay. The point is just to know where the chickens are. What does a permit buy you other than a nuisance to people? It would establish a tracking mechanism with a name, address if there was ever an issue. I just heard permit came up a couple different times and if that's not desired but I think it could be beneficial. What would this do to RA? It wouldn't apply. As the ordinance is being amended, it would only apply to R4 and R5 and you would need to get an administrative permit for those districts. The other thing that we noted that can be considered a positive from a staff perspective on administrative permits is it allows you a touch point with the individuals who are doing it so you have an opportunity to present them with the additional regulations that they need to comply with and just make sure they understand them. But it does. It is a. There will likely need to be an administrative fee assigned by the board and it is something that could be considered a nuisance by some. Fair point. So can I ask why then you all decide not to put the permit in because she did an amazing job researching this. Yeah. Most of our conversation boiled down to what we thought the primary issue with a chicken ordinance getting adopted in this community always is. Which is this concern that it's going to be an inordinate burden on staff from an enforcement perspective and that we circled around that in our planners conversations a lot and we also recognized that if the ordinance was passed as proposed, the additional regulation should control most of those things and other than just presenting somebody with that paperwork so they're aware of it, you're not gaining much from a land use consideration perspective. Now. I think that if we had a lot sizes or sliding scale things that required somebody to come in and speak to a planner who could look at a GIS system, I think we would have gone towards administrative permits as our recommendation. But since the only reason we had was that it would make it easier in my zoning inspector to not have to count chickens and affirm that the person has a permit or doesn't have a permit, we decided not to include that in our original recommendation. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Thank you, sir. Wait. So does that mean let's say the permit passes and someone gets seven chickens? Wouldn't you still have to count chickens? Yeah. If the complaint comes, well, I guess it would narrow down the total number of complaints that we get, right? If somebody calls in like my neighbor's got chickens, we can look at our system and say, oh yeah, they have a permit. And then they say, oh, well, they have eight chickens. All right. We'll send somebody out to look at it versus my neighbor's got chickens and we have to go out to every single call to confirm kind of what's going on with it. So. So the current violation process would, as written, you can't really do an inspection on it. Could the permitting process allow for more in-depth inspections if there were some kind of a complaint? Yeah, we can. We did that with the short term lodging where if you're as issuing the permit, the person getting it agrees to allow you to come on the property to confirm the conditions on the property. And so it would make enforcement easier from that perspective. As well. Yeah. Okay. If I might add, this is going to be a labor burden on the, on staff and the county, no matter what, because there is going to be people that are going to complain. And so having a permit does increase the revenue stream for the county to help cover that labor burden. Yeah, that's correct. And, and, you know, we talked about the labor burden. There's an existing labor burden for it being illegal and that the vast majority of our suburban areas, because it still happens, especially in Shawnee land. Um, um, yeah. Probably the most frequent flyers that we have are in Shawnee land. So we considered it from that perspective too, that making it an allowed use may also have the effect of having us do less chicken enforcement because it is allowed in those areas, but there will be the ones who don't comply with the additional regs as well. So yeah. Okay. The, um, amendment that was before us is to add the permit requirement to the ordinance that we are contemplating. A yes vote means you're in favor of adding permit. No vote is otherwise. Uh, Mrs. Brannon, can you please start us? I don't like government tracking and I know when we put the permits on the short-term lodging, it drove some of them out of business. So I'm a no. Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Hawthorff, yes. Margaret, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kerns, yes. DeHaven, yes. Akins, yes. Moody, for now. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. Okay. We're back to the motion. We're back to the motion. We're back to the motion. We're back to the motion. Okay. We're back to Ms. Brannon's original motion, which is the ordinance has presented less RP, which has been removed, and with the addition of the permit requirement. Mr. Barker, you're not. You are. You're not good. I am. Um, I'd like to make a motion that we limit this to above three quarters of an acre. Three acres didn't do it. I'd like us to consider three quarters of an acre as the. As the cutoff point where no chickens below three quarters of an acre. Second. Okay. So, we have a fourth amendment in our marathon here. Uh, to, and that would be to limit the lot size to three quarters of an acre. Or larger. Or larger if you're going to. Host chickens. And we have a second. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, Mr. DeHaven. If it were in a place like Shawnee, I'm sorry. If it was in a place like Shawneeland where some people have multiple small lots that all adjoin, would it be the total of the lots that are adjoined or each individual lot? Um, you know. Yeah. Hardline approach, if they aren't consolidated, and many folks who do own multiple lots in Shawneeland tend to consolidate them. Um, but hardline approach would be if they have three individual lots, then it would not meet the threshold for the minimum lot size. And they could get a survey done and consolidate them to resolve that. Um, if it passes, if the amendment passes, we can bring that up with the board and see if they also want to, um, provide us some guidance as to how we interpret that. Because we can tell if they're under common ownership and we could write in there, you know, some form of an exception. That is going to be a common issue in Shawneeland, um, that we'll deal with if this passes with. Because the, I can't remember what the average lot size is there, uh, but it is the individual lots are typically less than three quarters of an acre. But there are a lot of people who have assembled multiple lots and added them together. Yeah. Okay. Um, three quarter acre minimum size if you want to have chickens is the proposal. Mr. Whitaker. Can you please start the voting? Yes means you're in agreement with that. No is not. Whitaker, no. Akins, yes. DeHaven, no. Uh, Kearns, no. Kozell, no. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Othorf, no. McKay, no. Brombeck, no. Brannon, no. Chair votes no and the motion fails. We're back to the original motion made by Ms. Brannon, which is approval of the ordinance as presented. Less RP, which we voted out in our second amendment and with permits, which we voted in with our first amendment. And Mr. Chairman, if I'm, I'm sorry, but we didn't, I don't think we added this in there and I would like to add this in, um, as an amendment. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to add one more, but we didn't for, for the HOAs and allow the, for allow that time, the additional time to, um, for the HOAs, um, the, the verbiage that, that, uh, Mr. Yeah. If Mr. Chairman, just to save us. Since it's not going to be an actual change to the ordinance language. Okay. Is there anybody on the commission who disagrees with the waiting period and the HOA notification process? Okay. Let me know what you want. You disagree with that? Of course I do. I want people to be able to do what they want with their land. Okay. And just to be clear, this is the ordinance would go into effect a certain number of months later into the future. And we would just notify the HOAs that they have that time to adopt covenants and you disagree with that being an inclusion. All right. All right. Yeah. I think if homeowners were against it, it'd already be in there. So you're just pro- Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind pulling the board on that one, then rather than taking a consensus. We will proceed with this amendment, which was to delay the implementation of the ordinance for how long, Mr. Uh, for, uh, at least six months in order to allow for homeowners associations to, uh, make adjustments as needed. We have a motion amendment to approve. Okay. Thank you. And we have a second. To delay the implementation of the ordinance for six months. Is there a second? Second. And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? Well, Mrs. Brannon. You know, I'm against this, but I don't live in a homeowners association, but when I did, they only met once a year to vote and change covenants. So if you want to do this, I don't know that six months is enough time. But they can mail out information to their members. But you can't change a covenant without voting. The people. They can call a special meeting to do that. Yes, they can. Okay. Okay. Any further discussion? Would anybody from the audience like to offer an amendment? Okay. I don't remember where I started. Mr. Whitaker, can you start us off, please? A yes would be that an agreement with the delay. A no would be not. Yes. DeHaven. Yes. Kern. Yes. Kozo. Yes. Markert. Yes. Yes. Yes. Marquette, yes. Yes. Yes. Broembeck? No. Brennan, no. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. Okay. We are back to the original motion. I'm assuming nobody else has any amendments. This would be the original motion is presented in our packet, less RP zoning district with the permit and with a six month delayed implementation. Mrs. Bronson? Mrs. Brannon, can you please start the voting? That means I support all this, right? I'm gonna say yes because I don't want chickens to fail. Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Botthorff, yes. Markert, yes. Thomas, no. Kozo, yes. Kearns, yes. DeHaven, yes. Akins, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. And I sure hope Mr. Pearson got all that. Good. All right. I feel like I've had my workout for the evening. That completes our public hearings. Number seven is under current planning applications. Anything there for us, Mr. Pearson, to be aware of? Nothing super noteworthy. I'd just say that the site plan's been simulated for the splash pad at Clemson. OK. Any other questions for city JB on that? Sustainability is part of the planning mission. That's a vast plan and it requires a lot of technical development. Kind of maybe we don't get enough individual discussion for weeks about that. That's days through maybe the goal to find the best habitat in the city. Can I include a question from the club of the town? Audit them on the board Thank you for raising that question. I think that it isroducing to of the plan early as possible. They get a lot of newsletter to take in for local residents if they have a needsção plan alone. development rights program which is you know resulting in the the provide or preservation of that acreage from future subdivision but also means that roughly 700 rights are then going to be transferred into the urban areas and in a likely buy right application so that's a that's a both a large amount of acreage to be added into the program and then a large amount of rights to deal with in the urban area so i figured it was noteworthy for you all to be aware of so that's all i have mr chairman i'm happy to answer any questions any questions for mr pearson seeing none of me glad to entertain a motion for adjournment so moved is there a second any discussion we are adjourned drive home safely thank you thank you
