Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-06-17
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=355
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. I got to get it. Bye, homie. All right. Thank you. So that's to answer that piece of it. Now the Comprehensive Policy Plan process does allow owners and developers to modify the adopted Comprehensive Plan. The last big update, not rewrite for those who've been part of the greater conversation, but the last full update was in 2021. However, there have been land use plans updated, the NEILA Northeast Land Use Plan in 2023 and the Western Frederick Land Use Plan in 2025. To amend the Comprehensive Plan, this is one of the routes. I told you a couple of times just at the beginning of this. Another route would be potentially a board-sponsored amendment in which the board says, hey, staff, we want you to look at this, and that can happen at any time, not just on this schedule. However, this is the process for property owners who, outside of the normal update schedule, want to say, please consider this for my property. We've also had it shared with us that folks are calling this a rezoning. It's not. The comprehensive plan is not zoning. It is a policy that designates a potential long-range land use of a property. Now, there are plenty of times where someone is applying for a comprehensive plan amendment with the intention of following up with a rezoning. In one case tonight, we've got someone who's trying to do concurrent and has also submitted initial paperwork for a potential rezoning. However, there are separate actions with separate public hearing input processes. So, theoretically, if someone's doing even a concurrent comprehensive plan amendment and a rezoning, each of those actions will have public input at both the public hearings, at both the planning commission and the board of supervisors. Now, tonight you're going to hear fairly boiled-down presentations of what these applications are. Now, there's a fairly specific reason for that. We don't put a lot of staff time, and we're not looking for a lot of staff time. We're looking for applicants to put a ton of work and investment in if it's something the board and planning commission aren't particularly interested in even talking about. So, at this point, these applications are just applications. They haven't been reviewed in depth. They haven't received the additional study that these two bodies tonight may say that they want us to consider looking at, but they're going to give a basic overview, and we're going to get some guidance on where the next steps would be. So, at this point, there's no agency comments. There's no specific in-depth planning department review and evaluation. It's simply a, hey, we're thinking about this. Board, do you think this is something, board and planning commission, sorry, is this something you want to even talk about? And that, frankly, like I said, is to save excessive staff time, as well as investment and waste the time of the applicants, frankly. At the end of each one, there will be a poll, not a formal vote, but a poll consensus. If you will, of the planning commission and board to see whether this is something that they do want us to look at. If there is consensus that they want something looked at, or even if there's consensus that they don't, those formal actions will come from the board of supervisors on July 8th. Now, comprehensive plan amendments, should they be adopted, are adopted by the board of supervisors. After the public input process I just discussed, the comprehensive plan is a guiding document for considering plan amendments and rezoning applications. And public engagement is a key part of both of those processes to make sure the board is able to make an informed decision. These are considered annually, as I've already mentioned. There are public hearings. Rezonings and conditional use permits are separate actions. June 1. Was the submission deadline for this round. The joint work session, which you see in the green heading there, that's today. It's a public meeting as has already been discussed, seeking consensus. If there's a vote, it will be on July 8th. Following that vote, we would move into the blue segment that you see on the screen, in which we request agency comments, new plan text and maps are drafted. HRIB review is its own meeting. That's, I'm sorry, that's historic resources. Advisory Board and the Comprehensive Policy Plan Committee review would also likely be in August. And then once that's all been sort of packaged up and put together into the actual amendment, that's when the public hearings would happen over the course of the fall. Now, there's a number of evaluation criteria as follows. Is this amendment a benefit to the public health, safety and welfare? Is it consistent with the goals, objective, and goals of the public health and welfare committee? Is it consistent with the goals, objective, and goals of the public health and welfare committee? Is it consistent with the goals, objective, and goals of the public health and welfare committee? Through each grasses, and in each making committee presence, would this be a benefit to the public health and welfare committee? From a local policy point of view. Would the public health authority and the state asking for the respect for community public policy make this representative decision? Then would this gross us of the appropriate employment? Then would the public health authority and the state asking for the appropriate employment? board this evening is does it make sense to look at this now should this just be part of the overall update which we are underway with so that's something you think about as well in terms of comprehensive policy plan amendments recent history in 2021 we had one application it was not selected for further study in 22 we had zero applications in 23 we actually had six four were selected for further study three eventually were approved as amendments those were the brockton sergeant and madison applications last year i'm sorry in 2024 we had three applications one was withdrawn one was not selected for further study one was selected for further study and then the actual amendment was subsequently denied and then last year we had three applications one was withdrawn the other two were the two data centers which obviously got a lot of you know movement behind them and those neither of those were selected for further study so this year we once again have six applications i'm not going to go into detail on each one because we have tyler and eric here to pre to present each of those and we have the applicants for each of those present to speak as needed as as well i will make a couple clarified notes once again based on stuff that's been relayed to me is out there on facebook specific to the gibson property i think somebody may have misread the agenda because the gibson application application is not for a quarry. Carmuse is on the agenda tonight, but not for 522 South where the Gibson application is. And additionally, I know there's extensive talk. Pardon me. I know there's extensive talk that Gibson is a data center. That is not in keeping with anything that's been submitted to us. At this point, we have, as already said, received preliminary paperwork for a joint rezoning to an M1 use. If they're going for a data center, they're doing it the most discombobulated way they could do it, because why would you go through a public hearing and rezoning to M1, only to have to follow it up and do a conditional use permit to get to a data center with its own round of public hearings? So I deeply respect folks trying to share information and rally their neighbors. We had, Eric and I had a privilege to be on the call with the district, and we had a neighborhood meeting last night and talk about the comprehensive plan. And I did make the comment there that even when people are there because they're unhappy about something, as planning nerds, if you will, we like public involvement even when it's negative. And to our board and planning commission, I'd say when you start to have planners who don't embrace the public involvement process, go ahead and fire them. Don't remind me of that if I'm ever having a bad day. But there it be. In terms of folks that are here because they're worried that Gibson's a data center, I think that's a good thing. If they get up there and say, yep, we're doing a data center, feel free to tar and feather me and ride me out. But it's not in keeping with anything that we have received so far. I'll let Tyler and the applicant speak to the rest of that. Regardless of what brought you here, we're glad you're here and we appreciate your participation. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Eric, who has the first application for the evening. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bittner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a request by AMK Properties for an amendment of 99.25 acres to go from industrial and residential four dwelling units per acre and airport support area to sensitive natural area. The existing zoning is rural area and light industrial, or M1 and RA. Both of those uses are currently vacant. There's nothing on those properties. And the master's district is in the Shawnee. The area is in the Shawnee. And the area plan that dictates it is the Cincinnati and Eastern Frederick land use plan. The property is identified by the square in red in relation to the bounds of Frederick County and the City of Winchester. And then this is the properties and their zoning outlined in purple. As you can see, most of the properties are RA, but there are two substantially sized properties that are zoned as M1. And then this is the current existing long range land use plan. And then this is the current existing long range land use plan. And then this is the current existing long range land use map. Most of the properties are all as industrial. Down in the southern side, there is some residential or four dwelling units per acre. Down in the southern side, there is some residential or four dwelling units per acre. Down in the southern side, there is some residential or four dwelling units per acre. Down in the southern side, there is some residential or four dwelling units per acre. And then this hashed area that you see, is the airport support area. The sensitive natural area outlined in the plan to support four武 dislodged homes to 320 acres and another side of the property that has 싫m,역. Thank you. to support green infrastructure in the environmental areas. The airport area in this area specifically is called out in the Cincinnati Eastern Frederick land use plan as supporting the airport, specifically airport business. It shouldn't impact the future needs of the airport and discourages usage such as residential that don't advance the use of the airport. This is kind of the section where it discusses that. The airport support area was established to ensure the feasibility of continued use of the airport. Businesses and industrial areas should be the primary land use in that area. And development proposals should steer away from residential uses. This item is presented for discussion. Staff are seeking no action but consensus on whether or not to send the application forward for further study. That will be authorized at July 8, the next board meeting. At this point, the applicant and staff are available for any question. With the applicant, we have Jack Owens with the Shenandoah Battlefield Foundation. JACK OWENS, Looking for anybody with any questions. How about on plane commanding? SPEAKER 2, I . SPEAKER 3, I . SPEAKER 4, . SPEAKER 5, . SPEAKER 6, . SPEAKER 7, . SPEAKER 8, . SPEAKER 9, . SPEAKER 8, . SPEAKER 9, . SPEAKER 10, and the sign language. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. Last week, I spoke to theBecause I我不知道 . I people across here today那座 I know I know that you've been поступing Ihrer dizer Speaking of improving the, what did you whine about viewers understanding howнов for flooding anything like that and I think it also has a very damping effect on our Airport because it takes out quite a bit of air for airport support potential there and if we designate this and down it would have to be a down zoning which will change the tax structure significantly if it goes to a nonprofit there is zero property taxes and come to the county is the applicant going to continue farming it while it is in the sensitive designation I just I don't see why we would be down zoning and this would be a down zoning of this area and if we do call it a sensitive area with a battlefield area are we going to start down zoning and if we do call it a sensitive area with a landfill I guess maybe we should shift that layout a little bit because I think the taker veterans nice com more good crime method I did something wrong so next picture that forgets your def ambiguos including the details of the package GCU household is the kind of folks with the majority or max the pilots didn't really know where to be because they have no idea like this could be an aircraftview actedsee some kind of That causes a problem for the airport. Birds, deer, anything that would be in there in that preserved area, I just don't see any benefit to the county. And I would love to preserve 99 or 100 acres from development, but I don't see this as the right location. I think it has too much negative impact on the airport. I'll just address two quick things from that and then turn it over to Jack to maybe speak why SVBF is interested in the conservation value for this property. I think the reason they chose sensitive natural areas, it's been a common long-range land use category for properties that end up in conservation easement, but your point's well taken. The description of it might not be perfect in meeting that respect. We have other long-range land use designations that we could use. I think there's a conservation one or a recreational one that may be more appropriate if it moves forward. And then lastly, just to clarify for everybody's understanding, it's only a request to modify. The long-range land use, so it wouldn't have any effect on the zoning of the property. Properties would still be zoned M1 and RA. If they went into conservation easement, as is the intended effect of it, that would obviously limit the developable capabilities of the property, but it wouldn't change the underlying zoning. And Jack, do you want to take it away? Yeah, you'd still, to my understanding, be able to tax this property because it's still owned by a private individual. Is that correct? Yeah, and the assessed value would go down once you all got into easement, but before that, it would still function the same after this long-range land use change, yeah, as far as taxation is concerned. The battlefield, we're only involved as an easement holder, so there's only probably two to three acres of this 99 that are within the federally recognized battlefield boundary of 2nd Winchester specifically. So this isn't being preserved solely or an intent to be preserved solely because of its historical significance. The landowner is in a really unique situation where they've been acquiring parcel after parcel, and removing structures from the property, and restoring the landscape to a natural landscape, removing invasive species, planting native grasses, restoring the stream bank in the areas of, I think it's Buffalo Lick Run. So this individual wants to pursue a conservation easement with this 99 acres. Per Virginia Code, I believe it's like Chapter 10.1, Subsection E, conservation easements by law must comply with the federal law. So this individual wants to pursue a conservation easement with this 99 acres. The landowner is pursuing this process for the purposes of that he should comply with the comprehensive plan when they are recorded. As of now, it doesn't, so that's why we're pursuing this process and the landowner is pursuing this process. So once, if a conservation easement is recorded, it does follow the law and comply with the comprehensive plan. I'd like to say whether or not this continues and we hold an easement on this property, I believe, since the couple of meetings I've had with this landowner, he's going to continue to purchase property around there, he's fully capable of doing so financially, and he's going to keep an easement on this property. you know, restricting use, whether or not we hold an easement or he places his own deed restrictions on the property. So this is just one avenue for him to preserve it through a third party conservation easement. But whether we're involved or another, you know, conservation group, I could see this individual eventually placing his own deed restrictions on the property before he's dead and gone to where that'll even restrict the use, whether the comp plan complies or not. And just a question for staff. He could do that regardless if it's, if the comp plan has changed or not. So he can put the deed restrictions on it. This is really an unnecessary action on our part to take. Yes, he could put the deed restrictions on it without the caring what the comprehensive plan says. Mr. Chairman, I, I, I share some of Roger's concerns on this, one, and I, I appreciate and always am excited when, when we can preserve land. But with all that we have going on at the airport, I'm concerned if we do something like this, it could impact grant applications that the airport's trying to pursue and, and other things that would be unintended consequences of what we're, what we're wanting to accomplish. So I, I, I also had a hard time with this one and I'm not sure this one's in, in the county's best interest to. To adopt. Thank you, sir. Mr. Curtin. Mr. Curtin. Yes, sir. Thank you. There's more questions for staff. Just looking at this, not, not this, but the, the actual satellite image of it. It looks like there, is there a, how much of that is actually developable? It looks like there's a lot of water on there. Is there drainage on there? I mean, is this, is there a reason this hasn't been developed at this point? I mean. Certainly significant topography that wouldn't lend itself to large lot industrial development. Especially on 64-5-1. Right, that's the main one. Yeah. Beyond that, I can't speak to any history or attempts at developing the property. It's highly likely that it's zoned M-1 historically. Meaning when we adopted zoning, we probably painted a lot of the area around the airport M-1. But that's, that's the extent of what I know. Okay. I didn't know if there had been a look at it earlier and just, it just didn't make sense because of the topography. The topography and the water features. Okay. Thank you. And I will add, if I can, you know, like you all were saying down there, he could just do the deed restriction anyways, and there's really no need for this. But I think when you're looking at it from the slides John was showing earlier with how does this benefit the public of, you know, the citizens of Frederick County, one of the opportunities we saw and why we thought it was critical to bring this as a comprehensive plan update is, sure, he can put the deed restriction and that can be considered. But I think it's really important to look at it from a different perspective. Okay. Okay. Okay. If I can just just comment yeah the an authority it it had ice and everything was kind of говорю (* Marie, you know, what made doing that that year, right. You know, I'm I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm our last slides co-annosely is here to on the MLI is how its vicinity to a growing school complex to the south. That's one of those other things that in discussions with the landowner, doing an easement, you know, allowing this to comply with the comp plan and then doing the easement would allow for some public access opportunities in the future there that otherwise wouldn't be possible. Anybody else? I'm not sure what they would access other than maybe a pond or, um, um, the land is pretty steep from what I saw and from someone who lived in Southwest Virginia for 17 years, I know how to develop on steep land and I'm not advocating that. I think the land lends itself to something much more modest that can, that can fit in with what he's trying to do. Um, I do know, uh, at least one of the property owners, maybe more than one reached out to me and desired to have some of the property squared off, uh, that protruded over into their, their property. But you know, they, uh, I would encourage them to try to work on that sort of thing. I think that should, uh, should just go forward. But yeah, I, I understand Jack and we appreciate everything Shenandoah Valley battlefields does. We all love third Winchester and the trails out there and what you've done there is phenomenal. Um, I know we'll talk about that type of thing some more, but, um, I, I'm not sure this is the right place to try to do this. That's my concern. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? All right. I'll start with the planning commission consensus. Uh, start down. Mr. Crane, sir. Okay. No. We're just trying to get a consensus on whether you'd like the idea of it moving forward or not. So, so, um, I guess, but it would be in support of them paying the application fee and fully preparing the package, getting the agency comments, going through committee and coming back for a public hearing. A no would tell the board, uh, let's not even look any further into this at this stage and not consider it with this cycle. If you want, I know the one department into the park, if you have a problem on his own or without us, I don't, I don't, I don't think he sees him. I don't see him doing that on his own. Wait a minute. I don't trust. Dr. Lama. I wanna know, um, yes. I'd like to see it. Um, yeah. Uh, Bother. No. Haven. No, I appreciate the, um, the location to the airport and, and everything that is the growth that's going on at the airport. Um, but there's. There's also the conservation side of it as well, and it's on the lower end kind of now. I would like to see – I wouldn't be opposed to this going through the public process and just hearing what the public would have to say on this. So I say yes. Thomas, no. Stowe, no. Okay, now we move over to the Board of Supervisors. Supervisor Oates. Yes, since we're leaving the airport overlay area over that, I have no problem with it. You're not going to force it to develop. So if it's going to go into easement and not be developed, so be it. If it goes forward, I am interested to hear what the airport has to say before I would make a final decision. But that would be my only concern is what the airport has to say. So I'm fine with it going forward. Supervisor Akins. I'm sorry. Supervisor Akins. I'm sorry. Supervisor Orndorff. I'm looking down the line here. I'm trying to hide behind Supervisor Akins. I'd say yes. Akins, yes. I would concur with Planning Commissioners Stowe and Thomas. I believe that it's a difficult proposition to find enough M1 in the county to support our future needs in terms of – I would agree with Supervisor Oates. I'd like to hear what the airport has to say about it. I'm okay with it moving forward. But my decision is not to go there. I'm going to be based on the airport's knowledge of what they're moving forward with. Thank you. Okay. Well, then we've got a consensus to move it forward. And we absolutely need the airport to step in and feedback. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would like to also add I'd rather see this go with the comprehensive plan study and not be a sideline of extra work for the Planning Commission to do if it does move forward. So I'd do the study, and if we'd still agree with – then the airport comes back to us, and let it go with the conference plan. Is that doable? Staff? It's doable, but it creates a – technically, it's doable. The challenge it creates is related to the reason it came forward now instead of not waiting in the first place, and that's to do with Battlefield Foundation and grants and timelines. So it's time-sensitive? It's time-sensitive. That's why. All right. Well, this is pretty modest. Jack, correct me if I'm off. Yeah, not for grants, but it is time-sensitive. Thank you. Yep. So it'll come up for us. Okay. Move on to number two, BHSLC property. The next request is BHSLC property. This is a request for 37.25 acres to go from business to recreation and planned land use. Its existing zoning is rural area and is currently being used for agriculture. The Master Seedle District is Gainesboro, and it's in the western Frederick land use. Area plan. This is the location of the property identified in red in relation to the bounds of Frederick County and the city of Winchester. This is the map of the zoning of the property. It's currently in RA. To the south is B2 General Business. That is the Walmart out on 50. And then you have MS Medical Center. This is Village at Orchard Ridge on the left. This is the current existing long-range land use map. This area, entire area is slated for business. Staff also do want to note that the parcel here is currently subdivided. That subdivision was made earlier this year. That has been approved and recorded with the courthouse. However, our GIS map has not been updated to reflect the new property lines yet. So this is not the entire parcel that is being proposed. It is a portion of it. It's tracked one that's identified on the plat. By the time this gets to the, this is the last part of the proposal, we'll be able to get to the next part of the proposal. So this is the map. This is the map. This is the map. This is the map. This is the map. As soon as we get to public hearing, we anticipate those maps being updated. This area is in the Western Frederick land use plan, specifically in the Albany planning area. This area does call for properties to remain generally in its rural nature. And also a significant portion of the planning area is designated to be recreational land use. This includes areas identified such as this one that are core battlefield and with the Frederick County poorhouse property. This makes it essential to have these sooner or later. In� Yeah, we look forward to hearing from everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, »» Thank you. »» Any other questions? Then we have troubled north of the townhouse interpreting committee. School board outreach Imelles County. gee, what a aporthosis district. Really hoping that we will have all of that support this pre- ganska familiar to you been to the campus here. »» I do. we're saying recreation is there gonna be any specified type of recreation or is that just gonna be held in abeyance for something in the future the ultimate goal will be public walking trails and if the project is approved for further study you could add texts to that portion of the conference of plan to support what Jaques articulated or if you had a different idea for it I would certainly be something you should do in concert with the requester and the property owner who's likely looking to put it into easements Jack very similar to what you've done already and Frederick County with battlefield area... yeah this this one so this is with portions within core and study area of the second battle of Winchester this will be similar to this but is gone to Tirupat or Hopefully Iniokalata to one you'll hear in a couple slides from now but this is different than the AMK one we just talked about before where we are the ones actually acquiring this property this is just one of those steps we have to take you know ahead of time in order to where eventually the Virginia Board of Historic Resources will hold an easement on this property in order for them to you know keep that process of an easement application going they need a letter from Wyatt that says this complies with the comprehensive plan right now it doesn't obviously so we're just going through that process in order to meet the requirements of the state but yes very similar to other like third Winchester and other ones where this is gonna be you know at its full scale this could be close to you know six seven eight hundred acres of conserved land in this general vicinity and this is just sort of a beachhead of that on the southern end and this gives you a chance to apply for grants and what-have-you yeah yeah so this one this will allow you to apply for grants and what-have-you but it's a little bit of a stretch to the state and this is going to allow us to once this process is seen through to tap into federal and state granting programs to facilitate the acquisition any question oh mr. Kearns thank you thank you Jack is there any historical significance or battlefield significance to this piece of land or is this just because it's proximity to other those so this plus the property will look at in a couple slides from now on June 14th, so just a couple days ago, 160-so-odd years ago in 1863, Confederates would have marched through here. This specific piece is the ridgeline that slopes up, and then the next piece we'll see is adjoining to it that slopes down, and it's that ridgeline that runs north to south, west of 37, that the Confederates will be on the western side of, and they'll use that to screen their movements as they're trying to flank the Union soldiers that are occupied here in Winchester, then launching a large attack on land just a half a mile north of here, all adjacent, 165 acres that was conserved in a conservation easement last fall that'll eventually be incorporated into this to a large public access opportunity with a second Winchester battlefield park. But yeah, battle significance. There's a road, the historic roadbed they used is on the parcel that's adjacent to this, too, that they would have used to march north on between... . ...this property and the village and orchard ridge. Is that entire thing in your head? Yeah. . It's all there. I'm impressed. Can you remind what sort of...is there any development at all allowed on a recreation...so what would they be allowed to do other than trails? Would they be allowed to put buildings or a museum or anything allowed on there, or would there be no development at all? Keep in mind, this property...yeah, this is only the land use change, so it doesn't control any of those factors. They won't need a rezoning to do anything they're intending to do because RA, which is what it's currently zoned, would allow for those kind of uses that they've articulated. But otherwise, the existing zoning RA remains the same, so it could be farmed, have houses otherwise. And to go off of that, Justin, conservation easements, which will really be the guiding document for this property in perpetuity, zoning or not, that'll be that document that says whether you can construct one building here or have some impervious surface here, things like that. So park infrastructure is something we always look at when we're drafting that easement with the Commonwealth, because we can't lock ourselves in a piece of vacant land forever if the park grows or we need parking areas or we need a museum facility or a visitor facility. But that's all defined in the easement itself. Anybody else? All right. Let's see. Let's move this one forward. Mr. Crane? Yes, to move forward. Mr. Whitaker? Yes. Dr. LaMotta? Yes. Brumback? Yes. Montserf? Yes. Dehavon? Yes. Kern? Yes. Thomas? Yes. Yes. Okay. Supervisor Oates? Yes. Got a thumb. Supervisor Orndorff? Yes. Yes. Supervisor Walz? Yes. There you go. You've got to consider that. Okay. I'm consistent on this one. Okay. Thank you, sir. Appreciate you. Seriously, Jack, we appreciate all that you all do, you know. Thank you. Number three, Carmuse, Lyman Stone. Mr. Chairman, this is Carmuse, Lyman Stone. This is going to be a 47.68-acre request to go from industrial and heavy industrial to extractive mining. The existing system is a zoning map identifying the parcels in purple as being in the RA. Surrounding them on the east here is the Carmuse Quarry. They are located in the northeast of the city of Winchester. This is the zoning map identifying the parcels in purple as being in the RA. Surrounding them on the east here is the Carmuse Quarry. These are in the gray extractive mining. And then they also are surrounded by RA and M1 industrial and B3 industrial transitional district. This is the existing long-range land use map. The area is currently identified as being in industrial and then also heavy industrial. That is going to be the red and white hatched area here. These parcels are proposed to go to extractive manufacturing. This area is This area is dictated in the Northeast Frederick Land Use Area Plan. As a primary industry, the mining should be supported and protected as long as the quarry remains productive. That said, there is language in there regarding that extractive manufacturing uses are generally compatible with residential uses, so there should be adequate buffering from the impacts that they can create. This item is presented to you all now for discussion. The staff are not seeking any action, but we are seeking a consensus on whether or not to send the application forward to further study. That will be done at the Board of Supervisors meeting on July 8th. With the applicant, we have Randy Minchu and representatives from CARMUS. Mr. Minchu, any presentation, sir? I'd be very brief, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, good to see all of you again. In a nutshell, this is a request to nominate a full parcel of land. We have two planned heavy industrial, two-zone industrial to be a non-extractive part of the quarry. What this does is it will allow us to have greater buffers to the quarry and ensure long-term capability. Basically, it's preserving land, buffer areas the old-fashioned way by buying it, owning it, and planting it appropriately. The buffers for quarry need also to be zoned EM. That's one reason why we thought there's a better planning category. With that, I'm here with Logan Thompson who knows the quarry business far better than I do. Logan, anything to add? Good evening, folks. Just maybe one clarification to that is this does allow us to straighten one edge of the quarry within these properties. I just did want to clarify that. It's not completely for buffer, but it allows us to just affect a more efficient and logical project. That's the one that was approved in 2023. But other than that, I think Mr. Minchu and Mr. Bittner summed it up. All of the area around this is EM already. This is just kind of an existing notch that is not. And so we're asking to just fill in that notch so that the project can be, again, in our industry a bit more effective and efficient. So thank you. Thanks, sir. Any questions? Mr. Kern? You look like you want to ask one. Sorry. I feel like I keep talking. Just a real quick question. Why was this not included in 2023? Sure. Great question. We didn't control all four of these parcels at the time. Only one of those. The one that's kind of that notch parcel on the east side was under control, but not the others. So we've. Yeah. Thank you. But that's the main reason. So some more exploratory. Drilling had to happen to make sense. If it did make sense to own it. And that's being completed. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? I would just add, for those that were here in 23 and saw the limits of where the ore is, this makes a lot of sense to increase the buffer here for the protection of the public and for the benefit of Carmo. So Oz certainly would support this. Anybody else? All right. I'm going to move forward then. Mr. Crane. Crane, yes. Whitaker, no. LaMana, yes. Brumback, yes. Bothurf, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Stowe, yes. Supervisor Oates. Yes. It's already surrounded by extractive mining. The cat's out of the bag. So it's. This is more of a. Cleanup exercise than anything. But along with those parcels, I think we need to go ahead and update the comprehensive plan to reflect everything else that's already zoned to him. Because it's showing warehouse, heavy industry, and light industrial. And it's already zoned. So. Duly noted, right? Just to clean up of that whole area. Duly noted, Supervisor Oates. Supervisor Orndorff? Yes. Yes. Supervisor Aiken? Yes. Yes. All right. We've got a consistent yes. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members. All right. Number four. Jack, I think you're back up. Mr. Chairman, this is KSSLC property. This is going to be a 30.10 acre parcel that's being requested to go from business to recreation. The current zoning is rural area, and it is currently being used for agriculture. Magisterial district is Gainesboro. And it's within the western Frederick. Land use plan. This is the property located in red. It's actually just northwest of the property you all just saw earlier with BHSLC property. This is the location of that property. Aligned in purple. And then this is the long range land use map identifying the area as recreation. Just to the north of it is recreation land use. So this proposal is essential. It's essentially to extend that green portion down into this parcel and BHSLC, the one you all just recently saw. The Albin planning area. I'm not going to rehash everything that I just said. It mirrors what was done with BHS. It promotes the properties remaining in the rural landscape and also being primarily recreational and protecting the core battlefield. This item is presented to you all for consensus and discussion. Staff are not seeing any action. But looking for a consensus for the board to take action on July 8th. At this point, Jack Owens with SVBF is present for the applicant. So do we have any questions for Jack on this one? I'm just going right down the line. I think we're good. Mr. Crane. Crane, yes. Mr. Whitaker. Whitaker, yes. LaManna, yes. Wachtorf, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Yes. Thomas, yes. Stowe, yes. Supervisor Owens. Yes. Supervisor Arndt. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So we're consistent on this. Thank you, Jack. Again, I appreciate all that you're doing for us. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairmans. This is your Conference Policy Plan Amendment request for the property unit of Gibson. This is a request to designate 33.7 acres from your planned rural areas and an area that is outside the limits of your sewer and water service area to a requested designation as industrial and within the limits of your sewer and water service area. A little bit about the sewer and water service area. If you're going to promote with it to enable rezonings, particularly commercial and industrial rezonings, you must be not only have to designate land use but also be within areas that are designated for service. Yes. So not only are they requesting the change in the land use designation, but they're requesting a change in the limits of our sewer and water service area. And I'll show on the map their proximity to that. The existing use of the property is rural areas. It's an agricultural property. It is in the Opec and Magisterial District and is a part of the county known as the Route 277 Triangle Centers of Economy. What a name from 2000. And the Southern Frederick Land Use Plan. Again, it's... it's in southeast frederick county along route 522 this is a zoomed in version of that map showing the extent of the gibson tract highlighted in purple there again it's uh joined to the west by route 522 into the east is actually clark county if you're familiar with the area that is the hectic or solar facility which is just off to the right of the subject property there the green highlight on the map is the actual current limits of the sewer and water service area so it doesn't join the sewer and water service area but those areas west of or sorry east of 522 are generally planned to remain rural and outside of the limits of the sewer and water service area presently this is the your adopted long-range land use plan again you can see that property is designated for to remain rural currently areas to the west of 522 there are identified in blue which is our industrial land use designation and just off the screen that kind of of candy cane colored stripe which is our mixed-use industrial office that area to the west of 522 into the west of the subject property is what's known as that triangles of economy center and this is a zoomed out version of that as mr bishop noted earlier in the presentation the gibson property owner and applicant are seeking a rezoning their rezoning parcels include the subject property for the comprehensive policy plan amendment but also those two tracks that are outlined in red on the map significant area uh that they're seeking to change the zoning from rural areas to industrial again that's outside of the scope of your discussion this evening but it is provided for context as they would like to pursue the comprehensive policy plan amendment concurrent with their rezoning request and again you can see that industrial area which is known as the triangles of economy extends essentially north of fairfax pike all the way up to maranto manor and tasker road there's some existing commercial industrial development around miranto manor and tasker known as eastgate which many of you are familiar with which is an existing industrial and commercial area the property south of the creek rights run and west of 522 are mostly mostly rural and agriculture at this point although they have been designated on your long-range land use plan for the better part of 20 years 20 years as an industrial air future industrial area of the county a little bit about the area plan policy has covered most of it but it is a uh that triangle centers of economy is a target area of the county for future commercial industrial development it's an area where we envision economic development authorities targeted goals and strategies and targeted industries to locate in a significant area of high quality industrial development to promote a strong community image and it does not envision residential land uses in this part of the county as currently adopting your comprehensive plan so um at this time staff are seeking consensus on whether you'd like to send this application forward to further study and again i think it'd be pertinent at this time to get some direction from you all if you do send it forward about the concurrent processing with the rezoning knowing that the applicant has submitted a rezoning for a large assemblage which includes the subject property none no action is requested by this body these bodies this evening and this should you send it forward it would come back to you on july 8th for that formal authorization so um ty lawson is here this evening representing the applicant owner and he has some other partners here i believe from the peterson company and they can speak to their requested and they can speak to their requested and they can speak to their requested um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um That is correct. So 522 essentially serves as your current SWASA boundary. So areas to the west of 522 are within the designated sewer and water service area and are eligible for commercial industrial rezonings. Areas to the east of 522, as you can see on this map, which zooms out, are not planned for any future commercial industrial uses. They are designated as rural areas and they are outside of the limits of the sewer and water service area. You have to go essentially all the way to the north to what is the Pine Hill properties, which we'll talk about after this application, to find other planned uses east of 522. 522 currently serves as kind of a dividing line between the rural and the developing parts of the county in your plans. Can you walk us through the process and explain the comp plan update for this versus the rezoning process? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. We have also been submitted as how that is going to occur. or tracks that they have interest in, and they would just not include the plan amendment piece because it would not be eligible for rezoning because it's outside of the SWA zone, outside of our planned land uses. So the rezoning is going to wait for the comp plan process? They would process concurrently, so we would do the reviews at the same time, take them through the process at the same time. It may require some... The plan amendment may not move as quickly because the rezoning is going to take longer than the plan amendment. Yeah, we suspect that probably the comp plan amendment would move faster just because of traffic studies for the rezoning piece. Mr. Thomas. What is the property due north of this? What is that zone now? The property due north of Wrights Run is Eastgate. It's actually all zoned industrial. North of the... Sorry, north of the planned amendment piece is zoned rural areas currently. And it's outside of the... It's outside of the SWA, yes, sir. My concern, and I... You know, this makes sense until you start thinking about unintended consequences. This is kind of a... It's similar to a spot rezoning in my mind. We're looking at an area that if we extend the SWA to this and extend the ability to develop this parcel of land, and if we want to make... the SWA is a nice, uniform area, then we start going north. And all those properties north of that are going to also want to be in the SWA and want to be into a higher density developable status. And I'm afraid we could be opening up... And maybe that's what we should do. I'm just asking the question. I think it really opens us up to quite a bit of that area north, and east of that being pulled into the SWA and also look at a higher density development potential there. And this might make sense to do that. I mean, we have solar fields on one side of it across 522. We have a higher density area already. We have SWA across 522. But do we want to open up that area north of that? And I think that's what this does. It opens that whole area up, because what would we use to deny... going further north with the SWA and developable areas other than being arbitrary or capricious. So that's my concern. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Yeah, going with Roger. Yeah, from a water and sewer perspective, if you were to look at doing that, from Frederick Waters' perspective, it would be better if you went all the way up to Wright's Run, because you're going downhill, so that's the direction of flow for sewer. And then cut across under 522 at Wright's Run to a pump station. Here, you'd have to... It'd be a tough piece of property to develop with water and sewer the way it's laying. Just with the fall, it'd be better to look at those properties all the way up. If you were to move it forward, I'm not convinced maybe industrial is the right move. To me, this looks more like a commercial area. But just food for thought. But yeah, if the group decides to move it forward, I would encourage... I would encourage you to look at taking it all the way to Wright's Run. This was it. Anybody else? Yeah, Mr. Chairman, this is in my district in Opec, and so as I understand it, you're going to bring forth a zoning request. Correct. Correct. I think that's the way we go. That's your priority to come and ask the board for that. Let's go with that and let the public speak at that point. Okay. And follow up on the other letter. All we're asking is, would this be allowed to be included as part of it? It's all one. I understand. Across streets, across 5.2 that connect, there's a lot of logic to it. And of course, it's bounded by highway and commercial solar. So I hadn't thought about commercial. But whatever it is, it doesn't really lend itself to rural. Well, it's... You've got here rural to industrial. So that's what I'm looking at. That's what we're... It doesn't say rural to business or... I understand. I understand. So I go by what's written. So, you know, as you say, bring it forward the way it is and we'll go from there. That's my feeling. Go the way it ought to. Anybody else? Oh, Mr. Bonoff. Mr. Klein, I just had a question. It seems like our paperwork bounces between magisterial districts for this property, between Shawnee and Opec. Maybe a typo. It's clearly in the Opec. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, sir. Just a question to staff. This is something that you wouldn't normally handle with the upcoming comp plan revisions? The Southern Frederick area plan in particular has some significant age on it. It's an area where we know... Based on some preliminary feedback about the plan, we need to start looking at those plan land uses. Again, they're requesting a rezoning that includes it. So that's kind of why it came at this juncture. But certainly you all could hit pause and say, look at this whole area kind of comprehensively when you do your plan update. As you all are well aware, we wrapped up kind of that second phase of the comp plan process, the community engagement side. And we're going to be meeting with you all in July to kind of set some prioritization. And then we're going to go into plan drafting. So we're not too far off. We're not too far off from drafting a new plan at this point. We're only a few weeks away at this point. So it may be something that you all could just direct us to lump into that process. And we can look at this whole area kind of holistically. It looks like there's some concerns about, you know, the sewer and water boundary. And then again, just the broader area that's outside of this request. So we certainly could... It's on our list to look at. And you all could deal with this now or you could direct us to look at it as part of the bigger comprehensive plan. Thank you. That's helpful. Thank you. Anybody else? All righty. My only comment is, if this moves forward, I'd love to hear from Frederick Water when he gets to us. Commissioner Crane? No. Whitaker, no. Dr. LaMotta? LaMotta, yes. Brumback, yes. Bonkorf, yes. Dayhaven, yes. Kearns, no. Thomas, yes. Stowe, yes. All right. New President. I don't know if sending it forward right now is the best way. I'd feel more comfortable if it was part of a larger land use plan study. Like I said, with the water and sewer issues. Because if you piecemeal the water and sewer, it makes the system more susceptible to leaks and that type of thing. If we could do a bigger area, you could plan better. So it's not that I'm opposed to this, but I'd rather see it planned with the entire area. All right. I follow that same line of reasoning, and so I vote no. Agreed. Diamond, no. No. Diamond, no. All right. So we got a consensus on no's from the board side. So take note. Appreciate that. Thank you. All right. Next up, Pine Hill Properties. Okay. This is your final plan amendment for your consideration this evening. Many of you who have been on the board and planning commission will remember this application actually came before you all back in 2024. And at that time, you chose not to do further study. You chose not to do further study. You were in the midst of considering the fourth high school siting and funding. I think that was part of that discussion at that time. So this is a request to consider changing the land use designation on 50 acres. Presently, the properties are zoned urban center. Actually, the properties are outside of your sewer and water service area, which, again, we talked about was the limits of where public utilities are available and also your urban development area. When seeking to develop residential uses, you must check a couple of boxes. One is the planned land use. But also being within the limits of the swaz and UDA. And these properties are currently outside of those limits. They are seeking to change the designation for urban center to residential and to be within the limits of the swaza and the UDA. The current use of the property is rural areas. It's currently being used for agricultural purposes and mostly vacant. It is in the Shawnee Magisterial District. And it is part of your Sensen Eastern Frederick land use plan. It's part of the larger paper mill urban center, which staff will highlight on subsequent slides. Located in southeast Frederick County along 522, not too far north of the Gibson Tract. So the subject properties are outlined in purple. They're north and south of Justice Drive and east of Route 522. They adjoin existing public school facilities. And they're north of what will become the site of the fourth high school, which is just to the right of the screen. This is your future adopted long-range land use plan. You can see by that wonderful polka dot pattern that that is your urban center designation. It's a significant area, generally kind of east of Route 522. It runs a significant area both north and south of the subject properties. The existing school sites are actually shown with a kind of green and red overlay, which is to the right. That's your institutional land use designation. The site of the fourth high school is actually not currently reflected in that institutional land use designation. It's actually reflected as urban center. But when we get into the plan update here, in the next couple days, we'll be able to see that. So that's the plan update. And then we'll be able to see that in the next couple days. So that's the plan update. And then we'll be able to see that in the next couple days. And then we'll be able to see that in the next couple of months. We'll be looking to amend that portion of this urban center to begin with. Your urban center policies are fairly old. They were kind of put together pre-2010, reflecting areas of significant kind of residential and commercial mixed use areas. None of our urban centers have developed the way that they were intended in the plan. I think that's more of a reflection of the market and kind of current trends in development. But again, there's significant areas, and again, on our, looking ahead to what's going to be discussed as we get into the comp plan, drafting a new plan. We know we need to look at our urban center policies and our neighborhood village policies. Those are kind of our mixed use areas. We have significant areas of the county that are planned for urban center, not just including the paper mill urban center that requires us to kind of look at, is that still an appropriate land use and what category, if we were going to change it, would it go to or what policies we're going to go to? So it's a much bigger discussion than Pine Hill, but for some context, that's kind of the things that are kind of in the background. So that's kind of the things that are kind of in the background. With staff currently and some of the things that we've talked to you all about in your stakeholder interviews. So again, paper mill urban center designed to be, you know, mix of uses, you know, residential at higher densities, typically, you know, six to 10 to 12 dwelling units per acre with kind of commercial areas. Maybe there's, you know, mixed buildings, you know, more of an urban kind of feel than just your typical kind of like single family detached residential areas. So again, I'm seeking your comments and consensus this evening to move this forward. No actions requested. As I noted at the beginning, you all did. Some of you were on the planning commission board when this was proposed in 2024 and you all chose not to send it forward, but they've brought it back. It's essentially the same request and I'll let David Frank from Pannoni discuss their current proposal. Thanks, sir. Mr. Frank. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'd like to, I'd like to, I'd like to, I'd like to just start by talking about what's obvious here and Tyler did a good job explaining that the urban center, the big familiar urban center that covers this area has clearly been not viable because of the schools. Years ago, school sites were being constructed in the fourth high school there as well. We did put this application forward two years ago and because of some of the uncertainty as to what the direction of fourth high school was going, it wasn't the appropriate time. On some levels we felt it was, but also there was a lot of things that had to be decided at the board level and the town level for what we were requesting. Essentially you have an urban center that has high density commercial area mixes. It's not very viable because a large portion of the area is now schools. The proposal to rethink this and reimagine this area as a blanket residential around the area, I think the most effective way to do that is to change that. Frederick County Public Schools simply makes a lot of sense there's also you know an opportunity where as this this application does get further study we'd like to see it move forward now not get delayed there are challenges in this area with transportation schools the Fort High School has had to deal with there are also sanitary sewer infrastructure challenges in this area and development moving forward in this area could contribute investment dollars for not only development but also to some of the infrastructure challenges so our request is clearly to study this further move the UDA and swazer I am lines around the subject property and envision this at the comp plan level for single-family detached and attached townhouses you know kind of residential development that coincides with the land use of the public schools thanks sir any question mr. Thomas whether this makes sense or not I have a lot of concerns about the water if we if we would designate this into the urban development area and the sewer and water service area we're looking at a potential 300 housing units residential units that's well over a hundred thousand gallons a day of water consumption just throwing it into this sewer and water service area without studying that whole area I think is not very good planning on our part so if we're going to study this father I would like to see us do the same thing we're doing with Gibson if we're going to put this in the Gibson together and look at that whole corridor up through there and get the Frederick water involved with it because this has a significant impact long-term impact on the water infrastructure transportation infrastructure and I don't think we're prepared at this point to just I would not be prepared to just say okay let's put it into the urban development area in the sewer water service area without a lot more information and study being done before we would even make the choice of putting it in because I think it has again there's a lot of unintended consequences associated with this now whether you know I don't know that we should have commercial and industrial areas around schools probably residential is better but we need to maybe slow down and look at it a little deeper before we would do that that's what comments chairman are you good your hand up one of the epiphanies we had earlier this year was when our consultant this working on a comp plan update came to us and told us even if we continue to grow in Frederick County at the same rate we've grown for the last 20 years we're gonna add 50,000 people to our population and we're gonna need another 20 some thousand homes I promise you mr. Pearson and I've talked about that many times and how we were going to accommodate that and I think housing is something we're gonna have to take a hard look at when we have a joint meeting to talk about the comp plan what our policies are where we want to do it what do we want to do with the UDA and I would much rather look at it from a perspective of more of a project ever again I guess having the whole Yi year is going very far in our budget we're going to have to look at a project like this within the holistic view of housing within the county and how we how we want to address that and where we want to address that rather than I joke about it being like Johnny Cash's car that he built one piece at a time so I would like to I'm not saying it's a bad project I just would like to look at it within the holistic view of housing within the county and and now that fits in with the bigger picture of what we know we need to doater know we need to doater with the comprehensive plan thank you thank you sir anybody else i'm just going right down the line yes mr pittler respond to chairman stowe's sure carry on your mic hello what mr chairman stowe is saying i think makes perfect sense i mean yeah i think it kind of dovetails with what commissioner thomas is saying but what we're our client is here this in this cycle of applications because of the the opportunity to work with the timing of building the fortnight and to try to coordinate the best way to use investment dollars to be contributing while the school is being constructed so that we can leverage that and solve some of the issues that we've raised that i think some people are familiar with um because there is kind of a timing issue that is a little different i'm not suggesting what you're saying is not uh bigger picture of setting this but there is a kind of window of opportunity for the county to leverage development dollars on this project right now at a critical time and we may miss that this got put off with the fraud hundred Tell The information I agree with the sorry Commissioner Thomas hence the longer conception of that area along the Gibson property and near Forea as it relates to interesting information from New Orleans with floodwater concerns of that area along the the money runs going forward you know it makes a lot of sense and that foods Court look you know what Uh I think part of that is involved with so we have known once and sir. Mary super leverage the um I think people I agree Roger and heads up with the room good question to have been sending some pretty chairman stove but I think even if we sat down and studied where we went a little squiggly green line there we're gonna come back and say hey we should do it here and if there are options or availabilities for what mr. peddler is talking about that we would be foolish not to look at that so I'm okay I'm in the camp that I mean housing should go around schools and we've talked about this for four years that you know we do have a housing crisis too but I don't need to go get on that soapbox at this point in time but the I'm in favor of moving this one forward this serves you better I agree with that however my hesitation in moving it forth now and not doing it in a broader scale is a public safety issue you've got high school going in there 1700 capacity you've got a 900 capacity middle school you have seven eight hundred capacity elementary school so you've got nearly three thousand students that will be there you've got one way in at the moment you do have a safety outlet at the high school when the school division purchased those properties you're not going to be able to move that out of the way and that's not going to you're not going to be able to move that out of the way and that's not going to are up to you even in a sort of giby and you can'tettee IRA map of looking way down the road so from a public safety standpoint and I'm supportive the high density housing because I think that's actually rural preservation in other areas of the county so I do think looking at that is important but I'm not sure even with those investment dollars it's such a major animal on expense and then of course the road that's further north that comes in there I really don't know the details on that what the possibility there but from a public safety standpoint I'll be interested in hearing Sheriff's Office comments and VDOT comments and so on but again it's a public safety issue and it's not something we're going to be doing every day if you can update me bring me up to speed with Justice Drive and Cape Mill Road yes sir and I apologize in advance I occasionally get accused of having a certain intestinal failure associated with how much I talk so I'm going to go ahead and give you the best I can so most recently you've had the Eastern Frederick County Transportation study which was adopted for this which which was done for this area and we're now working on that and I'm going to give you a little bit of a background on that so the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to move forward with the implementation of the transportation plan and we're now moving into phase two of that you are absolutely correct the current comprehensive plan does still have the center line for 37 as traditionally envisioned along the backside of the school property however the Eastern Frederick County Transportation study fairly clearly and well noted that based on modeling through 2050 that particular segment was not needed as a four-lane interstate style highway at that point and frankly even two lanes were not needed as a four-lane interstate style highway at that point and frankly even two lanes were not necessarily justified in terms of the function of 37 obviously that's quite different than what may or may not be needed to properly load and unload these these schools because I assure you during unloading and loading of these schools at this time based on all the work that's gone into the fourth high school you're using every ounce of capacity you have out there so that's I don't think I'm surprising and you don't have to be a traffic expert to know that so so there's that in phase two we're going to be looking at the transportation of the of the of the of the of the of the of the of the of the of the of the of the the of the of the exercise you're undergoing right now and that is while the applicant has made a specific application should you want further study on this you can as Roger did correctly allude to give your staff guidance to take a broader look to not only consider this so that's that's something that's a tool in your toolbox as well I would advise once again I'm not speaking for or against the application in that regard and you can set a hundred percent of the application that based on the things we've talked about with sewer and water with traffic You are Just we're talking timelines is what I'm trying to get at and you may well easily run into your already existing adoption date planned adoption date for the comp plan update Yes, sir I have all the same traffic concerns and safety because concerns that supervisor Orndorff enumerated one way in one way out on Justice Drive and I know we're talking What mr. Bishop talked about in terms of future? Transportation infrastructure, but we broke ground on the high school the other day and I mean that that clock is ticking That's gonna be fall of 29. So there's a very real possibility that we're gonna have to get that done So I'm just wondering if you could just give us a little bit of a Possibility that Justice Drive will be the one one way in and out for those three Buildings beyond that. I'm just concerned about the traffic flow And the density out on 522 paper Mill Road, you know all the local downward downrange Transportation infrastructure So a lot of concerns, mr. Lero if I could add a layer on top of what you just said is something I didn't include earlier Relative to coordination with the school division on the transportation now They are making plans and and doing what they need to do To at least meet their transportation needs for opening and closure on day one. That is not me saying things are rosy out there But we have Consistently and continue to relay the board's concerns regarding that and they are still moving forward with study and under the understanding that they will Have to provide at least that emergency access out to 522 Down the property line as well with the plans for that to be a future full-time access So that work is underway and ongoing It would not be complete by the by the most likely by the time of the opening of the high school But we've definitely made clear as part of the coordination guidance We've received from the board members that that is not something to be set aside just because they've got their high school and move forward with now so that can that will be a big part of the work that we're doing in the future. So I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit of a So that can definitely be a big part of the work that we're doing in the future. So I'm just wondering if you could give us a little bit of a That work continues Mr. Chairman We know the exorbitant cost to the county every time a residence is built We've been struggling with a budget for a long time and kudos to this current board You've done a excellent job bringing it back under control But there's going to be a great cost to the county when we build these homes But there's going to be a great cost to the county when we build these homes Secondly we do have a water crisis. We you know we I hear Frederick water so we can handle it We can handle it. But at what point during the drought can't they handle it? I think that's a viable current concern plus I think we're over building and When are we going to say stop? When are we going to keep Frederick? Frederick so these are my concerns And honestly, they do weigh heavily on my heart. So I just wanted to pass that along. Thanks, sir I'm going to pass it on to the next speaker Chairman as a as a parent of three children who graduated from Sharando High School we had one way in and one way out the whole time they were there and to the to the points that were made that was quite difficult sometimes and Here you've got two additional schools in addition to the high school and And the buses and everything that's going to go with it So I I share the security concerns And the traffic all the throughout the whole area and I know I look forward to the phase 2 study advancing further, but Those of us who have either served on the transportation or or currently serve on it realize It takes a long time for V dot to get involved and and develop a project and the six-year plan usually takes What John about ten years? so it's It's a long range to get to justice to drive around to the to the roundabout on the airport road so I this one concerns me and that's why I want to look at it holistically so we make sure we plan the transportation and the utilities and Frederick water as an opportunity to be involved in that discussion as well thank you your service Frank the applicant I can assure you understands and your your conversation underscores the opportunity this now and bringing if it seems logical to have residential around this no future resuming application into forward without any impacts and I believe the opportunity lost here is this these kinds of applications vicinity of projects that challenging transportation problems this project's good potentially we solve or contribute to making the fully taxed capacity of justice drive alternative solutions just a second second exit this is this is the opportunity that presents itself to board where investment dollars from private investment in an area where it makes sense to put something might be part of the solution or not always be seen as a sir anybody else yes sir super nerds section two and gitti official by the way kiss your freak I take care grr gas another issue turning on just these three parcels will be problematic because we're apt to condemn properties to get that sewer down to Parkins Mill that'd be much better if we could have all of it come in as one group to plan out the sewer as a comprehensive install I agree the traffic out there this isn't the time to bring in more traffic so I'm not in favor of seeing it move forward but water is not an issue it's sewers gonna be the issue on this one but it's solvable the fourth high school already has their plan in place for their sewer it's already going out to bid they're taking care of thanks sir anybody else all right let's go forward with this Commissioner crane crane no Whitaker no dr. Lamont I'm on a no I'm back now well I thought no David no I've heard a lot of really good points and I don't know if I would be in favor of this or not but I also don't know that I wouldn't be in favor of it I feel like I need to know a lot more I feel like there's a lot to learn through this process and for going through the application process and you can still be a no at the end of that but I would like to I would personally like to see this go through the process to learn more okay I'm not opposed to fields next to a school doesn't have to be houses next to a school there's nothing wrong with the field next to a school that's great to have a field next to the school but you also build homes next to a school so you don't build them out in fields out in the middle where you don't want homes this is where you want to put homes this is where you're gonna put them I would like to see it move forward just to see the process and just to see what just see what comes out of it again I wouldn't know if I was in favor of it or not but I would say yes to moving it forward just a little bit more I would like to see it move forward just to learn more Mr. Thomas yeah I think this has a lot of positive potential and I think that this is where housing should be built and not out on five acre lots I think this would preserve rural areas and help preserve our agricultural and Apple industry however I would like to see us look at it in a comprehensive way where we look at the whole area and stop this spot looking I mean I I probably would vote for this when it comes in for housing around a school, but I still think we need to look at it in a holistic approach. And it scares me a lot having one way in and one way out to a high school and other schools, not just having one way in and one way out to 300 housing. That doesn't bother me near as much as it bothers me having one way in and one way out to a high school, but that's not part of this. But I would be a no on this at this point until we study the whole area. Mr. Chairman? At this point, I'm a no as well, although I don't think it's a bad project. I do think as we look at housing, this could potentially warrant more than six units per acre as we look at it. So I think I have more questions than answers at this point, so I'd be a no. Supervisor Oates? No at this point, but I think we need to look at this whole area sometime in the future with the land use plan. Supervisor Mordorf? I'm a no at this point. But I don't know. I agree with the previous three speakers here. I do think it's a good project. It merits residential, should be around schools. But I think that the public safety issue, having three schools there, that needs to be addressed. And it's a chicken and egg type thing. So, again, I'm a no. I'd like to see the broader study. I'm a yes, simply for the fact that I'm a big proponent that development needs to be where the traffic infrastructure is. And we do not need 300 homes or more in our rural areas. To your point, Roger, I mean, there's more than one way to think about this. I mean, you could have all the families that live there that have a very short drive that do not put the traffic on all the other roads throughout the county. So it depends on which way you look at it. Some of these kids. Depending on their age, obviously, will be able to walk to school. Like I did. And so I see a lot of positives here. And to the point of the applicant, the developer is going to have to come up and improve and look at the traffic study, perform all those things. All the things that we're talking about around the room. I know that I'm only the one or two yes vote that I'm going to get killed. But I have to say this stuff. That the developer is going to have to go through all those studies. And have to say, hey, I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. I'm going to have to present all those things. And have to solve all those problems. So I feel like we're just kicking the can and stopping the inevitable. I mean, we're all saying, many of us around the room are saying, this is where housing should go. So we're just going to kick the can. Hey, guys, come back in six months, next year. We'll talk about it and probably agree that this is where it goes. And move on. But I just, I don't want all the housing in the rural areas. And this development literally. We'll take five to probably eight years to develop out. And that's a lot of time to work on the traffic problems. Mr. Leo. No. I feel like, Justin, I'd like to see a study on it. That's what we're talking about. So take a look at that. Study it. This is not a rezoning. This is moving it forward to study. And I'm okay with that. Yeah, I'm okay with studying it. I'm okay with it. Because one of the things that I feel, you know, we've talked about this many times. We either control growth or growth controls us. So there may be an opportunity here. You know, it's on the developer to be able to pay for the bills. Be able to pay for what needs to be done infrastructure-wise. But, you know, we know we have an issue with housing. We know that. And we know that. Wyatt, we've talked about that many times. So we're not saying yes to this. We're just saying from a study standpoint, you know, give it a consideration. And then let them come up with, the county's not going to pay for it. They're going to pay for it. You know, that's one thing that's being made clear from this board to anyone that wants to come in here and develop. The county's not paying. Those days are done. If you're not going to do the right thing, you're not going to build. Simple as that. So that's where I am. Okay. Thank you. It's tied. It's tied. It's tied. So. So for that one and the future ones, we'll put them on the board agenda for final action. We'll go from there. So, yeah. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you. Chairman Stone and I had a conversation. You know, we're in the middle of a major comprehensive. Oh, did I try? No. Chairman Stone and I had a conversation. We're in a major comprehensive plan review here. And our feeling is. Next year, it's going to hit a point around this time. And we both we felt we want to get a gauge from our board and from our planning Commission. Do we do this next year or do we let the conference a plan, but the staff do what they're doing with the comprehensive plan and see what that brings forward before we do go back to this format? This German, I'd be in favor of a comprehensive plan. Do it's work and not do this next year since we're going into the. the comprehensive plan next year. That would be my, my vote. I'll go right down the line. Supervisor Lero. I agree with what Supervisor Wells just said. I think these are, you know, giving deference to the developers. So we had six tonight and we considered those but next year. Like to get back to the word comprehensive and look at the whole county wide rather than just piecemealing one at a time. Super vacants working harder not smarter right now. There you go. Supervisor order. Yeah, I'm on the same page. I want to be as efficient of stats time and also the applicants and so I would be in favor. I'll go along with it so long as you put the handcuffs on ourselves as well and don't do any supervisor sponsors. Okay. I'm good with that. Commissioner forced public to do it. Yeah, I need to stick to it too. Yeah. Commissioner crane. I'm in favor as well. I personally don't think we all change anything in the comprehensive plan. Okay. Dr. Lamanna. I'm in favor of that. I also agree. Thank you. I agree. I'm in support. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor. I agree with the added comment that I think work sessions between the planning commission and the board help us both understand what the benefits and maybe the negatives and where everybody is feeling about future planning because planning is not setting concrete. It's not a homogeneous activity. We need to look at it from the standpoint and have a lot of different views on where it would be better to do anything and what we should look at more than something else. So I think the work session concept is great. But I think we ought to go ahead and use the comprehensive plan as the tool. Mr. chairman? Yes, sir. I'm in support of that. And then the second thing we discussed is several supervisors have asked me if this is the best process to use in this. I mean, I don't know what alternative process these there are other than, as Mr. Oates said, to let this work. Okay. let the an applicant go to a board member and see if a board member wants to sponsor it rather than a board member being surprised on June 2nd after after these are submitted so there's different ways to do that and but but some of concerns about whether this is the best process that that's working to blend into the comprehensive plan realizing it's a fluid process is this the best process so I know we're not going to answer that here tonight but I will say that's a conversation I've had with several several of the board members there you go so let the comprehensive plan do its thing next next year and and I said this last night I'm gonna say it again we are very fortunate with the staff we have in the planning department we are very very fortunate and we just greatly appreciate it and you put a lot of time and effort into it and you save our bacon so thank you very much all right with that you everybody's good we're up we're adjourned you you
