Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-01-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=261
========================================================================

Please stand as Vice Chairman Thomas leads us into the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next item on our agenda is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. And a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed likewise? And the agenda is adopted. This being our first meeting of the year, I'm going to turn the meeting over to Mr. Pearson to handle our activities for election of officers, committee assignments, meeting schedules and adoption of the agenda. Bylaws, roles and responsibilities. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can begin with the election of the position of Chairman. So open the floor for nominations to that position. Mr. Secretary, I nominate Mr. Tim Stowe as Chairman for the next year. Second. Any other nominations? Close the nominations. Move that nominations be closed. Second. All in favor of closing the nominations? Say aye. Aye. Thank you. And with a singular nomination, a vote to affirm the selected or the nominated candidate or vote against is fine. No need to state names like we did last time around when we had multiple. I'll do a roll call vote. Commissioner Brannan. Commissioner, actually, if you all could go down the line, I'm going to mess it up. Thank you. Yes. Yes. Ms. Nedden, yes. Mr. President. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Dr. Zachary Vindenート. Yes. Dr. Froese. Yes. Yes. HTML. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you Mr. Chairman. And I'll turn the meeting back over to you for the remainder of the items. I can speak on any questions you might have on the meeting schedule or the bylaws when we get to those. But I'll let you run the elections for Vice Chair and Secretary, sir. Same here. Thank you, planning commissioners, for your vote of confidence and all I can say is no. Thank you. Oh, thank you. vote of confidence and allowing me to continue to chair during this 2025 year. Our next order of business is to elect a vice chairman and I will open the floors for nominations for the role of vice chairman. Mr. Chairman I'd like to nominate Roger Thomas. We have a motion is there a second? Second. And we have a second. Are there any other nominations? Be glad to entertain a motion to close the nominations. So moved. Second. We have a motion a second to close nominations. With a singular nominee we don't need to go any further other than to go off and and affirm our vote so Ms. Brannan yes. Brumbach yes. McKay yes. Snettin yes. Hall-Torff yes. Marker yes. Stowe yes. Thomas abstain. Kerns yes. DeHaven yes. Akins yes. I think you're getting off easy. Thank you. The next item is to adopt our meeting schedule. We currently meet the first and third Wednesdays of each month at 7 p.m. here in the Frederick County Administration building. Be glad to entertain a motion to continue on that schedule. Mr. Chairman I move that we continue on the schedule. As we have in the last several years on Mondays and went on Wednesday the first and third Monday Wednesday first and third Wednesday of the month at 7 p.m. So we have a motion is there a second? Second. We have a motion a second any other suggestions? Hearing none we'll start down here. Mr. Akins? Aye. DeHaven yes. Kerns yes. Thomas yes. Stowe yes. Marker yes. Brumbach yes. Stowe yes. McKay yes. Stowe yes. Stowe yes. DeHaven yes. Kerns yes. Thomas yes. Stowe yes. Stowe yes. Marker yes. Stowe yes. Stowe yes. Marker yes. Blumberg yes. Stowe yes. Brennan yes. Brennan yes. Sneden yes. McKay yes. Brunbeck yes. Brennan yes. And we will meet the first and third Wednesdays of each month here. Committee assignments for 2025 were sent out via email yesterday. I tried to accommodate everybody's schedule to the best of my ability and but if I know there were some I did not get to talk to you before that went out and I'm hopeful that you will be able to accommodate a schedule for those committees mr. Pearson do you want to the the bylaws and the roles and responsibility documents were also sent out there were a few minor changes in the bylaws would you mind sure this yeah so in page 8 and page 9 there's two very simple changes that I think reflect updating the bylaws to match the practice of the Commission as it's been the first is related to tabling items under last year's version of the bylaws it was stated that 45 calendar days were the authority under the Planning Commission for postponement but nothing prohibited multiple postponements and in turn the Commission had been utilizing their full 90-day authority in many different circumstances for tabling so this just clarifies that that authority does extend for a full 90 calendar days and then on page 9 the work session section hadn't been updated since work sessions went out of practice a number of years ago now that they're back in practice and this just has been changed to match how they've been conducted recently so previously it had noted that they were held after the adjournment of regular meetings so we struck that section and to ensure that they could happen in an orderly manner and that we were able toσ be able to condone the time for the SEÑOR for the sure л a amended and read is there a second second okay we have a second any discussion miss Brandon you want start yourself Brandon yes brown back yes McKay yes it's Ned and yes Oh turf yes Margaret yes yes yes current Jess okay dehaven yes Akins yes and thank you very much miss Brandon we didn't elect the secretary oh my goodness that's the most important part no I was fine not being elected secretary okay I'll be glad to open the floor for nominations for the role of secretary miss I nominate Wyatt Pearson thank you very much and we have a second is there anybody else who would like to take a go at it hearing none I'll be glad to entertain a motion to close nominations so moved and a second second being as we only have one we will go down the roll and affirm mr. Akins Akins yes dehaven yes turn Jess Thomas yes Margaret yes Hawthorne yes it's Ned and yes okay yes Brumbach yes Brennan yes chair votes yes and you are our secretary sir mr. Pearson did I cover it I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry everything that I'm supposed to cover I think there if did you all adopt the roles and responsibilities okay so then you're good yes sir okay we only do this once a year so if it seems like we're learning as we go that may be the case our next item on our agenda is meeting minute adoption 5a is an option of the minute meetings for October 2nd 2024 two emotions for adoption so we have a motion and a second any discussion All those in favor? Okay, we'll do a roll call. Mr. Chairman, you can do minutes by all in favor. You don't need to do a roll call. All those in favor for adoption of the minutes as presented, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? Thank you. I'll just abstain. We also have the November 6, 2024 meeting minutes. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adoption. So moved. Motion and a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? I'll abstain again, please. I want to introduce Mr. Tom Falkford. Tom is representing the Peckin District. This is his first meeting this evening. We are glad to have you with us, sir. Thank you. You've had a great night to be here. The next session is also the first session of the Что bullying Scale Without Pr tissues. How can you describe what the difference is between the 24 there pieces and the six five Isabelle? Was that as in, you could have said these ones and these ones, but not as it is now In the last two eight days,..? I came to you as December, which I'm getting in and out of. water affects the whole community. We encourage everyone to use water responsibly. Small changes can go a long way. Also our next meeting is January 21st and that will be, we will have two public hearings. One will be for the inner county service area fees and the second one will be for the proposed bulk water fees associated with water drawn from the hydrants and filling stations. Thank you very much. Are there any other committee reports? We don't have anyone from Winchester with us this evening. Okay. Mr. Liero, good evening sir. Good evening Mr. Chair. First of all, congratulations to the chair, vice chair, and secretary on your re-election. Also Mr. Boddorf, our new Opecan planning commissioner. So congratulations all four of you. Last week the board of supervisors met on Wednesday the 8th. Besides the appointment of Mr. Boddorf, we took up two other issues in the planning realm. First one was the comprehensive plan amendment, Western Frederick Land Use Plan was adopted 7-0. And ordinance chapter 165 of zoning part 204 regarding removing the burden of a property owner to gravel surfaces for parking that are used infrequently. That was also adopted 7-0. And that's all I have. Subject to your questions, I yield back to you Mr. Chair. Thank you very much sir. That takes us to item 7 which is a citizen comment period. This is an opportunity for citizens to address the Planning Commission on any items that are not on our agenda this evening for a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to the Planning Commission about something that is not on the agenda for a public hearing, this would be the time to do so. Is there anyone that would like to speak on a matter concerning something that is not on the agenda? I know a lot of people are here for the Winchester East at Opecan rezoning, we understand that. This is not the time to speak to that. We'll get to that next. Nobody? Okay, seeing nobody, I will close the public comment period and we'll move into public hearings. Mr. Klein, we're at rezoning number 10-24 Winchester East at Opecan Creek. Flooder 1, stem 1, please read Claudia aim's request for Mr Klein. necessities as sense here, for staff to rezone approximately 91.7 acres from rural areas to residential performance with receiver чи Py's external programs. Is that okay? Mr. Klein? Yes.贏 2737 and 2747 Senseney Road in Winchester in the Redbud Magisterial District. I would call attention that you all did receive revised proffers dated January 6, 2025 that include changes made following your work session in December. Drawing your attention to the screen, this is our countywide locator map. You can see that the subject properties are outlined in red at the far eastern limits of Frederick County in the Redbud District. This is a zoomed-in version of that map. This is our location and zoning map showing the subject parcels outlined in purple. They are bounded to the south by Senseney Road, to the west by the subdivisions of Senseney Glen and Twin Lakes Overlook, and to the north by the Opecking Crossing subdivision. To the east of the subject properties is the Opecking Creek and Clark County. When considering and evaluating land use decisions, the Planning Commission and the staff, use our comprehensive plan to evaluate the proposals against what is planned in our long-range land use plan. In particular, these subject properties are contained within the Senseney Eastern Frederick Urban Area Plan, and it designates areas west of future Route 37 for residential with 6 to 12 dwelling units per acre. It states that the residential land uses outside of and east of Route 37 are envisioned to be rural areas in character and provide a planned transition, to the Opecking Creek and to the rural character of the adjacent Clark County. Within the Senseney Eastern Frederick Urban Area Plan, it also speaks to use of the Opecking Creek watershed area and floodplain as a potential for the creation of greenways, stream valley parks, stream buffers around the waterways, while taking into account those environmentally sensitive areas. So, in that respect, when evaluating the proposal versus our land use plans, the proposal generally implements plan policies specific to residential uses west of Route 37, future Route 37, and use of the watershed for recreational amenities. This is again your adopted long-range land use plan. The yellow hatching that you see on the screen is areas designated for residential, and you can see that clear dividing line between portions of the property west of future Route 37 and to the east of future Route 37. In regard to transportation and site access, the plan identifies a number of improvements on and in the vicinity of the subject properties. That includes, the right of way for future Route 37 bypass, which is our eastern collector road, the Senseney Road frontage improvements, speaking to the widening of Senseney Road in this area of the county, and multi-use trails are designated in our plan along Senseney Road and the future Route 37 bypass. As is proposed, the proposal generally implements plan policies specific to the future right of way for 37 and improvements to Senseney Road. When evaluating transportation and site access, the applicant also has provided a traffic impact analysis statement. With their application, the study states that all study intersections operate at an acceptable level of service, and the queues with and without the proposed development continue to remain acceptable, and that the proposed development would not have a substantial impact on the surrounding transportation and roadway network. And you can see on the slide that the proposed development would not have a substantial impact on the surrounding transportation and roadway network. And you can see on the screen the study intersections that were included in the traffic impact analysis. Finally, it is pertinent when considering this application to take into account the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study, or AFFECTS study, that was done in 2024. As you all are aware, this study has worked its way through a joint work session of the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors, and is scheduled to go to the Board of Supervisors for endorsement next week. In fact, that study proposes a near-term solution between Sensany Road and Route 7 in the form of a parkway or collector road, which is shown with project number 4 on the adjoining graphic. The rezoning proposes implementing a segment of this parkway. The applicant would dedicate right-of-way between Sensany Road and their property boundary, which would align with right-of-way dedicated on the Opec and Crossing project, and they would also construct a two-lane segment for a portion of this project. So that is a significant element of this application, that aligns with a study that is currently making its way through the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. Staff would note that should this application be approved, there would still be a gap in completing that link between Sensany Road and Route 7. There's a gap between what exists on Opec and Crossing and what this applicant would complete, and that would require a completion by others, potentially, and potentially going out for state or federal funding, which typically carries a six to eight year timeframe. Next slide. Another tool at your disposal when evaluating land use actions is our capital impact model. This is a tool that we have that's adopted annually by the Board of Supervisors, and it projects fiscal impacts on land use actions on county services. As you all are well aware at this point, having evaluated a number of residential rezonings over the last several years, proffer categories are limited by the Code of Virginia to only public safety schools and parks and recreation. So, while the model calculates that full capital impact to all county services, state code limits our ability to collect proffers on only those categories listed, and it also includes that kind of capacity triggered amount, which reflects the service area for a particular development in relation to various schools and other county facilities, and it provides a per unit valuation. What you see on the screen is a screen capture of that kind of per unit value for single family detached residential units for those categories that we can collect monetary proffers. Looking at the capital impact model versus what the applicant has proffered, you can see that they are proffering the amounts that are shown in our capital impact model for both single family detached and single family attached residential units. Staff will note this is a change from the proffers that you all saw at your December work session. The applicant removed their per unit credit that they were taking for right of way dedication of future Route 37, and they've agreed to provide the full monetary contribution reflected in our capital impact model. So in that respect, their proposal fully implements the capital impact model outputs for residential development. Digging into some of the numbers within the capital impact model background data, we will highlight school capacities or level of service. This shows the service area schools for the proposed development, which currently is Greenwood Middle Elementary School, Admiral Byrd Middle School, and Millbrook High School, and you can see on your screen the kind of the current enrollment, the current capacity at each of those schools, the percentage capacity that exists today, which is that column to the right, and then the percentage capacity that remains after this proposed development. Staff will note the limits of this analysis as it's a point in time reflecting when the model is adopted and when the model is run. It does not account for pipeline projects that are currently underway in this area of the county. There are a number of large subdivisions that are under construction that have remaining unbuilt units that will come online over the next several years. It does not account for the first half of the year. A significant number of them are under construction that had left for several years,<|ru|> defendant operations that have been carrying a long line of can't be 만약 in South Diversity Kanipari block, and amount of each physically connected unit that had been selected for the delivery. In addition to those measures, we have another relationship of increases in the number of students that had signed up to a campus or in an school. This should motivate school staff and students to execute additional school 뭔가 projects in the county, especially in city communities, and it can even be the detail and the component of individual yearbook opportunities. been made since your work session in December highlighted in red. The first proffer pertains to land use. It specifies a maximum of 303 residential dwelling units. They will be in general conformance with the attached generalized development plan or GDP, and they have further agreed to limit the hours of operation for construction and deliveries to the site. They have agreed to restrictions of 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to sunset on Saturdays. Proffer two pertains to parks and recreation. They have provided open and green space throughout the development, including along the Opecan Creek watershed, and they've proffered to develop a six-foot-wide natural surface trail along the Opecan Creek, and they have further specified public access dedication of that facility so that it would be available to all residents of the county, not just residents of the Winchester East subdivision. Proffer three pertains to proffer payments, and staff would note that they have agreed to provide a monetary proffer to the Winchester East subdivision. Proffer three pertains to proffer payments, and staff would note that they have agreed to provide a monetary proffer to the Winchester East subdivision. Proffer three pertains to proffer payments, and staff would note that they have agreed to provide a monetary per unit contribution consistent with our capital impact model. That is $17,322 for single-family detached units and $15,596 for single-family attached units. Proffer four relates to the creation of a homeowners association. They outline the requirements for the establishment of the HOA and the HOA duty and responsibilities. Proffer five pertains to water and sewer connection, and they specify that they will connect to public utilities provided by Frederick Water. Proffer six pertains to historic resources. They have agreed to follow the phase one cultural resources study recommendations that were included with your application, and they would, and they have agreed to not disturb identified historic areas specified in that phase one cultural study. Proffer seven is the largest proffer. That pertains to transportation. They're making a number of improvements, which you all are quite familiar with, but I will recap. Given that this is a public hearing, they've agreed to one, entrance from, right of way along Cincinnati road on front of future widening since the<|oc|>, the right away designed for thatprofessional public road sharroon road They've agreed to a public street at an time to canyon road. They've made one change as it pertains to future route, future way along Route . It's a minimum of with some variability according to the ultimate of the facility. They've agreed to construct a two-lane wide section of major collector road. The solution I spoke to as earlier in the presentation. all streets to a public standard acceptable to the Virginia Department of Transportation or VDOT. They've agreed that all sidewalks throughout the development would be a minimum of five feet in width and they've agreed to a 10-foot wide shared use path along Senseney Road. Proffers 8 deals with the exclusion of public property from the proffers stating that public property dedicated would not be subject to the proffers. Proffers 9 and 10 deal with severability and binding effect of the proffer statement and proffer 11 deals with your escalator clause and they have specified in proffer 11 that after 20 months the proffer would be adjusted for CPI or consumer price index and it would be capped at 6% per year non-compounded. On your screen now is the attached generalized development plan reflecting a number of those proffered improvements that the applicant has agreed to make and I will outline them for your consideration. The first obviously is located TWO-LANEeping prepared road and했다 elegant a stride and had a naive rPC in K intentionally be Bard only 0620 mall would minus one a zero as an entirely concrete. Tab old goods child should also be a deed that left the A.D.Erge up, a FEMA or center offended in YouTube video is gambling 2.0. pengeland and areas within the watershed and then they have identified their natural surface trail that they intend to create and dedicate for public access they've also provided a cross section showing that two-lane collector road which includes the requisite sidewalk and trail section that is specified in our comprehensive plan at the bottom of the screen so in summary this is a request to rezone approximately ninety one point seven acres from our RA zoning district to our RP district with proffers to enable the development of 303 residential units as is consistent and customary with our staff report we have outlined for your consideration positives and concerns with the application we do this for all of our rezoning applications in regards to positives the proposed rezoning is generally implements plan policy specific to residential land uses for portions of the property west of future route 37 a significant portion of their site is identified and listed within the Opec and Creek watershed area and specified for open space and recreational purposes this provides a natural buffer to the rural areas of our County and implements plan policy specific to resource conservation and preservation they've agreed to a near-term solution to construct or start reserve right-of-way and construct a portion of that two-lane collector road that's identified in our Eastern Frederick County transportation study the proffer statement fully implements capital impact model or cap M monetary contributions for residential housing types and to address stated impacts to adjoining residents the proffer statement restricts hours of operation for construction activities and deliveries again from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to sunset on Saturdays concerns with the application are as follows proffer 7 which is our transportation proffer requires several clarifications regarding the approval of engineering for design of public roadways access to the proposed major collector road points of access to the development from adjoining properties and the timing of when such improvements would be made staff would note that these were brought to the attention of the applicant at the work session and remain unresolved in the in the modified proffer statement the proposed two-lane section of the future collector road is only provided to the intersection shown on the generalized development plan and as noted earlier in the presentation this leaves a gap to complete that connection between Cincinnati Road and Route seven that would need to be completed by others potentially Frederick County and proffer 11.1 which is as it pertains to the escalator clause specifies interest on monetary contributions would not take effect until 20 months after the rezoning is approved and caps the annual interest at six percent per year generally speaking interest compounds and it may not otherwise offset anticipated inflation to those monetary contributions as has been discussed a number of times throughout the year with the planning commission so as you all are aware you did hold a public or sorry you rather you held a work session on december 18th the applicant has made a number of changes to their application those are before you this evening this item is a public hearing item and staff would be seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors should the application be acted upon this evening the board of supervisors public hearing would be february 12th 2025 i'm happy to answer any questions you have ty lawson is here this evening he's representing the applicant and he has a team of individuals here as well to answer any questions you have thank you are there any questions from the planning commission for mr clark mr thomas yes uh the uh the escalator clause uh qualifications they've made i don't remember seeing those in the past is that something new or that was start for 20 months and then they're capping at it it's been in their proffer statement um typically not not theirs but typically we haven't accepted other escalator clauses with that type of verbiage have we uh we typically look to have a 12-month escalator clause and then have the interest uncompounded so that it can be compounded annually and and attempt to address inflation yeah so the way it's written it would be 20 months after approval and it wouldn't be six percent a year it would be the cpi per year but if the cpi it should happen to go above six percent correct it would be capped at six percent and it would not be compounded that is correct yes sir so it would in 10 years we would be losing a significant amount of potential funds there to match the cpi index it certainly it certainly pertains to the rate of inflation right which hasn't been that great lately uh the land bay if you put that picture back up on the that one there the land bay which i guess would be the east portion below the area toward the property line that's not being paved that land bay would have single family houses in it? They specify single family residential attached or detached on both land bays. They have not circulated as part of this application a layout that shows the housing types for each land bay. It looks like they could put a fair number of houses in there or single family attached or detached, whichever. But they would only have one access point back to where the road is paved through that development. So if you lived on the far east side, you'd have to go through the whole development back to that one access point to get to the road to go out of the area. So if that if unfortunately, if that access road coming out was blocked, that whole land bay has no way to get in or out. So fire trucks couldn't get in. They couldn't get out. Speaking to the access road, we want to limit the number of connections to that collector road as it comes from Cincinnati Road to the north of the property. Obviously, it's part of a larger project that goes from Cincinnati Road to Route 7. So a product of that when it is a collector road status is to limit the number of access points, which is why it is designed as such. But certainly understand your concern. I don't even a limited access. I don't think we'd have one way in and one way out on a limited access into a development that had probably 100 houses in it or that. And it says the roads will be designed to VDOT standards. I missed where it said they were going to dedicate all the roads and streets to VDOT. It said the roads would be built to a public standard and dedicated. It does not specify that VDOT would be a party to that approval. That was one of the concerns that we have raised that there needs to be. It says that the county would approve. We don't approve road design. So we've asked that they include the requirement that VDOT be the grantor of an approval as it pertains to road design and acceptance. OK, thank you. Am I right? Any other comments, questions for Mr. Kern? Mr. Klein, I'm sorry. I have one more. I forgot to ask. Yes, Mr. Thomas. Plus or minus 500. How many housing lots, residential lots are there currently approved in the county that have not been developed? County wide, a couple thousand. It depends on how you want to evaluate that metric. The number we typically throw out, it's around 6,000 that have entitlement. So they have approved rezoning, generalized development plans and the subdivision process, things of that nature. Just in this, in the Redbud district, when we did looked at levels of service, there's about 640 unbuilt units between Cincinnati Village and Opec and Crossing that are currently approved but unbuilt. I thought county wide we were up in the 10,000 range. That is a number. That includes vacant land. I'm talking about entitled projects that are entitled that have a generalized development plan. So that number comes down to about 6,000. OK. Roger, the number you're thinking is the 12,000 lots. But it relies on a lot of assumptions about zoned land that nobody's given us concepts on. So we can't, we're doing an average density estimate to arrive at that 12,000. So the more comfortable number of more realistic lots that we've been quoting recently is the 5,000 to 6,000 lots that are approved. But it could be upwards of 12,000 total if the other zoned land that we haven't seen plans for yet is built at the densities we've been seeing in recent years. But it's already rezoned so it can be built. We're just lacking a. Most of it is historic zoning from when we adopted zoning in 1967. But the properties have never developed because there's not infrastructure to them or the property owners are unwilling to sell them for development purposes. OK. Thank you. Mr. Akins. To follow up on that question, what is the amount of houses allocated in the UDA? That is within the UDA. OK. That is within the UDA? Yes, sir. That's only UDA. That does not account for any lots outside of the UDA. OK. And what's our absorption rate? How many houses to build a year? Last year we built about 1,000. We've been trending up towards 1,000 the last several years. I would say that that number looks unlikely to be going down. So in the housing stock, we would basically say we have roughly six years of housing stock approved. If you go by the building permits we approved. You will be able to buy it in 2024? Yes. To buy rights? I'm sorry? Is that to buy rights? Yes, sir. Anyone else? To my right. Going to my left. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Ms. Brannon? On the trails, it's said in the proffer that they'll make it public if it connects to some other trail. Would that be going to Cincinnati? or Clark County? It would connect to, if you look at the drawing, it connects, you know, their shared trail connects to their collector road and then ultimately Cincinnati Road and would connect to the west any other trail sections that are being built in that part of the west of the county. There's a potential it could connect to trails within OPEC and Crossing depending on what their ultimate recreational amenities look like or it would connect into one of the subdivisions to the west as well. Okay. And my other question, I have been told and I want to verify that a lot of times developers say they'll put in a road and then when they get to the expensive part, they say, no, no, no, please forgive us. So is, like, I don't like this without the road going through. I don't think it's fair to Cincinnati Glen at all because they don't have sidewalks. I've driven through there. They walk on the streets and they put traffic through there. If I'm looking now for safety and well-being, they're my current citizens. So I think that road has to go through. But I want to know, can we say you've got to build it from the expensive end out so that we're not put in these situations like we were? We have raised a number. There is raising the price. So, I would move that down. No. I have concerns about the way that the profits are structured about what that timing looks like, connections to canyon, when that two-lane section is complete. None of that has been addressed today. And I'll let their attorney and their staff members discuss their reasoning for not including those provisions that would ensure that those concerns are addressed. And then I want to piggyback on Roger. I. what the model says and it needs to be compounded because right now we're building homes getting proffers around 7,000 because they're 20 years ago and it's costing us what was the number 17,000 on there it's we can't afford this and we need to look out for the citizens we have okay any other questions for mr. Klein I do yeah so I see that Fred water has approved the connection for this but yet no demands were supplied so I mean it's really kind of an open ended connection point and also the the owners also you know it's there I guess on their back to acquire all the easements so let's say easements weren't granted granted I mean what would happen in that scenario if Frederick water cannot meet the demand or they're unable to secure the easements they would not be able to get the connections thus preventing them for building the lots in regard to the Frederick water comment it's their comments are fairly generic if you look at all their comment letters it says kind of the same thing that connections may be available it depends at when those connections are being requested and those connections are at the expense of the developer so that's a fairly generic comment letter from Frederick water I guess it just could infuses me of why we would go through the whole process and breeze approve or you know approve or disapprove or rezoning when it may not happen anyways it has to do it has to do with timing and it depends on the availability at the time that they seek to make those connections anybody else to my left you know the commissioners no mr. Thomas yeah another question about Frederick water and I know Frederick water essentially it has to provide the the water for the water to be supplied to the water and the water to be supplied to the water and the water to be supplied to the lake and so on so are the decisions made by the school and K deny walnut is work we have opinions were the어� all huh are they and i I using własuplan jia why The groundwater table in Frederick County was under duress, that we have not fully recharged from the last drought we've had, and it's still recharging, even though the quarries are recharging, okay, the water table has not recharged. And I think if my memory's right, we're about 50-50 of residents in Frederick County on the water table and 50% being supported by Frederick Water or Winchester City Water. on public water systems. So I'm a little concerned when we look at 300 houses, we're looking at really a little over 3 million gallons of water a year, and that's an additional 3 million gallons of sewage to be treated. That might be another sewage treatment plant or at least part of a plant, and that's a lot more water being pumped out of the quarries, which the quarries are recharged from the aquifer. So has Frederick Water, looked at this from the standpoint of when do we get to a point where they're concerned about the amount of residences we're approving and its impact on the groundwater table in Frederick County and our ability to keep providing water? I mean, I guess we can always go to the Shenandoah River and pump out of the river, but that's not where we get our water now. There's lots of statements about other localities. I mean, New Orleans is sinking because they're pumping the aquifer. It's dry underneath it. Mexico City has sank 20, 30 feet because they pumped the aquifer, water out of the aquifer. I'm not worried about Frederick County sinking, but I am starting to be a little bit concerned about are we overstressing the aquifer, and every time we approve another 300 houses at 3 million gallons a year, essentially, because the average is 10,000 gallons per year per single-family house. That's the national average. So, I mean, 3 million gallons is significant, but it sounds like a lot of water, and it is a fair amount of water. Of course, when you look, we have 6,000 already approved. That's a lot more water than 300 houses, but when you add them all together, how many of these can we continue to approve without considering the impact on the aquifer? And I mean, that's not my only concern. I have other concerns with this, but at some point, our infrastructure, even though we've gotten to full proffers, and I applaud the developer for giving us, the full proffers instead of trying to take a credit, but when do we get concerned? And we're not going to, I'm afraid we're not going to get that comment from Frederick Water, but when are we going to start being concerned about our impact on the aquifer in Frederick County? And the 50% of the people who have wells, that could start going dry because the aquifer is dropping, and they've got to go out and spend a couple thousand dollars to increase the depth of their wells. So, I guess that's a little thing that concerns me tonight. If that's all right, I'll field this one for Tyler. I'm on the Frederick Water Planning Committee, and actually, at the behest of some of the residents who were concerned with Mr. Lawrence's Frederick Water comment, the same as Kevin stated, as some of the language in it seems to indicate that they are not committing, that they will have capacity at the time that this is developed. But as Tyler referenced, that is their boilerplate language, which is just to say when you get to final design plans, you're going to have to show us that our system's, to be able to handle it and if it cannot you will pay for the infrastructure to upgrade our system in order to allow it to be handled but to address your question mr. Thomas and this is better answered by Frederick water than me but I can speak to the conversations that I've been a part of and that's that they are continuously on an either an annual basis or biannually doing groundwater recharge studies keeping an eye on that the drought that we're in currently which I think we're going into the third year of they are still considering to be more of a temporary event than a permanent situation that they're dealing with but they have contingency planning in place through their links with Winchester City to pull out of the Shenandoah where surface water does recharge a lot faster than groundwater and then they're working on the plant in the northern portion of the county which could give them access to a quarry with significant water reserves that they can't currently treat water out of right now however I'm not stating this information to say that your concerns are not valid but there's a lot of work that needs to be done to make sure that we're able to address everything that's going on in Greater meter in the hands of the tyco community and I you know we did get some была samples of over 14 Research Network we're looking for shirts at kanyaxmaig currently a search project which is dedicated to the jobs of painter mills there's construction mills there's some failings also in range of water management so we heard some questions we also have questions here and we know there's gonna be some Miyuki all three definitely that question that we had before there was no response from the City Qian and the Director for Water and Adriatic Foods this is akhir05 and I just want to make a point because you're going to meet a lot of other folks that are probably you only see those with money aren't you it's not like before it was like we're pretty well it was but we're supporting each other so the developer would be on the hook to improve the system to get the water they need at the time the plan is approved. Does that end with just approving the system or improving the source of the water? So, I mean, the developer would have to pay to run water lines if they had to have a pump station, but my guess is they would never be tapped to have to pay for finding another source of water or anything like that because that then would be distributed over the rest of the customers and not the developer. Now, this is a fortuitous conversation because later tonight I'm going to be talking to you about our capital improvement plan. Frederick Water prepares a similar document that has a longer horizon on it that addresses what they think they need for source water and discharge rates into sanitary sewer. It plans for new plant expansions, new plant construction, and the way they collect the funds to fund those projects is through tap fees. So it doesn't necessarily happen as part of the engineering exercise that's going to be done to improve the distribution and collection system that I was referring to, but each one of the 303 homes will pay a tap fee, and that tap fee is designed to fund those future capital improvements for water sourcing and sewer discharge sourcing. I'm not claiming to say it's a perfect system. But having operated a utility in Strasburg, we did the same thing. Utilities all function that way where tap fees are basically like proffers to pay for capital expansions. Thank you. Mr. Marker. Yes. I have a question. It's kind of similar to the water question, but it's about schools. The school situation, as I understand it, is that we are several schools. We have schools over capacity, other schools about to reach capacity, yet all of the new construction that's been approved and is underway wasn't included in that calculation. Is that right? The school numbers are based on current capacity of the schools and current enrollment. Again, those pipeline projects, those unbuilt units that we know about in Redbud, Cincinnati Village, Opec, and Crossing, those are not reflected in this, because this is really a point in time, when the model is updated. So we have run those numbers in the background, and should all those other unbuilt units get built, it pushes the capacity over for all of these schools. Obviously, the high school is currently over capacity. Those unbuilt units plus this development would push the middle school and the elementary school also over capacity. Again, that assumes no additional capital planning. There are projects planned in this next update to the CIP that would expand, particularly Greenwood Mill. There's a fourth high school that's going to be added to the CIP. There's redistricting. So there's a lot of variables in that. But just looking at rough numbers based on students generated by unbuilt units, it would certainly push all these schools into an over capacity situation if they were all built plus this development. We are stressing the schools. I think the numbers speak for themselves. Yes, sir. Thank you. So I know the high school has been approved, but has the middle school been approved in the budget? I don't believe that is current. That is not in next year's budget. That is not in next year's CIP. Why? It's shaking its head. So the only new school that will be in the next round of the CIP will be the high school. However, there are a number of other projects to expand the capacity at some of the existing schools, whether that be through modular classrooms or building expansions that will increase the program capacity. So when this model is updated in the fall of 2025, the enrollment capacity numbers will change across the entire model, and you may get a different utilization percentage if you were to run it like in October of 2025. Ms. Brannon. I just want to make a comment so that everyone here understands. First, enter your PIN to them. When Tyler says he's doing a snapshot in time, that's because that's what the law allows. He's not allowed to add the 6,000 houses to the model, so he's doing what he's supposed to do. Don't sit there and think, why isn't he expanding the capacity? He's doing it in the first place. He's doing it in the second place. So he's doing it in the third place. He's not going to be expanding it. He's doing a good job. And just, Mr. Sneddon, in the CIP proposal that you'll all be reviewing tonight, we have two renovations and then some on-site traffic safety improvements. So the next slate of projects are not related to capacity expansion, but alongside the fourth high school, Jordan Springs Elementary and Middletown Elementary are slated to receive capacity expansions. Jordan Springs being close enough to where it could be part of a redistricting effort that may alleviate this area, but admittedly we have not analyzed if that's going to happen, and we wouldn't know, only the schools would know. But the schools have probably 15 more planned projects that they don't have in the CIP right now because they're beyond the five-year horizon. So we can't speak to exactly whether or not those will be funded or constructed in a timely manner to have any impact on alleviating the middle and elementary school capacity issues that we have. So we're not going to be doing that. We're going to be doing that to help reduce the amount of capacity issues that Tyler mentioned. Okay. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? Seeing none, sir, thank you. Mr. Lawson, would you like to make any comments, sir? I would. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission, Ty Lawson here along with Zach Campbell from Terra Foundry, Chris Moan and Kevin Sitzman. And frankly, I think Tyler and your new secretary did an excellent job not only responding to questions but also walking through the report. We expect there are quite a few folks here who may want to make some comments, and we'd be pleased to reserve the bulk of ours to respond not only to their questions and comments but to your all's as well. Did want to point out, though, I want to highlight some of what Mr. Klein just went through. Since your work session, and I should add, we've had a couple meetings with our residents, neighbors, and also had a very robust email exchange of correspondence with them. Of course, we've had the work session with you all and have been able to meet with a few of you all two at a time. So we've heard you. And appreciate your comments. And first and foremost, we did drop the credit language, and I appreciate Mr. Thomas acknowledging that. So we're paying the full proffer model for impacts from the community as dictated by the county. We did limit the time and days of construction. We heard those comments loud and clear and put that in. The other is that the trail is, is available to the public. And actually we've received some comments from staff, actually within the last couple of days, about making further connections of it so it's clear, not only through our sidewalk system, but also to connect to the trail system that's part of the proffer plan to our neighbors to the north, but also running up along Cincinnati so that there'll be multiple ways to access it. So we're happy to have that in place. And then last but not least, we did proffer the full 104 foot, and it could get a little bigger depending upon designs. But we're real pleased about that. That's the future Route 37. And connecting it to our right of way, our right of way, is a great opportunity. And I think that's something that we're really looking forward to. And I think that's something that we're really looking forward to. So this is our plan right of way on the property to our north, which would, if this comes to be, and we think, have reason to believe it well, because we've been collaborating with the property owners there and also with the county to deliver the first section of, we keep calling it 37, we'll come up with another name, but the parkway on the east. That's been decades in the coming. And that is part of our plan. plan and we've proffered the limited access to the comment that was raised before it's been explained to us mr. Thomas that the reason for that is if you have multiple access points it just constricts the flow of this Parkway and the goal of that Parkway is is to move significant vehicles around to the east as we do of course on the Western Western loop again we'd like to to reserve the bulk of our comments to hear from from the public and and we do have as it was referred to a team that are that is here to answer your questions and appreciate the opportunity thank you sir mr. Lawson can we ask you one question sir mr. lawson the question i asked you before that land bay on the east yes how many houses would be in that land bay we we don't have firm plans at this point that looks like you could easily be a quarter though of the developable land uh it it would depend on the layout um we we are sensitive to the environmental areas and the language that that was referred to in the comp plan to preserve the area to the east and putting in the trail system so folks can walk along there the uh not sure what that is but anyway um i don't believe and mr moan can probably speak to it uh that's that's an especially dense area in fact i believe the the plan is to make it less dense on that side um so i don't i don't know that you're going to end up with a quarter well my real question is if that i assume all the houses there would come to a road uh and i don't i guess that would be the south side there just above the uh the sensitive areas to go out and access the road to get out how if that road's blocked how do those people get out of there well as you well know when we this is a generalized development plan when we get to the final plan there there are all sorts of folks that would have comments uh not only vdot as it was mentioned because these are going to end up they'll be dedicated to the county but i'm pretty confident the county will in turn dedicate and hand them over to the state for for maintenance acceptance and maintenance the other would be fire and rescue and they will speak to that and there are all kinds of scenarios that we've seen including having an extra wide entrance and i'm thinking that this has probably been uh dealt with before and that there's some consistency in that Entry mode in a lot of cases like that yes in our city this has been determined before we went into Cost nou for an enjoyment but now Denzel and D toilet he brought the old fall hood flat and Phil CEO uh well out of the new North l Dry it has been extended to the entire North L Lori which is a permanent residence so this is a good note about this and there's a lot of work he's positive to I don't know if you got to hit to here at the point at the height that you're just holding the plate um it would be practical from a cost standpoint to build a connection across it. So my concern still is, unless you extend the limited access road out farther, there's only going to be one way in and out of there. And whether it's a limited access or not, if it eventually would extend the whole way and be a four-lane road, be a true limited access, BDOT could handle where that second connection point would be. But unless this development puts a second connection point in there and a way to get out of there, there's no way for those homeowners to get out. And I can't believe that fire and rescue, police, anybody would stand by and approve that with one connection in and out. There's lots of examples of how that goes south quickly. I'm confident you've seen it, and I've seen one point of connection and one connection. And the entrance, for example, could have a median so that there's a separation. But it's not just the entrance. It's the road. What if you go back 100 feet from the entrance and the road's blocked? How do you get out? Do you go through the people's – you drive up through the people's yard or house? It's not practical. And, again, this, as we're aware, it's a generalized development plan. It's an excellent comment. And I'm like you. I'm thinking that Fire Marshal will have some comments. And that those design issues will be addressed so that it is safe and that it complies with all fire regulations. And so we don't end up in that situation. We can think of all kinds of hypotheticals. But more importantly, I'm betting that the engineers, when they go to do the final design, will accomplish that and will satisfy those comments. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. This is a public hearing. I will open the public hearing now. For those that wish to speak, I'm just curious. How many folks plan on speaking? Just give us – okay. We can manage that. I ask you to come to the microphone, state your name, your magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. You will hear a doorbell when your three minutes are up. And I will thank you. So whoever would like to start off, please proceed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Good evening. My name is Barbara Alfieri, 310 Canyon Road, and that's Redbud. My husband Joe and I, along with my daughter, sent or emailed several pages recently that was our concerns. Hopefully you got a chance to look at them. But the one that I would want to cover in my three minutes is the very vital intersection of Canyon Road and Channing. As you all know, the elementary school is on Channing. It's about 1,000 feet from that intersection. At that intersection, in the morning and in the afternoon, there is always a crossing guard there because she helps the kids that walk or whether they're with their parents or not. They're on bicycles. They're on scooters. There are buses that board the kids in those developments and bring them over to that school. There are also parents that drive in the morning. Because their child missed the bus and has to be driven to school or they're there for extracurricular activities, which are usually between 8.30 and 9 since school starts at 9. So why do I have a report here from the traffic analysis at that corner that was done on August 20th of 24, the day before school started? Let me state again. This important traffic analysis. For that corner was done before school even started. If this report is so important and is so faulty, how can I believe any of the other literature that comes out? How can I believe any of this? Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Stowe. Members of the board, thank you. Members of the planning commission, appreciate the time and you hearing us. My name is Jedediah Seaver. I live in the Redbud District. I am a resident of Cincinnati Glen, the community that this abuts to. And I am also the current HOA president for that community. If I could have everyone from Cincinnati Glen either stand up if you're able or raise your hand. Thank you very much. I'd like to address some concerns on my behalf and on behalf of the community. As of this evening, there's an online petition circulating that has 485 signatures in opposition to this redevelopment, a rezoning with development. And a door-to-door petition was conducted in our neighborhood and got 67 household signatures in opposition to this as well. We have all submitted memos, emails, I think, to individuals. I've got some responses back. I appreciate that. But we'd like to highlight some of the high points here. We talked about transportation, the traffic. This is going to add to our county. 300 new homes on top of the 6,000, I guess I just learned. I was going to say thousands, but 6,000 already approved homes. We're going to add significant traffic to our roadways, specifically with this rezoning. Cincinnati is going to have tons and tons of traffic. And this traffic study did not include right over the border in Clark County, the intersection to Triple J and Salem Church, which are where this is where all this traffic is going to go to 7 without this thing. So, we're going to add some of those things to our roadways. And then we're going to add some more traffic to the We have a lot of people that walk their dogs, exercise, children at play throughout the neighborhood on these roads. And adding, I believe it was said, would not have substantial impact on the community. So, we're going to add some more traffic to our roadways. If we can have substantial impact of traffic, well, if you add hundreds of cars with thousands of trips to our little neighborhood, we consider that to be substantial despite the traffic study. And then, also, I'd like to talk about the schools. As we saw here, we have one of the three affected schools already over capacity with two going to be over capacity by 2033, I believe it said in the proffer. And we also have, well, what I just learned, with that, we have a lot of traffic in the neighborhood. new development or with the device we did not take into account we're going to be over capacity in all of the schools that is a personal concern of mine i have three kids that are going to be in greenwood next year my daughter is currently in second grade and has been taught by a long-term substitute as we are having personnel issues with the teachers as we know as well um all right the route 37 proposal we had some issues with that as well it's not going to be completed if this is not completed that is going to drive traffic into centeneglen which is going to raise our safety concerns with the residents within that community come on up station thank you sir thank you good evening ma'am good evening i'm stacia lane i am part of the redbud district and a resident of sensanyi glen i'm going to wrap up our president's speech real quick he touched on the according to vdot the six-year improvement plan 43 projects are listed none of them which include route 37 the right-of-ways and funding for the project have not been secured either due to these reasons the third proposed entrance to the community which be route 37 will not be completed anytime soon this would lead all the traffic to be placed on sensanyi glen and it will be a huge cost for the community to maintain the roadway and the roadway is a major concern for the community as a whole we must start holding these developers more accountable for transportation projects such as the one associated with this development in conclusion i urge you the commission to carefully consider these concerns as they reflect significant impacts on transportation safety education and infrastructure for our community and beyond thank you for your time thank you hi everybody thank you so much for listening to us today and um really actually hearing us that there's a difference between listening and hearing um i didn't actually plan to speak so i'm just going to read some notes i made as i was sitting there um i i i am obviously against the development you state your name and that's danielle dojak um i'm in the red bun district and i live in sensanyi glen i'm also a real estate broker i have a real estate brokerage in town i also have one in frederick maryland um so why don't you go ahead and start your presentation i petition against the proposed development and i support reasonable growth and development that enhances our community the current proposal presents significant concerns that must be addressed before moving forward and as a local real estate broker i advocate for sustainable community development i believe that growth is vital to a thriving community however growth must make sense for the area and this proposal does not key issues for me and for my fellow neighbors is that the proposed density of this development raises serious concerns about the strain on our community's existing infrastructure and is highlighted by ms betsy water availability is already a critical issue and further development without addressing this need will exacerbate the problem and additionally while schools are planned for in the future they're not being built today or in the immediate future our schools are already overburdened and struggling to keep up with current demands we have unfinished past projects in early 2000s i remember this i've been doing real estate for a long time and i think that's a great way to get to know the community and the community i think that's a great way to get to know the community so i think that's a great way to get to know the community um we had a lot of approved developments and then later those developers abandoned ship they just you know ran back over the mountain that was the end of them we had neighborhoods that were left undeveloped redbud run remember that sat half done forever not that i foresee that happening but similar development plans were approved and later abandoned during the housing market collapse now with a ripe housing market we are being faced with not only those previously approved projects but also new petitions for development without the necessary infrastructure to help them develop and include the real estate project but we also have to think about how we can improve the real estate we have to think about how we are taking the right steps to achieve the right goals and what we're looking for in the future as well so i'm going to give you a quick summary of what we've gotten into the without the necessary infrastructure to support them. It is irresponsible to proceed with new projects before addressing these deficiencies, traffic and safety issues. As a resident living near the entrance of the proposed development, actually at the entrance of Cincinnati Glen, I can personally attest to the challenges posed by the increased traffic. In recent years even pulling out of my driveway has become increasingly difficult. This influx of vehicles will only worsen traffic conditions and commuters alike. Furthermore, areas like Cincinnati Glen lack sidewalks. Thank you for bringing that up, Miss. Brannon. We have lots of children, walkers, everybody in our community walking along the roads there and no sidewalks, so all this increased traffic concerns me, plus people drive down Cincinnati Glen Road like a bat out of hell, already. Water management environmental concerns as noted by Mr. Thomas this evening, the proposed of development may cause dewatering zones, that's real, okay. I manage a brokerage in Frederick, Maryland. Currently, we have to have our residents sign an acknowledgement of dewatering zones in Frederick. We have collapsing happening around homes, sinkholes. That is a legitimate concern. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Good evening. Good evening. Hi. Erin Dwyer, Red Bud. I live in Twin Lakes Overlook. I'm on the court that's adjacent to Cincinnati Glen. I also agree that the VDOT study was grossly inadequate. It did not include that anyone who lives off of Channing coming east over the mountain is taking Valley Mill and going over that single lane bridge. We all do. And it was not even addressed in the traffic study from VDOT. Furthermore, there needs to be traffic calming measures within Twin Lakes Overlook, within Cincinnati Glen. That was also not included in VDOT's recommendation. We already have a lot of problems with traffic, especially through Twin Lakes. Twin Lakes already had a VDOT study done to add a stop sign at Morning Glory and Canyon. So all of it was very inadequate. In addition, we're adding so much development on this side of the county. There's one fire station. So I know fire station comes up through CIP. But you all are the planning team. When are we going to get a new fire station? When are we expanding that station? They have a lack of personnel to handle. Basically, you're saying 1,000 new homes, plus Cincinnati Village, plus the 45 townhomes you all approved over across Greenwood. Like, we need to be planning. You're not planning. You're just approving without adequate concern for all of the resources that are impacted by everything. This needs to slow down. Also, the way that this land is constructed, or the topography of it, it will impact the lake within Twin Lakes Overlook. Part of that corner up in the upper right-hand corner is a steep slope straight into the lake. We have to be stewards of the environment. And there's not even an environmental study within what they submitted. So who's responsible for that? Are you all? Is the Board of Supervisors? Are we as citizens responsible for watershed issues? I think Mrs. Brandon brought it up during the work study. That wasn't even addressed. So what are we doing? Like, I think we need to slow down and be cognizant of all of these decisions we are making. And then lastly, the reason why your developer is not continuing that through? The drop-off that has to cross the creek. There has to be a bridge there. Neither developer wants to pay for the bridge. So can we handle traffic for six to eight years through these communities? We all say no. It's up to you to have a plan for that gap. There's nothing in any of the documentation we have seen that has a plan for the gap. And then lastly, they want to put duplexes up there. There are no duplexes on this. There are no duplexes on this side of the community. I recommend those be age-restricted. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Joe Alfieri. I live at 310 Canyon Road. That was my wife before. Our backyard is the farm. It's nice looking at it. I'm a little hard of hearing, so if anybody mentioned this before, excuse me. I have looked at the past few comprehensive plans. The last one being September 23 for the area of Cincinnati. And it calls for all land east of 37 to remain rural. Why are we even considering rezoning if you've made plans for this already? I don't understand where the taxpayer's money is going to if you're going to constantly change comprehensive plans. I want to know if the planning board and VDOT are making a command decision at this time as to how many lanes 37 will be. Because if it remains four lanes as it is on 37 west and Cincinnati Road being a collector road with on and off ramps, how is this development getting out of that road that they're putting in with on and off ramps in front of their property? Except for using Canyon Road as their only way in and out. It's not common to be crossing on and off ramps from a development. So I don't understand that. The other thing is I just. Found this out today. I'm new to profits. I have no idea what they were about until this meeting. How do we have so many original profits for this plan? And only one revised one. And only the first revised only first plan was the one that everybody looked at. As far as all the different committees. That part I really don't understand how that got past everybody. Why isn't the last original one being looked at by everybody? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good evening, Matt. Good evening. Jennifer Watt, Redbud District. I'll make this short. Of course, I just lost my note here. Danielle. We understand technical difficulties. Technology. It's great when it works. So infrastructure. That is such a big issue here. So I just urge all to please prioritize the completion of infrastructure. Address the water resource concerns. And just ensure the community is ready to handle. All of this additional growth before approving this plan. Grocery stores. I mean, you all see it on social media all the time in the news. Grocery stores have really diminished over the last few years. And I think that's going to push traffic into Winchester because we don't have the outlying grocery stores that we used to have. So that's another issue. It was supposed to take place and it never happened. Thank you. Thank you. I'm a little nervous, so give me a break. My name is Jim Ferrin. Jerry Levitt through for Canyon Road. I'm kind of sure you guys are going to put all this through. No matter what we say. But I'm really concerned about the construction time from 7 in the morning till 9. I mean, come on, guys. Also, I'm concerned about the children playing on the roads. We have a little boy back here. We have a little boy back here somewhere. It's kind of just a comment. That. When the first child gets injured or gets killed on that road going through Canyon Road, who's going to be responsible for that? And who's going to bring him back to life? And I don't see Jesus. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Hello. I'm Elizabeth Guillen. I'm also with the Redbud District. Thank you all for taking the time during your meeting to hear us this evening. I agree with everything that my neighbors have said and our community has spoken about already. I would like to reiterate that there are numerous infrastructure and school issues that we have heard this evening that will rise with the development of this land. We understand Cincinnati Glen is not an island unto itself, but I would like to reiterate that the community does not have sidewalks. This is our community. This is a huge safety concern. This is our family. This is our children. This is our neighbors. This is our community. I would also like to point out one additional item that I have not heard spoken about. This development land is not vacant land. This is an active farm that currently operates. They work extremely hard to make a living, and I know this because I see them every day in my backyard. If we make their lives difficult by rezoning, they do not have any money. They have to get their own land. They need to raise a lot of money. But we do not have the money. We have to do it. by rezoning they will have to move. Farmers are really the hardest working people and yes the farm operations can move but you are making their life which is already very difficult in this work even harder. Thank you for your time. Thank you ma'am. Anyone else like to speak? Alice Matvey from Cincinnati. When we had our meeting they mentioned the buffer between Cincinnati and the new development. Nobody has said anything in this about they promised a six-foot fence, they promised to put in trees as a buffer between our developments. Nothing's been said about that. The other thing is they promised no construction vehicles in our development. How do we get that guarantee in writing and if they do and they destroy the roads, how do we get them fixed? Thank you. Thank you ma'am. Leslie where'd you go? I'm here tonight, my name is Leslie Spencer, I live in the Gainsborough district. I'm here tonight because I hope to save more farmland and Frederick County. Over the past month I have tried to dream up a positive direction for this work. I'm here today to say thank you for all of your hard work and for the efforts that you've done to improve our environment. Thank you. complex parcel with our future major roadway in the mix. How would that look as a more of a country road with 18 five acre farms all dotted along the hillside, which is by right. It felt like a country road taking me home. And even if they belong to bigger houses on cute hobby farmettes, I know there will be much less traffic today and much less water used and in the future. The future of the next major build to finish the road leading out route seven seems like a substantial expense on an unknown timeline because first I thought we had already agreed that we wanted to work on Northeast route seven, route 37 as our highest priority. It could take 20 years. That would make us face a lot more congestion and significant air pollution on our roadways while we wait. Now it is peaceful while the traffic is not so great, but even with five acre farms, it would be the proper development to give everyone the greatest piece we could. I know this may not seem like a profit for this developer, but I travel through Great Falls when I ride into DC along a beautiful country road and then a tree lined parkway. I do think it can be done for a profit and people would love to live there. Oh, we are so wonderful. It's like we live at the top. It brings a whole new meaning. I know we can afford lots of time to protect ourselves, look out for our best interest and grow with care. Thank you. Thank you. My name's David Matay. I live at 312 Canyon Road. I back up to the farm. I got a couple things. You keep on telling us that we're not in a drought. We are a drought. We've been in a drought for two years and they've always saying we need more water. You gotta judge what you cut back. Now you're gonna put all these extra houses up. Water's not there. I don't care what that gentleman said about the plant. We don't have it now. We've been in safety. Our road, essentially, is a road. It's a big land. It's for two lanes for cars. You have two trucks coming down, making deliveries, UPS, all those other ones. They have to take turns. The kids are on the walk. They walk in the street. This is not a development with sidewalks. Safety concern itself should be number one priority. That's all I got. We don't have water and we have need safety. Thank you, sir. Thank you, supervisors. Thank you for hearing us. As I'm sitting here, one thing I felt that should be- Give us your name and- I'm sorry, Jamie Corrales, 238 Canyon Road. Where this road is going to go through, that T, right now, morning and afternoon, the buses, elementary, middle school, high school. That is the bus stop. Where these cars are going to be blowing through is where the kids are getting on and off the bus. I've got a fifth grader and a seventh grader, and I can't tell you right now already how many times we have close calls with the kids. Now we're going to be impacting that even more. Second thing I did want to bring up, I know I heard about the water. This development is on an incline right here. Where this road is going to go over was designed to be the water, the funnel for the whole development. I've seen that. It's deeper than this, taller than this. When it rains, it fills all the way to the top. We're going to be covering that over with a road. I know there's engineers that are going to figure that out, but that development goes like this. The development behind comes in like this. I know they're saying that they're going to flatten all that out, but I just know how water, when you hit and it runs, it's all coming to this point. In the future, I'm just worried. I'm worried about the flooding impact for both of these developments if this goes through. I just wanted to bring that up and let the engineers figure that out, but I want to make sure it's addressed. Thank you for hearing our concerns. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Anybody else? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Mr. Lawson, do you wish to respond? I do. But I think... You have a lot to respond to, sir. I do. Thank you. But I would like to recognize Kevin Sitzman. It seems there were quite a few comments about traffic and the traffic studies. So, if I could bring Kevin up first, that'd be great. Good evening, sir. Mr. Chair, members of the commission, thank you. Kevin Sitzman with Grove Slade Transportation Consultants. For the first time in a decade, we've been providing a service to the public. We've been providing a service to the public, and we've been providing a service to the public as a result of the work that we've done. Thank you. I would like to recognize Kevin Sitzman. He's the director of the traffic and the traffic studies. He's the director of the traffic and the traffic studies. Kevin, would you please explain the process? Good evening, sir. Good evening, sir. Mr. Chair, members of the commission, thank you. Kevin Sitzman with Grove Slade Transportation Consultants for the application. I will attempt to answer a couple of the big questions, but obviously happy to answer additional ones, or other points that you all would like to dive into. . We do a traffic impact study for development, right? We scope out the study itself with members of your staff and members of VDOT staff so that we make sure we are agreeing to all of the parameters of the study. Traditionally, those studies focus on intersections because those are the capacity choke points of the road network. So we included the intersections that VDOT and county staff requested us to. We looked at existing traffic counts. We had actually taken a count near the site in May of 2024. During the scoping meeting, we were asked to also look at the intersection that was referenced earlier next to Greenwood Mill. So we went back out to count that later. That was in August, August 20th of 2024. I was... a little bit surprised by the statement that schools were not in session. I did verify with the Frederick County Public Schools calendar, August 15th was the first day of school. There was not another holiday until the 30th. So we went back and pulled our camera data just to make sure. And sure enough, there's a bunch of school buses on the cameras, so schools were in fact in session. During the day of the counts. So the... After we take the counts, we add additional factors to project conditions in the future without the particular development proposal. That being regional traffic growth for developments that are farther afield from the immediate study area. And then we also included additional development as requested by staff. Let me just make sure I have those correct. We included additional development within Senseney Village, within Rossum Crossing, and within Winchester Landing. Adding all of those additional trips into the road network, we look at the capacity of those intersections again. And then we add additional trips for the proposed development itself. The original plan was for 283 units. That's what we included in the traffic study. I believe there was a statement that not all of the units, the 303 that are part of the proposed development now, were included in the traffic study. That is correct. There's an additional 7% increase in units. Unsurprisingly, that's an additional 7% trips. So I did take a look at what that would mean. Our... Intersection capacity results. The... Let me just take a step back here. So the county defines level service C as being an acceptable level of service. Level service for transportation is a balance between mobility and what I'll call roadside environment, right? So if you have a very wide road with no interruptions along it, and you can drive really fast, that's great for the drivers, not so great for the other road users. As has been pointed out this evening, there needs to be a balance between those. The county asks us to have a level service C as the threshold. And by definition within the industry, what that means is a delay of 25 seconds or less for any of the movements at the intersections. So looking at the very worst movement of any of the intersections, that we're required to study, in the future without the development, there would be a delay of 14.1 seconds on eastbound Woodrow at Channing. If we looked at the development as proposed in the traffic study, that would go up to 16.4 seconds. If we add the extra 7%, that's 17.5 seconds out of 25 seconds of available capacity. So the... I believe that the reason that there were not comments from VDOT or county staff with regard to the small increase in the number of units is because there is sufficient reserve capacity there. The opposite end of the spectrum, northbound Channing turning left into Woodrow is the least delayed approach within the study network. It, however, has the largest increase in percentage traffic... Sorry, percentage delay. So there's currently one second of delay to turn left on average. With our increased development, that would go up to 2.7 seconds, so an increase of 1.7 seconds out of, again, that 25 seconds. That's where we reach the conclusion about there being adequate capacity across the road network to handle these additional units. Now, that is, of course, one measure. The other question, of course, is overall mobility around the county. And the comp plan, the individual studies around the... and the generic planning efforts, I guess I will call them, all talk about an additional eastern connection, right? So 37, if we can just use that as a shorthand. We may, of course, rebrand it with not being quite what 37 on the west side is. But the right-of-way dedication that is being provided, 104 feet, that allows for a full VDOT cross-section with multiple lanes in each direction, with raised medians, with drainage facilities, and with pedestrian accommodations, shared use path along the side of the roadway. That is part of the county planning, right? And part of the larger transportation network. So across the segment here that's available within this application, that is being... is serving double duty, if you will. So providing access out to Senseney for the residents, but also then being the first step in the larger network. Mr. Klein had put up the graphic, the number four link there as the first link in trying to improve the more regional connectivity. So the other piece that I'd like to highlight real quick is the... is access management. So as part of the VDOT regulations, they would limit access to any... any VDOT road, any VDOT maintained road to certain spacings, depending on the functional classification of that road. For local roads, that's much smaller. For a large regional road, such as, quote, unquote, 37, that would be a much larger spacing. So I don't think that there's quite enough space, but I think that there's... I think that there's a lot of room to get more than one access point on the what I'll call northeastern residential piece here. Mr. Thomas, you had asked about that. I think there's a... there's a balance there between how much access would be allowed by VDOT and trying to make sure that there's enough connectivity and enough access. There are... as Mr. Lawson was trying to describe, there are some potential ways to accommodate that. So, for example, if you have a road section to the first internal street connection, so that you have a loop through the developed area with two points of connection from that loop along one road, so if there is a crash or anything blocking the road anywhere along that loop, there is another option to get in or out, particularly for emergency vehicles. So that's a possibility. The other thing that VDOT will require for any roadways that are dedicated to them is the... is what they call subdivision street acceptance requirements. So any addition to the road network, so the... VDOT calls that a network addition, any network addition needs to have multiple road connections in multiple directions. And for the proposed land here, that, by VDOT regulation, is three connections in three different directions. And since it's not really feasible to connect east, directly east, across Opecan, that would be... they would be requesting, requiring, connections north, south, and west. So there are... there's a balance there, right, in order to get the right road network in place to serve the road network and to serve the new units here, as well as the existing... and I believe we talked about this a little bit at the work session, right? Once the connection is made from Canyon through this development to the future 37, either when it's connected up to seven or once it's connected more than that, right? I think the... there will be a considerable number of folks from Census University and others that come through this development to go to that roadway. And then the last thing I will point out... Bring it in for a landing, sir. Absolutely. The last thing I will point out is that not all of the trips through this... from this development will go through the existing... the connection to Canyon through the other existing units, right? It... There will be a connection, day one, to Cincinnati directly to be able to go east or west without directly going through the... through the other existing neighborhoods. Happy to answer any other questions. Can I ask you one real quick? Did you do pedestrian counts with your traffic council? We did. Do I have them? I may not. I looked at them this morning, but I don't believe that they are in the body of the... of the report. We did include the... include the pedestrian counts there, and... Did I get them in the supplemental materials? I did not. I grabbed the buses, but I didn't grab the pedestrians. Okay. Thank you. Questions? Mr. DeHaven. Thank you. A question about the timing of the road connections. The connection that goes through... through to Canyon, when does that connection date? It seems that... Why? A lot of the concerns are the traffic flowing... The traffic flowing through this... from this new subdivision through the existing roads of the existing subdivisions. But we have this, what at some point will be a main... Road, hopefully, like the 37 piece. With the timing, can it be managed such that the traffic as this subdivision's being built, this new one, flows through that out to Cincinnati as opposed to through the existing subdivisions? I know there's some VDOT regulations that you were speaking to. So, and I guess part of it depends on when the roadways are accepted into the VDOT system. So the VDOT thresholds operate in 200 unit increments. So for the first 200 units, the expectation is two road connections in two different directions. And then after that, allowing for a future road connection to the property line to the north would satisfy the SSAR regulations. VDOT would have to grant a waiver, an SSAR waiver, in order to accommodate any... I guess you could have five units before you would have that additional connection without a VDOT waiver. They do grant waivers. So there could theoretically be the possibility of a timing modification there. But I don't know what VDOT's approach to that would be, whether they would be supportive or not. Great. So, and this may not apply. So if... So making an extension of Tick Road, which is barely visible, there, it would not necessarily check the box because we're not going to be having the westward connection that we need. It would only be two southern connections if Tick Road and then whatever the name of the new road would be. Is that correct? Correct. So again, the VDOT language is very specific. Multiple connections, multiple directions. And that's usually enforced as multiple connections to multiple collector or arterial roads. So that's what Tick Road was. Okay, thank you. Okay, any other questions? To my right, to my left, any questions? Ms. Brannon? Yeah. Here's my, I hear what you're saying about... Let me say something. I hear what you're saying about wait times. And we look at that for traffic lights and things, but we're talking about a neighborhood. We're not talking about, I mean, we're putting a major road art that we intend, if it ever gets completed, to run traffic through there and you're gonna have houses on both sides of the street. I mean, I know it won't be as big as 37 on the west side where I live, but there aren't developments along 37. I'm just very concerned about the safety. And what you described with the collector roads sounds like Steven City to me. And that has helped the traffic and the bridge and the road, but it's not the same thing. I mean, there's a lot of traffic in the bridge and all, but again, there's not development sitting there with kids playing and dogs walking. And this, because of the new traffic, not your study, but what the county did, that that looks like a good area to divert some traffic, I think that makes it not a good idea for development. And... Sorry, go ahead. I've heard twice now, well, when the road is completed, they'll come through. That to me is fair, because you can build sidewalks. And if we look at how long it's taken 37, you're not gonna, you may not relieve them for 10, 20 years. And that's just not acceptable. That's gotta go through first. Or their neighborhood, it's not gonna be a neighborhood anymore. It's just not right. And I guess in terms of the first point, if I may, and while the effects, the update to the effects study is not approved, I think that's part of the recognition, right, is that where it needs to go, the alignment for 37, even if you're moving it a little bit, on the east side is, is that the road is not gonna be as good as it used to be. The alignment on the east side is a much different character environment than on the west side. And so it is much more harmonious with that, with those existing and, quite frankly, proposed areas, if it is a smaller road, slower speed, different kinds of access, not at grade, not grade separated interchanges, but at grade intersections and that sort of thing. That also allows for things like the shared use of roads, the shared use of service, the shared use of public transportation, that will allow for that. And so that's what we have in terms of the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, we have agreed that there will be no construction trips through Cincinnati Glen. And as to the, I'm not sure what, if I got your question exactly, but what we envisioned was that we would build that connection. It's an interparcel connector it's required. And, and it is part of part of your ordinance to do that. We would build it and then block it. And that's what's happened as, as these communities have built out. And what I refer to as sovereign village and more particularly and more recently in my memory, when we built Cincinnati or a twin lakes, we actually built the roads and then they were blocked. And then over time they were opened up after the community had been, had been developed. And it was interesting because when that happened, the folks that on the front end of that didn't want trips coming through them. It was, it was desirable to pull through twin lakes because that was a way to get over to Channing. So it, it, it worked itself out, but we would have no construction trips through that. The other is, and we've met with staff about this, about following a similar process that we did with Snowden bridge, where we would bond the entirety of this two lane section on the 104 feet all the way to that first intersection. And we would use that as our construction entrance. And that way it would assure that all of that would get built. Number one, because it would be bonded in case you're curious in that case, it times out. So we have to, if it were, if there were a delay, some recession, anything like that, you would have to rebond. So it gets trued up and kept up with inflation and so on to assure that that would be built. And then we've also talked with staff to assure, that that generally the construction is going to start closer to sense any, there'll be ability for the construction trips to get in as we build the road. But that would be the first part that would be built. And there will be again, no construction trips through, through sense any Glenn. You all talked about the wait times. You all talked about the parkway. Another example is the Steven city bypass. That's another 104 foot road section. The developer built the two lanes and provides quite a bit of access to the community West wind. And then on the north side of that Valley Pike, you can, you can see where it'll connect up there. I think the Hollis farm is the next piece to, to put it together. The comments we understand sense any Glenn doesn't have a lot of interest in the park. They have sidewalks. We clearly don't have the authority to do any work and sense any Glenn. Um, I believe Kevin explained well how the, uh, the trips, uh, have been studied and I can't emphasize enough the, the process and, and more for everyone else has been a fit. Uh, the traffic engineer not only meets with Frederick County professionals and their traffic engineer, but also with our reviewing agency, which is, which is VDOT. And they tell you what you're going to study, what, what intersections are going to be impacted. And that doesn't usually shrink. It grows. And in this case it did. And Mr. Sitzman firm expanded that study and did the counts and, and gave the assurances not only to his professional standards, but also to the counties and also to the state. So I think that's, that's really important to know separately. We have met with the neighbors, uh, the neighbors they've talked about right now. There are trips going through Cincinnati Glen and, and apparently at, at, at speeds that are not desirable. And there are of course, traffic calming measures that can be put in place. We're happy to, to cooperate with that process. Um, that those discussions can occur now with the residency. If, if there's a desire to put in a, a stop sign, for example, where this connection road will be, not just for, for our traffic, but make it a three way that, that clearly can be looked at. And, and we don't, we don't have any problem installing that improvement if it's approved by VDOT. These are VDOT roads we're building to their standards and, and they're going to be turned over to VDOT. Um, one key thing and, and it would, it would, it's funny. We, we, we look at our plans, we write our proffers and, and, and we do tend to look at them as a, as a static thing, but timing and, and I'll, I'll compliment one of your members brought up the point about the timing. What is the timing of this? What are the timings of the impacts? And it was a bit of a pause. Um, we're probably about four years out. I assume we're approved today and we actually walked through the process where we've got a year, a good year of, of engineering approvals back and forth submittals to the county. And those are all of course on paper, getting your permits and, and so on. And once, once those are approved, we can then get a permit to grade the site. And that, of course, that doesn't happen overnight. That takes time and you've got to do that. You've got to install your, your sediment basins, the beginnings for the stormwater management and, and build your stormwater management ponds. And then from there, you're going to do your infrastructure. You're going to do these roads. That's how we're going to get in and out. We're proffering that we're going to do all the utilities, all the water and sewer. Yes, we are going to do what Frederick County Sanitation Authority requires. We have to build all the public improvements to, to make that work to their satisfaction. And they, they inspect everything. Um, we do that and then we get to pull submit first. And then pull a building permits for these homes. And then we can offer them to for sale. And so we're really looking at a timing and impact of people moving in. And, and again, we don't really think about this, but it doesn't just happen. You, you sell a house at a time and so on, and it's a several year build out, but we're looking at a, at a start time, approximately four years. And, and one of your members who has experienced said, well, you realize the schools we're talking about, we can do a school in 18 months, maybe two years. So those improvements, uh, that were ironically approved on the night that we had a meeting in Greenwood Mills Elementary Schools, very same night, we, we actually had a pretty robust attendance, uh, but I bet there was a robust attendance in this room as well for that night. That's when those schools were approved and those improvements to the schools, they're going to beat us. They're going to beat us by probably two years. And by that, I mean, by the time of a first child is, is inhabiting these homes and, and these impacts are occurring. And, and it's important to remember that, um, yes, there are other units that, that are approved and, and they're going to come on, but they're going to come on over time. And we all throw around the numbers of approved lots. I've been here a little over 35 years. There are a lot of lots on paper. I've heard a lot of reports about that. They don't get delivered for one reason or another. I'm sure it has to do with the specifics of those or Mr. Klein had a great comment. Some of these people don't want to sell. They don't want to develop whatever the issue is. Um, these are impacts that are in the future. Um, and, and, and we have, uh, address those impacts. The other thing that's, that's key and Mr. Klein did a really good job of, of walking through how we analyze what we do, how we evaluate a rezoning and we comply with the comp plan. Yes, he went through that. He explained that. And Mr. Thomas, just so you know, um, the developer told me that I thought it was single family. Um, he said, we're going to have to have a single family in that land bay cause we want to have it more open space and more rural and the plan is approximately 30. So little less than 10% of the whole, not whatever the percentages we were discussing. Um, he also talks about paying the full monetary, uh, impacts. Y'all know, and the law has evolved with proffers. There were days when you could proffer all kinds of things, and whether it addressed the impact or not, who knows. But that has been refined by our legislature, and it is law. And if you and this county does have an impact model, and if an applicant meets it, then we have an agreement. We have satisfied that obligation. Ironically, we can't proffer more. There were days that you and I remember, Mr. Thomas, where we could. But that's not the law. Traffic impacts are a major concern. We certainly understand that, but that's why we hire the professionals at Mr. Sitzman's firm and go through that process. And then we have, and I don't know that I've heard it as much today, but we've heard before that we're growing too much. We got too many houses in Frederick County, and we need to stop it. And we all know from our neighbors to the east, that that doesn't work too well. We are growing. We are receiving. It's a compliment. People want to live here amongst us. They like the area. I think I read in the paper. Did she say the US? I don't know. I'm sorry. I don't know. day, and Mr. Klein talked about, is around 1,000 units, which is pretty consistent with what we've seen in recent years. Although if you go back a few, I've lived through two fairly good recessions, and we didn't have those units during that time period. But the important thing to remember is we can't stop development, but we, and you all in particular, and the board can direct it. And you all have done that. You've done that with your comprehensive plan. You've done that with your infrastructure and your utilities and your proper impact model. And again, learn a lesson from our neighbors to the east. We can do buy-write lots, and they did. Loudoun County, it's three employment zones, and they can do buy-write lots. And they can do buy-write lots. And they can do buy-write lots. And they can do buy-write lots. And they can do buy-write lots. And they can do acre density, Fairfax County, it's about the same. We can do a sliding scale here and get down to two acre lots. They don't pay proffers. They're not concentrated in an urban development area where it's easier to serve, less costly to serve. School buses, water, sewer, those things. And so I would suggest that y'all have done well. And this is the last piece of an area that has been a comprehensive plan for higher density concentrated development. And it makes sense. The plan makes sense. And what we've submitted makes sense. So greatly appreciate everyone's comments, but would look forward to hearing from you. Look forward to y'all's recommendations, obviously with like a favorable recommendation. But the purpose is also to make a record and to deliver your comments to the Board of Supervisors. And with that, be happy to respond to questions. And Mr. Mone's here. Nobody's asked him a question, but we'll be happy to respond if you have any. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Any questions for Mr. Lawson to my left? See him there, Ms. Brand? Yeah, I may be confused by a map, a picture in our statement, but I think the single family side that Roger's very concerned with, unless I'm not understanding this, it's not zoned for RP. It's rural. There is that language in the comprehensive plan. There's also, as Mr. Klein pointed out, discussion. There's a lot of discussion about trying to preserve the environmentally sensitive areas. And he pointed out that we have done that with our plan. There was a comment about why don't we just do five acre lots in this area? And would suggest that that would not be compliant with your comprehensive plan, would not be a good use of the infrastructure and utilities that you have in this area. And of course, that wouldn't be a rezoning. That would be by right and there would be no impacts paid either. So this plan, actually, our total density is less than the calculated density called for in your comprehensive plan, the number of units that we proffered. And that would include that single family detached area. And that would include that single family detached area to the east. Any other questions to my left? Nope, to my right. Any questions? Mr. Akins? Can you elaborate a little bit on the conversations that you've had regarding the, where the road network would stop, but there's an easement to the property line, I guess it would be the northern property line, and then the other development further north on any conversations you've had, or any other development that you've had, on any conversations you've had, or any other conversations you've had, or any other conversations you've had, on any conversations you've had, or any other conversations you've had, or anything relative to how that road could be finished? Yes, sir. It's not an easement. We're dedicating, conveying it to, no, it's important. Because we've all seen situations where people talk about things and then they don't, and somebody's got to acquire or condemn. That's not what we're doing. We are conveying to the property line. Likewise, the property to our north, a little bit different proper language. They haven't yet dedicated it, but have been assured that the language is, it's on demand. So if the county demands it, it'll be dedicated. And that's a huge point. Your transportation director made that point to us a couple days ago. In fact, if I got the land, I got something. I don't always have the land. We talk about things. Right now, we're talking about 37 East. We've been talking about 37 East since I moved here. We've been talking about 37 East since I moved here. We've been talking about 37 East since I moved here. We don't have the land. We don't have the land. This is big. This is a big step forward. This land is being conveyed or it is available on demand so that that connection occurs. Engineering firms have shared CAD drawings to assure. I don't want to tell stories, but we have someone of significance who said, I want to know what the cost of the land is. And we're talking about $1 million. And we're talking about $1 million. And we're talking about $1 million. And we're talking about $1 million. And we're talking about $1 million. And we're talking about a JS It's very high standards more than you think. It's very high standards more than you think. It's very low standards. Collaboratively, we have had meetings with them involving staff, in fact, about what that would look like and what would it take for them to narrow that gap and get it closer and closer. One real positive here is that as an older rezoning, the dedication was for the limited access road, which is 300 some feet. If we are successful here and it matches up, there will be land available so that they can add a little bit to where their development is. The benefit of that is that allows them to spend the money to build the connection. We've also been working with the county and with staff about if there is a gap, what does it cost? Can we budget as a county for that involving, I heard a comment about federal, I don't know about that, but I was thinking more state through revenue sharing, similar program like that. I think it's very doable. I think I'd have it on high authority that that application will be approved. Not for personal reasons, but because it will. It will provide a very important connection. And I believe the VDOT staff will recognize that and my colleagues on the CTB would as well. It makes sense. So those are the collaborations that we're working on. We are very excited. Our team is very excited because we think after talking about this for, in my opinion, for the next couple of years, we're going to be able to do this. In my case, 35 years, we're going to see the first leg of the eastern parkway that used to be called 37 East. Thank you all. Mr. Klein, would you please summarize for us? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, again, this is a request to rezone 91.7 acres from the R.A. Rural areas. And we're going to do that. We're going to rezone 91.7 acres from the R.A. Or sorry, to the R.P. Zoning District with proffers to enable up to 303 residential units. As has been discussed tonight, this application partially implements planned policies that pertains to residential uses west of Future Route 37. They've proposed a near-term solution as identified in the county effect study in regards to dedication of right-of-way for a parkway for Future Route 37, rather, and partial construction of that. they have fully implemented the capital impact model outputs for monetary contributions for residential development and they've restricted hours of operations to reduce impact on the joining residents there are a number of unresolved concerns that were detailed in great length at your work session and again this evening as it pertains to those proffer transportation improvements specific to approvals by VDOT the timing when certain improvements will be made how the connection the canyon will function as it relates to the rest of the development as noted by mr. Lawson there is a gap in the completion of this parkway concept between their development and OPEC and crossing that is yet to be determined how and when that will be funded and as noted in the discussion this evening the escalation clause starts after 20 months and caps the CPI at 6% annually uncompounded which staff raised the concern that they may otherwise address inflation this is was a public hearing this evening and staff would be seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors should the Planning Commission deem it to be appropriate thank you very much sir Planning Commissioners this is an opportunity for us to I will close the public hearing now this is an opportunity for Planning Commissioners talking about ourselves to my right any comments well I've got a lot of comments like I this this looks like a nice development potentially you know I think it has potential I have a lot of concerns of starting off I do not think Frederick County has the infrastructure now to support this and when I say infrastructure I'm not just talking about schools I'm talking about the water I'm talking about police support I'm talking about public access to the to different areas it concerns me you know we start talking about a drought being transient and usually droughts are transient but if I remember right we've talked about transient inflation that we still have four years later and not going anywhere but but getting worse mr. chairman the only the only the only the only advice I have is just to make sure everybody who's not speaking mics are off so there's not a feedback loop being created but looks like that's the case so okay well I'll try using this one yeah I think eventually this development would be good and I think it would provide housing and provide you know I think eventually this development would be good and I think it would provide housing and provide information and examples of one of those and obviously the vous know we tried doing this elsewhere I did a lot of work over here to kind of look at whatever sudah everything yeah there's a lot of potential here I think most of the houses that would be built in this area will probably be purchased by people who are working east of here and not working in Winchester so I think a lot of the traffic will go through Clark County Clark County is expressed some concern about that about the traffic coming through there which is understandable and I don't think we are ready from a standpoint of infrastructure in Frederick County to do this. I think we need to have more information from Frederick Water on the status of our water table. Not that this project may or may not affect the water table, but if we continually draw down the quarries, it's going to affect the water table, which will affect the other 50% of the residents in Frederick County who are on water wells, which is not going to be an easy solution to solve or an easy problem to solve. The single point of access for that land bay, whether it's 30 houses or 50 houses, I don't think that's acceptable. It's not acceptable to me. I looked at the comments from the fire marshal. The fire marshal says that they'll have to meet the criteria of the current edition of the Frederick County Prevention Code. Well, I don't think we should be depending on after. We approve it, and the engineering plans are made going to the fire marshal, and the fire marshal trying to work with the developer to get it approved. I think we need to plan for it. We are the planning department of the planning commission. I think it needs to be planned for a second entrance. I would never, ever buy a house. Personally, I'd never buy a house in an area where it was one way in, one way out, because that area is going to get blocked, whether it's a fire, whether it's wrecks or whatever, and there's no safety access. There's no fire access in and out of there if that's blocked. So I don't, I mean, from the standpoint of an engineering, I would have never allowed a development to be designed like that when we were doing developments. The bridge there between the two developments, I certainly would like to see both developers commit to building the roads to the property line, but I'm not sure how a developer would ever afford to build that bridge. The bridge is probably... a $30 to $50 million bridge to cross there. No developer's going to build that. So the practicality of this being built in the next 10 to 20 years, I think, is pretty slim. 35 years ago, we were talking about Route 37. We're still talking about it. Nothing's been done. There's no land been purchased or anything. The last time we had a developer that was going to build part of 37 was down at Seymour. We built the southern part of the county at the end of 37 where it intersects with 81. We have a development approved that is east of there where the developer was going to build that two-lane section of 37 through his development. Well, that development has never been built. That's another one of the probably 6,000 permits that are... or areas that are out there that could have residential lots on them. So looking at this and thinking that bridge is going to be built anytime soon, I think, is... would cause a lot of disappointment with people. The CPI verbiage that's in there in the proffer, that it's not going to be... it doesn't come into effect for 20 months and that it's capped at 6%. I think that's a no-starter. That sets a precedent again that we don't want to set in Frederick County as far as the inflation costs or acceleration of proffer. So I could not accept that personally. I think that's a no-starter for me. So I would not vote to approve that. I would like to be able to vote endorsing this project, but at this point the way it is put together and the status of Frederick County's infrastructure to support it, I just don't think we're ready. I think we're looking at another four or five years till we would be ready for this project or any significant housing area being built or any other infrastructure to support it. That's my comments. Thank you, sir. Any other comments from our right? Mr. Akins? Yeah. I mean, planning's a complicated thing. I mean, as Ty said, this is three to four years out. I mean, you've got at least a year in planning, you've got at least a year of dirt work, and then you're putting your first shovel in the ground to build a house. And so Frederick County's never, and I'll go as far as saying that any county in the state of Virginia is not going to get 100% ahead of every single issue that's brought to us. Every fire department's going to want a new tanker. Everybody, the sheriff's going to want new cars. There's always going to be something that's a desire. And there's got to be industry growth. There's got to be housing growth. Frederick County has one of the lowest unemployment levels in the state. What does industries need? They need people to work for them, which means they need housing. And what does housing bring? Housing bring retail. Someone in the audience brought up something about grocery stores. There's a reason why so many grocery stores shut down. It's because the economics of our region couldn't sustain them. There has to be a return on investment for any business owner, and they weren't working. And what does grocery stores need? Everybody wants to talk about, hey, I want a Wegmans, or I want this. Well, you need more housing to get those types of things. And I can't get behind, I do agree with you, Roger, there's still some holes in this plan. But a step towards improving the road network would be a good thing. I mean, we have to take steps, and every step forward is a step in progress. And I think that's what we're going to have to do. And I'm afraid that as a commission, we will continue and continue and continue to shut down every single housing thing that comes up across us, because you know what? Hey, we need another school. Guys, we're always going to need another school. We're never going to get ahead of it. But that's not our preview. Does the rezoning make sense? Does the rezoning, is it adjacent to like-kind? Should homes be here in our county? I can get behind that. I can get behind that homes can be here in our county. And I can get behind the fact that, hey, you know what? This is a first step in a road network that we've been talking about for 30 years. And yes, the bridge is going to be a big hurdle to cross, no pun intended. But you've got to start somewhere. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? To my left. I have some comments. I've watched the federal government and state government negotiate and give away the farm, and then the latter never happens. I'm glad to hear Ty's on the board, and he knows people, and this is going to be built quickly. Get that built first, because this is not going to be safe for that development. I don't care how you lay it out. And I brought up the long-range land map. That side of the major connector is zoned RA, not RP, so it is out of the zone. And I just think we have to worry about the safety of the people living there, and this is not going to cut it. Okay. Any other comments? Mr. Barker? Yeah, I basically agree with Roger. The job we have as a commission is difficult in this sense that I would love to have everybody that owns land be able to do what they want to do with their own land. I mean, after all, it's property rights. But at the same time, we live in a community, and if you do something with your land that adversely impacts your neighbors, then civility says, you need to do something different. You need to figure out the solutions before you go and do something. That's the only way to do this. And right now, I'm not sold on it. Okay. Thank you. I'll just make one comment. I know as chairman, I look at a lot of different things. But the thing I always come back to is, the Code of Virginia that establishes planning commissions for the purpose of, in order to promote orderly development of the locality and environments. And we've got to be orderly. And it's easy to get out of order. It's easy to get our priorities and our infrastructure ahead or behind. There will always be infrastructure needs. I agree with Jason on that. But I remain concerned about the time. I think there's a lot of timing on this project. It seems to be pretty far ahead of where our infrastructure is at present. And that will remain to be a concern of mine. With that said, this is in the Redbud district. Therefore, I would entertain a motion from our Redbud supervisor. I move to recommend denial of rezoning 1024 for Winchester east of Pequin Creek. We have a motion and a second. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, Ms. Brannon. Brannon, no. Oh, wait, yes. This is a motion to deny recommendation for approval. So a vote of yes is a vote for recommendation for denial. Brannon, yes. Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Snedden, yes. Apothorpe, with the same. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kern, yes. Davin, no. Akins, no. Chair votes yes. And the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on February the 12th. Thank you to everybody who came out tonight. Next order of business is a no. Any other public hearing? Rezoning number 11-24 of Route 7 self-storage. Submitted to rezone 2.3 at acres from B1 neighborhood business zoning to B2 general business. Mr. Chairman, I've asked Mrs. Peloquin to hold off a moment beginning her presentation to allow folks who might like to leave to go ahead and walk out. The Americans, just to Say thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have been elected non nonprofitText �ك to pull up with the Dis案 Thank you very much. Mr. Pellaquin, if you will indulge me for a moment before you begin, I would like to congratulate you on your recent appointment or promotion or all of the above in the American Institute of Certified Planners. You achieved that certification, and that is a very important step professionally for you. And I would like to ask the planning commissioner to just join me in congratulating you. We expect great things out of you now. Thank you so much. Now this is a lot of pressure on this presentation, huh? All right. So this rezoning application is for a 2.38-acre property. It is currently 0. It's a rezoned B1 neighborhood business, and the requested zoning is B2 general business. It's located off of Route 7. It's in the Redbud Magisterial District, and it's gone through a couple of rezonings in the past from ag to residential and then from residential to B1 general business. And the note on the bottom just states that revised proffers were received earlier this week. So what will be included in the presentation? It's a little bit different from what was in the original packet. This countywide map shows the property. It's a little small, but the red dot on Route 7 east of the city of Winchester is where the property is located. This zoning map is more zoomed in on the property. It's outlined in purple, and the light pink slash purple color is the current zoning. It's the B1 neighborhood business district zoning. And the yellow? The yellow represents the RP, residential performance district zoning, and that's where the planned subdivisions are. This map shows the long-range land use in the adopted comprehensive plan. The yellow hatched area represents the desire for residential uses in the area, and therefore this proposed rezoning is generally not in conformance with the comprehensive plan. This is the GDP that was revised on January 13th. It shows just the entrance south off of Route 7. It shows a proposed bridge over that stream, the existing stream. It shows the self-storage facility of about 40,000 square feet is proposed, and it has several passenger vehicle parking spaces. The proper statement that was revised on January 10th for land use, it limits the use only to self-storage service, self-service storage facilities only, and it prohibits any outdoor trailer storage. It added some transportation improvements that include an eastbound right-turn lane with a minimum of 100-foot taper and 100-foot deceleration lane turning into the development, and then a... 75-foot acceleration lane and 50-foot taper exiting the development. And a statement was also added to the proffers that state that development will be in general conformance with that revised GDP. So in summary, this is a request to rezone 2.38 acres from B1 zoning district to B2 with proffers to enable a self-storage facility. Some of the positives of the application include that all B2 uses other than self-storage have been restricted and that use of self-storage will generate significantly fewer trips than other B1 or B2 uses. They have added that outdoor trailer storage will be prohibited and the transportation improvements have been added including the right turn lane that I went over earlier will be proffered prior to opening the business. Some concerns include that the rezoning is generally not in conformance with the comprehensive plan and that stretch of Route 7 is already relatively dangerous and any additional traffic and trips to this property could cause additional safety concerns. This item is presented for public hearing. And staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. That's all I have for the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant Mr. Joe Connectal is here as well and is available to answer any questions. Ms. Pelikman, for the benefit of the Planning Commission, do you have a list of allowed B1 uses readily available? Yes. So as it is currently zoned B1, and the B2 uses are currently available, and the B2 uses are currently available, any of these uses listed on the screen would be permitted to occur by right. Some of the ones that may fit would be a restaurant without a drive-thru, offices of real estate, and various other recreational sports centers, veterinary services, and so on. So those could be constructed by right now? Yes. Today, they could submit a site plan and all of the other ordinance requirements would have to be met still in terms of like parking and that sort of thing. But these uses could be done by right as the zoning stands now. Okay. Any other questions for Ms. Pelikman on this? Mr. Thomas? Yeah. When you say it doesn't meet the comp plan, it doesn't meet the comp plan now being B1. Correct. So it's kind of a wash, I guess. Right. We received the revised proffer statement when we walked in tonight, and all the comments I had were taken care of in a revised proffer statement. I really wish we would have had that a week ago so we could have seen that before we came in. Typically, we will table something if we get a revised proffer statement the day of the meeting, but that's up to the Planning Commission. But, yeah. Okay. This is probably a less intensive use than the majority of the other uses that it could already be done by right. So. To my right, any other comments or questions? To my left? Now, you said the B1. You showed us the B1. If they did something by right, they could do that right now. Would they have to do the commercial entrance like this? Like they have to do the commercial entrance? Like they have to do the commercial entrance? They likely would. They would need to submit a site plan to our office, and we have to have VDOT comment and approval. So, it's possible they would ask for that. Okay. Just as a regular part of the site planning process. Okay. Any other comments? Questions? None? Thank you, Ms. Bellofian. Thank you. Mr. Konechtal? Good evening, sir. Good evening. Thank you all. Joe Konechtal? Joe Konechtal with Potesta Associates, and we have the owner, Ned Browning, back here in the back here. But you guys asked questions, and you already took care of what I was going to present. So, yes, the use is going to be self-storage, which is a very low-intensive, low trip generation use. It's lower than most of the B1 by right uses. And if we went – if it was developed in the early 2000s, it would be a very low-intensive use. So, it's a very low-intensive use. So, it's a very low-intensive use. So, it's a very low-intensive use. And if it was developed in a B1 use, it would not have to go in front of the Planning Commission. It would be staff approved. And then, you mentioned about the – you asked about the entrance D cell lane and the X cell lane. That would be required with any development that goes in here. So, we're here for any questions. Okay. Any questions from the Planning Commission for Mr. Konechtal? Any questions from the Planning Commission for Mr. Konechtal? To my left. To my left. Bring it on to my right. Yes, sir. Mr. Kurtz. Good evening. Good evening. I didn't see in the proposal anywhere anything about any screening. Is that proposed at all or considered? Well, that would be part of the planning process. We would have – because it's commercial development up against residential lots, you would have to have at least a 50-foot buffer between – So, 25 inactive – 25 inactive. 25-foot inactive buffer and a 25-foot active buffer. So, you couldn't have the building within 50 feet of the property lines. And then, you would have to have some kind of screening of some sort. So, most likely a board on board fence with vegetative screening. Any screening towards 7 at all that was considered? That would have to be decided during the planning process. But there – normally, the landscaping requirements would require – The landscaping requirements would require shade trees and perimeter trees, yes. But I don't know if you're talking about an opaque screen out front. I'm not sure. Any other questions? Mr. Markert. Yeah, just a question about the retaining wall. You have to go dig into the hillside – Yeah. – to fit in what you need to fit in. How high is that retaining wall at its highest? Those dimensions haven't been determined at this time. I mean, this is just a – But there would be a safety railing or something along the – Oh, yeah, on the upper side? Yeah. Most likely, yeah. It's going to be 25 feet back from the property line at least where you would put this retaining wall just because of the screening requirements and the buffer requirements. And another thing – Yeah. – that ends up being a nuisance to neighbors is lighting. Is all of the lighting to be directed towards Route 7 instead of up to the houses that are behind you? It would have to be directed internally. Right. And that would have to go through the planning process. We'd have to have a photometric lighting plan approved. And, you know, it's a requirement that all lighting not shine beyond the property boundaries. Thank you. And to point out that, you know, the residential properties behind are quite a bit higher, so the lights would be down below that elevation. Mm-hmm. Okay. Anyone else? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I'll open the public hearing for anyone who wishes to speak to this rezoning request. I would ask that when you come forward, please state your name and magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anyone like to speak to this rezoning request? Yes, sir. Good evening, sir. Hi there. Good evening. Stephen Carter, I – if I – do I get to use that map that maybe was up before? Can we reference that in some way? I think Ms. Peliquin. Thank you, Ms. Peliquin. Now that she is a certified planner, would be quite capable of doing that. I can use this. Thank you. That one? Well, so – may I? Yeah, absolutely. Thank you very much. So, Stephen Carter, I live in 107 Monroe Circle, which is – I'm afraid to push buttons and point with this thing, but it's in the area right here. So, 107 Monroe Circle, you're looking to build a – the applicant's looking to build a self-storage unit in our backyards. So, essentially, the retaining wall will not only cause potential erosion, which we're already experiencing with some of that area back there, but you've got about 30 kids just in our cul-de-sac, in our areas next door that play in the yards in the backyard area, not in their properties, but in the areas around. Self-storage comes with lots of risks. When you've got 24-hour access, you've got people coming in at all times. You've got noise pollution. The lights – this is a circular-type horseshoe-looking area. The lights are bound to hit. The area is just – you know, it's a lot of noise. The area is just west and east and all around where we are. So, you've got areas here that, you know, the lighting is going to hit. But more importantly, I'm worried about the safety of the community. This does not fall in line with character of the neighborhood at all, a storage unit. We could use a lot better services in this area. We've got a nice family diner right next door. We frequent fairly often. But a self-storage unit is not what's going to be what's best for our community. Not in this area. There might be other areas, like down the area. You've got a Martins and you've got a big shopping center there. You've got I-81. This is our neighborhood. This is our backyard. You've got 75% of this area surrounded by residential neighborhoods. Again, my biggest concern is the safety of the children that play in these areas. This is our backyard. You've got loitering. You've got debris. You've got trash. You've got light. You've got noise. You've got all sorts of activity that will come with the storage unit. This is not a wise choice for use of this land. Something else could be used better. I appreciate some of you who are saying that the reason for this is this commission, and thank you for what you do and the service that you provide. Does the rezoning make sense? I think that was mentioned by Mr. Aikens earlier. This one does not. We purchased this land knowing that there's certain applications that it could be used for. This is not a good use of this land. So in addition to the safety of the children that play in this area, and the homes that we have around it, you do have a very dangerous neighborhood here, or street here. You've already got loads of accidents, including deaths that have occurred over the past several years in this area. Adding a turn lane, slowing down traffic, trying to get in here is definitely going to cause some issues. So these are some of the concerns that we have. Unfortunately, with some of the changes that have taken place, it's hard to reply to some of these. But I think that's the way it is. We do have a lot of folks who are not represented here tonight. There were some comments that were left online, some emails that were sent in. I hope that they were considered. I'm sure they were. You've also got some of the environmental concerns. That is a very steep area, a 30-foot retaining wall. Sounds like a lot of trouble to me. I fear that it's going to have major impacts to the back area surrounding that property of the Pioneer Heights community that's behind it. The development there is going to be very harmful and potentially dangerous to the property. Not to mention that in addition to safety, property values, there are numerous reports that talk about self-storage units reducing property values. Right here in this community, we don't need property values reduced. We certainly don't need the safety of our children jeopardized. And I ask that you please consider rejecting this. I know that the city has a lot of concerns about this rezoning and the ability to build this self-storage unit in our neighborhoods around our children. There are just too many risks that come with this type of business being in our neighborhoods. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Would anyone else like to speak to this rezoning? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainsborough District. I would like to support this neighbor not in support of a self-storage in his backyard. Millions of acres of farmland are lost in America every year. And one of the ways the Secretary of Agriculture thought that is very significant to save farmland is by promoting agritourism. So Route 7 is big. People come in from D.C. And I think that B1 had all these great business ideas that could help promote tourism. So I do think that it would be a great idea if we stuck with the plan. Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak? Okay. Because we received the proffers tonight, the updated proffers and the updated GDP, the public hasn't had an opportunity to review these yet. So what I would suggest we do is table this for 30 days. I would leave the public hearing open so after folks who have not had a chance to see these can see them and can come back in 30 days or at our February, our second February meeting. And be able to comment on this as it's proposed tonight. I will say when I look at the B1 uses compared to what this gentleman, Mr. Connectal, has proposed, it does seem like this is less intensive. But I understand concerns that have been raised as well. But I would like the public to have an opportunity to review and comment on the new proffers and the new GDP that's been presented to us tonight. So this is in the Redbud District. Unless there's opposition to that, I would be glad to entertain a motion from Mr. Markert to that end. I move we table this project. I don't have the number in front of me. To the second February meeting. To the second February meeting. Second. And we have a second. I guess I should have asked. Mr. Pearson, I'm not getting in trouble here, am I? As far as the schedule? No. That's fine. I think that's fine as far as I know. And I actually prefer you stating a specific meeting rather than the third today. So thank you. Okay. Very good. So we have a motion and a second to table this until our second meeting in February. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Akins? Aye. DeHaven, yes. All right. Kerns, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Votwerf, yes. Snedden, yes. McKay, yes. Rumbach, yes. Brennan, yes. Chair votes yes and motion carries. This will be taken up again at our second meeting in February. Mr. Knechtl, thank you, sir. Okay. Next on our agenda, Comprehensive Plan Amendment for Appalachian properties submitted to Admit It County's adopted Comprehensive Plan. And this is an application that was submitted in June, if I remember correctly? Yes, sir. This is a proposed application for Appalachian properties. Yes, sir. This is one of your comprehensive plan amendments that you will actually discuss back in August at a joint work session. This is CPPA 0124 for Apple Land Properties. It consists of four properties totaling 96.82 acres. The present land use is business and environmentally sensitive areas. It's also within the limits of the sewer and water service area. The proposed request is to change that land use designation to residential and to amend the urban development area or UDA to contain these properties and it would continue to be within the limits of the swaza. The property is located west of Route 11, south and north of Stephen City in the Bat Creek District. This is our countywide locator map showing the general location of the subject properties west of 81 in the Bat Creek District. And this is your zoning and location. This is our countywide location map showing the subject parcels outlined in purple. They are again immediately north of the town of Stephen City and kind of surround the Apple Land Park property and are south of the Opecan Creek. This is your current adopted long-range land use plan. The orange colorization of the parcels designates our business land use categorization. Also on the subject property, you'll notice a series of dotted lines. Those are... These are planned future road improvements, including a north-south connector known as the Stephen City Bypass exiting the town of Stephen City, proceeding north across the subject parcels across Opecan Creek and ultimately connecting to Shady Elm and Springdale Roads. From the applicant's proposal, they have requested a change in the land use from business and environmentally sensitive area to residential and within the limits of the urban development area. They intend to expand the urban development area to encompass the subject property. They intend to expand the urban development area to encompass the subject property. They intend to expand the urban development area to encompass the subject property. to enable them to pursue a residential rezoning, and they intend to restrict the use of that property to age restricted. This is the proposed land use as indicated by the applicant. Following your joint work session in August, staff spent a substantial amount of time negotiating with the applicant, with VDOT, with the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee, with the town of Stephen City about what this would actually look like if we intend to change the land use categorization. As a result of those numerous... As a result of those numerous... throughout the members discussion, staff has proposed an amendment to the Kernstown Area Plan which was last revised in 2017 which encompasses the project area. We have made an addition to the Bartonsville South Subplanning Area Section, speaking to the Future Residential Nature of these parcels, and saying that future residential development in this area should be age restricted and interconnected with residential development in the town of Stephen City to the south. We have made a further revision to the plan text. As a further revision to the plan text. As it pertains to the residential development and interior design, this deal will still be we have a few other months left until we want to move with the planning of the arena. sentido vital, amiably there Anderson då approves of the program. He solitary müsste do more of the rest and make a joint move when that prescri psychologists and community. And management services be required to accompany. to the residential development subsection speaking to residential development in the bartonsville south should include a mix of age-restricted housing types extensive buffering and screening along the opec and creek should provide should be provided to protect the natural and historic resources and these natural and historic resources should be further highlighted by their incorporation into the recreational amenities for the prospective development and the community at large those are your planned revision text that's reflected in the map that we've included i think it's pertinent to jump and also explain that in addition to those changes to the land use categorization we did remove the planned collector roads from this parcel and i'll touch on that later in the slide on why that was done and as it pertains to staff comments and how we got to this decision given the details of the proposal as outlined the proposed plan amendment and resulting development may have the potential to harmonize with the surrounding area again there are significant residential areas to the north and south of these subject parcels expanding the uda to include the subject properties would enable residential development uh which again is deemed to be appropriate given the adjoining uses uh when it was designated as business um you know we feel that business uses may be far more impactful than this residential development than additional residential development and we've included plan techs to ensure that age-restricted development limits potential capital impact to the county services particularly public schools if and when a rezoni would be submitted so the plan speaks to an age-restricted residential development in this area of the county i'll jump to this comparison map which shows the existing planned transportation network on the left-hand side of your screen and the proposed planned transportation network on the right staff spent a lot of time working with the applicant vion in the town of steven city regarding future planned transportation improvements in this area of the county it's important to note that the town of steven city advocated for the planned transportation network to remain unchanged or that some sort of connection would be maintained to the north and to the west of the across the subject parcels completing the work that they have done on the steven city bypass however given our discussions with vdot and looking at the uh planned roads in the vicinity of the project we deem that there is some impracticality of extending that collector road across the subject parcels there's topographic challenges hydrologic challenges with crossing the opec and creek and that floodplain there's planned land use challenges we don't necessarily have future planned land uses west of the subject parcels those are designated to remain rural so it did not seem appropriate to maintain a major collector road crossing what is otherwise agricultural land that's slated to remain agricultural land and we recently have closed the railroad crossing at springdale road where this envisions the connection being made to uh to accommodate our renaissance drive project to the north of the subject parcel that renaissance drive project is a key component of alleviating traffic along apple valley road and shady elm road back to route 11 so it achieves some of the benefits that would otherwise be achieved by this project so again we wanted to call attention to the town's desire to maintain that connection but point to some of the challenges that we see is making this connection and otherwise just leaving it as dotted lines on a map so in summary this is a request to amend the county's adopted kernstown area plan contained in appendix one of the frederick county comprehensive plan to change the future land use designation on four parcels totaling 96.8 acres from business to residential and to include the properties within the limits of the county's urban development area or uda and modifications to the planned transportation network in this area of the county again you all held a joint work session with the board of supervisors in august and this comprehensive plan amendment was selected for further study just to close the feedback loop on where we were there were three projects this project was sent forward for further study one project was outright deemed not appropriate to go for further for study and one project was tabled until a decision was made on the fourth high school after that decision on the fourth high school was made that applicant chose to withdraw their comprehensive plan amendment so this is the last comprehensive plan amendment scanning from your 2024 cycle the comprehensive plans and programs committee discussed this application at their november meeting we had a lot of conversation about the planned transportation network and ultimately the cppc agreed with staff's assessment that it was practical and should be removed from the plans and that's reflected in the materials that you all were provided this evening this item is presented for public hearing and should you deem it appropriate staff would seek a recommendation from the from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors if it's moved forward this evening it would go to the board on february 12th chris moan and ty lawson are here this evening representing the apple and properties applicant and i'm sure they'd be happy to provide some additional details should you have any questions and i'm of course happy to answer any questions you may have any questions for mr klein to my right to my left any questions thank you very much sir okay mr moon mr lawson mr moon says no thank you mr lawson is going to do it okay he has a way of doing that ty lawson here on behalf of the applicant mr chairman members of the planning commission once again very thorough uh staff report and um as they say given the details of the proposal is outlined above the proposed cppa and resulting development it says may have i i think it does have a better harmony with the surrounding area we're happy to respond to any questions but i i don't think we can add to to the work that's been done and and to mr klein's report very good any questions for mr lawson thank you well no thank you very much sir this is a public hearing i'll be glad to open a public hearing at this time if you would like to speak to this matter this would be the time to do so ask that you come forward state your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes good evening sir good evening good to see you thank you everyone for your time tonight i know it's been already a long meeting uh i appreciate the opportunity to speak before you i'm with the town of stephen city my name is mike majorыеo peccan district um i've drafted up a a quick comment that way uh we can all get home and eat some dinner uh the primary concern of the town of stephen city is in regards to the proposed cppa is the changes to the plan transportation infrastructure the amendment before you would remove the primary collector for the stephen city bypass for more than two decades the town's comprehensive and transportation plans have been fundamentally structured with qa' s there has been a recent START move that directly prompted in the planning waving your hope that the enemity zone improvement plan with the November revolving case around the development of this bypass. Within town boundaries, we've worked with property owners to acquire all of the right-of-way to allow for the construction of this road. The Stephen City and Frederick County Joint Land Use Plan call for coordinated planning as we seek the implementation and transportation infrastructure needs of the town and the county. I'd like to acknowledge the efforts of the county planning staff to meet with and work with the town in achieving this. If the northern connection is to be removed, it is essential that the town and county work together to ensure that this bypass that we've worked so hard to acquire the right-of-way for and to begin construction on not become a road to nowhere. Ultimately, it is the town's intent for our growth and planning to harmonize with the county planning. I'm confident that there exists a solution that benefits both the residents of Stephen City and Frederick County and that we can work together to find it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Major. Would anyone else like to speak? Good evening, sir. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It's good to see many of you once again. I'm David Griffin. I'm with the town of Stephen City, with the Opecan District. I also want to thank you guys for what I consider to be a thankless job. I really appreciate the time you all put in on this. It makes a huge difference. I want to remind the Planning Commission about a couple of things because I think it's important to have this in the background. Back in 2005, Frederick County and the town of Stephen City entered into an annexation agreement. In that annexation agreement, it was blocked off by the city council. It was blessed by the Commission on Local Government and referred over to a three-judge panel appointed by the Virginia Supreme Court. They reviewed that, and they required something called a joint land use plan. The area that you're talking about tonight is included in that joint land use plan. Just to hit that highlight, the order from the three-judge panel says that the future land use plan and map will serve as a guide to future development. The town and the county, agreed to immediately, upon a validation of this agreement by this court, to amend their respective comprehensive plans to incorporate that joint future land use plan. That can only be changed upon mutual agreement. So I think that's an order of the court that's still standing out there. You all need to know about that. Second, Frederick County, a few years later, sued the town of Stephen City when it felt a proposed development adjoining the town of Stephen City in this particular parcel had some details that were not completely within compliance with that joint land use plan. That bankrupted the developer and led to another court action where the court basically said, once again, that it will be required that the town and the county work together to develop a bypass and left the details of that to the town. To work out within the town's limits, still following that joint land use plan. In 2017, there was an updated plan that was agreed upon by the county and the town on the comprehensive plan that dealt with that joint land use plan. That followed the process. We want to suggest and encourage that the meetings to find a consensus within the joint land use plan is a requirement from two different court orders and that that hasn't happened yet. Until that happens, you should not be amending that comprehensive plan. That's our comments to you. Thank you so much for everything you guys do. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Good night. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm in the Gainsborough District. I have a question, though. Are we approving another cluster development? Could you answer that, Chairman Stowe? No, ma'am. We are here. We're here to receive comments at this time. I think that the Berkeley Group, I went to a meeting last year where the Berkeley Group was... Sorry, I never reset the last timer. Go ahead, Leslie. Yeah. The Berkeley Group gave us this great zoning ordinance update and it said a lot of the things that were mandatory weren't in it, like 47%. And there was a lot of optional. I looked through it and I saw a lot of things that were great for our tree canopy, for buffers. These things could help us in a time of drought. Over the Christmas break, I read Falling Dominoes, the domino effect of drought on a community. There's all kinds of things, heat wave. And I think that we should slow down. I think that we should slow down on cluster developments before we update our zoning ordinance. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. Thank you. Would anyone else like to speak to this matter? Good evening. Hello. I'm Elizabeth Peldunas from the Opecan District. I attend Frederick Water meetings on a regular basis. And one of the things I've learned since this past August being there every month is that there are some significant issues with water delivered to the new communities that are being built along Route 11, where many of the people come in and they water their lawns. And this has been unexpected by our utility as new people come into the community, what used to be Frederick County, where people didn't worry about grass. New residents apparently do. And it's another thing that we have to do. And I think that's something that we haven't talked about tonight as far as how we're allocating this very limited resource that is supplied to us by our utility. And also there's an issue in Stevens City that I haven't fully internalized, but they have issues with sewer. And this will put additional, changing this zoning to allow housing puts additional pressure on the sewage system that I believe the town of Stevens City operates. So there are a lot of things swirling around water tonight and the theme continues with this public hearing. Just thought I'd add that comment. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Would anyone else like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Mr. Lawson, do you care to respond? Yes. Working in reverse order. We're, this is in the county. It's not in the town of Stevens City. And so it wouldn't be connecting to the town sewer. I appreciate very much, as I always do, Mike Major and David Griffin. And Mike said it well. We all need to work together. It needs to... There you go. This is not my normal job. I apologize. I was going to say, y'all may want to get a new secretary. Can we redo that vote? The comments about the roads are important, but I think we all came to the general consensus that the existing road network, one, which is a flyover over a quarry, over Route 11, over a quarry, over ID1, and then tying into Tesco, nobody could remember why we had that. It doesn't really make much sense. Especially given the very elaborate and nice connection that we have at 37, and which will turn into the east side of 37 one day. And then the other is, as Mr. Klein pointed out, going straight up and trying to cross the Opecan is really challenging. There's a lot of water across there. It's not just the creek. You frankly couldn't have picked a worse place. You have a series of bridges. To get across there. And then we're going to try to get a crossing from CSX, who we just had the devil of a time negotiating the closing of a crossing to build Renaissance. So that became a real challenge. But we recognize Stephen City is desirous of a wider bypass. And that is something that ought to be looked at. And as Mike said, we ought to work together. And when I say we, more the county and the town to make that happen. But one thing we did learn through this process, that drawing lines on a paper without really thinking through the logistics is definitely not the way to go. And that's what you have on your current plan. And I believe that's why the recommendation was to change it to this point. But where we go from there, I think working together is very advisable. And having connectivity that's probably a little further to the west and will probably present itself in the long term as things change is probably the way, or the best way to address that. But we appreciate the process. And again, staff report talking about the harmonizing this use. It fits in better with the joining uses, including the town of Stephen City. We have had a chance to talk with our significant neighbors in the county and they agree. They like this use and this change as opposed to a more intense use of B3 type thing. That was not in harmony. So appreciate the opportunity to present. Mr. Lawson, I know the county's met with the town folks. Have you and your development team also met with the town folks? We have. Yeah. We have. And there's been discussion about possibly coming up with a road that's further to the west. But I don't want to speak for anybody, but running a road straight up through the property and trying to afford all that water, and then crossing a crossing that we just closed and was very dangerous just does not make sense right now. Also, I would point out, although, we're not in the town Valley Pike community that DR Horton has built is immediately the south. The property between us is commercial. And that was per that approved plan and that the court signed off on. We would suggest that looking ahead and if our rezoning once it's processed and if it's approved, we may have a real good chance to make some commercial happen on that end of the town. And if we could, a grocery store of sorts on west of 81. So we're really excited about that. And not only being in harmony in the county, but also with the adjoining town. Any questions from Mr. Lawson? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Pearson. Just to address one comment as it relates to the joint land use plan and the previous court order, to the best of our knowledge, the properties being considered for the CPPA tonight are not subject to the court order or the joint land use plan as they were adopted. But we'll look over that with Mr. Griffin and make sure we're all reading the same language as it relates to that. They are outside the boundaries of the, you know, the, you know, the boundaries of the adopted joint land use plan in the, that is the same for the town and the, and the county. So we do not believe that they are subject to the town reviewing and approval, approving the county land use plan in the same way that properties within the plan are. Okay. Thank you, sir. But it is our intent to harmoniously plan with the town. Absolutely. And especially as it relates to the Stephen City bypass, I told Mr. Major, the proposed collector to run out West into rural lands, as Tyler mentioned, is seemingly not ideal from a county planning perspective, given that constructing such a road would have to likely be born entirely by the taxpayer since we're not planning for any development out that way. And when it was proposed, we asked the applicant to reach out to those landowners, engage their interest, and then we were able to do that. So we're not sure if they're interested in it, but I'm not sure we've closed that circle as to whether or not they did contact the property owners. We certainly do support the bypass making its way back to Route 11, as was on the joint land use plan and is on our current adopted transportation plan though. Does the bypass make it back to Route 11 with the roadway that has the median in it now? Yeah, Tigney Way, which is inside the town and as part of the Valley Pike development, as Mr. Lawson, had mentioned earlier, does and has sufficient right of way to serve a similar purpose. It is planned by us, I think, as a minor collector, not a major collector. So it would be within the town's purview of whether that needed to be expanded in the future. But right now it's one lane in each direction with a median division. Thank you, sir. Is there any other comments or discussion points on this? I'm ringing again. To my right, any comments, questions? To my left. To my left. This is in Back Creek. It will be your pleasure, Back Creek Commissioners. I move to approve CPPA number 0124 for Apple Land Properties. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Akins? Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Markard, yes. Fodder, yes. Sneddon, yes. McKay, yes. Rhombach, yes. Brennan, yes. Chair votes yes and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on February the 12th. And next up, last but not least, our final public hearing for the evening, Mr. Pearson, Capital Improvement Plan 2025 to 2030. Mr. Pearson, please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the introduction. I'll not mince any words and be quick about this. I know you all have had a long night, and you've seen this annually for quite some time. But our capital improvement plan is a schedule of capital expenditures developed by county departments for the ensuing five-year period. We try to mesh our comprehensive plan and the same plan that we have for the next five years with the CIP to be mutually supportive. And the CIP projects do feed into our development impact model, which results in those cash proffer amounts that you reviewed for the Winchester East application. In the same way I talked about utilities projecting what their capital needs are and then backing into TAP fees to then fund those capital improvements, the CIP and the proffer model function in a very similar way. What is it we need to support the infrastructure in the comprehensive plan goes into the CIP with a five-year restrained period. And then we have a five-year time frame, and then that is then calculated through the model for each new rezoning application that we deal with. So many of you remember that the CIP had somewhat developed into a wish list over the years, but in recent years the adopted procedure has been to ensure projects were achievable within the plan's horizon and not look much further beyond that with a few exceptions as it relates to transportation funding and the timelines for achieving grants and that projects need to be shown in the CIP to qualify well for transportation funding. With the adoption of the capital improvement plan, we consider it to become an appendix of the comprehensive plan and meet the Code of Virginia requirement 15.2.2232. And for those not familiar with that, any new public facility that's constructed needs to be shown in the comprehensive plan prior to public funds being spent to construct it. So us adopting this on an annual basis and making sure that all these things, whether it be a new fire station, new school or otherwise, adopting this ensures that we've met that requirement. That state code requirement, showing it in our comprehensive plan is something that we're heading towards. We used a new format for the plan this year and we welcome your all's feedback on it. I still have the summary tables and some summary information in the PowerPoint, but once I get to the end of that, I'll click on the link and pull it up so we can use the story map that we built it in this year. Kind of the major changes that I would note is fire and rescue volunteer projects made their way back into the plan at the request of fire and rescue. So you see that jumping up. From I think five projects last year to 22 projects. And that's representative of both the career and the volunteer departments. The county administrator directed that the landfill include their projects as well. So they have three this year. And it's worth noting the landfill is operated as a separate fund from the general fund. It's an enterprise fund. And the fees paid at the landfill fully fund the projects that they conduct. It's not taxes that are funding landfill expansions. It's the fees you pay when you drop your trash off there. Beyond that, parks is really the only other noteworthy one. They had a large increase in number of projects. But I would say that they're all relatively small projects they want to do in the next fiscal year, which is not uncommon for parks. Many of them are under a million dollars. And the reason that they got added to the plan this year is because they have every intention of trying to use either proffer money or request budget funds to construct those in the ensuing fiscal year. And in turn, they need to have them shown accordingly in the plan. So as always, you know, not the best table for PowerPoint. But if you have any questions about them, I'm happy to go into the individual project detail sheets and walk through those. Mr. Chairman, that is pretty much the end of the CIP presentation. So I'll conclude this slide, then open up the plan. And happy to answer any questions about any individual projects. Your Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee did discuss this request on December 16th. They eventually recommended approval of the plan, but had an interesting conversation that they thought it would be good in the future to include a component of the plan that looked at the debt affordability of whether or not the county could actually float bonds to do some of this without violating their debt policies. Staff agrees it is outside the scope of my individual department, but we're going to keep trying to work with finance about whether or not that can be an inclusion in the future. Let me pull up the plan real quick. We are seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors on this item. And Mr. Chairman, this is presented for public hearing. Happy to answer any questions about the plan or any individual projects. Keeping in mind that these projects are developed by departments that I'm not a part of. We work with them in collecting all that. So I have limited information as it relates to each individual project, but I'm happy to convey what I can. Any questions from the members of the CIP? Yes. Mr. Brown? I'm going to question the Parks and Rec Center. I don't think there's a plan to complete that in five years. I don't think it's well thought out. I'm on that committee. It did pass through the committee. I voted against it. But the answer, right now, Parks and Rec uses the schools. We have the schools built. And a lot of money to build those schools. They're pretty much empty in the summer. So they hold programs. I grew up in a county going to Parks and Recs at the school. I haven't seen a good enough reason for bang for the buck to build a rec center for what it will buy our citizens. And until that research can be done. I added up the total of all this. And I just don't see how we can afford it all. So I'm just not going to be able to vote for the CIP. I know I'll probably be the only one, but I'm going to be honest. I'm concerned about property taxes going up significantly. And Molly, you and I spoke on the phone a little bit about this. You would have gotten significantly better and more accurate information through your role on the Parks and Recreation Committee. And I'm going to be more concerned about the Parks and Recreation Commission than I could ever hope to provide as it relates to the justification for that project and why it's on there. So I'll leave my comments at that. Mr. Pearson, may I ask you, if a project's on the CIP, that's not a commitment by the county to undertake the project, is it? No, sir, it's not. The Board of Supervisors conducts their budget process on an annual basis. And this is intended to serve as a tool for them in making decisions throughout their budget process. But it is in no way a commitment to fund. It is in no way a commitment to fund, construct, or in any way expend any sort of funds on any of these projects. Does this feed into our proffer model? It does, yes. It's not as simple as the total value of all the projects in the CIP divided by residential units, but there are capacity considerations. In the case of schools, some of the cost estimates are good for the schools. That is used in backing into a dollar per square foot per student value for what an expansion might be. And that's a good thing. Those are cost estimates. There are costs. There are also cost estimates for what an expansion might cost. There's various pieces of this that get plugged into different parts of the model to advise both what our needs are, and then provide rough cost estimates for how we meet those needs. Very good. Any other questions for Mr. Pearson? Thank you very much, sir. This is a public hearing. If anyone would like to speak to this matter, this would be the time to do so. Please state your name, Magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. But anybody would like to speak? Well, I'd like to recommend that we continue our discussion on that, I think it's a good idea to give the committee an opportunity to come to a decision about the next steps. So, if you have any additional questions or concerns, we can go into those. Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anybody like to speak? Leslie's grinning. She can't resist. And you're welcome to speak anytime, Leslie. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainsborough District. This is Brandon. I just wanted to say about the Rec Center. I did actually ask some questions about including homeschoolers to have a more of a place in this county. I was, I guess, a lead supporter of a homeschooling co-op after my friend moved away and she started it and she did a wonderful job. And during COVID, or when COVID began, we lost our lease. We were paying the YDC two days a week. This is actually a really common occurrence for homeschoolers. They don't want to drop off their child. They want to be there. They want to volunteer. They love community and it's as simple as that. They just, they don't want the students to go to closed room. They're, I'm a mother of four, so they have multiple children. Often we met families with neurodivergent children that needed the mother's help all the time. So we love them. We love the YDC. After COVID, you know, when people came back, they changed our rent to become hourly. And so we would have to pay $7,000 a month and we couldn't afford that. We were paying $1,000 a month. That's all I wanted to say. Like, I wanted to speak to my supervisor, Mrs. Lockridge, and ask her to help support homeschoolers having a place in this county. It could be joining a new fire station. That could work out. But gym facilities, a playground, something nice like that, that is like a school. But I mean, the YDC is a pretty good model. A kitchen, snack room, things like that. We have great programs. The Blue Ridge Wildlife Center came. The Master Gardeners came. They came and, you know, volunteered to teach a class. Guest speakers came a lot. And it was a nice program before we couldn't afford to rent it anymore. Thank you very much. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Seeing none, I'll close the public hearing. How would a planning commission like to handle this? Well, I'm always confused on our role on the capital improvements plan. After 35 years, I'm still confused on it. And so, you know, we don't, we don't have an idea of what the plan is going to look like. We're going to have to go in and pick apart what the different part, what the different agencies want to put in their plan, and we're not responsible to fund it. That's the Board of Supervisors has to do that. So having said that, I would recommend that we move the capital, the 2025 to 2030 capital improvement plan onto the Board of Supervisors with an affirmative action. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Any discussion? I do. Ms. Brannon? First, I want to comment to you. I homeschooled my kids as well. So I understand. But I've been reading a lot of the Virginia law, and I don't think the CIP, like why it stayed, it was meant to be this big wish list. I mean, we immediately put it in this comprehensive plan, and that's not planning to just have people turn in and whatever you want, we'll say it's part of the comprehensive plan. We're about to redo the comprehensive plan, and I think we need to think out where we need housing, where we need if and where we need rec centers. I just don't like how this is done, and I'm going to, I keep reading daily the law. I'm going to read it. I'm going to read between the VAN, the state and point bill. I feel like that's all prepared in here. Okay, mothers and babies, the般 employer. And I put in theâmط's khoiers. shadow. kant . I've got immo. I've got Angela. and a. commissions according to this. Yes, the Board of Supervisors funded but I do not see how we know the schools are coming. We do not know what the new school has done to the debt ratio. I just feel it's irresponsible. Thank you. Any other comments? We have a motion. We have a second. Mr. Aikens? Yes. Hayman, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Margaret, yes. Yes. Snidden, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannan, no. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. That'll go to the Board of Supervisors on January 22nd. Recommendation. Do you have anything on item 9, sir? No, just a motion. Just to let you all know we're looking forward to potentially getting it on contract with Berkeley Group to start phase one of the zoning ordinance update, the structural changes to it. We think they did a good job on the diagnostic and because of that they were also able to provide a very affordable price due to their familiarity with our ordinance. So we're hoping to sign that pretty soon. Wanted to give you all an update on that. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, I have nothing else for you. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. That completes our agenda. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second? Second. All in favor? Aye. Thank you very much for hanging in there, guys. We are adjourned.
