Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-12-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=307
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thanks everybody for being here. We'll get right into it and try to be quick as we move through the slides tonight. I want to thank you all for making the time to come out and talk with us about our comprehensive plan update. So kind of an agenda for what we're going to work through tonight is we've been working on some background studies that we hope to lay the foundation for this plan update. We're going to present some initial findings from those studies. They're still underway, and one is yet to be started, but we'll talk a little bit about why that is. We're going to talk a little bit about your existing vision statement and core values, some of the summary information that you'll probably recognize from your stakeholder interviews where we met with a lot of you, as well as some of the other key stakeholders, including Project Water and some other groups, and then talk about the schedule and next steps. There at the end of the summary and stakeholder interviews, we're going to do a quick breakout exercise. We're going to count you all along, and I'll explain that in a minute once we get that far along. So going into the background studies, this is intended to replace what you all might know as Appendix 2 of our comprehensive plan, which has a lot of data and demographics in it. So we started this effort probably about a year ago. If not longer, working with a couple consultants to learn a little bit more about our community and put that on paper. You've probably already seen our community profile. We send it out to all of you. Tyler's going to talk about that in a minute. I'll talk about the market analysis and cost of land use fiscal impact analysis, which are still underway, but we have some initial findings that we'll present from that. And then John's going to talk about transportation modeling. Again, our hope is that some of this work provides baseline assumptions that's data driven for decision-making, and that we can use that to help us get to the next step. So we're looking at the community profile. As we continue public engagement and work on the comprehensive plan update. So Tyler's going to talk about the community profile. So you all were provided the community profile that was completed by the Berkley Group in July of this year, and that is our in-depth overview of the existing conditions to serve as a foundation for community-oriented and data-driven decision-making. It's a fairly exhaustive and comprehensive outline. There was a lot of outside agency input. We had water at the airport. Various county departments provided the input to the Berkley Group there. So there are key elements broken down into chapters. You have community history, location, geography, population, demographics, land use, housing, transportation, economy, and workforce, community facilities and infrastructure, community health and safety, and natural historic resources. So within that, they really just provide the data and it forms the basis for those subsequent studies that are being worked on. Within your community profile, I think one of the most important things that we're looking at is the data. So we're looking at the data. We're looking at the data. We're looking at the data. The more interesting things to hone in on is our current population. The 2024 estimate was about 98,977 residents. That's obviously up from the 2020 census, and within the community profile in the demographic section, the Berkley Group actually made some growth scenario projections, assuming various scenarios for a 20-year growth pattern. We have three scenarios presented in the report. We have a low growth, moderate growth, and high growth, and they assigned a projected rate to those that are shown on the screen. within those assumptions they're making they're taking our 10-year average of population growth which is two percent and they're assigning the projected rate to that so the low growth assumes a projected rate continued growth rate of one percent it results in a total population of about 121,000 residents that's about 22,000 resident gain over a 20-year period moderate growth is slightly slower rate of growth in our 10-year average it's about 1.8 percent and that generates about 44,000 more residents or about 143,000 total population and then your high growth rate which is the same average annual growth rate over that 10-year average two percent assumes 149,400 residents at 2045 or about a 50,000 resident increase you'll note that we did not project a growth rate in excess of two percent we felt like our 10-year average is very high but it's likely to decline based on some of the other population trends something like that so we're going to take a look at that and then we're going to take a look at some of the other assumptions that were included the report so we we assume will be somewhere between that low growth high growth rate of one percent to two percent over the next 10 years the report takes that population growth and makes some assumptions about where development opportunities exist in the future and within that site suitability analysis they looked at areas within the water service area they looked at various criteria for suitability including soils environmental features steep slopes access to transportation and those undeveloped areas of the county and they identified four opportunity areas which I think we're all quite familiar with two were are within what was our western federal plan which we just did last year that would be sunny side which is around 522 North area the route 50 West quarter around round Hill they also identified the Sensphones Road Greenwood Road area and primarily areas south of Sensovich Road and Fairfax Pike between double Church Road and Casper Road against South of Fairfax Pike so North Fine근al coast south of Fairfax Peak so Wyoming DT interest alive So those areas were identified as kind of suitable areas for future growth to accommodate that population growth, whether that be our low growth number or our high growth number. I'm going to hand it back to Wyatt, who will talk about subsequent studies that build on the community profile. And one point of clarification on the last slide is don't take this as any assumption that this is then going to drive all of our future land use decision making. I think it's a helpful infographic for thinking about site suitability and trying to approach where development occurs from kind of a clean slate perspective. But as we get into it, we're going to add a lot of other assumptions and talk to the public and think about our existing land use initiatives. I think about the Route 50 corridor, Route 50 West corridor in particular, and the limitations that exist out there from sewer capacity being a pretty significant limiter on whether or not growth would be suitable out there. So professional or sorry, Partners for Economic Solutions has been working with us for quite some time to do what we've titled a market analysis. But really, the focus of it was to home in on a question that you all have asked a couple of times and that we haven't had an adequate answer to, which is, are we planning for the right amount of land to not exceed what the demand is for development in our community and not undershoot it? So oftentimes when we're talking about comprehensive planning, the question is, how do we do that? And the question comes up is, are we planning for too much residential or do we have too much residential in the pipeline that we're exceeding what that demand factor is and creating an unnecessary influx of residents because of that factor? Or are we meeting our needs? So we did that for both residential, retail, office, industrial and flex development, as well as lodging facilities and working with them. Still underway, but some of our initial findings, I think were pretty interesting. They built off the Berkeley Road. They put out a report to do some projections for kind of what the community could accommodate and would be likely to experience, both on the residential, commercial, retail and industrial office square footage and unit counts. And you see those in the chart there. I would note some of their initial findings from the study that they conducted was the vast majority of our newly constructed housing is not being offered at a price that's attainable for people that earn incomes locally right now. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. all have heard that anecdotally over the years. It's interesting to see it represented in the data as well. Absent new major commercial office tenants, they really think there's limited potential for that use to continue to expand. They noted that some of the outliers that we've seen over the years are the Navy federal examples and tracks or things like that occurring in the area. And absent big companies doing things like that, they think the commercial office market is very limited as far as potential is concerned. Interestingly and not surprisingly, it was a bit of a regional analysis and they concluded that we are probably going to be the likely landing area for the region for most of the industrial and flex development that occurs in the region. And they identified something we've heard before, which is in order to accommodate that or provide opportunity for that, there's probably a lacking amount of zoned industrial land available to meet that challenge. And then retail is very likely to continue to lag behind everybody's expectations. I'm sure you all have heard about a desire for grocery stores and filling of vacant opportunities there. There's the potential for opportunities to arise alongside of new development and the possibility of existing vacant spaces being replaced, but it's definitely not going to meet expectations based on their analysis. The final piece that I'm going to talk about is the work we've done with a name you'll all find familiar, Tischler Weiss. They do our capital impact analysis for helping us determine what a fair proffer amount is for rezonings. I want to clarify that when we're talking about cost of land use in this context, it's not capital related. This was our attempt to answer another question you've asked us, which is what do these land uses actually provide us as far as net or not revenue? defining consistency data These types of requirements If you are the same tribe, we're are hints you are not kwut and so, like exposure of road signs evidence of our external service providers, and customers overwhelmed that very clearly. So it's atándag Moving forward I wouldn't ask you to cover your own specific road signs for cohabiting with your employees. If someone you are talking to, they are you know, recognized as local credit. You can provide entrance to the site you are using, of the consideration. Probably, I think, nine residential prototypes. The vast majority of those that were not age-restricted prototypes were shown to be net negatives for the county, meaning that they cost more than they pay in taxes. It's not a surprising expectation. I'm sure you all have heard that before. Interestingly enough, I think the two-acre rural lots were one of the only net positive residential prototypes. Part of the reasoning for that is the household size for schoolchildren was lower than most of the others, and the assessed value for the real estate was typically a lot higher than the other prototypes. I think that the average was in the $600,000 home range for that use, and there was also a higher likelihood of having newer vehicles in that prototype use as well, which drives me to think that the number of residential prototypes that were shown to be net negatives for the personal property cost. On the commercial and industrial prototype evaluation, they were all net fiscally positive, and they're ranked there. We actually didn't start with data centers as a prototype use when we started the study a year ago, but given the conversations around it, I asked the consultant to add it. When the study is complete, we'll have a chart for you that shows the difference between these on a thousand square foot percentage based on what we expect them to pay as far as net positive fiscal impact. We've also requested additional prototypes to be added, namely something that we've described as a rural economy or an agritourism prototype to be added to that list as well, but as you can see, the most net positive is the data centers down to retail, office, lodging, manufacturing, and finally warehousing. More to come on both of those studies. We hope early in the new year to have the consultants presenting information to you all on those topics. I'll hand it over to Mr. Bishop. Well, we've done nothing on the transportation modeling because it's not time to do anything yet. We actually are in a pretty good place as far as the regional transportation model, which we'll be using for this effort because it was updated both leading into the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study and, frankly, VDOT did further updates following that study in preparation for the next round of the regional long-range plan. We're in a pretty good place as far as the regional transportation model, which we'll be using for this effort. We actually have a lot of work to do on the transportation modeling, which is going to be done by the end of the year. We have a lot of work to do as far as the regional transportation model. Our issue here is a little bit of timing because we need to have begun figuring out what your proposed future land uses are as you've come out of a rather extensive public interaction process that we're going to be doing and you are actually starting to get into, all right guys, let's look at changing this to this and that to that so that we can model those things and see how they impact your proposed transportation. The last thing nearly half with the gain, there should not be a different Chamber of Commerce view that says, well we might be able to follow that and all sorts of things are just potentially complicated. That's going to make it a little complex in terms of all the things that need to inform the state's models. So again, I'm so appreciate this opportunity to have started this chat and we've brought all of these things take those involved now and takes months to implement. Based on those numbers three to five, we'll eventually get the practice we need to employ. I've happened to announce the earlier focused on 37 itself and that's not saying 37 is the wrong thing but that's been a lot about resizing 37 for example. But there's a number of other roadways that have long been on our transportation plan that have not necessarily been prioritized and that sometimes it's hard to discern the true and actual need for based on anticipated impact and anticipated cost. So some of those we want to look into a little more and we'll be not only suggesting them but we're really wanting to hear from you all and of course the greater public on which of those we should be focusing on. So as we're coming out of that public engagement effort and moving into the real sort of colored pencil aspect of the plan and moving into those land use adjustments it's at the same time that we'll be looking to start running those transportation models. Moving on into the vision and core values you're about to see something that should be familiar to all of you. It's pretty obvious. I'm pretty certain everybody at the table and mostly in the room for that matter have been part of our initial engagement with key stakeholders as decision makers and that leads me to repeat to you your vision statement for back in 2009 ensuring the quality of life of all Frederick County citizens by preserving the past and planning for the future through sound fiscal management. And that's as it has been since 2009. We're not necessarily attacking it or anything of the sort but what we have been seeking from all of you as you recall is is this still the right vision statement for you. Does it meet your needs? Does it meet the needs of the county? And as in just about everything in those initial interviews this is one that we received very mixed reviews on. So it's something we'll be engaging on through the process. Your core values once again from the 2009 plan and now this is just four of the core values that most directly ascribe to this planning process. They're not all of the boards previously adopted. Core values actually I'm not going to read them all right back at you since these are long published but these are the ones that we're looking at. Moving into the stakeholder interview summary which Tyler is going to handle most of which I was just referring to. We did end up holding a total of 25 interviews. I know we've talked to pretty much everybody here. Sometimes it was all three of us. Sometimes it was just one of us. Many times it was two of us. But we've hit on the planning commissioner. The board of supervisors. The newly elected and appointed board members. We've talked with Frederick Wassupwater. Had a great conversation with Nick Sabo at the regional airport. Frederick County Public Schools. All the county departments that are listed there. And also the towns of Middletown and Stephen City. And in terms of the overall outreach effort that really is just the beginning as we now transition to preparing to reach out to the public at large which could be church groups which could mean civic groups etc. etc. Neighborhood associations really trying to cast a very wide net. This was all taken so far from the perspective of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats or a SWOT analysis based on how you thought we were doing. Once again related back to that initial vision statement. As we get into the discussion tonight we're going to be very focused on four key themes which come back from those discussions we've had. So far future planning, rural preservation, quality of life and fiscal management. You're going to find also once again very diverging particularly on the area of what rural preservation is and is not. Opinions that we have encountered even just through talking to our decision makers. For my part anyway that's planning in a nutshell and frankly that's one of the disconnects we sometimes run into with the public. When they come out and speak to us. They're not going to be able to say that's not what we're doing. They're going to be able to say that's not what we're doing. They're going to be able to say that's not what we're doing. They're going to be able to say that's not what we're doing. They're not going to be able to speak on something and don't necessarily get their way. They don't always realize that the decision makers don't always get their way either. It's about taking all those diverging views, fleshing them out together and coming forward with the best as possible you can based on the majority vote of a common view of moving forward. That's what we're seeking to do throughout this process. I'm going to turn it back over to Tyler. I would say prefacing these. We've got to vary. mostly future focused, you know, positive, you know, vision for the future of Frederick County, but there were definitely some negative comments. And what we want to present to you is the good, the bad, and the ugly this evening. So what you'll see each section is broken down by this, but this slide will be a direct quote. And then the next subsequent slide is just a summation of the comments and they're not attributed to anyone in particular. So, you know, there's nothing, nothing accusatory here. So on future planning, this is the one quote that kind of stood out to the three of us is that, you know, we have a small community mentality versus a high growth reality. So on future planning, it was noted that we should focus on future generations, families, workforce housing, and linking job opportunities with economic development efforts. We should provide a data-driven recommendation for land use changes, particularly related to housing and transportation. Our goals and strategies should be actionable, measurable, and used to direct planning work program, that we should be bold with our vision and outline policies to implement that vision clearly. We should explore new housing types that better utilize limited land available to meet community needs and preferences. And we should set high design expectations for new development. We should want and expect the best for the county and the county should be able to accommodate significant land preservation while also accommodating growth through increased density and new development patterns. We did provide the full summary to you all here. So I'm picking kind of the highlights and summarizing it further, but you do have all the comments in front of you, the full summary. On rural preservation, we found this statement to be very enlightening. The county cannot be expected to save every farm, orchard, and battlefield. The loss of rural areas is not always the crisis some make it out to be. So further on rural preservation, there is more than enough rural land. Rural preservation doesn't need to be used to inhibit opportunities for growth and development. Aesthetics matter in the rural areas. We can maintain rural feel even if some of the rural land develops. It was noted by almost everyone that there was a significant shift in the rural economics. It's not what it was in the past, and it requires the county's plans to better adapt. We need to better define what rural preservation means to the county in 2025 and beyond. And there was a general concern for the loss of rural character. It was discussed that the county should fund land use tools to achieve those rural preservation goals if they continue to be goals in the comprehensive plan. It was noted to us that the expansion of broadband to the rural areas will greatly change the use of our rural areas and potentially opening it up to more residential development. And that limited the use of land. We should limit rural development and expand opportunities for rural landowners to make a profit that is not subdividing into particularly 5 acre lots. This next quote is pertaining to quality of life. It says the county is a phenomenal place to live and raise families. Our existing quality of life is attractive to residents new and old. In regard to quality of life, it was noted that we should retain our community feel and planning efforts should not drive away lifelong residents, but should provide opportunities for those looking to locate in the county. We should balance property owners rights with what community needs and wants. It was noted that rural area residents should expect rural services. And when we asked for a little bit of explanation of what that meant to them, they said no longer call times for emergency response and longer bus rides to schools were given as the examples. We should prioritize workforce housing efforts to allow local workers to live and spend locally. We should prioritize workforce housing efforts to allow local workers to live and spend locally. local workers to live and spend locally, and it was brought to our attention that this is in some perspective. There were too many of our local workers having to live in West Virginia, because the affordability in Frederick County. and it was brought to our attention that this is in some perspective, there were too many of our local workers having to live in West Virginia, because the affordability in Frederick County. and it was brought to our attention that this is in some perspective, there were too many of our local workers having to live in West Virginia, because the affordability in Frederick County. in West Virginia, because the affordability in Frederick County. It was noted to us that quality of life includes children and families. families. That means good schools, safe streets, walking and biking opportunities, and general community feel, and that there appeared to be a conflict between the fiscal management of our vision statement and the services expected. For example, the county is urbanizing, and with that growth comes the need for additional services and better services. Finally, on fiscal management, this quote stood out to us, the county's firm commitment to fiscal management at times to a fault is not always a benefit to all citizens. They were speaking specifically about delays over the years to funding capital projects. On fiscal management, investment in infrastructure leads to improvements in quality of life and attracts new residents and businesses to fund further investment. We should work with our state legislators to capture the full cost of capital impacts. It was noted almost by everybody that infrastructure has not kept pace with development over the years, particularly related to the pandemic. We should work with our state legislators to capture the full cost of development over the years, particularly related to schools and transportation improvements. It was noted that the lack of new revenue does not allow the county to invest in infrastructure to keep pace with development, and that the county needs to be aggressive in luring desired types of development to pay for that investment. The business-friendly approach that so many speak of towards development has been missing from decision makers in recent years, and economic development and developing desired industries can increase the tax revenue. There was a need to review the targeted industries that were in the process of development, and the need to review the targeted industries that were in the process of development. The new infrastructure پ quoulis be a carga dinge that is much more effective than just simpleêmes and other år owlies in various industries that are currently identified in the plan, and to speak to where in the county they should developmental specifically. all right. So hopefully we didn't rolled you to death by PowerPoint with that. But we are going to do a quick breakout group exercise, and I will explain that and kind of count off, so you know which group you are going to be in. The overall goal we want to get out of this is, as Our next step in this plan is to go out to the public, talk to them about what they think about the community. And of those bullet points you have in front of you, what questions do you want us to try to get answers from the public on as it relates to that specific category? So from a future planning perspective, what do you want to hear from the community that you can use for decision making as we continue to craft this plan? And so on for rural preservation, quality of life, and fiscal. So we're going to do like five to seven minutes. Each group is going to be assigned a staff person. Tyler's going to handle future planning. John's going to do rural preservation. Most of you, I think, have met Eric Fittner. Eric, hold your hand up in the back. He's new with our department. He's going to help with quality of life. And then I'm going to do fiscal management. After I count you all off, we'll put you at the four corners of this table and group. And then the staff will rotate between you and take notes about what it is everybody thinks and says. And then we'll report back out as a whole group. And staff will handle that. So yeah, I'm going to go ahead and start counting off with Mr. Stowe here. So remember your number. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. And one. And we'll do one here. Two's here. Three's there where Gary's sitting. And four's there where Mr. Gouden's on top. One's. Two's. Three's. Three's. Three's. Four's. Right here. Oh, I feel like I'm like this one. Tyler, you take one. Two's. Three's. I'm getting too old. That's all right. I'm going to start with four's. Wyatt, John, Aaron. I always forgot my numbers. Like I remember like panicking about that. I always forgot. You know, if you got a motley crew, you just got to work all the time. That's it? That's it. One is over there. Howdy, howdy, howdy. Four. Is this number three over here? Yes, sir. Okay. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Shut, Yeah, I helped. I know that was fascinating. You've got to have a receiving area. But you've got to have a receiving area. And I think you're thought of making that receiving area tight too. Not just perfect physical areas. It makes a lot of sense. Did you get a seat? I'm enjoying it. You know, I'm enjoying it. I realize we work for the coach. Last time I took you on the internet, I asked. You know, it's a lot of taxes. But, you know, I'm looking for changes. One thing I want to do. You said put it all around the house. I never did. I want to learn. He's right. It's just your, whatever you're doing. It's in your backyard. The whole thing. It's just pure logic. It's just your mind. But those are the baloney. People are always quiet waiting. And he's happy. Yes. Well, what is it? You're the one. We always have. That is not taking things seriously. You know, the hell with everything in the background. We don't already have. It's just step in line for you. And I'm happy to play. I often find myself. I can assume. A majority of people are not sure. I don't know. I don't know. Is it because you didn't focus? I kinda get 3%. I need to tell a lot. I don't, but I don't want to focus. I have to focus. That's great. It's like I threw my やhigh. I mean, I just don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I kind of lose my mind to it. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. potentially seeking development in the rural parts of the county. And then finally on fiscal management, what infrastructure is the highest priority? We hear a lot about, you know, is it water infrastructure, broadband, power, roads? What is the number one priority and why? Would you support increasing taxes or do you want more development? Gaging in on kind of how the county balances the budget and pays for things. And quite a bit about what educating the public on what the county already does as it pertains to infrastructure and what we don't do as it pertains to infrastructure. Kind of demystifying some of the kind of functionality of the county and other entities like the Virginia Department of Transportation on how infrastructure actually gets put in place in our community to support growth and development. So sounds like every group had really excellent comments and thoughts. And we appreciate your continued feedback and support of honing in on what's the priority for the county. Moving forward. Yeah. And so just briefly where we're heading as far as schedule for the conference of plan update. We've been doing these stakeholder interviews and are concluding that with this conversation tonight. In the new year, we're looking to get kicked off as we finish up those background studies on some topic based events and community surveying before doing any plan drafting or priorities. After that, we'll move on to that kind of plan formulation stage to another round of community meetings to figure out responses. Two draft documents and then work again to come back in front of you all for plan presentation and adoption. I think I jumped ahead on this, but there's everything I just said in text form. So looking forward to that. That concludes everything that we had. We always like to end these joint work sessions with just a short period of opportunity for people to talk about the conference of plan update as a whole and throw out any ideas or thoughts that they want. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. items and three is this county is it expands has a road issue so how do you go and pay for the roads from the Planning Commission perspective I'll say we appreciate the opportunity to meet with the board and discuss this this is very important it's a difficult task as we look out we're trying to forecast 20 years from now what do we want the county to look like there's days I don't even know what I'm doing tomorrow so you know it's tough and but we've got some good information we have a great team together that's going to help us with this I've talked to mr. Pearson multiple times about how do we physically constrain this so it's not a wish list but we we're planning for things we can actually afford and can build to to the benefit of the community and rural preservation I was glad to see that on the list tonight how do we how do we make sure that our rural areas really are protected and that we're not going to have to deal with the road issues it's a very important thing and we've I I think the of our idea that boat communities touching that answers a lot of those questions and I think it is fantastic when you say we've seen the great changes we've seen the preservation of town water next city'd stay on card now you have to do some things likemotion that's something that will or what does it mean for next city had to change it always haveガ "... flexibility to sell not only tourism one another but we're amazing andSpeake is not that will discuss all the other steps are acknowledged and we are next city's next city have theтакa of North Carolina,長some, Virginia and throughout the for the community. One thing when we talk about our future, what we want the county to look like in 10, 15, 20 years, I think the biggest threat to our rural areas right now is five acre lots. Right now we have 7,500 five acre lots in Frederick County. It's two to six acres, but essentially five acres. That's 35,000 acres that used to be farmland and apple orchards that are now low density residential. That's the equivalent of 350 hundred acre family farms or family orchards. Now if you project that out 10 or 15, 20 years from now, do we want the county to be 90% five acre lots and no farm areas or no apple orchards? That's where we're headed. So how do we get the public to decide whether a rural area is five acre lots or a rural area is apple orchards? I have a question, Roger. I own the apple orchard and the apple orchard isn't selling apples. What do you do with it? What do I do with it? And that's the question. And you say if it's not five acre lots, tell me I can be industrial. Tell me I can be a data center. Tell me I can be that. And they don't want that there either. They don't want change. Could the county do something to give them more incentives? Like, you know, have a data center take the taxes collected and let farmers and apple orchards not pay any property taxes. That's only a short term, as you well know. I know. I mean, eventually that farmer is my age and the kids don't want to farm. They've already moved to wherever. So there you got a piece of land and I just want to say one thing. I've been here a long time. So then grow. Grow up here. But previous boards and previous planning commissions have done an outstanding job to bring us to where we are today. It's not easy. And, you know, they got criticized and they made some decisions that nobody liked. They made some decisions everybody liked. I really think that when you look back at our Frederick County, we've been represented well by people who did it because they just love Frederick County and want to see the best for that they possibly can. And they've worked hard to get there. And this board's done the same thing and this planning commission's done the same thing. So keep up the good work. That's all we can do. Just try to do the best we possibly can. And that's what we're doing tonight. Trying to figure it out. But we're trying to do what we can. But I don't know. It's reality sometimes sets in. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I want to make this comment. I'm going to make this comment. I'm going to make this comment. I'd like to see more of this. This is what we should be doing. Working together. It's not great. Because the board needs to depend on the planning commission. The planning commission needs to depend on the board. So the collaborative work that we do is very important to this community. It goes right back to what Bob just said. We all love this community and we want to do what's best for this community. So thank you. We can conclude, Mr. Chairman, unless anybody else has anything else. I think we're going to close the meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Just one comment. Just one statement. Would anyone like to melod xi haj. Say hello. Hello, thanks. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, too. My name is Tom Maddison. Thank you.
