Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-10-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=295
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? Are you? How are you? What is this all about? For this open world, what are we here for? For this open world, what are we here for? Because without open doors, we cannot live a perfect life. So humans become mimics. of our minds of our minds who need a政�. who need a政�. We represent New York City to live a better life. We discuss innovation We discuss innovation without compromise. We support collective Sequencing and implementation We write our答 We write our promises操 robust transportation network, an emergency services department that can adequately provide for our needs, and probably most importantly, incentivize new industries to locate to our county to keep our tax base in check. In order to achieve this, this is going to take times where we're going to need to balance what we need as a county versus what we want as a county. And this is going to take a lot of time and hard decisions will need to be made. I am committed to doing both. I am not a politician, nor have I ever had the aspirations to be one. I am a businessman, and that is what Frederick County needs, is that is what Frederick County is. It's a business. It's a business that operates to serve its citizens in the best way possible. I have spent my life working in the private sector. I have been growing our family business as a local real estate developer and business leader in the community. I hope to bring my knowledge base to the board to assist in making informed decisions. Now, some of you may be concerned about my development background or potential conflicts of interest. I'm going to be frank. It's going to happen. But this happens occasionally to everybody on the board. Will it be frequent? No, it will not. Has it happened in the last four years that I've been here? I've been a part of the Planning Commission. Yes, it has. It's happened once. Has the value that I've brought to the Planning Commission outweighed that one vote? I feel that it has, but I'm biased. My time as a Planning Commissioner has given me a deeper understanding of our county's needs and inspired me to do more. I believe Frederick County, like any successful business, needs sound direction, careful planning, and a commitment to the future. I believe Frederick County is a place where we can all contribute to constant improvement. As a lifelong resident of Frederick County, if I am appointed to this position, I can assure you that my decisions will be made based on facts and common sense to help build a plan for future success. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you, sir. Joseph Crane. Joseph Crane, Gainesboro. Madam Chair, members of the Board, thank you for the opportunity to address you this evening. I appreciate the Board's consideration of my application for the Gainesboro vacancy. My wife, Sharon, and I have proudly called Frederick County home for the last 22 years. After 23 years of active duty service in the United States Army Special Forces, the Green Berets, we chose Frederick County precisely because of its beauty, its character, and the strong spirit of Frederick County. Thank you. John Westman,ss we made this free sir. Things continued to spark new долларовie when Frederick County eventually became a hub of our community. Consequently, as Director of Defendants and Administrators in Frederick County, these individuals had to work in wielty speed respect mies and in total spearheaded three national level initiatives. These experiences have honed my skills in strategic planning, problem solving, and collaborative leadership. Specifically, my time in Special Forces required me to forge consensus and build effective working relationships among disparate groups, from the Department of Defense to the Department of State to foreign governments and local communities to achieve critical mission objectives. Later, as a special agent in charge of counterterrorism unit in charge of 46 states, I successfully coordinated the efforts between numerous federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. These experiences demonstrate my ability to unite diverse perspectives and drive successful outcomes even under direct pressure. I understand this board has navigated a period of division. However, I share the optimism of many that the current board and incoming members will forge a more unified path forward, and I'm eager to contribute to that positive momentum. Frederick County faces significant challenges. The prospective growth of 12,000 homes presents questions about infrastructure, resources, and the capacity of our schools. As a community, we must proactively address these challenges by exploring innovative streams of revenue that alleviate the burden of real estate, property taxes, ensure adequate funding for our schools and infrastructure, and preserve the character and beauty that defines our county. We need innovative solutions and a pragmatic approach. I am prepared to meet these challenges head on. My experience has instilled in me a commitment to perseverance and a belief that no obstacle is insurmountable. The word quit is simply not in my vocabulary. Importantly, I have no business interest that would create a conflict with the board or the county business. My business, Crane American, provides security solutions for houses of worship, religious schools, and nonprofit organizations. My only agenda is to serve the residents of Gainesboro and all of Frederick County to the best of my ability. I respectfully request your confidence, and I am committed to working collaboratively with each of you to build a brighter future for Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next speaker. Madam Chair, the next applicant is Mr. Nicholas Edward, and he did advise that he was unable to attend this evening. So we will call Michael Faison. Mr. Faison, are you in the audience? Yes, I am. Thank you. I am in the audience. I am in the audience. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we will move on to Paige Feliciano. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, I'm Paige Feliciano. I live in Gainesboro, and I'm applying for the Gainesboro position. and I'm applying for the Gainesboro position. We have lived in the area for quite a while. We have lived in the area for quite a while. We used to live in West Virginia, traveled around, to plant our deep roots, the mountains brought us back. And so we are very passionate about Frederick County. And that's why I'm here tonight. Because something that I tell my children, I know we all tell our children, is actions speak louder than words. And to be the change that you would like to see. So I am putting my words like to the pavement with that respect. So that's what I see this position as. I'm a mother of five. I'm a homeschooler, a doula, a La Leche League leader, a volunteer, and a tutor in a local community group. Two of my children have graduated and work here in Winchester. And three are still in school. I by no means think that I will get elected and that everything is just going to be sunshine and roses. I know that there's hard work that needs to be done. I know that I wouldn't be just a representative of Paige. I'd be a representative of Gainesville. I'd be a representative of Gainesville. I'd be a representative of Gainesville. A lot of my friends and neighbors live in Gainesville. And I would like to represent them equally. I have been involved in several community organizations that reflect my commitment to family support, equity, education, and community development. As a volunteer with La Leche League, I offer peer support and education to parents often in the early stages of parenthood. It's a free breastfeeding group. I'm a volunteer with La Leche League. I'm a volunteer with La Leche League. I'm a volunteer with La Leche League. I'm a volunteer with La Leche League. I also act as a tutor in a local community organization. In addition, I'm part of a local advocacy group here in Winchester and Frederick County that focuses on education, equity, and community development. I also serve as a doula in the area. So I'm supporting families during a critical life transition. And fondly, I am a homeschooling parent to my three children. I actively engage in shaping the education of my children and actively engage in the education of my children. I'm a volunteer with La Leche League. LinkedIn, Facebook, and Google Play are já at all of my cities. We're a藍G многие và mình and Africa's<|br|> community in Washington. We're a land span division of one- Baloney League ​​in New Jersey.ünde Charlotte. researching natural resources for our youth and I try to share our Carney to you where manynahme live water. year that work. No one's going to come over and do it for you. And for me, this position is an opportunity to do just that. Frederick County is one of the fastest growing areas in Virginia, and I know many residents are concerned about how our community is going to possibly turn into the next Nova. Growth is inevitable, but I believe we have the power now and the responsibility to shape it in a way that protects what we love about this place. That means preserving farmland, encouraging agritourism, and setting thoughtful, proactive guidelines for development that protect the natural beauty and resources of our county. Growth doesn't have to come at the expense of our identity or our environment. There are safe, sustainable ways to move forward, and I want to help lead that effort so that our county remains a place where we can continue to grow. I'm proud to call home. This land is our legacy. It is the future for our children, for their children, and so on. It's our duty to be good stewards of what we've been given and continue to make this county an amazing place to work, live, and raise a family. I am passionate about Frederick County and Winchester, and I know that we can't do right by our neighbors without working together and representing our county equally. Thank you. Thank you. John LaManna. John LaManna, Gainesboro District, and here as applicant for the Gainesboro seat. Madam Chair, Board Members, thanks for allowing me to speak. I came to Frederick County in my 20s, living here for 50 years. I have learned the value and appreciate the quality of life available. As I mentioned in my application, the why one does anything is really more important than what one decides to do. So allow me to speak to the why I wish to serve on this board. Board of Supervisors is indeed the vehicle by which our community culture, growth, solvency, and sustainability are managed and protected. Participation in this endeavor, this responsibility, is why I wish to serve. My passing time at practice on campus has truly enabled me to be a part of the community. My past experiences have allowed me to understand the importance of corporate business and the necessity of thriving small businesses as the driving force in our local economy. I recognize the importance of the services our nonprofit and government agencies provide to our most vulnerable citizens. I am an advocate for quality public education. I recognize the responsibility we have to preserve and protect the world culture and space we have inherited. Perhaps as significant as the why I wish to serve is what I bring to the role. I bring experience in boardmanship serving on the Frederick County Department of Social Service board as chair and the Frederick County School board for 18 years, chair for eight years. I bring responsible fiscal management practice during my years on the school board and years serving as CEO of a million-dollar-plus nonprofit. These experiences occurred during challenging fiscal times of the Great Recession and through COVID. From those experiences, I learned to rely on the competence of others and to be humble enough to know when I may not have the best answer or solution. I learned that always being certain interferes. I learned that always being certain interferes with problem solving and is the enemy of collaboration, and collaboration is the foundation for a successful legislation. I learned when in a leadership position, a moment's decision may be less about that moment and more about its future consequences. I have learned that effective communication is much more about listening than it is talking. I'm old enough and experienced enough to know what I do not know, and have maintained the confidence to continue learning. As Frederick County School Board member, I have learned it is the responsibility, the obligation of the board to be honest, sincere, not to embarrass or promote hostility, nor to project public insincerity or anger, rather to be an example of civility, cooperation, collaboration, mutual respect. We owe this to our community. We have challenges. Perhaps Frederick County Board of Supervisors is at a crossroads. The county can continue down the road of quick fixes for the moment, or the county may choose a road less traveled over the past several years. I believe with the new potential leadership, the Board of Supervisors will choose the road less traveled and invest in the health of our county through a comprehensive strategic plan. A plan that is five years out with full community transparency and commitment to work that plan. A plan which prioritizes necessary services, recognizes emerging trends, manages growth and resources, considers desired services, is fiscally responsible, and is influenced by a reasonable tax burden on citizens. Perhaps my experience, I hope my experience, along with the new leadership, may help to bring the board to a better place. With that being said, I notice how each of you are well-groomed. And I promise, my wife told me I should have got a haircut before I came here. If selected, I'll fix it. Thank you. Thank you. The next applicant is Darla. Darla Parsons Barrett, who also advised that she was unable to attend. Thank you. So we'll move on to Rebecca Rager. Welcome. Hi. My name is Rebecca Rager from the Gainesboro District, and I'm here for the Gainesboro seat. I'm here tonight because I threw my hat into the ring when the Gainesboro seat opened. I did this out of a need to be able to tell my children that I always try to do what was right, even when it's uncomfortable. I'm actually glad to see the number. I'm a member of people that have applied for the seat, as I know local politics can be neither glamorous nor fun. Just a brief introduction. Originally, I'm from the Outer Banks of North Carolina, and through Charlotte, North Carolina, I moved to Winchester in 2021 with my family. I am a mother to three. I juggle my free time between them, working at a company that I've been with for over 19 years, and volunteering with a number of nonprofits and community-centered groups, as well as the Unitarian Church in Winchester and Frederick County. Thank you. When we moved here, we didn't come with the intentions to change the things around us or really even be involved in local politics. Our goal was to get our small family farm up and running and to create a life for ourselves and our children that we could look back on with pride. I'm an introvert by nature and absolutely appreciate our quiet little life out in the county. In November of 2024, I attended my first school board meeting. It was the one everyone probably remembers where the board fielded questions and comments about the removal of Dr. Putt. I remember standing in a crowded corner of that room, absolutely appalled by the actions and words of some parents and the total lack of action by the board itself. I came home knowing that I had to do something because what I had witnessed wasn't normal. I started attending the school board meetings regularly and connecting with other parents and citizens who were as concerned as I was. I learned about the ins and outs of politics of Frederick County, and I was invited to come to a board of supervisors meeting, being promised that it would be eventful. It seems I'm one of the few in the county where resources are so limited that they can get to me in a few minutes. I walked in thinking people meant comments from the attendees and I didn't realize they meant the actions of the board itself. I came to several meetings after that leaving late, tired, and sad. It seemed we had some representatives who cared more about making political statements than making the county better for all its constituents. They used their time to berate citizens and other council members. Like a tiny Tammany Hall machine in Frederick County, these board members had their hands in seemingly everything and not for the greater good. I was told nothing could happen to Frederick County, though I knew it would be a failed search for a new step forward. I was told nothing could happen to Frederick County, though I knew it would be a failed search for a new step forward. I was told nothing could be done about anything in Frederick County, and it was because of those in charge. During the last year or so, I started reaching out to the community more, volunteering and showing up when needed. I've met more people in the past 12 months than I ever thought I would, and I pushed myself outside of all of my comfort zones. Through volunteering and chairing the Social Action and Justice Committee of the Unitarian Church, I've come to see the beautiful side of things in our county in addition to the not-so-beautiful. These are experiences that have fueled my passion for making our local area the best it can be for everyone here. I consider myself lucky to be involved with such great organizations and the people they bring together. It made me realize that together, we can accomplish goals and ideas as individuals that we couldn't really do that on our own. When the position for Gainesboro opened up, I decided, as I've heard a number of people say in this timeline, if not me, then who? I put my name in because I wasn't sure if we'd have only one person send in a resume or 25. But I did know that I wanted everyone in our district to be represented. I fell in love with this area as soon as we moved here. Through volunteering and organizing, I've fallen deeper in love with the community that surrounds me. This is the place that feels like home. I was elated to see how many applicants you received, and I decided that I wanted to use my time to urge you to choose someone who wants to bring this community back together. To work with the people of Gainesboro, and to serve from a position of doing what is right for all citizens of the district. We need people on our board who can appreciate the differences of our constituents, while also working to unite the community for a greater good. Thank you. Todd Schenck Hello, I'm Todd Schenck, the Gainesboro district, applying for the Gainesboro. Board of Supervisors position. I've heard a lot of people here. I'm really glad to hear there's a lot of interest in this position. I'm really here because I didn't know if there would be a lot of interest. So I'm just gonna give you a little bit of background about me. I'm not gonna take a whole lot of time, and I know you guys have a tough decision to make here. So let me just go on with this. I've lived in Frederick County almost all my life, except for when I was in the military. My parents operated a farm, and their family operated a farm back from 1900 in the Gainesboro area. And I have a farm, a Christmas tree farm, in that area today. So I graduated from Jamesville High School, went to Virginia Tech, majored in ag ed with an econ and an engineering background. And when I got back from the military, decided I was gonna work in the business sector, ag business. Went to National Fruit, which at that time was the biggest employer in this county. So that tells you how the demographics have changed in this area over the years. In 2000 I went into the concrete and construction industry with the Shockey companies, and even that has changed over the years. There's only one company left of the three that was here when I started, so there's there's a lot of changes. This is what I'm getting at, and those are going to continue, which makes this board's job even more difficult. So, in 2019 I worked in the's previous sector, I'm gonna talk only in awhile, all the rest, you might recall. In 2012, I started with H.N. Funkhauser and Company, where, you know, now Petroleum and convenience stores, et cetera, and a good local business. And all the businesses I've worked in since I came back here have been in this area. So I'm familiar with the struggles that the businesses have. I'm familiar with the struggles that the people have in this county occasionally. And, you know, you can't point a finger at any single person. I'm not going to sit here and say the board's been a problem, planning commission's been a problem. It's just a challenge. It's a constant challenge, and it's going to continue to be a challenge. And I don't think any one person holds the answer to that. So I'm going to get into a little bit of my background. I spent some time with the planning commission back in the 1990s. You know, people talk about, well, conflicts. Well, you do have conflicts. I was in sales at the time. I had to abstain two or three times, and it was tough. You get through a couple years. And, you know, I did that. I spent time on the Comprehensive Plans and Policy Subcommittee, time on the Development Review and Regulation Subcommittee, and always tried to keep my decisions based on what I thought was right, based on the planning that the county had and the future that the county was trying to get to and trying to preserve some of our heritage. And that's very important to me, and that's why I'm interested in serving. You know, I've even done some time. I'm on the School Board Finance Committee. I've done some things with, you know, the leadership, the community leadership program. And, you know, all those things expose you to some of the issues in the county, so I am familiar with what's been going on. I don't follow the current issues real close, but the ones that hit me, I know. And I know that the people that I know at work, the people that live in my community, I've had a lot of people approach. And they're always asking me, why don't you run? Why don't you run? And I know what the challenge is. I'm to the point in my career where I do have some time I could put into this. And so to serve for me would be an opportunity for me to help preserve some of the agricultural heritage of this county, as well as trying to balance some of the growth so everything, the burden doesn't fall just on people who own homes, especially as people get older. And have limited income. If our taxes keep going up, we're just going to run people who want to retire out of this county. So, you know, we have a lot of things to do in this county. Growth is inevitable, but smart growth and controlled growth is the answer that we need. So I think if my business skills that I've developed over the years working in those three different industries and doing some things with the county, we're going to be able to do that. So I think that's the answer. We'll come in handy. I'm not a, well, I say it's a let's do it kind of person. I like to hear whatever is out there that makes sense, good common sense. And you put those together and you think about what can happen down the road. You can't pin yourself down to one decision and that's going to be it. We're going to follow that no matter what, because that's not reality. And I think there's a lot of people currently on the board that probably need, you know, we need to discuss those things and need to know that we're going to be able to do that. And I think that's the answer. It needs to be a consensus. So that's it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Vaughn Whitaker. Vaughn Whitaker of the Gainesboro District. First of all, I was born and raised here in Frederick County and seen a lot of changes. And for decades I've heard, that we were going to be the East Coast California. So studying our history about California, we are going through what California went when they were growing so fast, they couldn't meet their energy demands nor their keep up with the resources, water. So they built the Hoover Dam. For decades now, Army Corps engineer has, has been trying to convince the people in the Potomac Highland Watershed area to build huge reservoirs, anticipating the growth that we're going to have in this area. So first of all, when it comes to growth, we need not to exceed our resources. And also that it's in keeping with our history and the nature of the vibe. We ought to build which is not something that means anything. If we intentionally make a mistake in ourmy time, we're supposed to do our own good for our state. To do our own good for our state itself. And created a museum of Battle valvedie, the Covadrone Valley. And so, in this community, this island, and compact and comfortable life, is where I worked. I had a partner, an advisor, how o f life is. I heard and the idea I had till this point was like, well, Okay. There we go. David Kern, Gainesburg District, and I applied for either position. In 2003, I moved to Frederick County from Pennsylvania when I was hired by the Fire and Rescue Department. My qualifications are, to my mind, minimal. I am a resident, and that's about my only qualification. But what I do have is, I think, perspective and methodology. In my 22 years of working for the county and living in the county, I've seen the growth and the strain that is put on fire and rescue, and I can correlate that to other services within the county with that growth. So that gives me a perspective for what some of the needs are within the county and how the county government can maybe work with other, other areas to help with those. The other thing I have, I think, is methodology. I firmly believe in the KISS method, Keep It Simple Soundly. Even though sometimes I have trouble with my own life keeping stuff simple, I do believe that if you do things simply, it is the best effort and it gets you the best results. Government likes to overcomplicate things. It's just the nature of the beast, but I think if we can start trying to do more simplified, more sophisticated solutions and projects that would benefit us, and that's why I think I'd be a good fit for the county. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Moving on, the next applicant is Blaine Dunn. Good evening, board members. As you know, I'm Blaine Dunn from Red Blood. I've been a supervisor for 10 years. Personally, I'm also here, I'm running for chair to try to solve problems, get the county board to respond to the problems that we're having. I'm going to try to solve the problems that we're having. I'm going to try to solve the problems that we're having. back on track. I'm a certified financial planner, running my own business for the last 27 years. It's been a privilege to help clients and companies with cash flow, investing, and debt management. My professional colleagues at Napa Board have elected me both as a chair, regional chair, and a national board director. On the political side, I worked on Capitol Hill for three members of Congress as a staff member and legislative director, including writing legislation and making recommendations on budget and appropriation bills. I also worked for EPA and REA in a similar position. In 2015, I was elected to the Board of Supervisors. I've won three elections, and during that time, I've held town hall meetings to get constituent input and hear their concerns. I've worked to save the historic Clouser House. I worked with Parks and Rec, creating Frederick County, a park, and Frederick Heights Park. I supported our fire and rescue efforts by continuing to hire responders to meet our population growth. I supported Sensity Place to allow low-income seniors to have a place to live. I supported safety in our schools along with the New Forth High School, to name a few. Some of the problems I see in Frederick County. Presently, Frederick County has not had a balanced budget for three years. We are $250 million in debt. We have the fastest-growing county in Virginia. Constituents complain about overcrowded schools, and I agree. People are also concerned about roads and traffic and all the new homes that are being built. We do not have enough money, or we do not have enough emergency personnel and law enforcement to meet our growing population, and people in the county want to preserve the rural nature of this county. Frederick County needs solutions to these problems. Unlike the federal government, Frederick County is very well-run fiscally. However, the growing population exceeds, as bringing additional costs and far exceeds our business growth. We need to generate enough revenue to meet our expenses. Taking money from the capital fund to fund operating expenses simply delays finding a solution for the good of the county. The capital fund is meant to be a one-time capital need, to fund one-time capital needs, such as building a school, not for ongoing operating expenses. If elected, I will call on the governor and work with our General Assembly delegation, the General Assembly Committee chairs, to change the law to allow us to develop alternatives on revenue sources, and that's something we really need to do. Otherwise, you're going to have to continue to raise real estate taxes to meet our growth. We've had students in trailers for over 30 years, and that's wrong. I've advocated for building the additional elementary schools to meet that growth. Extensions to those. On transportation, we need to find more money to build roads and fix bridges, advocating for money through the smart scale program. We can build a Route 37 east, or we can build roads internally, but we will need money for road improvements as the population increases. New homes. We have more than 12,000 homes, or lots, which have already been approved for building residential houses. We need to find more money to build roads and fix bridges. We need to We can change the law so those moving in will cover the capital cost of more than $30,000. Otherwise, we have to raise real estate taxes on the existing residents. Alternatively, we could have a referendum in which county residents could decide if they wanted a 1% sales tax on purchases, not including food and medicine, which would then be less painful than continuing to raise real estate taxes to meet our financial requirements. Emergency personnel. I had the privilege of being the liaison for Fire and Rescue for seven years. During that time, we got volunteer companies to work together and then develop a 10-year plan looking forward. I've enjoyed working with Chief Mishak and advocating for a new fire station in Lake Frederick. We need to continue to hire more emergency personnel and law enforcement to keep our county safe. If elected, I'd like to bring my skills and work ethic to the board to solve these problems. I believe the chairman needs to be someone with experience. Just like when you go to the dentist or when you go get your house fixed, you need somebody with experience. Experience matters. And for 10 years, I've served this board and I've served this county well. I'm asking for your vote for somebody with financial experience, business experience, political experience, and county experience. Thank you. Thank you. John Jewell. Thank you. John Jewell, Bat Creek District. I'm applying for the chairman's position. Madam Chair, fellow board members, thank you for this opportunity. My family and I have been proud to be members of the Board of Trustees. I'm proud to be a member of the Board of Trustees. I'm proud to live in this county for almost 30 years. And throughout that time, we've remained involved in the community. I had the privilege of serving four years on the Frederick County Planning Commission, two of which I was chairman. And I'm now completing my second year on the Board of Supervisors. Serving in this role has been the greatest honor. And I really, truly am humbled and appreciate the opportunity. Frederick County is experiencing tremendous growth. I believe that with smart, balanced planning, we can preserve the character and charm that makes our county special while welcoming new residents and businesses. We must be thoughtful where development occurs, supporting both a strong residential quality of life and a diversified business community. At the same time, we face important responsibilities supporting our fire and rescue system as it grows, our dedication, our commitment to the community, our transportation, folks with the kind attention, and email, support and community resources. All of this is the result of the Constitutional Constitution in which we find our place. We don't need another declare anomalies. working with my colleagues and our Frederick County staff to plan proactively, not reactively. As the county updates its comprehensive plan, I am committed to engaging our citizens, listening to their input, and ensuring transparency throughout the process. Beyond our county, I've made it a priority to represent Frederick County at the state level. Over the past two years, I have actively participated in the Virginia Association of Counties, VACO. I serve on the Transportation Committee, and I serve on the Agriculture Committee. I also attended the VACO's Chairman Training in 2024 with Madam Chair, and I did that because I wanted to hear the process at the local level. I was used to federal level, and I wanted to see how that differed at the local level. It was a great class, and I really appreciated it. I really appreciated them putting it out. As the county updates its comprehensive plan, I am committed to engaging our citizens. The opportunities that we have are amazing. Bring fresh ideas back to Frederick County, and advocate directly with state legislators for transportation funding and other key priorities. We need to be working with our folks at the state level, which we have. We have been, and I have been, and I just, you know, with the county, we have got to focus on this growth. If given the privilege to serve as chairman, I promise to lead with collaboration, common sense, and care. That's what I promised when I ran for the seat for the Bat Creek. That's what I'm promising now. My commitment is that our committees will be made up of a reflection of our county with all board members. Having a say on the committee assignments. Together we can accomplish great things. Madam Chair, I want to also thank you. The last two meetings have been a perfect example of civility and common sense. And I thank you for that. The folks in this county can see what we can do if we have the right tools and the right folks. So thank you for this opportunity. Thank you, sir. Gary Krause. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening members of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. My name is Gary Krause. I am a Shawnee District resident and I'm here as an application to fill the resigned Chairman's seat on the board. I'm volunteering for just a single term without seeking reelection in this special election, whenever that is scheduled. And I'd be happy to be able to participate in any of the meetings that take place. And I'd be happy to defer any salary compensation back to the Frederick County. Like many counties, Frederick County faces economic challenges. We have objectives to meet. And while resources and infrastructure are limited, I believe we can move forward with a vision that honors our heritage. We must balance growth with preservation, ensuring that the historical character of our rural landscapes and heritage century farms remain intact for the overall good of our community and our children's health. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to bring up one point due to my previous public comment. I oppose hyperscale data centers, not data centers overall. We can use smarter, smaller scale systems to power local businesses and homes without massive facilities that threaten our farmland and resources. Picture compact hubs that support our county while protecting our dark skies and rural beauty, not monolithic structures that will be parasitic and obsolete in the coming years. We can foster a more sustainable future. We can foster a more sustainable future. We can foster sustainable growth by focusing on rural business hubs, areas that blend new opportunities with agricultural preservation. These hubs can attract local businesses while maintaining our fertile valley, one of the cleanest and most productive regions in America, creating a welcoming gateway to the state of Virginia with mixed-use commercial and farming areas. Together, we can build an economy that respects our roots, supporting small businesses and upgrading infrastructures with systems that preserve our natural resources. Together, we can build an economy that respects our roots, supporting small businesses and upgrading infrastructures with systems that preserve our rural way of life. Together, we can build an economy that respects our roots, supporting small businesses and upgrading infrastructures with systems that preserve our rural way of life. Let's address our limitations, turn them into opportunities, and acknowledge the friction many feel from the rapid growth of our county. One of the first things I would do if given the chance is appoint the EDA to look into agritourism and local food production. Communities supported agriculture and farmers markets are foundations for strong, healthy local communities. I envision a Frederick County that can set a standard for rural products and services. I envision a Frederick County that can set a standard for rural products and services. While safeguarding our nature and heritage, I'm committed to engaging with all citizens beyond this boardroom to build understanding and support for any of these changes. Over-reliance on heavy industry often brings higher crime, health risks, and damage to our surroundings, as we've seen elsewhere. With care and caution, we can use smart land use policies to prevent sprawl, lower tax expenditures and preserve our pristine farmland. Additionally, I would like explore local tax-train policies tax structures that reward longer-term residents, supporting those who've invested in our community over time. And above all, I pledge to protect Frederick County and prioritize local voices over outside developers and investors. Regardless of appointment, I would like to serve as a resource, as a representative for this county in Richmond to discuss new financial tools for all of Virginia, leveraging modern ideas to secure funding and drive economic stability. We see these tools being exercised and developed at the federal level, and I'd like to see them brought to Virginia. Inflation is not going away. It is accelerating. Forty percent of the money supply was printed during the COVID pandemic. That will not stop. The Doge plan did not work, and they will grow our way out of this debt problem. That means inflation is going to accelerate. What you need in a hyperinflationary environment is a strong local food base. The price of cows, no matter where they are, the price of corn, the price of commodity food is going to go up. It is a bare necessity of individuals, and I hope that I can serve either on this board or collaborate with this board to understand the future struggles that this county will experience under a hyperinflationary environment. Thank you for considering this. I'm going to hand it over to the next speaker. I'm going to hand it over to the next speaker. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Madam Chair, I've been advised that Mr. Faison has arrived. Mr. Faison? Thank you. Good evening, Madam Chairman. Good evening. It's good to see you. Evening, Supervisor Lero, Supervisor Jones, Mr. Dunn, and Supervisor Jewell. Just bear with me one second. I apologize to my fellow citizens for getting caught up in traffic coming from Loudoun County, but I wanted to talk about that a little bit in my remarks. All right, there we go. Okay. So good evening once again. Thank you for this opportunity to be here. Thank you for this opportunity, this privilege to speak to you about my application to fill the open Gainesboro seat. I do have a good friend that you probably have already heard from, Dr. Lamont. And I personally would go with him because he has a lot of credentials that are great. He has worked with your government, being the Frederick County Public Schools chairman, being the head of other nonprofits. I think he does have a lot of good leadership skills. He's somebody I try to model myself after. So if you do choose somebody, I would go with Dr. Lamont. But that doesn't say I don't want to be chosen. One of the reasons that I would like to be chosen for this seat, having lived here for over 10 plus years, is because of my passion and investment into this community. I have sat on several different nonprofits, in which these nonprofits have either advocated for school funding, I've worked with the Red Cross to try to get necessary resources to people that have gone through disasters. As you all know, I am the president of the Red Cross. I'm the president of the local NAACP branch. And so we're always looking to bridge the gap through different disparities. One of the disparities, I'm going to get off track, but some people may overlook this. The fine gentleman from Shawnee District talked about our heritage and history. And Blaine Dunn, I reached out to you and your wife, and you guys have a foundation that looks at cemeteries, the preservation cemeteries. A lot of African American cemeteries in our county are overgrown. They don't have markers. They're neglected. That's history. We helped to build this county. And that's something that I will look at, Supervisor Jewell. Where or what areas are we missing that can tie in our history to progression and progress? I like to read on my commute, not read, I'm sorry, I hope the Sheriff's Department did not hear that. I like to listen to podcasts about famous individuals that stepped up to be civil servants, or to help the community. Or to help the communities to grow. One of those individuals, and this quote, you know, I wrestle with this quote because of who stated it and what it implies and what it means. John D. Rockefeller says, he who works all day has no time to make money. And so we hear about inflation. We hear about the debt. What are working Americans, or how do we help working Americans as taxes, you know, taxes going up, inflation going up? How do we help them? Right? And I want to just kind of change those words, kind of like add to this quote, right? He or they that work multiple jobs, they that are single parents with multiple dependents, those that have worked in our school systems and are there working overtime, those working at Valley Health, one of our largest employers in the Valley, besides American, you know, in Woodwork, Trex, and other companies, do they have time to advocate for their needs? That's one of my foundations growing up in a pastor's home, is to always look out for somebody else. Because when you look out for somebody else, then you are making something better even for yourself. Right? There are several reasons. And also why I want to be in this position. I won't go into that because I know I'm late. I know people are sitting here for a couple hours. Number one, direct community impact. Right. We need to have discussions, create discussions. I would love to see a 3D AI model of where the growth in the county is taking place or taking shape. This could be utilized on an app. Right? Once again, those that work, like myself, that have to commute, sometimes we feel disconnected. We can go online and look. Right? But if there was an app that showed the models, that showed the data of what's been taking place, I could click on that app, be in Loudoun County, be in D.C., and go, oh, okay, the property right off of 11 Stevenson, okay, that's for $4,000. Maybe the county will get 20% back on the taxes. That's one idea. But I want to be a reasonable voice for the community, as we make decisions that impact the community. I want to be a reasonable voice for the community. And create more opportunities for our public schools. Big on public schools. And I want to thank you guys for voting for the fourth high school. I guess I'm over time. But you get the gist. And I do want to tell the audience, when I moved into the Gainesville district, I believe it was Bob Hess was my supervisor. You had a Project 2025 meeting, strategic plan meeting, at Gainesville Elementary School. The newspaper said one community member showed up. That community member was me. So I am engaged. And I hope that you guys make a good decision. It was a pleasure to speak before you all and my friends in Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you, sir. That is the end of the list. I'd like to thank everyone who came out this evening to enlighten this board and to let us know that you truly care about this community and are willing to serve our community. Thank you. That's also my message in class for this president. It's that we will continue to keep помогating every student of our broken family to play their part in the edificial of our wonderful Frederick County. So thank you for your time and your effort. And we will be very careful, and take the proper discernment that we need. And hopefully we will make the best decision as we sit here and try to fill this role that is so very important. There's a lot of hard work. and so forth. And I would say that if you aren't chosen, there are many opportunities to serve in this community. There are a lot of different committees that need your input and involvement. So certainly welcome you to do that as well. Anyway, thank you for being here. Supervisor Lero. Madam Chairman, I would make a motion that we adjourn. We have a motion to adjourn. Second. And a second. Thank you again. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you
