Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-09-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=106
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Yes, sir. Aye. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County certifies that to the best of each member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this certification applies, and only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed session were heard, discussed, or considered by the Board. Second. Motion and a second. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. I'm sorry. The chair votes aye, and the motion carries. I too, sir. I'm sorry. I'll catch up. Thank you. All right. That will bring us back to our regular agenda. Supervisor Stegmaier, would you lead us in the invocation, please, sir? Bow our heads in prayer. Let us bow our heads in prayer. Father Almighty, at a time when our nation appears to be falling apart, and when we have so little of our people, and when we have so little confidence in the institutions of our federal and state governments, I pray that we are reminded that you, our creator, are still in control, and that the freedom you have given us as your people continues to provide us with much that we can do to strengthen ourselves at the local level, in our county and in our communities, and empowered by our county government. I pray that you will guide us, Lord, as supervisors in Frederick County, to have the courage and commitment to make decisions based on the values and principles that we share at this meeting this evening and whenever we do the work of the people of Frederick County. In the holy and precious name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. Amen. Chairman Wells. Well, I'll stand, please, and face the flag. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the agenda as presented. The motion is there, second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Josh Phelps, Gainesboro District. Have a business in the Stonewall District. Tonight I'm speaking in support of the resolution Mr. Graber is going to bring about that was proposed from your colleagues in Powhatan County, trying to get the General Assembly to come together and take all the mandates that have been coming down from the executive branch and force them to either codify those into duly passed laws or find a way to restrict and limit the executive branch's authority. I was here back on June 9th of this year and introduced the group that we had started in the county and city, and now another county, called the Small Business Freedom Alliance. Then I stated we were approaching 300 members. That number is now tripled and growing daily. What I said back in June was the line from the Virginia Constitution, which has not changed, surprisingly, between then and now. The legislative, executive, and judiciary departments shall be separate and distinct so that neither exercise the powers properly belonging to the other. So the resolution that, as I read, was provided from Powhatan County and that was then redrafted for Frederick County, is basically saying the legislature gets to do their part and the executive branch gets to do their part and those two things need to remain separate. That isn't how business has been done in Virginia for the past almost, it seems like what, two years now. It seems like more than that if you're in a small business. So for those of you that might not support that, I would ask you this question. If this isn't the time or the issue to look into that as a serious matter for our county or for our citizens, when is? What's your tipping point? What is the issue where you say, I don't think our government should be able to demand that of its citizens? I think by the time that issue comes up, whatever it might be, it's going to be too late. Now is the time for action. We've already given too many liberties away. For anyone else opposed to this resolution, I would ask the same thing. When the issue comes up that you disagree with, do you want me standing alongside you to defend your rights? Because I will. Or do you wish me to remain silent like you are now? There's a vote for several positions on this board and other boards in this region coming up over the next few weeks or now. Seems like you can vote just about anytime you want in Virginia. We'll do everything we can as a group to make sure that the people that get elected to those positions support the constitutional rights and support the constitutional rights. We have a very strong and strong opposition. I just want to make sure that we support this resolution. For those that don't support this resolution, our group will be your biggest opponent over the next few weeks. I thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Ms. Bell? . . . . Welcome, sir. Hi there. Eric Reifinger, Shawnee District. I'm here also to speak about Agenda Item 9B on the agenda item 9B. I'm here to speak about Agenda Item 9B on the agenda item 9B. I'm here to speak about Agenda Item 9B on the agenda item 9B. as I'm in opposition to that letter that Supervisor Graber wants to send out to the governor. When it comes to the powers that are provided to the governor, when it comes to the powers that are provided to the governor, there are already limitations that are provided to what the governor can and cannot do when it comes to public health emergencies. Virginia Constitution Section 44 146.17 146.17 already lays out the powers and duties of the governor when it comes to becoming the Director of Emergency Affairs in Virginia, management, such as when COVID-19 or any other pandemic may be put in front of Virginia or the rest of the country. So when it comes to this, he's already limited on what he can and cannot do, and he already has to collaborate, or I'm sorry, he or she must collaborate with the State Board of Health and with the State Health Commissioner for an affected area of the Commonwealth pursuant to Article 3.2 of Chapter 2 of Title 3.2.1. So there's already plenty of checks and balances that are already in place that limit what the governor can and cannot do when it comes to mandates being placed onto the public when it comes to public safety. This is an unusual circumstance where we have COVID-19 that has been impacting Virginians and the entire country in the world. So I understand we don't want to have our individual liberties trampled on. In this situation, this is not something where laws are being put into place that are trying to hurt other individuals. This is not something where we're trying to put people into camps. This is not something where we're mass inoculating everybody with some harmful virus or disease that we don't know what's happening with it. With the COVID vaccines, I believe one of the talking points that Supervisor Graber himself brought up the last time I spoke was that the COVID vaccines were not tested. They were not FDA approved. That has all changed at this time. We have received FDA approval. We have had plenty of tests. There's plenty of items out there that show how safe and effective these vaccines are. So again, when it comes to the mask regulations, when it comes to vaccine requirements, the governor already has to work with multiple individuals and multiple committees when it comes to passing these executive orders to ensure the safety and well-being of all Virginians, not just what he thinks is best. There's an entire committee that's going to have to work with the governor. So I think that's an important point. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can you hear me okay? All right. Very good. So I come here today obviously in support of the resolution that has been put forth by my supervisor, Sean Graber, in the Back Creek District, mainly for the reasons laid out in the resolution itself is that we do have the right to pursue life liberty and the pursuit of happiness and that these mandates are coming down and are really preventing that right. And I think what really makes me upset is, you know, as Mr. Reifiger just stated, it's like, you know, we've got to do this because we have a pandemic and we've got to follow what the governor says and what the state health department says. But I think they've been derelict in their duties and how they've implemented these mandates, how they've implemented these vaccine requirements. You know, we have situations where college students are required to get vaccinated. They're required to wear a mask while they're indoors. Meanwhile, at a college football game, you've got 60,000 students, you know, side by side, spitting on each, you know, not deliberately spitting on each other, but yelling for their team. And as a result, spits coming out. You have the football teams when they go into the locker room indoors after the game celebrating without mask on. And so the state has proven that they are not essentially honoring their commitment to the health and safety of the citizens of Frederick County. And if you take that and you further put that down the road and you say, what is, how is Frederick County similar to Virginia Beach? How are we similar to Richmond? How are we similar to Fairfax, Northern Virginia area? We're very different parts of the Commonwealth. We're very different parts of the Commonwealth. And we need to be able to have the right to decide. What's what's what is good for our citizens here in Frederick County and not listen to a state government that decides, you know, wear a mask for students standing by the buses and then don't wear a mask as an adult going in the Home Depot, Walmart, you know, anywhere we go around the county. It's they just have shown that they have no logic in their rationale and our health and safety. And we need to stand up as Frederick County and take back those rights for our citizens. So I hope you guys vote for Mr. Graber's proposal tonight. And thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Yeah, there you go. Thank you. Hi, Lindsay Shoemaker. Um, I'm a Winchester City. Um, I stand here also to speak to all about the nine B petition, um, and that I support it. And then I'd ask you all as well to support this. Um, as, um, As citizens, we have constitutional rights and we have medical rights as well that as a medical professional, I stand here and say I defend to a T for all of my patients. I have defended every one of my patients and any decision they've ever made. I've never told a patient that didn't want to receive blood that they had to receive blood. I've never told a patient that didn't want the flu shot that they had to take the flu shot. Why? Because it's their choice. It's their body. We're taught autonomy. We're taught to teach our patients about autonomy. Why? Because that's our God-given right. We started our meeting tonight in prayer under God's name. That is a right that is given to us to be able to make those decisions. And our constitutional rights are supposed to protect those. So where do we stand with that as citizens? We should have that protected by those who represent us. So I stand here and ask you to do what my dad, several of my brothers, my sister-in-law, and my uncles did, and that was to fight for our rights. They did it in wars. And with the military, we do it here to protect our rights as citizens. So I petition you to support his petition. Thank you. Thank you. Deborah Crowley. Deborah Crowley. Welcome. Thank you. Wow. Okay. Off the cuff. That, by the way, was my daughter. And I support what she was here for also. We have a right. We have rights to our own bodies. What's that saying that's going around? My body, my choice. It should stand for anything. We shouldn't be forced to do things to our body we don't want done. So I just ask, would any of you want to be forced to have something done to you you don't want done? So I just ask you support what's before you. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Phillips. John Phillips. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Josh Ludwig. Is it all right? Hello. Josh Ludwig from Shawnee district, it says. Sorry about that. So I'm here, obviously, I think you might suspect in favor of this resolution and I want to speak a little more broadly about those rights. In fact, this country was founded on the idea that the government can claim no rights, they just can't. no natural rights, that rights belong with the people. The only reason the founding fathers said that this government exists at all, and I mean at any level, county through federal, is that the people got together and decided to give up certain of the powers to the government to establish better peace. But as in any contract, only those things that are explicit in the contract actually are given up. Anything vague in the Constitution, whether it's state or federal, should be stricken and interpreted in the narrowest possible way. That meaning that the government should not be interpreting greater and greater powers through reinterpretations of clauses in the social contract that we have. And that's been the trend in this country for decades, if not two full centuries. And it's gone way overboard. In fact, I support this resolution and would support resolutions. Well beyond it, taking back many of the powers that have been assumed by government that are not explicit. So I hope we all agree, all of us, and from the excellent prayer that was given today, I suspect at least another vote in favor here. But I believe that all of us should care about the rights of everyone and should respect the fact that powers claimed should be resisted. By everyone who doubts, doesn't see that explicit language in the Constitution. I don't see it in the pandemic clause in the Virginia Constitution or the federal Constitution. I grew up in a time when no one could imagine that anyone would be forced into some of these decisions that are now common mandates. And I ask you all to vote in favor of this resolution. Thank you. Hey Jay Holbrook evening board my name is James Holbrook I'm from Shawnee district in the past years I've become more and more worried about our government I served in the military to protect this country and we're taking it apart from the inside this state has already violated a law on the books the rights of parents section 1 240 dot 1 very short parent has the fundamental right to make decisions concerning the upbringing of their children and care of the parent child I would like to see this resolution expanded you to cover more things what it brings forth is a start of what we need to do today our country is falling apart because people believe government is supposed to protect me no that's my job to protect me and it's your job to protect yourselves when governments protect people it becomes tyranny and right now I believe doing so is a crucial and instructive part of what we need to accomplish so you know who you need to look out for and you really need to do that there's the outside so I'm a native of into the world of word and language and I'm in the middle of some sort of a kind of running current things for all or getting out of this war to trade. to get rid of the vaccine mandate and other things. And I'll throw this in there just for information. How many people died from the swine flu vaccine? Do you know? Most people don't. 25. And guess what? The CDC stopped that vaccine. How many have died from what we currently have going on? Want to take a guess? I quit counting at 5,000. So the other thing I want to say is, if you read that stuff when they give it to you to get that shot, are all of the ingredients listed? They've violated your trust because they claim one of the ingredients is a company proprietary secret. No. If you're going to put that in somebody's arm, that's not proprietary anymore. It affects me. And there are things that are going on right now in our world, and we're allowing it. I'm asking for you gentlemen to vote for this, and let's have a discussion on what else needs to get done to bring us back to the United States that I joined the Navy to defend, because I'll be frank and honest. Right now, at this time, I would have gone to Canada. And that was not in my vocabulary at the time. I'm a very upset citizen. And I want to see my country come back. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. Pressural whenever the flag just Guerra there was another phrase She comes and goes. She comes and goes, you know. I love you, Amanda so much. Remember. I love you, Bernie. On, on, on. I am sad to speak. Samantha Armell, Red Bud, I'm disappointed in all of you. I'm disappointed in you, that your name wasn't on that, that Sean had to stand up by himself. I'm disappointed in our governor, and I'm disappointed in the people that continue to cause divisiveness in our nation. I'm disappointed that we're not pausing and we're not thinking these things through and that we're shaming people for having critical thinking skills. Every day, I talk to people. That's my job. I'm a real estate agent. I listen to people. Every day, I talk to them, and they tell me they're fed up with it and they're tired of it, and they're getting angry. But more than that, people are leaving the state. And it's not just me. It's not just me. I've talked to several agents. I'm seeing it. People are going to states like Florida. When you have people do that, when you have people pick up and leave, that affects our economy. That affects our local economy. That affects so many things. When people feel like their voices aren't heard, when people feel like their only hope is to pick up and leave, I think about all the business owners that are here. Can they hear me? Can they just pick up and leave? I completely oppose the mandates, and I hope that you will stand with Sean Graber. We have a Constitution for a reason, and for 245 years, it has kept our country together. It's kept us in unity. It's kept us. We're the longest-run Constitution, so just throw it out the window. And to just say, forget it. We get to decide what's best for you. You don't have a say. And if you don't do it, you're fired. You can't support your family. Tough luck. Try feeding your children. Try paying your mortgage. Try paying for those medications that you need. That's dangerous. Where's the line? What's the next thing? What's the next crisis? Those things are dangerous. That's a dangerous thing. And if people don't stand up, even if it's painful, if you don't stand up, what do they say? What do the founding fathers say? I pledge my fortune and my sacred honor and my life, and I pledge my life. And all we do is hide behind policy. They pledge their life and their fortune and their sacred honor. What are you doing? What do you have to lose? That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. All right. Thank you. Bring us to Consent Agenda. How would the Board like to address the Consent Agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the Consent Agenda as submitted. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. That's a no-no. blocks, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I step out of the meeting. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Thank you. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. The consent agenda is adopted as presented. And we move on. What are the Supervisor's comments? Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'm sorry that Mr. Graber is not here in person because I do mention him at one point. And I wanted to start out by mentioning that at the last couple of Frederick County Public Safety Committee meetings that Vice Chair Wells, Finance Chair McCann-Slaughter, and I sit on, we have received expressions of thanks from Fire Chief Myshak and Sheriff Milholland for our steadfastness and patience. And seeing the difficult process of identifying a vendor for a new and much-needed public safety radio system through to fruition. Surprisingly, there has been nothing said during recent board meetings about our success. But I think it is worth mentioning here so that the public will know how important to their safety and security this success was. Certainly, all are in agreement that Frederick County's students will be much safer once the construction of the new system is completed. And this safety will certainly extend to our educators and school support staff. But this new system will also make a significant difference to the effectiveness and safety of our fire and rescue personnel and our deputy sheriffs. And if the radio system improves the work that we do, we will be able to continue to provide the safety and security that we need to provide to our students. And if we continue to do the work of our law enforcement and first responders, the citizens of Frederick County will definitely be more secure. I have heard anecdotal information about how the current dysfunctional radio system has put Frederick County deputy sheriffs and firefighters in jeopardy of losing their lives because of their inability to communicate with others in emergency situations using the current antiquated system. While the situation is ending well, there were times that this new member of the Board of Supervisors was very concerned about what was happening as the Board deliberated about this matter. A process involving the Communications Committee had been established to choose a vendor. But the level of antagonism and suspicion that was created by certain members of the Board appeared to this new member related to a power struggle for control of the Board that put the need to quickly build a new radio system as a secondary consideration. For instance, early on at the second or third meeting I participated in, a note I passed to the Chairman indicating that I was ready to vote on a pending matter became the subject of a freedom of speech.ε of the protect the federal government security law was lowering those open conceptions of calle. These and other antics were done by Mr. Graber. Supervisors Dunn and McCarthy are culpable as Mr. Graber's enablers and have been complicit in the poisonous atmosphere of this board that, in my view, did not have to exist. I point to the deliberations the board recently had concerning the evaluations of candidates who have applied to become our next county administrator, which were collaborative and respectful. This is how the public radio system deliberations could have gone if considerations involving controlling of the board of supervisors had not been involved. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the Communications Committee, made up of 10 members, comprised of three representatives from the Sheriff's Department, three from Fire and Rescue, two from the Public Safety Communications Department, and two volunteer fire company representatives for their patience in evaluating the applicants and making recommendations to the board of supervisors. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the steadfastness of yourself, Supervisors Wells and McCann Slaughter, because we can finally say that our students and our citizens, generally, will soon be safer than they are right now. And as I leave the board in November, I take pride in having been a deciding vote in approving the contract with E.F. Johnson at a savings of $2.5 million over Motorola, the other applicant recommended for consideration by the Communications Committee. Thank you for this opportunity to share that. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr. McCarthy. Mr. Stegmaier, it's unfortunate that you tend to be the one who consistently calls out individual members of this board and causes this type of discord and dysfunction just because they may not agree with the particular platform or the particular item that's on your agenda to approve. I agree with you. I think the deliberations for the hiring of a new county administrator went beautifully. And the reason they went beautifully is because all of us were given access to the information. All of us were invited to attend. All of us had the same information and were able to make decisions based on that same information. That's how government's supposed to work. What you're referencing absolutely is not the way government is supposed to work, where supervisors are intentionally kept out of discussions. Supervisors are intentionally. They're intentionally kept in the dark as to what's going on. I appreciate the applause. Let me speak. To the point where this body unanimously voted to fire the consultant who was running that program. Obviously, there was something done wrong. We replaced that consultant, and we're moving forward with faith that the new consultant will run this thing right. So for you to continuously, unprovoked, come into this body and continue to sow discord while at the same time pretending that you're a peacemaker is just appalling to me, sir. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I wasn't planning on making any comments on this. Mr. Stegmaier, there's some things I really like about you. I'm being serious. You've been married for 50 plus years. That's commendable. You've taken care of a family member under adverse circumstances. I truly think that's commendable. As a person, I think you really try to reach out and help people. The comments you made just now, right though, are very important. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. I think you're doing a great job. We have an objective policy standard, so we certainly have to start when, and very often, make a statement. We each try our best to answer questions, so be prepared if you're going in to all the Vikings. Some questions about mine and all of Alexandra's, just inoth całe of her comments survived in that department. I always want to remind participants we have another item where we can all focus primarily on agenda, maybe some structure in your initiative, or in the State Senate and boards of trustees. I always try not to discuss things in that version, and just consider, you know, some of your средs you may believe we're not much on. In my opinion, each one of them is on the merits. I don't believe we should do so, consultant for reasons that I stated. And I also felt that having three or four of the people, of the vendors compete would benefit everybody. At the lawsuit that you mentioned, the lawyer representing Frederick County said that only one, not two, not three, only one person met the criteria. If you use that criteria, Motorola should not have even been under discussion. Your comment about a savings of $2.5 million was simply the difference between the Motorola price and the EF Johnson price. What you failed to mention was the fact that a third vendor may have been able to cut that price significantly more. And we didn't have the opportunity for that because we never had the opportunity to have that discussion. I had asked for a closed-door meeting. The vote was four to three to not have a closed-door meeting. We could have gone into those depths. You cast that deciding vote. There's a courtesy, a common courtesy, of saying, I'll hear what you have to say. If any one of you wanted to go and have a closed-door meeting, I would support it. I'd hear what you have to say. Your comment to me earlier that because I voted no, and you publicly said it, which I did not appreciate, was that I had no respect for fire and police is just wrong. It's a policy difference. And I'm not going to belabor this comment, but we had a policy fight. It's a policy difference. And I disagree with it, but it is what it is. We are all glad that fire and rescue and the police are going to get a better radio system. We're all glad for that. We were discussing on the execution of that, the price of that, how well it could affect certain parts of the area. That was the area. So I just disagree with you, Mr. Stegmaier. And I think that you ought to just consider this is a policy difference. It's not a people difference. And it should be left to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. I'm going to move on. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Supervisor Gray. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the comments that have just been made as well. I'd like to just simply say ditto to Supervisor McCarthy and Supervisor Dunn. The incompetence that was on display there by my supervisor on the end, Mr. Stegmaier, is kind of appalling to me. If we want to have a discussion on things of importance, sometimes you go to professionals. I'm not saying that I'm a professional at all things fire and EMS, but we did have a committee, as he mentioned, that was made up of fire and rescue personnel. Many of those same personnel that I worked shoulder to shoulder with, elbow to elbow, for many years. Many of the folks that were on that committee, I had multiple years more of service than they did. So if there was an opportunity to have discussion or buy-in or weigh-in, there should have been at least some consideration to what I had to say. Thank you. And the ability to have information shared, as Supervisor McCarthy said, across the board, not just a few individuals. One last thing, and I'm going to stop at this. Mr. Stegmaier, I did not realize that we were in third grade because I did ask for a copy of what that note was, and I do not think that it's appropriate to pass notes to the chairman of the board or to any other member of the board to tell them when you're ready to end discussion and that you want to take the vote now. That is third-grade material. It is inappropriate, and I think it should stop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. We're going to move on now. Committee appointments. Hanley Regional Library Board. We have an application from Pamela Lamb. She could both fill the unexpired term and a new term ending 11-30-25. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of Pamela Lamb to the Hanley Regional Library Board. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Lamb will be appointed. Supervisor Graver, this brings us to your request for discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members, ladies and gentlemen on the board, thank you for the opportunity to present this this evening. What I have before you is a resolution calling upon the General Assembly to amend the relevant statutes dealing with the mandating of medical tyranny or medical treatment as establishing a clear and limiting delegation of medical treatment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. fundamentally. To those in the executive branch and in the local government offices to impose mandates. While I will not read this resolution in its entirety, although it does read very well, I simply want to bring forward a couple of things that this is not. This is not a discussion on do I agree or disagree with the vaccine. This is not do I think the vaccine is effective or ineffective. What this is is the ability of the individual with respect of the Constitution of the individual rights of people to make medical decisions for themselves and for their family. And under those thoughts, I would like to make a motion that we approve the resolution before us for the calling upon the General Assembly to amend the relevant statutes dealing with the mandating of medical treatment. And I make that as a motion. Second. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I agree with the basic purpose of this resolution, which is to call upon the General Assembly to modify statutes having to do with mandating medical treatment, vaccinations, and wearing of masks in emergencies such as the COVID epidemic by, quote, establishing a clear and limited delegation of authority, end of quote, in place of authority, which is currently too broad. Within these, these amendments would be language that would guide the executive branch and local governing body to honor those individual citizens who wish to be exempted from various mandates based on their religious beliefs and other medical exemptions that are constitutionally protected. I share the concern of the Powhatan County Board of Supervisors and Mr. Graber and many people who have spoken earlier as citizens this evening that local governments have conceded too much authority to state and federal governments over the years, and especially during the COVID epidemic. And it is time to reassert our constitutional rights as individuals and local governments, including school boards, to make decisions about the health of our own bodies and those of our children. The governor's immediate action to neutralize our school board's decision to allow parental choice regarding the wearing of masks at school is a perfect example of how reluctant the state government is to give government any authority at all, give local government any authority at all, when it may run contrary to what the governor and the state agencies want. The resolution needs a lot of work before it can be implemented. And it needs to be voted on, I believe, including clarifying what state statutes need to be reviewed by the General Assembly. There's nothing about that in the resolution. And whether all of the whereas clauses are necessary. But as a means of communicating that we, as individual American citizens and local governments, with constitutionally recognized rights and powers, are tired of having those rights and powers taken away, this is a resolution I can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Last month, in August, during supervisor comments at the end of that meeting, I made a number of comments regarding vaccines. So for the woman from Redbud, if she just would like to listen to that, perhaps that would be helpful to her. But when the resolution comes forward, and Mr. Graber is putting forward a resolution, he's just putting forward a resolution. And we'll see who supports or doesn't support that resolution. I also made the comments that I think that the General Assembly should have the right to override a governor on a executive order. And currently, to the best of my knowledge, that does not exist. So if you have in the Congress an executive order and the president signs a bill, two-thirds of the Congress can overturn it. So if you have in the Congress an executive order and the president signs a bill, two-thirds of the Congress can overturn it. So if you have in the Congress an executive order and the president signs a bill, two-thirds of the Congress can overturn it. So if you have in the Congress an executive order and the president signs a bill, two-thirds of the Congress can overturn it. And to pass an amendment to the Constitution, you need three-quarters of the states. There's nothing that is similar where the General Assembly can go and overturn an executive order of the governor. That needs to change. I also think that having to have a vaccine to keep a job is wrong. If a person's healthy, then there's no need for a vaccine. If a person has natural immunity, there's no need for a vaccine. If everybody's been vaccinated, and a person has a, religious reason not to, that's most appropriate. But to go and have a vaccine mandated without knowing the future, the cost of that, I don't mean the cost in dollars, but the cost in medical, is an unknown. And if you go back and through and take a look at what FDA has and has not approved, they've approved some things which, in retrospect, they've said no. There was one gentleman up here who made the comment about swine flu and SARS, and I think there were 50 deaths. Some would say, there's as many as 15,000 deaths because of this vaccine. And so, you take a look at the data, and reasonable people can reasonably disagree, but there should be a discussion among the medical community, not a political discussion. And when you have people that are in politics saying one thing or another, I just go back and say, let the medical decisions be made, and every person that takes a shot, every person that goes and has an operation, before that shot or operation, I've had those, you get a long thing. Here's what can go wrong. You could die, et cetera. And so, the same thing should be done with this. It should not be mandatory. For the people that disagree with it, that's fine too, but this is a medical discussion, not a political, and unfortunately this has become political. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, this is one thing I will support. I think you have an inalienable right to determine what happens with your own body. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir. Mr. Fraser-Wells. As a board member, I represent Opecan District, and it's a very diverse development that I live in. My district encompasses a lot of different opinions, both personally and politically. As their supervisor and supervisor to all of Frederick County, I respect all those opinions, and I'm always willing to listen, to conversations, and I will be more than happy to express my personal view to you, but as a supervisor in Frederick County, I represent Frederick County, not me, not Bob Wells. So, my personal opinions I have to set aside. I've said many times to many of my friends who came before this board, one of them happens to be here this evening on a land issue, that you're my friend, but if it's not good for Frederick County, it's probably something I'm not gonna vote for, and I hope that doesn't ruin our friendship. So, I look at what we have tonight. I certainly empathize and sympathize with a lot of the things that were said personally. However, I don't think it's my purview as a supervisor representing Frederick County residents, but I do think that, better speaking, we definitely do benefit Frederick County residents to express ... We have about 8,000 residents and those that are here ever since the country also recognized our potential absolutely. And now we already consider the economics to be designed to give people more knowledge about things at an early stage. The next thing that I'm gonna tell you is a thought that I've so often thinned. President Powell week, and I'm gonna air Meg Barba's speech in a while. Okay? legislative issue. I think our state, we've elected certain folks to represent us in Virginia. If you didn't like that particular person, they got elected, and elections have consequences. We've all heard that, and that's fine. They should, one way or the other. So I think it behooves all of us, whether personally or elected officials, to make sure that we contact our representatives at the state level through our political business associates, your community advocate organizations, and so forth that represent you. Certainly be loud, be vocal, and do those things. But I just am having a difficult time saying to myself that as I sit in this chair, that I'm going to listen to just one side and not the other. And so for that reason, I can't be voting in favor of sending this resolution, although I might agree with some of the things that are in it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Wells, I agree with you that the state legislature has the ultimate power to do what it wants to do. And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing. We have a lot of had the prosperity recent responsibility for fixing the problem that we're in at this point. But I disagree with you that we can sit back and say that this is just a segment of our society that has an opinion. It's not about opinion. It's not about it's not about it. Not end It's about the oath that we took when we stood there at that podium with the clerk of the court and we said not that that we would uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States and of Virginia and to just not do something unconstitutional was enough. We have to defend those constitutions. So if we as individuals see that the Constitution needs to be defended, then we as supervisors also share that duty to defend it. Therefore, I will vote in support of it because I do feel that every one of us has a duty to defend it. And the way we defend it is we send a message to the people who work for us. Every year, this body and every county across this Commonwealth, every city across this Commonwealth, puts together a legislative agenda that we send off to our legislators. And we say, this is what we want you to do for us in Richmond. And that's exactly what we're doing tonight. We're sending an amendment to the legislative agenda that we passed last year saying, and to do this. So that's why I'm voting in favor of this. If I may, in October, we do have that opportunity. Why would we wait till October when we're under attack now? I'm going to caution you all not to interrupt this meeting again. Please. In October, we have the opportunity to send out our legislative agenda, if you will. What we support. And I would certainly think that would be an appropriate time to encompass all of this in that agenda, if you will, that goes down. And I agree with you on the other parts of it. I do. All right. Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. I call for the question. Call for the question. Can I comment? Can I comment briefly prior? Sure. Okay. I do think that I disagree with portions of this resolution, but the place that this has to get started, if it's ever going to get fixed, is with our state legislature. And so I'm supportive of sending it there. Supervisor Graber. We're voting. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Now, Planning Commission Business. Update Frederick County Comprehensive Plan. Ms. Perkins. Item 12A is the public hearing for Orrick Commons. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. yok. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. This item is a rezoning for the Orrick Commons. Y. Yes. Y. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Please see the cat now. This is an old picture. screen on your left just to outline the location of the property. It's located near the intersections of Sensenee Road and Greenwood Road, and you may be familiar with, there's the McDonald's and then the site that was the former Food Lion. So this is the piece that we're talking about tonight is outlined in blue. So now this property is part of the original 2006 Ork Commons rezoning, which was approved for 22 acres of commercial and the 33 acres of age-restricted residential housing. So this request tonight only pertains to that 33 acres. The B-2 areas would remain under that 2006 proffer. Now I would note that separating the two into separate proffer statements would not impact the overall development as the proffers for the B-2 have previously been completed. So the 2006 proffers provided for three and a half acre park to Frederick County. It also proffered the preservation of an existing pond. Again on the screen to your left, this is the current approved generalized development plan. This was that commercial area. This is the piece we're talking about tonight. This was the proffered park location shown on the original plan. The proffer also allowed for that park area to count towards the required open space within that age-restricted community. Now a note just, kind of with that park, if it were to be dedicated and owned by Frederick County, it would be open to the public. The proffer did include provisions for the applicant to construct walking trails, and that pond was to be a water feature. Now the proffer that's currently on the books, it states that at such time the applicant and the board find it to be in the best interest of the county. Said park may be dedicated to the county for use by the general public. I would note that at the time that that could be dedicated, the applicant would most likely, be the homeowners association, so it would be an agreement between the homeowners association of an age-restricted community and the county. So now what's before you tonight with this requested proffer amendment? They are seeking to relocate that park at an adjusted acreage of six acres to the southeastern portion of the property, as well as eliminate the requirement for the pond preservation. Now the proposed proffer does contain a provision that would allow that area to be utilized for utilities, and that would be the homeowner's association. So it would be an agreement between the homeowner's association of an age-restricted community and the county. So the proposed proffer does contain a provision that would allow that area to be utilized for utilities, grading, drainage, and stormwater improvements associated with the development. So staff would note that construction and placement of any utilities or features within that park space in the future could greatly impact what could be developed there. It also no longer provides for the construction of the trails within the park, and then any recreational units that the applicant would construct within that would count toward the recreational amenities for the age-restricted community. This is the generalized development plan that is proposed with this revision. To show that park location would have originally been that blue. They are shifting it to the southeastern portion of the site and you do have some utilities that currently run through the property. Some of the other notes with this application. They are providing a single row of evergreen trees properties planted between the new single family as well as the adjacent residential properties. That was an adjustment resulting from the Planning Commission public hearing. And then just another note is that with this application they are limiting the number of residential units allowed with the development. The previous rezoning allowed for the buy rate density, which could have resulted in about 201 units. So this caps it at 170. 122 of those would be single family, either attached or detached, as well as the 48 unit multi-family building. So kind of to recap what you see in this revised proffer statement, you do have those 170 age restricted units. There's the relocated park and the landscape buffer. There's an existing intermittent stream within that new park area that's preserved. They are constructing Farmington Boulevard through the project from Steeplechase to Lynnhaven. They are keeping the inter-parcel connection from the residential to the commercial. They are connecting a sidewalk to Farm and Farmington. So this is a new plan that is being done in the next two years. They are connecting a sidewalk to Farm and Farmington to Ladyslipper. And there's also monetary contributions consistent with the 2006 rezoning. Now just to point out that list on the generalized development plan, again you have the construction of Farmington from where it is in Steeplechase to Lynnhaven. This is the sidewalk connection from Ladyslipper to Farmington. Again you have the park with that stream channel and you have the inter-parcel connection from the residential to the commercial. Yes, sir. Can you put up the screen back again and just show us where Cincinnati Road is and Greenwood Place? That is the reference point. Cincinnati Road would be off the screen to the bottom and then Greenwood would run along here. If you were the food lion, it would have been in this area. So the Planning Commission held a public hearing for this at their September 1st meeting. There were a number of citizen comments regarding the application. Many pertained to traffic calming concerns and stop signs. Concerns regarding removal of the existing trees and then drainage from the neighboring properties. I would note that the Commission did recommend approval with considerations for the relocation of the park and the landscape buffer which the applicant subsequently did incorporate into the proffer before you. So with that, this is a public hearing. I would be glad to answer any questions that you may have. And Mr. Patrick Sowers with Dave Holiday Construction is here. Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Supervisor Slaughter. Mrs. Perkins. Yes. With the plan that you have there, are there sidewalks throughout this community? There would be a sidewalk requirement once it's designed. All the public and private streets do have sidewalk requirements. Yes, ma'am. Further questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Sowers, anything you'd like to answer? Welcome. Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Thank you. Thank you. Patrick Sowers, Dave Holiday Construction. So just to reiterate, we had, this was a 2006 rezoning. We're not proposing any additional units. We're actually proposing reduce the total number from 201 to 170 max number of units. This is the original GDP. And it did have the small area of 3.5 million units. And it did have the small area of 3.5 million units. And it did have the small area of 3.5 million units. And it did have the small area of 3.5 million units. So the 1.5 acre open space park area around an existing farm bond is actually at a high point of the site in kind of an odd location. With a wetland delineation, we also identified an ephemeral stream channel further down the site. Ephemeral stream channel, that's the smallest circle down there at the bottom of the site. So really, the premise of the application is to maintain the age restricted designation, reduce the total number of units, and shift that open space area from one side of the site to the eastern side. And it did go from 3 1⁄2 acres to 6 acres. We did leave the caveat of it could be used also for stormwater management facilities or utilities just in case we had to bring something in from off-site. I think when you're going from 3 1⁄2 to 6 acres, we have to have some accommodation to be able to have some of those features potentially within the site once we get through the final design, which we don't know until really we kind of get to that point. The other thing we did do is, if you looked at the original GDP, there was very little detail as far as how the development would build out. So we did provide some additional detail and looked at these land bays. It's hard to see on the overhead, but they're actually designated for single-family detached. So we focus the single-family detached now at the perimeter of the property to make for a better transition from Lynnhaven, from Briarwood Estates, and from Steeplechase. And then the townhouse area, the attached product, would be internal to the site. And we've left the multifamily consistent with what it was with the 2006 rezoning. So really it's a relatively simple modification, but not a lot has changed with the project other than kind of giving some more specificity with the GDP. Reducing total number of units and shifting that open space area from one side of the site to the other. As far as buffering, we did add some additional buffer where now we're going to have a single row of evergreens between single-family detached on the project and single-family detached on adjacent projects. So that's not something you typically see, but that's something we did add since the planning commission meeting. And really I won't delay anything or add anything beyond that. But I'm happy to answer any questions or if anything comes up during the public hearing, I'm happy to respond to that. Questions for Mr. Sowers. Supervisor Dunn. So Mr. Sowers, just a couple questions. On the adjacent communities that are there, what feedback have you gotten from them on this? So I met with the representatives from the Steeplechase HOA. Generally they were aware that there was already an existing project zone since for the past 15 years next door. They asked, some questions about drainage coming through the site and basically from stormwater, one, you can't exceed your pre-development flows off-site, but number two, with this design, it would actually decrease the drainage area that would ultimately go through the Steeplechase subdivision. So beyond that, it was kind of focusing on transitions of like housing types, like housing types. I think it was generally well received, but they did have a concern about stormwater going through their project. I have one other question. Yes, sir. We've chatted before, but this is something I hadn't thought about when we chatted before. On Sensany Road, if you're driving from Greenwood and Sensany toward Clark County, you're driving down the street and there's the area that is a couple acres of vacant land. Right next to that, there are a couple of houses. Those houses have been swamped during heavy rains. So is the area behind you going to either alleviate that or have any water that's going to affect that? We can talk off-site if you want to. Are these houses that front on Sensany? Yes. So on the map here, this is the commercial area that originally went with the project in 2006. Then you've got some existing single-family residences that front on Sensany. The site ultimately drains through an area kind of in this location here. When the multifamily areas developed, there would be a stormwater, a water facility that would actually detain water on site. So it wouldn't be the free flow that it is now. Okay. So I mean, representing Redbud, and I've had to talk to those people, that's one thing that I really would like to work with you on because they have been flooded. I know that. I've got those calls. If this is a way to alleviate that, that's fine. I just don't want to have additional water coming into that area. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Other questions for Mr. Sowers? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Thanks, sir. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to speak? Would anyone like to comment concerning this application? Yes, sir. If you could come forward. If you could share your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. Very much. Let me pull it down a little bit. There you go. Thank you, sir. Adam Spates, Redbud. Sorry ahead of time, not a polished speaker. Do what I can. So I'm glad the GDP's up. So I live to the top right corner on T-Berry Drive, 126 T-Berry. And when I bought the house in 2010, there's nothing but a beautiful forest behind us. Of course, it's not owned by me, so it's not me to decide. But in reading when I bought the house, reading the original 2006 proffers and information, they talked about a 50-foot buffer zone. So I felt with a 50-foot buffer zone that I'd be pretty safe without someone tearing the forest down behind my house and having to stare at their windows as they stare at me. So reading additionally into the Frederick County zoning, under 165.203.02, which is buffer and screening requirements, it goes on and says, it is the intent of the regulations of this section to encourage proper design of a site in order to protect adjacent existing uses and to protect proposed uses within the site. Certain type of uses must be buffered from other types in order to ensure a desirable living environment. And then, I'm going to read the next slide. At that point, it's broken down into a couple different buffer types, inactive distance buffer and active distance buffer. So reading on continuing to section B, it gets into screening. Under screening, it says, screening is designed to work with distance buffers to lessen the impact of noise and visual interaction between adjacent activities. There are two levels of screening, landscape screening and full screening. You know, you guys can read through landscape screening, it gives a definition, and then full screening gives a definition. In part of full screening, at the end, the last sentence says, a 50-foot strip of mature woodlands may be allowed as a full screen. Assuming that the original developer who was planning on developing it read that, and that's why I originally read that there was a 50-foot buffer zone in between. Reading a little bit further down under C, it says residential separation buffers. Residential separation buffers shall be established to adequately buffer different housing types from dissimilar housing types within adjacent separate developments. This development has not only single family homes, but it has townhouses, which is a mixed-use development, or I'm sorry, not mixed-use development, but different housing types. And under the, under section C, it says when placed to adjacent, I'm sorry, let me start over. When placed adjacent, to one another, developments with different housing types shall provide the following residential separation buffers. Under the chart, it lists townhouses, because townhouses is part of this development, and it lists A. Type A comes into the two buffer, or I'm sorry, the two screening, I'm sorry, the two buffer types, which is inactive-inactive. So under A, you can have a total between the inactive-inactive, at least 25 feet, or if you go, I'm sorry, 25 feet of a full screen. And if you go to a landscape-style screen, it's 50 feet, or no screen at all is 100 feet. So, time's up, I guess, sorry. I'd like to just go ahead and try to conclude and- Okay, so nonetheless, I- Give Mr. Sowers an opportunity after everyone else is finished to address comments he's heard, if he pleases. Yes, sir. I am at the very end. Very, very close. Reading a little bit further down under four, it says, when existing mature woodlands are located within the entire buffer area, preservation of the woodlands would be allowed to substitute for the required plant material. Directly behind our house, in that zone, there is at least, I mean, it's a dense forest of at least 50, 60, 70-foot trees. We get a ton of wildlife, and it's a great buffer zone. It's a great screening zone. So, I ask that they do look into it. And the very last one is number five at the bottom, and we'll skip to the very bottom sentence, says residential separation buffer zones shall be required when different housing types are placed adjacent to a mixed-use or master plan development, or if the development abuts different housing types within a separate development, which I feel is this case. So, I do ask that they go back to, that they go back to the 50-foot buffer zone. Either they keep the, it would be best if they just keep the mature trees there at 50 feet back and give some kind of zone. And if they don't prefer that, maybe they move the center six acres of common area up to the corner so they don't build from one house behind the other. Doesn't make sense because there's not many houses at all in that bottom right corner. So, and I do come from a planning, development, and construction background. So, it's, this can be attainable pretty easily. That's all. Thank you. Mr. Yes, sir. Mr. Appreciate it. Mr. Anyone else like to comment concerning this application? Anyone at all? Yes, ma'am. I'm Martha Sparkman. I'm in the Redbud District. I want to know about the traffic situation. I see connecting Farmington as a good thing. I have friends on both sides of that. And I include, having another 170 or more families in that area, there may be one or more cars going out every single day. Some homes have two people working. Some, one works, and the other goes wherever. Do we have the capacity for the throughput of more vehicles going through? Is there more than one exit? There's something that's going on over in the city where they're trying to put something along Jubal Early Drive. And there's very little way to go in and out of that except through very old, very small roads. And they want to put in something that's commercial. I didn't see anything about new commercial things there. But there will be changes in the traffic patterns. And will there be other lights, other things going on? I'm just curious. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Anyone else? Last call. Anyone else like to comment concerning this application? Thank you all. We'll close the public hearing. We'll close the public hearing portion. Mr. Sowers, would you like to address any of the questions you've heard? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just two quick points. The first was on, sorry. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. The first was on buffering from adjacent communities. The way the, I won't go into the details of any of the words too heavily, but it's based on if we had apartments or townhouses immediately adjacent to existing single families. When the housing separation was done, the housing separation buffer would take effect. I would say that the existing proffer statement does not have a proffer for a buffer. So adding this 10-foot landscape screen between single family detached and adjacent single family detached is above and beyond what's in the existing proffer statement. And it's similar for the same reason you don't see buffers between Lynn Haven and Briarwood Estates or Steeple Chase and Briarwood. You don't typically buffer between like housing types. So we did add that in following the planning commission meeting. The second is as far as capacity for additional vehicles, Farmington Boulevard is in the comp plan as a minor collector. So this does provide that missing link. We did have the proffer amendment go back to VDOT for review, and they had no issues with the infound recommendation of approval. So with that, I'm happy to answer any other questions that might come up. And one thing I'm sorry, Mr. Dunn, I will add, when I met with the Steeple Chase subdivision, I did mention Farmington as a through movement. And I did cite that it's basically, it's not up to me whether or not I can design a three-way stop at our intersection in our development. But we do have in the proffer to incorporate traffic calming measures with the design of Farmington Boulevard subject to VDOT approval because they have the ultimate say. May I? We have a sheet in front of us, Oreck Commons Residential, with some red on it. Was this a typo or a change? This is for the bonded. It is a scratch through of the bonded to add installed prior to issuance of an occupancy permit and a hundred foot dwelling unit, a hundredth dwelling unit. So we proffer to install those, the evergreen trees between existing and proposed. It was going to be proposed as bonded or installed prior to the 75th building occupancy permit. There's some concerns that if it's bonded, that might create some issues as far as triggers for the county. So we took that out. For us, if it's June and we're at the 73rd building permit, we typically don't want to plant things we know are going to struggle to survive. So that's why I had the bonded language in. Instead, we put it as a hard permit at the 100th permit. That gives us some flexibility to make sure kind of we're to all portions of the site that actually need the buffer. Thank you, sir. I just wanted to clarify, make sure we were all clear. Supervisor Dunn. A couple of follow-up questions then. For all of you that are listening, this was done in 2006. So just so you understand what Mr. Sowers and Holiday Construction are doing, they are revising an existing 2006 proper or 2006 plan. If this board votes no, the 2006 plan with everything that's in it stays. So this is not a question on, whether it's new or not. We have an existing item and this is a modification of that. So if this board votes no, then the 2006 terminology all fits. Question, though, to you, Mr. Sowers. The gentleman that made the comment about the hardwood trees behind them, and I don't know, so we should just sit here and chat, but was that part of the original proper system? And if it wasn't part of the original proper, so I might have to refer to Ms. Perkins, then was there some type of a zone, buffered zoning between those two at the time? Because this is not retro, but in 2006. Was there any addressing of that, do you know? Or Ms. Perkins, do you know? Go ahead. So this, we're talking about this area here. The lower right-hand corner, I believe, correct? No, this is actually the area he's referring to as Long T Berry, the backside of T Berry, which is... Can you hit your thing so we can see? Is it... . No, I mean, okay, so... It's... Show us where T Berry is, please. T Berry is coming down here. Okay. And so it's this area, which is just north of Farmington Boulevard. So if that area were to develop under the current proffers, which would... 2006 proffers. Which would allow that to be anything from single-family detached to age-restricted townhomes. If it's a townhouse, you have to provide the residential separation buffer. If it's a single-family detached, you have to provide the residential separation buffer. If it's a single-family detached, you do not need to provide a buffer. So what we're doing basically is saying, regardless of housing type, and we're guaranteeing now with the current proffer amendment, that that's going to be a single-family detached dwelling. In the 2006 situation, there was no buffer or separation. Is that correct? Not proffered. That's correct. And it only would have been triggered if we had an unlike housing type, like a townhouse. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? After my question was, zooming out there, he was talking about if we went back down to where we moved the park down to the corner. This area. Yeah. And he lives up on T Berry, and apparently that's where the trees are. Well, you can see that there's an easement that comes through the site that's cleared. And then this is a little thinner, and then your hardwoods are generally in this area, which includes the park area as well. All I heard him say was, is there any opportunity of saving some of that original buffer that he has in his area now, by moving something around? Sure. I'm just asking. And the last thing I want to do is pay to take down 70-foot trees. So if I can avoid it, we will. It comes down to we have to grade in for Farmington Boulevard. And there's some existing topographic changes, especially going through the existing easement. But really, until I can get to the top of the tree, I'm not going to be able to do that. Okay. But really, until I get to kind of final design, I won't know how far kind of our mass grading takes us to where we're tying out our mass grading. And where we tie out is where we can basically stop impacting existing vegetation. Road connection? Correct. All I would encourage is if it can save those, I'm always in favor of that, and that certainly would help Mr. Hillman out on his property. So anything you can do, and I know you will, you have worked with the county very well, and I would encourage you to do so. Thank you, Mr. Sauer. Thank you. Surprise or done is Red Bud. So, Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion that we approve the rezoning of 0421 Oreck Commons as presented. Second. And the second, is there any discussion? Chairman? Yes. Just want to make one comment. This is a 2006 rezoning. As I said earlier, that's what occurred at the time. The proppers on that, I think are inadequate, but they are what they are. In a conversation I had with Mr. Sauer earlier today, and I thought it was a good conversation, and that's why I wanted to comment, is in 2006, the thought process was that there was going to be business and residents in there. The business income that was earning would offset the cost of those homes. So, new housing developments are costing the county money, 24, $25,000 figure. And his comment, if you can have businesses that can go and offset that, that makes sense. So, I think that as we go forward, not in this project, but just in general, we just have to continue to work to find ways to address the cost of new housing without having that cost being borne by the taxpayer. If businesses can go, and bring in revenue from sales tax and machinery tax, et cetera, that benefits everybody. But I think this is a good improvement over what's there. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. We had a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries, and the reasoning is approved. Praying Commission Business. Ms. Perkins? Update on the comp plan, information discussion. And Mr. Chairman, members of the board, before you tonight is the draft update to the Frederick County comprehensive plan. The Code of Virginia does require localities to review and update their plans every five years. Our current plan that's on the books was adopted back in January 2017, so our five-year deadline is coming up. And then we have our new plan in January 2022. And I'll talk about that, but you can get all the details of what's going to be in the documents, and let's get right into it. So, the makeup of the document. The plan consists of three separate pieces that are all interconnected. Your first main piece, the bulk is what's called the plan. It has chapters that focus on aspects of the county's vision for the future. It talks about your urban areas, your rural areas, your residential, business development, transportation, public facilities, natural and historic resources. And then there's appendix one, Appendix 1, which is all of your small area plans, and then you have Appendix 2, which is your background information, statistics, and data. So I'm going to kind of jump through the plan and hit on each of those chapters and really what has changed. I would note that overall this is just an update. We were not redrafting the entire plan. We weren't scrapping it and starting from the beginning. So fundamentally it is very similar. The majority of it is a lot of edits and just kind of changing around some text. So first, your urban areas, that's that first chapter. Like I said, we did do a lot of consolidation of the text, moving some things around to make a little more sense, clarification, expansion of some of the existing policies for future land uses. Your rural areas, we did expand upon a little bit the rural area uses, residential developments within the rural areas. We did do a lot greater detail on some of the overview of your conservation tools and programs. Residential development. There were minimal changes in that. Again, consolidation of the text, focusing new residential within our urban areas, and then a little text on housing choices. Business development. This was reviewed by the EDA. It's a lot of updated data based on employers and trends. There's some changes to your agribusiness. There's some text now regarding solar. Transportation. There was a lot of updated data and updates for the project. There's text now pertaining to revenue and funding of new facilities, public facilities. We did add some text about general government. There's updates from Frederick County Public Schools, Fire and Rescue, Parks and Rec, Frederick Water. There's new text about broadband and telecommunications. Natural resources. Really the only change in that is some added text based on a state code requirement for inundation zones. And then we did relocate some of the text out of this to the rural areas where it was more appropriate. Historic resources. Just really minor text revisions. Appendix 1 updates. That's all of your small area plans. Fundamentally, they are all the same. We did not get in and change really any land uses digging into the plan. There's some updated text just for anything that's really changed as far as data. Growth boundaries that may have changed from comp plan amendments in the past. Mr. Bishop did go through all the transportation to reflect changes in the Eastern Road Plan. And then Frederick Water with any updates to infrastructure. They did address that. And then Appendix 2 is the main document that you're going to see most of the changes. Just because it was very outdated. And so it's been updated to reflect your most current available information. So especially within your public facilities, a number of agencies did review this and make changes applicable to their piece. Frederick County Public Schools, Parks and Rec, Fire and Rescue, the Airport Authority, the EDA. The Department of Transportation. Frederick Water and the Transportation Committee. All of those different groups reviewed the sections. So to make their changes to endorse it and then send it through with the main document. First step after that review was the Conference and Plans and Programs Committee. They did review this at a number of different meetings due to the size of the document. They discussed it in March, April, June, July, and August. Finally in August was the final document where they did endorse it and send it to the Planning Commission for discussion. The Planning Commission discussed this back at the beginning of the year. They did endorse the changes and send it forward to the Board of Supervisors for discussion. So with that, we are seeking direction tonight from the Board as to whether this is ready for public hearing. And I would be glad to answer any questions. Questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Are there any? Thank you, ma'am. So the question is, is it ready to go forward to public hearing? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Motion and a second to send forward to public hearings. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Dunn? This is a long document and it was enjoyable reading as well as Appendix 1 and 2. But I think all you need to know, the work that went into this, you haven't seen this document, but it's a couple hundred pages. And I think that Ms. Perkins did an excellent job, and I mean excellent, to go through what's been cut, what's been added, etc., to try to make this performance consistent with what we have. And I think that Ms. Perkins did a great job. And I think that Ms. Perkins did a great job. Mr. Bishop did the same on the road section. There's a section that does talk about Route 37. And I hope we will have the opportunity to address that as opposed to having this disappear for 40 years. So it's one issue that I think that we need to address. On roads, do we keep or not keep Route 37? And if we do not, then how do you address the growth that's expected in the next, you know, 20 years? But I think that staff needs to know that Ms. Perkins did a top quality job, really top quality. And we appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? All right. The motion and second is to forward to public hearing. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We'll forward to public hearing. Board liaison reports, are there any? Anyone? Yes, sir. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Not too, a few weeks ago, the board was fortunate to have the Frederick Water Authority give us a presentation. I thought they did an excellent job, and I attended the, I'm the liaison to that board, and I attended their last meeting this week. And the progress that's being made with the new facility is absolutely fantastic. It's coming in online, on budget, in time. It's an exciting project. It's going to help Frederick County supply water to folks for the years to come. So I congratulate them for their hard work. They've done a great job, and I'm looking forward to seeing them get started. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? On the comments that Mr. Wells made, I've had a couple questions on the potential development near 522 and 342. And if you want to contact me or anybody on this, comments have been made about fire and rescue, police, et cetera. I had a conversation with Chief Mischak. And so if that area is developed, it is accessible from Stephen City Fire and Rescue. It is accessible from Boyce in Clark County. And we recognize that that area is growing significantly, and how we address that is probably going to be a CIP issue. But if you have concerns between now and next month, just raise them with us. And your concerns are legitimate concerns, they're good concerns, and it gives us information that we don't have than to try to address questions we haven't thought about. But appreciate that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Thank you. This is the portion of the meeting set aside for citizen comments on any issue that they might like to bring before the Board. Was there a sign-up sheet, Ms. Phillips? Okay. Is there anyone who would like to speak to the Board? If you could come forward, share your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. And you may have to play with the microphone. I figure everybody else is doing it. I've got a pretty loud voice, though, so. There you go. Thank you. All right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Board, I want to say thank you to all those who are in favor of Mr. Graber's item 9B. To kind of get our rights back, thank you for that. You know, it's kind of a shame with all the taxes and loss of rights nowadays. We actually had more rights under British rule. It's kind of hard to believe. So, you know, what I'd like to do is I'd like to see item 9B get pushed forward and, you know, kind of go back to the way it was. But go back, and we can use that at the school board meetings that we've been to. We passed a vote, 4 to 3, for parents to have the rights to send their kids to schools with masks on or not. You know, I believe that should be the individual's right, something that the country was founded on. And, you know, the cowardice of the school board went back and two days later put the kids back in masks. It was a shame. You know, there's a lot of people there speaking out against it. And it just, it's a shame to see people falling underneath a tyrannical government. Furthermore, speaking of government, we were talking, or one of the folks came up earlier and said that there were checks and balances with these state mandates. I kind of want to correct that because it wasn't. A mandate by law is just that. It's just passed by the executive branch. The director of the Virginia Department of Health is not an elected position. That's an appointed position. He was appointed by Terry McAuliffe in 2014, again reinstated in 2018 by Governor Northam. You know, they talk about how the gentleman also talked about how safe and effective these mandates are. Well, I mean, we don't have any data for the long-term effects. Mr. Stagmeier's talked before about having a polio shot. That stuff was, you know, looked at in great detail before. And we don't know the long-term effects for the children and for adults nowadays. You know, one of the other things that's kind of bothered me and I'm not sure if you're aware of it, is that the state has been trying to get the kids to get the vaccine. And that's kind of bothered me and a couple other people. You know, some of the grandstanding up here on the diocese. You know, there was a change in vendors, and we understand that, for the fire and emergency radio. But, you know, Mr. Stagmeier, as my supervisor, you know, I just got to wonder, you know, with some of the comments made, are you going to have the same transparency on the school board as you have here with your school board? Yeah. I don't think I would trust Governor Northam's mandates for my health if he's in favor of live abortions. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Stagmeier, we have a poll. What's your favorite? Here we go. Let's see. Okay. I think that's the last poll. Any other questions? No. One, two, three. Good evening, everyone. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. I had not planned on speaking today, but I come here in full support of that resolution because I also want you to tell the state that they no longer get to tell me to wear a seatbelt behind the wheel of my own car because it's my life that's involved there. And, of course, my face against the pavement. Listen, we have had vaccine mandates for decades. We didn't get over the Spanish flu by just hoping it would go away. We didn't get over polio by just saying, walk it off, you'll get over it. We got over it because we developed things. Mr. Atkins, you were right. They didn't pull out the polio vaccine. However, the one that most of y'all took, I actually didn't have to take it because everyone else took it. Before me, polio is almost effectively eradicated. But the one that everyone took on the sugar cube was not the first one to ever work. It was the one that worked the best. There were ones that preceded it. They also didn't have the correct method of contraction of the polio virus for decades. This is what's called science. Science works because we don't want an answer. We're looking for the answer. We don't go looking for a specific result. It's called confirmation bias. You don't go in there. But you know what? And Mr. Sigmeier, you were right about the radio issue. Politics didn't get in the way of that. Just like politics is getting in the way of the common sense issue over public health. Because you're right. It is my body. It's my choice. To get sick, however, is not my choice to give it to Mr. Wells or to Ms. McCann Slaughter. That would be unfair to me to willingly know that I could avoid something. And they'll go, you know what? It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my body. It's my choice to give it to anyone who I want. I wear a mask because I'm immune compromised. The vaccine only works approximately about 50 to 60% for me. And I do not know if I can be asymptomatic or not. I do this as a member of my community. And if any of you people out there, you too, are willing to carry a gun to defend your community, wear a mask. Get the shot. Because you know what? I agree with our previous speaker who said she's tired. I'm tired of all this. I'm tired, too. I'm tired of wearing a mask to conform to other people's confirmation bias who go out to the internet, become doctors on YouTube, and decide, well, I know best because I watch seven minutes of the internet. Please, everyone, do what is best for your community and not your ego. I'm tired, too. Please, get the shot. Do what you can. Okay? Thank you. Bye. Good evening. I'm Joy Dunn from the Redbud District. Thanks for having me tonight. And thank you for all of you for the work that you do. I just want to say that, you know what? I am so sad right now to see not only where our country is, but our state and now our county. And to be able to... Sorry, I need to put these in. To see the comments that were said tonight to sow discord among this board. I'm going to reply to what Supervisor Stegmaier said. Supervisor Stegmaier, I know that when you ran for the school board, my husband, Blaine, and I were behind you 100%. I ended up designing your Facebook logo. I ended up designing your Facebook logo. I ended up designing your Facebook logo. I ended up designing your Facebook logo. I ended up designing your Facebook page, not one time, but five times. I spent two and a half hours setting up your Facebook page at my home. Then when you went back to your house, you called and said, Joy, I'm having some problems with it. So I went back over to your house for another two hours. All free. I never charged you one penny for that. I went door knocking for you. Blaine and I gave money to your campaign. We went to... We went to your meet and greets. I continued to go to your events and take pictures and do your Facebook page. And I'm sorry that unfortunately you lost. But we were behind you. Then you ran for supervisor and you won. But I was surprised at all of a sudden by your votes. And I guess, Dave, your utter disrespect and hate for some of your fellow board members. have passed in that debate. And I realize how typefear and counterted you are. So one of the first things that I said to you has been, know you gave this type of stuff before. And I don't even have the right to say that. So I hadn't even talked to any of you, smaller group. It's not a problem for me. And, of course, I wanted to know. I would have talked to one person who likes my paper. But I was so absolutely terrified, it's exactly when they vote. I mean, you fight to the death of your Mei. And you fight for your life. And so... Hi, Benosh. Right. You claim in many things as far as in your church work to be able to be a Christian. But yet, I feel like you are not showing love, but you are showing hate. And so I think that with being a Christian, let's apply Ephesians 4.29. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification, according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. Thank you. Thank you. Gentlemen, yes, David. David. Good evening. David Sparkman from Redbud. Gentlemen. Gentlemen and lady. I'm sorry. I wanted to correct a few things. I'm a professional engineer. I write research papers. I've developed instrumentation for industry. My amateur hour is in physics and reinventing some of the physics and correcting some of the problems we have in it. I'm basically knowledgeable. Okay. My first error tonight was, well, we consulted experts. Well, the experts all report to the executive branch of government. So they are all the executive branch of government. They hold their job based on the will of the governor. So we do not have a three-party system declaring all this stuff. We have one branch of government laying all these, these restrictions upon us. The question is, is it scientific even? No, it's not. Inframectin has pretty well shut down COVID in one of the major states in India that prescribes it to everyone. Can we get inframectin? I can't pronounce it. We can't get that medicine here easily. The HCQ material? That is a stabilized quinine. Okay. Quinine has been used forever. Stabilized means you can make these pills up, put it in a bottle, and put it on the shelf for 10 years. That's all it is. My wife has something similar to that, which is over-the-counter, and she makes up pills for me to keep me safe and such. Wearing of masks is totally ridiculous. I wear a mask when I go into a foundry. I wear a mask when I go into a foundry because there's dust, and the mask will stop the dust. It's not going to stop disease. It's a sign of submission. It's a sign of fear. Now, I don't really want the vaccine myself. I've already had the COVID. I don't need another vaccine. But one of the problems with that is heart inflammation. That is, the tissues of the heart, the tissues surrounding the heart, become inflamed. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. If you've had the COVID, as people talk about, you have introduced that to your immune system, and your immune system remembers it just like it remembers whether you had chicken pox or not. Okay? So, the next time you get infected, your immune system is pretty well ready for it. Not everybody's is. Some people don't take care of their health. I've got a friend who's 300 pounds and has had a stroke and everything. That's it. That's it. That's it. everything else like that, and we're trying to help him pass all this stuff here. But overall, this is a thing of fear. It's the government seizing their rights to shut down our society. We need to protect our society, and that, gentlemen, is where you are the leaders. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Hi, Supervisors. New topic, sorry. If you don't mind, Clay Perry, Back Creek District. Sean Graber is my representative, although I respect all of you greatly for what you do. My topic is about David Savine's raise this summer of $50,000. My understanding is that the Board of Supervisors controls the purse for the county, controls how money is to be spent, and that's why we go through a budgeting process. During the budgeting process, there was a lot of concern about not getting a line item budget, to which the school board replied, there's a 95-page PowerPoint, which had a lot of nice things in it, but did not have a line item budget in it. And as a direct result of that, the school board voted over the summer to give a $50,000 additional raise above and beyond what was in the budget that was presented to the Board of Supervisors. And so I ask you guys, as my representatives, to go to the school board. And request, where did that $50,000 come from? Did it get taken from building maintenance? Did it get taken from athletics? Did it get taken from the arts program, other academic programs? I think as citizens of this county, and as our representatives, I would ask you guys to seek that information out and provide that back to us. I'm not sure how that process works, to provide it back to us. If it's as simple as giving it to Mr. Graber, who can share it with me, that would be great. But I do implore you guys, as supervisors, to hold the school board accountable. And I'm not sure how that process works. But I do implore you guys, as supervisors, to hold the school board accountable. And I do implore you guys, as supervisors, to hold the school board accountable. for giving a $50,000 raise that was not budgeted and approved by each of you. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. You'll have to pull her down. Hi, everyone. Okay. My name's Christy Scarborough, and I'm in the Stonewall District. I wanted to touch a little bit on the mandates with it being vaccines and masks. I have a problem with the mandates. I am the mother of a special needs son who has pretty severe sensory issues. And he's currently being discriminated and segregated against. He's not allowed to be in school because he can't keep any form of a face covering on. He's also being refused the implementation of his IEP, all because his disabilities and the mask mandate. When it comes to vaccinations, I would hate to see there being some sort of a mandate. My family, specifically, has a religious exemption from vaccinations. And so I just want to urge, when it comes to mandates and your bodies, we really have to be pushing for choice. And Mr. Dunn, I know that you had mentioned earlier about exemptions, that those are, I think, constitutionally protected. I believe. Is what you were saying. And I wanted to highlight that exemptions aren't being accepted. For my son and his school, his exemption from masks are not accepted. For the nurses at, I believe, Valley Health, exemptions are not being accepted for these people. They are being turned away. And we can't let this, we can't let this happen. So I just wanted to share that with you. And I hope everybody makes the right decision and fights, regardless of how you feel. You know, what you might agree with as a mandate today. There might be a mandate you don't agree with tomorrow. So, thank you very much. Thank you. . Hello again, Martha Sparkman, Redbud District. . Nurses walked out. . Nurses said, no, we will not get the vax. . Nurses were fired. . They have been on the line for a long time. . They have been on the front line for a year and a half plus. They have seen a great deal about the disease and about the vax. What do they know? What have they seen in their patients that tells them, do not get that jab? These are professionals who have been at their work for years. What do they know? And has anybody had the gut feeling? . They have had the go nads to ask them. . Anybody? Bueller? . It has been stated that we basically have an either or situation. Either we get the vax or we die or we kill people. What do they call that, hyperbole? . Yeah, that is what that is called. . We also have a denial of opportunity to get certain treatment. . So, we have to get the vax. . We have to get the vax. . . What do they call that? Hyperbole? . Yeah, that is what that is called. . . . . . So, we have the opportunity to get certain treatments and therapeutic drugs. . That is wrong. This is the only disease I have ever, ever, ever heard of where you go in, get a test, find out you have it, and then you are sent home and told to wait until you are critical, wait until you get symptoms. My brother was sent home. He is in Texas. His wife was also sent home. He went back when his symptoms got worse. And they said, oh, well, you can go home. And he said, I do not think so. You told me to come back. I am back. He was 20-year career Army. He was 20 years on an oil rig. He is retired from all of that. But you know what? His brain is still there. And his chutzpah, no, not chutzpah, what can I call it, is I do not think so, is still there. There you go. And he made some mention about, I do not know, malpractice suit. . If you dare send me home. And he went into the hospital and he got some therapeutics and he got better. Not everybody can get up on their hind feet like my brother Jim does. Whom would you send home and say, wait. If they had anything else, this is nonsensical, it is nonscientific, it is against the Hippocratic oath, first do no harm. My mother was a nurse for 55 years. She kept her license current until she died, even after she retired. She said, I will not be able to lift a patient, but I could tell somebody what to do in an emergency. She was that dedicated. Her grandmother was a nurse and a neurologist. I bet she knew about quinine. Lots of people know about things that help, things that work. And to deny that? I don't agree. And I will not comply. And I thank you for your time. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Hi there again, everyone. Eric Reifinger, Shawnee district candidate for school board. I'm here this evening because it's never too early to start talking about budget season. So in the last meeting and in tonight's meeting, there's been a lot of conversation about the high priority projects and needs facing Frederick County. And one item I really would like to highlight is the construction of the fourth high school for Frederick County. As some of you all may be aware, six of our 21 learning centers are currently over capacity at this time. That includes all three of our high schools. Every single one of them is currently over capacity. Sharando, for example, built in 1993. It was over capacity two years after it was built. It currently has 12 trailer classrooms and it's slated for four more. Now, the fourth high school has been on the capital improvement plan for several years at this point. And in 2017, it was brought before this board to provide funding to our school system to go ahead and get that fourth high school built. The estimated cost at that time was $83 million to get that built. And Dr. Lamanna, who was chairman of the school board at that time, estimated that it would cost an additional $1.4 million for every year that the construction of that school was delayed. Well, due to that 2017 denial, we're now sitting here where the estimated cost has risen by $2.75 million per year. And it's estimated to cost about $94 million to get that fourth high school built. So $11 million that has been added onto that cost, and that's all going to be impacting everything. It's going to be affecting everybody in the county, that extra $11 million. So what is the cost of having a quality educational system be built? Because we know Frederick County's growth in our population isn't slowing down anytime soon. So when we get closer to that time in budget season, I highly encourage all of you to vote to provide that additional funding for that fourth high school and to make that a top priority to ensure our students have sufficient room in our schools. Because a strong public education system, it's essential to the individual and collective well-being of our county and its people. A strong public education system develops informed and engaged citizens, which allow democracy to exist and flourish. And a strong public education system helps to serve all families in gaining essential knowledge and provides essential services to students and their families. Unfortunately, there is a portion of our community and our students that get the majority of their food, their care, and their nurturing in our schools. That's why it is so crucial that you, the funding body for our schools, are dedicating the appropriate funds to our schools. That will show the people of Frederick County and everyone interested in relocating into our amazing county that we value the future of our county, our schools, and our students. And just as a reminder to everyone, make sure you get out and vote. Early voting has started right now. Make sure you make a plan to get out and vote. Whether that's going to visit the registrar's office, whether it's mailing in your ballot, or going to the election polls on November 2nd. Thank you all. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Hi. My name is Jeanette McClellan, Bat Creek. And I want everybody to be healthy. And great schools. I was just wondering how we can start having a conversation about if you have Orchard View, you have all the farms right there. How can we help our farmers, help our schools, help our children, help us be creative with food that comes right from across the street? Anyway, so I don't know when or how we talk about our beautiful farms and how we can be able to get them to the schools that we want them to be. But I really appreciate your input. I hope you're able to share with us your thoughts on how we can be helpful because we know that when people eat better, you don't get sick. Anyway, that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. We'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Slaughter. I just have a couple. Today, Barrett Machine Incorporated celebrated their 30 years of business in Frederick County. They are located in the north of the state. They're located in the north of the state. They are located in the Stonewall Industrial Park, have the opportunity to tour their facility today. They provide a number of jobs for our community. Mrs. Stacey Barrett-Haines also works with our EDA to provide mentorship opportunities for our students and work with the WOW program. So it is nice to have this business in our community and I certainly want to recognize them for their 30 years in our community. Last Friday, I had the opportunity to visit Frederick County Middle School, their civics class where the students were creating their own political parties and discussing issues that were important to their political party. They also prepared infomercials and they did an outstanding job and I was so pleased that I had the opportunity to attend. Lastly, we most recently... We have had the dedication of Crossover Boulevard, which has been a very long project, which came in on time and under budget. And so I'd like to commend Mr. Bishop and our VDOT partners for working well. And then of course, all of our other partners along the way with constructing the roadway. So thank everyone. Thank you. Anyone else? Kevin, Supervisor Dunn. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The gentleman who made the comment about budgets, I think it's an appropriate comment. We've had budget discussions and on the school budgets, Fourth High School is one option. We also had discussions on expanding and renovating the other two schools. I know that this board voted approximately $9.2 or $9.3 million to provide an additional 400 seats at Millbrook. So there's more than one way to skin a case. I think it's a good point. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Speaker, we have a comment from Chris Catt. I made the comments a year ago to try to get the two boards together so we could have the discussion. I appreciate your comments, sir. And I'd like to see these two boards – this board and the school board – get together, the fourteen people. And they can just talk. And we can have agreements or disagreements, lay out policies. But that would be a good way to start a budget process opposed to comments afterwards. So, I mean, there should be the opportunity to have collaborative effort on this. And even if there's disagreement, how do you arrive at a conclusion and how do you get there? and how do you get there and just recognize that everything's there. In addition, we can have a discussion on the overcapacity. And the gentleman made a comment about that. But four years ago, that capacity number was larger. And so a decision by the school board to cut capacity by some 666 students or 668, and then we built a new elementary school for 500-something, that's the type of discussion we ought to have on how do you meet the capacity needs in a more informal discussion where you can have that back and forth versus just three minutes at a mic or just my comments here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Further comments, anyone? Mr. Chairman, just one quick comment to follow up on Supervisor Dunn's comments. It's important when we have these discussions to talk about the context of what we're discussing. So, for instance, on capacity, if you talk about the fact that the schools are overcapacity, most people would believe that the schools are overcapacity because there's more kids in the schools. The fact of the matter is, though, there was a recent report that was provided to us by the school board that shows that a consultant simply just with the stroke of a pen cut 10% from all of our schools' capacity. So over my tenure here, I've seen this happen twice, where it's not necessarily that the school is taking more children in and there's less room for those children. It's that the school board is changing what the numbers are on what they'll allow as capacity within those buildings. So what was once okay for capacity in 2012 is no longer good capacity in 2016. And then again in 2017. So if we're in 2021, well, that's still not enough room. Let's make capacity even smaller just by the stroke of a pen because the consultant said so. When we built the new AILER, I sat with the superintendent and the assistant superintendent of schools, and they told us, we'll be able to put over 1,000 kids in this new school if you approve giving us money now to build the expansion onto the back of the school. That sounded great. If we can get that many kids into AILER and we can approve a little bit more money to make this happen. This board took them up on their offer. We approved the money to build the expansion. Guess what? It came in at 900 students. So we got less students than we were apparently going to get without building the expansion. So, you know, we continue to put more and more money into the budget, and yet we get less and less capacity. So I think we have to be honest about how the numbers work out in the context rather than just saying, well, there's less capacity or we're over capacity. What does that really mean? What is capacity? So, Supervisor Dunn, I agree with you. We should start having those discussions sooner than later, and we should get to the bottom of that issue and come up with a solution that will work for the long term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir, anyone else? Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move to adjourn. Second. I move to adjourn and second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Thank you. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
