Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-25
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=324
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you We laughed ourselves to death. We laughed ourselves to death. He said, who was that? I said, told this guy to Bob. He's coming to get it. Bob's his cousin. He had the wrong Bob. So I guess Bob knew where he was. Whatever. Then I had the same number as Richard's radiator shop. Just a deal machine. Just one number off. And they would call up and I would tell them, I said, Richard, I did that a million times. And finally I just gave up. And they called and I said, so, what's your problem? They tell me, I said, well, I'll tell you what, bring it on in tomorrow. Set it off here about 630 and we'll get to it. And I'm sure they went in there and said, hey, we talked to somebody at Richard's radiator shop. He said, drop it off. Here we are. That's enough. We would have no box drive if it didn't happen. I had a lot of fun sending people in. You had a lot of fun getting the business. Oh, yeah. I'll tell you. It was good for him, right? Exactly. You're helping the community. I think they're still in business, aren't they, down there? Little Richard's. Isn't that one on the corner there? Isn't that Richard's radiator shop? I think it is. Back in those days, they could actually weld it back together again. It was metal and copper. Copper. Yeah. Plastic. Now they're all plastic. Just rip them out and put a new one in. That's a good idea. Yeah. I think they're still in business. I think they're still in business. I think they're still in business. I think they're still in business. Are you ready? I'm ready. What's the deal? Are you ready? Remember, I'm in charge of this, and you're in charge of turning the microphone off. Exactly. Don't screw up. All right, folks. We're going to get this work session started. Mr. Bolhoffer, you want to take it away? Just ready to go. A couple of housekeeping items. First, I was reminded by the clerk to make sure everyone speaks into the microphones and turns them off when they're not using them. It makes it better for our recordings. And the second item is a housecleaning system. I'm going to go ahead and get that done. All right. So the first item is a housekeeping item. At the last meeting, it was discussed about four agencies to come up with some allocation numbers of how the costs were allocated. So I've put those numbers together. And you have a sheet if you can't see it up there. The first one is NW Works. And I put up here only the local funding. I didn't include the state and federal. So when you look at the local funding for NW Works, Frederick County provides $60,000, Clark County $5,500 and more. And County $5,000. Obviously, there is no MOU with a formula allocating funds. And when you look at the services provided based on their numbers, the total households served was 184. Total of Frederick County households, 88. So 48% of the houses served were in Frederick County. So that's the information on NW Works. Seniors first. I have the last one. I have the funding up there for the four counties. You can see they're all fairly close on the numbers. There is no form. I think they just approach all the different agencies or the jurisdictions and they ask for money. And this is what the local jurisdictions are providing. You notice Clark County and City of Winchester are not providing any funding. And my understanding is that may be incorrect. A few years back, Winchester pretty much cut off funding for most of these types of agencies. So that is the funding. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And I did not have the data for who was receiving such services. They did have some numbers about the number of seniors we have. I do know, looking at those numbers, it appears that we received most of the services or close to 50%. Access Independence. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, John. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, John. Thank you, John. Okay. Thank you, John. Okay. Thank you, John. Okay. Appreciate it. This is one where there is no funding formula. They just go to the local jurisdictions and ask for funding. And this is what the jurisdictions have decided they will give the organization. Obviously, Frederick County gives the most money. And when you look at the services provided based on clients, Frederick County received just 31% of their clients. Our health. They provide services. They are what they call the Northern Challenge. Okay. The Shenandoah area didn't really specify. And for the funding, we provide 20,000. Clark County provides 6,500. So it's 75% of the funding from local governments comes from Frederick County. And when you look at the number of client visits, 25% of the client visits are Frederick County residents. And that's the funding and the allocation of the services provided. Any discussion? We're just going to take the numbers in and- So we're seeing these numbers and what do you- Exactly what- I believe at the last meeting everyone seemed to agree on most of the others, except for maybe the last two, because those are the two that always ask for funding and have been denied every year. It was these four where there seemed to be questions on whether or not the board wanted to provide funding. And they asked at that point, can you give us some information on allocations? I'll just make a comment. I guess, it's a little one-sided to say it's based on allocations, because we don't know how much benefit we're truly getting just because we're paying 69,000, say, to seniors first. We might just be getting a lot more value out of that if we would have to handle that ourselves. So just using strictly how much other localities don't provide based on what we provide, I don't think that's a fair comparison. I'm in agreement with you. So just for clarification, Supervisor Oates, you're saying just comparing doesn't quantify the services that Ferdow County residents may be receiving. Correct, because we're just comparing to what other localities are willing to give to them. I mean, well, let's take, for example, access independence. Maybe Clark County should be contributing 13,000, but they only give them three. Maybe we are getting more than $20,000 in value from what they provide to our citizens. We just don't know that based on this breakdown. Just, I guess just because another locality may not be given full funding, but, I mean, I don't know. I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. That's not really an excuse not for us to do that. And conversely, we may not be getting it out of there, but based on this information, we just don't know. Mr. Chairman, I'll bring up the hard comment. In a time where we're asking everybody to cut. We've asked all of our departments to cut and fire and rescue, public safety, we've asked everybody to cut. Is it worth us looking at maybe reducing some of these, at least a portion, so that it's the cuts are fair and equitable across the board? Like, we're saving money. We're trying to save money in every area. And we're asking taxpayers to pay more. So, I don't know. So, just for consideration, see what the other rest of the board members think. I think that's an excellent point, Mike. And if all the departments of the county are, have been charged to cut 5% from their budget, I don't see why we couldn't say the same thing to all the other agencies that we're looking at. That, okay, they all provide a lot of great service to the county. But so does every department that the county has. And looking at these holistically and saying, hey, you know what, let's take 5% off these, that would align with everything else that we're doing. All right. I'll make a couple comments. The only one I'm really, really familiar with on this list is NW Works. Because I worked with a lot of. I worked with a lot of. Students with disabilities that were, would age out at 22. But even before age 22, they would start transitioning to NW Works and get some training to work for the, for their adult lives and things. And then when they did turn 22, they transitioned to NW Works or tried to get a placement into a private, private company and things like that. So, I've seen the good works that they do. And like Gary said, it's hard to tell from just these numbers. I mean, I don't know what the numbers on the sheet, what that's worth to Frederick County and our citizens. So, from that regard, I would be against cutting that amount to NW Works. I don't know as much about the other organizations. Mike, do any of these get state funding of any kind? Yeah. Most of them get state funding and federal funding. And some of their, that funding is tied to what you would see up there for contributions. And I will tell you, in the past, when the board was in the state, we were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. We were in the state. whether it's five percent or ten percent we need to take a look at this for this year anyway we got the timing down don't we okay folks what would you like to do like to hold this until a lot a little longer give us a chance to dig into it mr chairman i we we can take some time to dig into it i like the comment that mike and cheryl were just discussing of we can because it's already in the budget we can hold off on making decisions on these particular things i mean supervisor akins and i were both on the nw works board i'm a donor to access independence so i'm very familiar with our health i mean so i don't need to get re-familiar with them i'm just advocating that in the time we're trying to save money it it's prudent to do it across the board now having said that if everyone else wants to take a little bit of time to do that i'm going to take a little bit of time to do that i'm going to take a little bit of time to do that i'm going to take a little bit of time to do that i'm going to take a bit more time to make decisions that's fine with me thank you i'll just make the statement that i've read the packet i've looked at the websites i'm familiar not intimately familiar with the actual individuals that run them all but i feel comfortable with where they're at and um i'll call it the way i call call things that you know i don't like kicking the can um we know we're here we're talking this through if we if there's not consensus on it there's not consensus on this if we deal with 5 percent if we do 50 if we did 5 make sure i don't remember if we do 5 and to be works it would be three thousand dollars senior seniors first it would be four thousand fifty six forty five feeary first would be three thousand forty seven twenty five dollars access independent would be a percent pancake have that dahm and our health would be a percent of dollars uh less percent if you want to go 5 we can go 5 and call it a day and say that's what we're going to fund these outside agencies everyone sussing if person that had looked earlier and saying that the cost is higher i don't roll Flor Club for that if person decided that you're going to get that decision onturne be a thousand dollars for that I don't matsasass a chance if you r upload just that cause I thought that isn't something I Uh uh I don't want voice of unemployment if we act like we've grown All right. I got Supervisor Leary? Supervisor Akins? Supervisor Warndrop? Aye. Supervisor Oates? No. Okay. We got consensus on it. So we'll do the 5%. The other item we were tasked with doing was taking a look at 5% cuts through all our departments. And I will tell you, we've been working on that. It's not as easy as one would believe where you could just take 5% across the board because there was all sorts of inequities in doing it that way. And the inequities, I would say, for example, last year we had one department that had $60,000 worth of professional services. And that's where they hired. Well, for them, that's an operating expense. And this year they don't have that expense. So they are already significantly below 5%. So we've had to go through here and work on this and try to get apples to apples. And then we've also had other departments have made good arguments about why it could not be done in their departments. And so it's been a long process. We're still working on this. I can tell you right now the bottom line number, which I can't read. 883. 883. So right now it's at $883,000. Cheryl and I have discussed this. We can keep working on this. It doesn't need to be done tonight because this would all get rolled over into the capital fund with these savings because that's probably the most logical place for the board to put it what you don't use. But at this point, we've got it to $883,000. Mike, I just want to say thank you to you and the staff and all department heads working on it because I know it's not an easy lift. But that's a lot of money saved for those taxpayers. And I know we won't reach that $2,100,000 once I go through all those situations. I will tell you another situation. There was a department that had operating costs that were last year capital costs. But because of accounting changes, they were all reclassified to operating. So it seems like their costs went up a lot, but it was caused by a reclassification and not spending money. So I'm dealing with all those little issues in the departments. Yeah, Mike, I'd say the same thing to all the departments as well. When you're asked to cut and you dig and you dig and you dig, at least we're showing the taxpayers that we're willing to do the hard work. And it's just not going to be on their back. So, again, I echo Supervisor Aiken's comments and thank you all. Agree, Mike. Thank you for all the work you all have done. And that will take us to. You're going to continue to work. Is that what the board's? I was going to continue to work to get that number to what number we can get it to. And it's just going to roll over the capital fund. Yeah. And, uh-oh. I think what we can do, because I do not see it up there, is Cheryl handed out the worksheets you have of where she's combined all the different things we've looked at over time. Okay, so what I wanted to do today is to, when we left, we had a pretty good feeling about what we were going to advertise. We don't have a scheduled meeting next Wednesday. I was trying not to add one. And then we have one on the 11th. But if we can. Figure out the ad, we can actually cancel that one as well. So I started with Gary's scenario because that was the one that we seemed to talk about the most. And then I tried to incorporate other scenarios and the comments that were made last week. And the items in the green are areas that I changed around from what he submitted. And then in the blue is proffers that I think Mike wants to further discuss. So last week. We talked. About. A 5 cent real estate tax increase. A 12 cent personal property tax increase. 2% meals tax and 1% transient occupancy. I included all those revenues at the top. And then I start coming down to the expenses. The jail position. Their last. Edit to us. They had already moved that. As far as. So I put a zero there. I come down to. Okay. So then I also took out Mike's project manager of 140 that I think he wants to chat about later. That was. That was. That was off the original sheet. So it's not in green. The next green item is 730 for that retiree health insurance. It was originally 700. So it was increased to 30,000. We talked about the lobbyists of the value. So I didn't. I removed that deduction. When Joe was here talking about the animal shelter. He talked about how the neuter costs were paid for by reserves. So I took that out. The debt savings from the bond restructure that was approved probably last month by this board. That was 100,000. Our savings. I threw that in there. There was discussion about the. Library's increase of 9% reduce that. So I reduce that by 60,570 dollars. At the top when I added the tourism tax. I didn't really know exactly where we're going to do what we're going to do with it. So I just put it under tourism because I wanted to make sure it had a placeholder. So I talked to Justin. He's a big insurance about that. And Jason. Am I correct that it has to stay in tourism, right? So it has to. It has to be utilized for things that are tourism related by state code. Okay. So what we as accounting to do and this is going to take some work. Just no different than the 5% work. Is that okay? Like for instance the. I want to get out of my swim lane here a little bit here, Cheryl. But the. If. Let's say the EDA has a marketing allocation. Okay. And some of that marketing allocation could go to tourism because it's marketing for the area if they're marketing for the area. And it could be tourism related with in a tourism related function. The same thing goes for parks and rec. So parks and rec. Because we all know that people travel to come see the lights. I don't remember what the official name of it is at Christmas. But the Christmas lights that come out in the light show. We know that people that's a tourism related item. The. There's various websites that the county has that are funded by various departments that are more that have tourism related. Portition. So it might not be the whole cost of the website hosting of I'm going to make up a number of $5,000. But okay. One 1000 of that $5,000 is marketing related toward tourism. Okay. So it's going to take some work. To chew that through. To make sure that we're using the dollars from the lodging tax accurately. So that is an audit where we're in the clear. But we're going to have to get creative. And looking at each department's funding. Okay. Hey, if there is expenses relative to a tourism related item that we're going to need to allocate that number somehow from the tourism side of things. Hopefully that makes sense. It makes sense. Okay. So it's there as a placeholder. It's not really designated to go to Justin. I just want to make sure I added it back in. There was discussion about the sheriff 7%. So I took his number. If the county would decide to give. A higher than 3% Cola. That you know how we talked about every one cent was 700 because this 7% that's in here. That's that 700 becomes less. We talked about 8% to the schools. So what I did is I took. I talked to the schools and they had the 1.6 million. I'm sorry. Sure. Can you explain that one more time? The sheriff's department. So because I'm including this million dollars in here for 7% for the sheriff. If you would decide to add something to the Cola for county employees. It's going to be less than the 700,000. We talked about 700,000 for each 1%. We talked about 7% for the schools. You're carving out their shares expense here. You with me. Okay. When I when I when I calculated the 8% increase for the schools. I removed the buses because the buses were transferred to capital. So I removed it from the current year and then and then did the multiplier of 8%. And then we talked about transferring the decal to transportation. So I put that on here as well. And so with all of that. We're in the plus of 1.7 million dollars. We had it always taught initially. We talked about the firefighters, but then we talked about the share positions and social services. So basically you have in here. Joe's positions. I think he has a position at the animal shelter and a position and two positions. Maybe an engineer. Which leaves you an adjusted surplus of one surplus. I'm not sure is the right word. But based on these calculations, a remaining balance of 1.4 million. The bottom half of this sheet is kind of capital related. So it was going to either be funded out of the capital fund or it was going to be funded out of proffers. So the top half of the sheet is like what I would like to have some type of discussion on if needed. Because that's what will be required with the ad. That's the most important part. Are there any questions? Do you have any? Do you want me to continue or you want me to stop there and talk about operating? Are we good with what we've got listed for the schools there? So I mean, I was working on my fuzzy math. I'm not sure. My fuzzy math. I had 8% at 9,109. And that's because I took those buses out. The buses go into capital. Yes. And then I used the multiplier of 8%. So that's the difference. It's just like when we were talking about our cuts. I took out the personnel in the capital. Kind of the same theory. That was me with my school board rep up in Stonewall on Monday. And explained to him where we're at. He seemed pretty happy with what we were providing. They were pretty scared about the 6,000. Or 6 million, excuse me. But the fact that we're getting up to 8%. He thought they could work with that. With the 420,000 for 1% of transient tax. Of course, transient tax is paid by people out of the county. And we're at 1.4. If we increase the transient to 2% instead of 1. We could reduce our real estate tax down to 4 cents instead of 5. There's something to throw out there. The only thing that I'm. Good idea. The only thing I'm worried about, to be honest with you. Is figuring out how to spend 840,000. I don't know how much. Because the state code explicitly states how much. What it has to be used for. I don't know. That's more of a research question. If we can. If there's that much there. I just don't know. Well, I know there's talk about basketball, travel leagues. Softball, baseball. So if parks and rec were built to build those facilities. That's tourist related. And 420,000 doesn't go very far to build those. I think they could keep that account tapped pretty hard. Just throwing it out there. I hate to see just the landowners and homeowners for the county bear the brunt of this increase. Especially if we can push it off on people coming in from out of the county. Did you want me to cover my items or do yours? Go ahead. I'd be on the same page as supervisor Oates there. So if you double the, take 2% of the transit occupancy. Is that guaranteed? It's guaranteed. I think it's guaranteed. I think it's guaranteed. I think it's guaranteed. I think it's guaranteed. Yeah. I mean it has a history. So basically you're looking at what you've collected with the percentage that you have. So I don't like the word guaranteed. I know. But it fits the model that we've seen over the years. Yes. Yes. Okay. I'm all right with that. Yeah, I am too. I agree with Gary. Supervisor Oates. If we can push down the five to four and come back that way. But it's going to take a little work. We'll need you to tell us if we can do that. Yeah. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. Yeah. I mean with the attorney, there are ways you can do it. You just have to, as Cheryl was saying, find the correct ways to do it. Can somebody remind me what that would do in comparison to the Winchester hotels? Eight percent. Eight percent in the city. Right now we're at three and a half. Okay. Thank you. So when you change that tax at the top, what's the difference? I push in this scenario, I push the expense at the bottom. So you're looking at expenses that already exist that you can then use the top for. Okay. So what we would do on the ad is this would be two percent and it would reflect 840. But that expense wouldn't be identified. We would have to work with the departments to see what identifies us. Okay. I'm on the same page. I realize that takes us from a 1.4 surplus to break even, but that's a balanced budget at that point. I'd like to speak on that a little bit. I mean I want to commend everybody that's up here and the team that has put all the work into creating the budget. We've really thought, a lot of people have thought outside the box on lots of different things here relative to the budget. Relative to the decal idea that Gary, you had for transportation, the us dedicating stuff to fire and rescue, sheriff. The list goes on and on and on. And Mike, all the work that you guys have done. But I'm really worried personally for Frederick County that having just a zero balanced budget because we are going to take, if I'm understanding everything correctly, a lot of the money that we're going to be spending on the fire and rescue. So, we're going to be spending, if I'm understanding everything correctly, another $7 million out of our capital. Correct. So, next year, what are we going to do? We're going to take another $7 million and we're not looking ahead enough. We're still being reactionary in that regard. We can't fix all the problem in one year. I know that. But a few ideas that I had that could be considered was to not do the five. Okay. So, not do the 5%. That's stated on the screen. But do lower that to 4%. Excuse me, 4 cents. Excuse me. But last, I guess it was last week. All these weeks come together. I'm sorry. But there was a conversation about how the animal shelter funds have an excess of, I think, 1.5 million. And they have a pretty healthy budget, annual budget. There's no reason why we couldn't use 500,000 of that. Towards just their operations. Meaning just the animal shelter operations. Okay. So, that would make a line item of 500,000. Just follow me here, guys and ladies, please. There hasn't been a, I think this budget calls for, does this call for an increase or not of the decal? No. Does not? No increase. There hasn't been a decal increase since 2004. And the state will only allow you to, on vehicles that are less than 4,000 pounds, to take it to $30. So, that $5 increase will create another $500,000. So, now we're at a million. Okay. With the savings that Mike identified, I'm going to round up because he's going to do more work, to get it to 900,000. Okay. So, we're at 1.9 million. Okay. And then, I would take the, we originally stated, at the original budget meeting, we said we were going to take and dedicate 2 million to transportation. We still dedicate 2 million to transportation. Not 2.7 that we have outlined here. And so, it would make a line item that we're dedicating on this budget of 2.6 million. Okay. 2.6, I think is what my numbers were. 2.6 million of a line item going towards the capital fund. So, I would just mention that for consideration. I'm going to disagree with you a little bit on, yeah, we're going to balance. But I think if we hold the line next year and don't drop the rates after reassessment, that would get us kept bowled ahead to where we need to be. The idea I had about decal was that entire amount of the decal going to transportation. Because, yeah, this year it was 2 million. Last year, I believe, it was 7 million. If we just do decal only, it's a flat 2.7 every year. If you want to raise it to $30, then let it go to transportation. Because at some point, we may have to come up with more money for transportation. But if we give them a constant revenue stream, at least they can plan better and they may not ask us for more money in the future. But, yeah, I think that's going to be the big one. If we come back here next year and say we need to roll back all the tax rates when we finally have a surplus to get ready for the fourth high school and everything, that's when it's going to be shameful on us. But this year, we're raising taxes just to meet the bare minimum. And I'm just not comfortable raising them to the point where, you know, we're going to have to pay the tax. We're having a surplus. If we can just break even this year and be ready for next year when we have more money, I think that will take care of next year. I appreciate that. But I will tell you, just looking at debt service increase, what, 1.1 this year for schools alone. And then next year, 4.1. Yeah. And then next year, 4.4 on top of that. And then the following year, 4.7. So if you look next year and two years beyond, that's a good bit of ground. And that's not looking at capital improvement projects that are coming on. I think in, I guess, FY 29, potentially, you can see that. Potentially, you've got elementary school renovation. So it's just a tough position period to be in, to know that you're raising taxes this year. And then the following two years, the picture does not get any easier. In fact, it gets significantly harder. Just my two cents. I'm telling you all information that you already know, but it's an uncomfortable position to be in. I agree. And the thing is, I want to see, I think we need to be careful here and have a little bit of a cushion in this, what we're thinking. Because we're throwing out these numbers. There is no guarantee what we're going to get with the meals tax. There is no guarantee what we're going to get with the tourism tax. So at least that gives us a little bit. I mean, we were surprised last year when we were down 2 point something million. So I just, I feel better. It's not a lot. It's a lot of money, but it's not if we get caught. If we get caught and all of a sudden things go down, then we're actually thinking ahead here. You know, we may end up breaking even with 1.4 or 1.7. Really. So. Yeah, but we got a reassessment coming up. I mean, last go around reassessment. I've got a four acre gravel lot that went from a half a million to 860,000. What's it going to go up this coming year? So there might be a lot of money showing up next year. Plus, throughout the year, just because we budget for it doesn't mean each department is going to spend their full amount. So there will be money added out throughout the year back to the general fund. So it will grow. It's not like it's going to be breaking even up. We're halfway through this reassessment process. Where are we? What are we looking at like right now? What's your crystal ball? We're 2027. Correct. Last year is about a 20 to 21% increase. We haven't even gotten down that road yet. But right now we're looking at 1.8 for what we have for each penny. But we don't have a breakdown of actually how much. If I look at where we were last year at this time, you know, we're holding pretty steady. But the long and the short of it is with some of our new software, it's not as easy to research or to pull things out like they were several years back. Because going from the camera system to the vision, we've had a lot of challenges. Thank you. My first year in 2024, I was able to pull things easier than I am at this time. But if we look at the estimated book values at close of 2024, we were at 78. Right. And at 2025, we were at 92. So we have had a significant increase. But we don't know whether or not we're going to have that again because we have to be 100% of fair market value. So there's a lot of different variables that factor into that before we can set a specific number or percentage. We may not have that significant of an increase. Thank you. So I wanted to mention something because Gary mentioned about the funds that would go to fund balance at the end of the year, the ones that weren't spent. So if you look at your real estate tax rate, these tax rates are set on a calendar year. You collect that in June, which is your current fiscal year. So you get that windfall that was never budgeted. In this case, that windfall would be $4.5 million. And so that, it can be a tool that goes into your capital. Does that make sense? Okay. I feel a tad bit better. I'm trying. I just, you know, I'm with Al. I'm looking down the road. Jason's talking about, you know, we need to look down the road. And we've got a lot of expenses coming up. So I'm, it's not like I'm taking the taxpayers' money and just sold it. I'm not. I'm just going to take the taxpayers' money and just salt it in the way. It's going to get used. And even if we have the real estate assessment tax comes in, if we didn't raise taxes next year and you just lived off of that, that would be funding a lot of those projects that we don't have money for right now. So I kind of, I like the first scenario that we came up with, with the 2% on the transient tax and 4% for the budget. Okay. And, I mean, you don't. I think it's not, I'd still� Interesting than I just told you. Thank you for same filming me back to them first. Good luckwend the four percent for crossing the border on the real estate tax and leave everything else. final sale this for the advertising is that correct so we would like to walk away from here today to know you know what we're doing if if we don't you can have a meeting next week to continue to discuss it um well are you saying for the the tax increases advertisement yes okay they have to be advertised yep so so if we were to advertise at four instead of five and 12 cents and two percent and two percent is that what you're asking for so so that would be you would reduce the the the revenue from the real estate tax by 1.8 you would grab your 1.4 here and then you would add the transient tax of 400 and some and then that's how you're going to balance it is that is that where is that what we just said that's what we said but here's here's the question if we advertise five cents if we advertise five cents we do 12 cent for personal property we do two percent for meal tax and we go up two percent for transient then when we have our meeting um where we have our budget our budget discussion we can still go down we're just advertising we can go down that's correct and i don't i know we're still not talking about mike's cuts right right that's why i'm how how are they playing into that we're going to get numbers from him next week and have a better feel so i mean i personally think we're better off average if you want to increase the transient to two percent i think we're better off advertising what we got and then go down gary i'm not disagreeing with you but i just think i just i'm sorry i got i mean i just keep on thinking last year and i just think it's we can go down we have the opportunity all we're doing is advertising so i think we're better off being safe than sorry and then when we in march we can make this decision and go okay here's the final numbers mike's giving us what we need to do we're going to go down and we're going to go down and we're going to go down and we're going to go down and we're going to go down and we're going to go down we can get with the five percent we really get a good picture here now we can really truly say what gets adjusted and what doesn't that's my two cents i concur i i'm i'm okay i i the advertisement is the advertisement like say you can manipulate that at the meeting so i'm okay with that if if you go down to the four four cents and the two cent and then one double doubling up on the um transit attacks that's where you are right i don't think you got any movement after that i think that's where you're tied into that you know so and then and mike has to bring in his cuts and that might give you a little leeway there you can see that so just thought i'm okay with what you're talking about i'm fine with that that's all right yeah I'd say I agree as well when we keep talking about Mike's cuts Mike's cuts don't forget that supervisor Akins also came up with a couple ideas yes yeah with using half the half a million dollars from the animal shelter and for their operating so if we use all these combined tactics advertise this we come back down that makes perfect sense to me thank you there is a quick question when we're looking at the decals that's going to be some changes and how we operate in the commissioners office so dividing out if we change that we also do we need to advertise that rate we yeah we advertise it now that's on your June bill right so there's an I'm not sure I understood what you just said so if we're raising the rate there are certain parameters for certain weight classes yes so when we change that around that's going to be more of a challenge with some of our systems that we have so I think that the the the $5 isn't necessary weight driven am I correct it's a minimum thing it's a minimum register so you're also talking about rate that's achieved so in the now Massachusetts composite here this would be the dv 21 and I think this is going to be changed a little bit I think the number of сx 경우 resources as with a product like I live in West mexico Dell committee but the above the registration fee per DMV so you don't get into the weight components of it if you went above 4000 you technically could go to 35 for all those vehicles what she's talking about would be a separation but that's not the case based upon a thirty dollars so I'm for that. That's fine. Supervisor Larratt? I'm going to pass on that for Matt. You're going to pass on that for Matt? Supervisor Akins? I would. It's had an increase since 2004. Supervisor Orndorff? Yes, I'm in agreement. Supervisor Grudenbach? Yes. Supervisor Oates? All right, but I don't see any scenario where I'm going to be agreeable to five cents on real estate. And I'm fine if you want to raise that $5 on the decal, but I think all of us should go towards transportation. I understand about the five percent. That was just to, like I said, we're not locking in. We're just advertising. We can always take that down. I'm agree, Gary, I agree with you. I don't want to see five percent. But also, at the end of the day, don't want to come back and say, oh, darn, we're now a million dollars down because of something that we didn't see or something that didn't. That's an unforeseen thing. So I just, let me say it this way, and then adjust. Let's go to the final numbers. I agree with Gary. I'm not really crazy about the five cents. And I'll agree with you on the $5 going straight to transportation. So your ad will reflect that. Instead of the 2.6 to transportation, it'll be 3.1. Your ad will show a transfer to transportation. Okay. Okay. The rest of it? It will be kind of like just earmarked in a contingency for you guys to further discuss where you're spending it, how much, how you're moving the changes that Mike's going to give you or any changes that were discussed here with the animal shelter that Jason mentioned. I'll just make one more comment. We talked a lot about future years. That 7.7 million funds transferred from capital funds still concerns me. So if there's any way that we have some leeway. In this budget, that would be my recommendation that we reduce that number transfer from the capital fund. So that number has been reduced a little bit already. If you use the blue area, that's proffers. That's a million of that. So that reduces your transfer. Um, if you, and Mike's going to talk about that, um, actually what we're taking out of the capital and the FY 27 budget. Um, is like 5.3. Yeah. Yeah. I will make a note though that we're actually using the capital fund to pay for capital not operating. That's correct. That's where the big disconnects been. So we've got our operating taken care of. So spending money out of the capital fund for capital doesn't concern me because that's what it's there for. Okay. Yeah, I'm in agreement with that. We're actually doing what we should be doing. But at the same time, I want to make sure that we're doing it. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I'm in agreement with that. We're actually doing what we should be doing. But at the same time, I want to make sure that we're doing what we should be doing. So that's a big disconnect. So that's where we're going to go. But at the same time, I want to make sure we're if we have an opportunity to try to put something back in. That's my concern. So but you're absolutely right. Gary. Okay, so you want to move to the bottom part of the sheet? Did you want to revisit your position? Yes. Okay. Yes, I discussed at the last meeting, they were eliminating the project manager. And as I told you the story, we were in the process of getting ready to hire this position and then Cheryl told me, about how bad the budget was. And they said, you know, I don't want to hire this knowing we have bad numbers. But in the same respect, I do believe the county needs to go back to having two deputy county administrators. It was that way for many years. When I got here, they didn't have anyone on staff. So we were trying to balance the budget. So I recommend removing that money. Obviously, 140 wouldn't be enough. But we believe we can find the rest of money by moving around positions. And we believe we will be able to eliminate positions, for instance, and this was the story. It was discussed last week at the workshop. We are currently working with the attorney and his assistant where she will now become the FOIA officer so that our public information officer now will not have to do FOIA any longer. So that position will become a true public information officer. So we're looking around, shifting staff and changing the way duties are so in the long run we can learn to reduce staff. But I truly believe the county needs that other position. So we will move forward with that. And then I think the other person would be the deputy county commissioner. And it would be to divide up departments probably more on the internal service administrative side. And the other person would be more in charge of the community development and those type of departments. So will you need funding? Well, right now, there's $140,000 in this year's current budget for the project manager. I would ask to allow us to move it to the deputy county administrative position. And then we'll have the funding to the adjustments of other positions to get it to the salary needed. So help me out. You said deputy county commissioner and then you went back to county? Administrator. Administrator. So yourself and Jay and one other? Correct. As you remember in the previous years, you had the one county administrator and Jay and Chris were the two deputy county administrators. Okay. And Ann's role? Ann. Yeah. Well, Ann's official role is the deputy clerk. But the truth of the matter is she really does most of the clerking work and trying to keep us all in line. And there's no way I can add more duties to Ann. She's doing quite a bit. Okay. So is there a tradeoff between the, I don't want to say not personnel person, the Project manager. Person and not hire that position and just use the? Well, currently, we have the one person who is doing the. The public information work and the FOIA. And as we discussed in the last meeting, when a person's trying to do two tasks, they end up, this person actually ends up doing all the FOIA and not any public information. And it seems the board was looking at how do we do a better job in communicating with the outside. So in that respect, it's not eliminating a position, it's eliminating the need to hire a new position. So instead of having a FOIA, hiring a FOIA person or POI, what we would now have is shifting the duties to another person. We feel confident they could do it. So you'll have a FOIA position? Yes, and it would actually be. One person handling just FOIA? Yes. And one person handling public relations? Correct. And the person that would do the FOIA is already in an existing position and she would assume the responsibility as the FOIA officer. I mean, there's a procedure for that. I think the board has to have vote eventually to appoint them FOIA, but they would assume the duties. And we've been training her for quite some time. I just have, I don't know, the public relations part of it to me, I've got to figure out what they do and how they do it. We've tried. We just tried the other night. It didn't work real well. So, you know, I don't know what that looks like to me. And do I want to spend money at this time? We haven't had it. We've done without it. Actually, we've had the POI. But they've been both. So this doesn't create a new position. What it does is it takes the current POI position as now POI and FOIA and it shifts the FOIA responsibilities to the legal assistant. At the last strategic meeting, there was some talk about separating those two positions and creating one. So what it does by doing this, eliminate the need to create that new position. So you're not hiring someone? No, no. Shifting duties. Oh, okay. So the idea is by doing that, we'll find the extra funding for the county administrator. Okay. I thought we were talking about hiring another person. Okay. I think before where we had that deputy position, that was when we moved Mr. Tibbs up to the deputy under Chris Tierney. And it was kind of a succession thing. If I'm not mistaken, I believe they were both deputies for a while and then Chris assumed the position. Yeah. When Brenda was here. Yeah. Yeah, it was a succession issue. So if Mr. Tibbs is willing to move up to county administrator eventually, I don't have any problem with it. He's not looking at me though. He's ignoring you. I don't think he can hear you over there. He's ignoring you. So does that mean we're not deducting $140,000? Is that what? Is that what you're saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is that what that means? Are you all good with this? Well, is $140,000 what it's going to take for deputy of a deputy? No. That's why we're also looking at shifting on him. We believe... So you're looking at splitting the $140,000 into two positions, 70-70, or? No. No. We've already got Jay in there and he... I don't think he'd do it for 70. What we'd do is... No. I'm talking about the $140,000. Yeah. So we're bringing in a deputy under him. No. It wouldn't be a deputy. There would be two deputies on the same working together, side by side. Yeah. As it was, he'd... Oh, so they wouldn't be answering to him. They both answered to you. Correct. And then we'd divide up the duties. All right. Yeah. You overworked over there, Tibbs? No, you overworked. And just, I want to bring it up is, you know, I know here my retirement's not too far away, and the nice thing about that is there will be the opportunity at my office to do that. There will be the opportunity at my time of retirement. You will have those two positions, and that gives you an opportunity to look at how it's operating, and that could always be changed at that time. I'm looking down the line here. I'm all right, sir. All right. I'm good. I got two. Supervisor Akins? I'm good. Yeah. Supervisor Orndorff? I'd be supportive of it, because it's an accessibility issue. It's not only county staff and the projects. It's also from my former position. Okay. Being able to contact one of the deputies is important. That's true. That's a great point, too. It really is. Supervisor Gouvernement? Good. Thank you. All right. Supervisor Oates? Sure. There you are. Take the $140,000 out, please. And we've been working, I've been working with the attorney to find a way to use these proffers as best possible. We've been going over the statutes, and we discussed this last time. Okay. We felt comfortable with all of these. As we told you, the administrative building and library, those are from the old law. You don't even do those anymore. So we felt comfortable spending them on the maintenance, the equipment. When it comes to the recreation proffers, there are much more specific laws in there. It has to be for new facilities. So when we looked at that, the indoor playground, $150,000, we think that meets the criteria, because it's part of a facility. And then when we looked at, there was one other one, the Shirando Lake Trail, the $350,000, that probably meets the criteria of the state statute for proffers. The other one gets to be very questionable, because the state does not allow you to spend it on equipment. I guess by comment, there would be, I mean, Parks and Rec. took it on the chin pretty hard, like they normally do every year. Yeah. I just wanted to make sure that you're understanding. Okay. So they're not going to be able to get to those proffers if they wanted them, to try and fund as many of their capital needs as possible. So what they spend it on, whether it's these two items or something else, just as long as they have access to use the proffers, the sport is a blessing. That's all I care about. And I did discuss that with them, and they were very comfortable with this and having access to those proffers, and they've actually looked at a lot of them for some of their future projects. Okay. All right. So that's it. Thank you. All right. So that takes the, if that's the case, that's $500,000. None of that affects you because it was coming out of Proffers, and we're going to eliminate them, so it has no budget. No, but that, the rest would be still sitting there for Parks and Rec to look at what they could possibly use in the future. Correct. So back to the ad. Back to the ad. Back to the ad. We're finished with this part. It's all about the ad. No, we're still, I'm kind of confused about this bottom part. So, I'm advertising as a transfer. Everything on here except for what's in blue? No. No. What are you doing? This one's good, the indoor playground, because that's, you can still keep that in. And you can, the Frederick, let's see, the lake trail you can keep in because that is a, you know, improving a facility, and all these items down here are good. So, originally you didn't have a facility. You told me to pull these out and now you're adding some things back, right? No. Yeah, just the ones we're adding back of the recreation are the lake trail. 150. Yes, the 150 and the 350. Okay. All right, so everything else is okay on here as far as the buses and what we've deducted. Everything's okay with this. We're using proffers and capital. This is what we're advertising. It'll come out of the, it'll either come out of the unreserved funds or it'll come out of the unreserved funds. It'll come out of the unreserved fund balance or it'll come out of, not unreserved profit fund balance, or it'll come out of the capital fund. Good. Are we good? I want to make, throw one cork in this. Okay. I haven't have, I haven't seen where the opioid funds in the proffers could be used somewhere for operations or anything yet. And then I wanted, and however that pans out, that pans out. But I think we need to determine that and use whatever we're getting. Accordingly as we, as we can for our current expenditures. Additionally, there's a, there's a fund that is called the courthouse ADA fees. And if the courthouse that those fees can only be used towards improvements for ADA issues, obviously, but it also has security issues at the courthouse. So if the budget. If the courthouse has anything in their budget relative to security, which I'm not saying it does not saying it doesn't, but if it does, and we should try to use some of that 650 for whatever security enhancements they're trying to do. Good. Good. I'd like to piggyback one thing on that. Actually, I hadn't thought of it, but that opioid, perhaps that's our $20,000 health. That's a good point. Yeah. I mean, it's absolutely a possibility. You know, the laws on that are pretty tricky and they have these guidelines, but there are gray areas and it would really need to be for this board to sit down and go and look at those funds. You know, we have a significant amount of money and money coming in every year. And from a staff perspective, those funds are just sitting there and we'd like to have do a presentation of the board, give them the information alone, have this board give us some direction of how they would like to use it. Oh, I'd love that. Yeah. I mean, if the money's sitting there, we should be, if there's something we can be doing, let's do it. Yeah. This is to the point I made a month and a half, two months ago when I said we need to be very creative, look at every dollar and dime that comes in and use the money that's sitting there. And if this exercise, if we could do that and we could show again the taxpayers that we're digging in and we're utilizing funding, I think that's what we're here for. Makes sense. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if the whole board needs to get into deep on the weeds on that. I think, Mr. Chairman, if you want to form a committee without me and study that, I'm more supportive of that. Just a quick question. Could any of that be used by the sheriff's office? I'm not sure about the sheriff's department. We'd have to chat with him, but I know we have a substance abuse counselor that we fund, and it's like 60,000. That's what we talked about earlier. That comes out of their field. Yeah. It's not limited, really, to the department. It's limited type of use, and they don't allow you to pay for anything you're doing that you're doing currently, and they're not going to allow you to supplant. So in this case, the opioids, let's say you were to use the money to pay for something you're already paying for, they wouldn't allow you to do that. But it's pretty confusing, the law, and complicated, and I would need to have our attorney come back and committee or the board make a presentation and get some direction. I'd rather not. I'd rather see our law, Andy, and tell us where's the gray versus where is it very specific to the board, and let us make a decision. Sorry, Supervisor, but you're going to be included in that. That, and I think also the 14 positions that they've not filled, the sheriff may be able to reprogram. Yeah. And I think that's the purpose, one of those requested FTEs to something that would qualify. Right. Not to dig into this any further, but could, I know there's education at the high schools and all the schools about opioids. I don't know if any of that could go towards the youth. It absolutely can. I know that for a fact. We've had the schools approach us, and we've had like NW, not NW Works, but the NW, the NW Works, but different organizations, charitable organizations have approached us. I will tell you the jurisdictions around here have been approached by a lot of people, and we've all been sort of in limbo of how to spend this money. There's also the opportunity if you pick the right plans where you can apply for grants through the state, and they'll actually, you can leverage those funds for more. So there's a lot of information there. It's a little bit complicated, and it definitely needs to be looked at. Sounds like a great job for the new deputy county master. There you go. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so we're advertising these rates as written except for the transient, and we're increasing it to 2%, and we're adding $5 to the decal. Yes, ma'am. Okay. That's what I've got. Everybody on board with that? Yes. All right. There you go. Thank you. Are we good? We're good. No meeting next week. No meeting next week? Oh, there you go. That's really good. Do you want one on the 11th? The 11th was to fine tune the ad. Yeah. Okay. So we're going to go to the next one. Okay. So we're going to go to the 11th. Yes. I think that would be good to do a meeting on the 11th, so like you said, fine tune it. Yeah, and you'll have a copy of the ad, too, in front of you. All right. Wait a minute. This is going to be the last meeting for Cheryl and Jennifer, right? Yes. Last meeting for you, Kim. Yes. Thank you. Thank you for the count on behalf of . Yes. Thank you. Thank you. There was one more item on the agenda that we kind of overlooked. So when we were talking about the new . Yes. So we were talking about the new . Yes. So we were talking about the new . Yes. Yes. So when we had discussions, I don't know, last time or the time before, there was a discussion about any leftover school funds in the school operating that would go to their capital. That would be part of our resolution. That doesn't necessarily need to be decided tonight, but it should be decided on the 11th. Perfect. So just kind of be thinking about it. Yeah. Does that work? Yes. Does that work for everybody? We speak about that on the 11th? Fine. Yeah, I'm fine. And when I mentioned that to my school board member, he was really happy about that, and said, yeah, it does give us an incentive to try and save more money if it's going to go to their capital needs. Okay. Thank you. Just a quick question, Cheryl. Yes. Would that be FY26 money? Is it an automatic reappropriation or appropriation to FY27? Yes. Yes. I'm just curious of the mechanics. Yes. Okay. Okay. So it would be, and it would be, whatever is unobligated would go to the school capital fund. Okay. So normally it goes from the school fund to the general fund, then it gets appropriated back to the school operating fund for those that are, you know, have designated expenses, and then the other is subject to the board to the capital fund. So it would be just automatic. Okay. They wouldn't have to come to finance, have a list. You already had the list during their budget process, so you know their priorities. The only thing that concerns me with that is that the potential of an inflated budget to begin with, meaning if the schools come in, if I'm understanding what's being proposed, they could technically ask for more from a budget, trying to go ahead and get more of their capital built in on the front end with hopes that, okay, if they do get the cuts, then great. But if not, there's fluff there. There's the potential. There's the potential for the schools to add additional fluff to their budget. If we go ahead and say that, hey, anything left over is going to be going to capital, it just makes me uneasy. Okay. Good? Yes. Cheryl, thank you. We're adjourned. One day. I don't have people's initials. I don't have a name. I don't have a name. I don't have a name. I don't have a name. I don't have a name. No. I don't have a específic requirement. To approve the... Have a great evening. Have a great evening. Very good. C einen, we'll be back here Mittwoch.
