Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=318
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Well, Heavenly Father, we thank you that you first of all created us and that we have the freedom to assemble here in this place. And I pause for just a moment to invite you into this place. Lord, that you would bless each one that has decisions to be made with wisdom that comes from you. I pray, God, for unity and clarity, that those that want to express their voices would do so with the best of their ability. But, God, I pray that the decisions that are made in this place would be for the betterment of our community, for our schools, for our kids, for all of us that are here, that it would bring you glory and honor. God, that we would make sure that we're not putting our own interests above others' interests. And so, God, I just pray for unity. I pray for unity in this place, that you would be glorified, that the words of our mouth and the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. And we ask this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Vice Chairman Wells. If you would, join me in a pledge of allegiance to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. And I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Amen. Vice Chairman Wells. Thank you. All right. Next up is the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt the agenda as presented. Second. Okay. We got a motion. We got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Anybody opposed? All right. We've got a good agenda going here. Next up is Citizens' Comments. Now, Citizens' Comments is for Abram. agenda items that are not the subject of a public hearing. Madam clerk? Mr. Chairman, we have no one signed up for this comment period. Okay. Is there anyone that wants to speak? I like it. We're going to keep on moving. All right. Next up is consent agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move that the consent agenda be approved as presented. I got a motion. Second. I have a second. This one requires a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chairman Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Guvermont? Aye. And the chair votes aye. Okay. We're good to go on the consent agenda. Next up is board of supervisors comments. Do we have any? I'm looking to the right. I'm looking to the left. Okay. Moving on. Thank you. County officials, Mr. Bolhopper, you're up. We were contacted by the VR A, who is who we worked when we did our initial bonds, and they told us we had the opportunity to refund three of our bonds. And I will show you the bonds that they're talking about. The original. This is the public safety building bond, $17 million. Or excuse me, $21 million. The Roundhill Fire Department, $5 million. And finally, the Millwood Fire Department. This is a recovery project, and it was a piece At the opening of Portland School Board andeduic a card. It absolutely It really is really inspirational for everyone to think back to a year and to think in a couple of years, powers. What I get to tell people to think this where families have grown to a certain degree in this� And you're looking at the<|ps|> This is the and you saw that Jesse you saw that Tammy it was this program last year. This is what I was going to talk about, but well,'ve had this projectская $45,000. It seemed like a great opportunity for the county to do this. The real expense we will have would be hiring bond counsel. Our preliminary investigation is it would be between $20,000 and $30,000. However, we have not been able to establish that price yet. We'll be contacting McGuire Woods. They have contacted us to get a price on doing that, but I assume it will be in that area. And I just wanted to come before the board to make sure you wanted to start moving forward with this. We have to come back before you to get final approval and get the resolution and such done. But if the board is fine with us taking a look at this, we were going to move forward. Board, how would you like to handle it? We don't need a motion. No, we need a motion. I'm just looking for any comments. I would say move forward. Move forward. You're going to save money? That's the ticket right there. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. First up is the Hanley Regional Library Board. For your term of Monica Williams, do I have a motion? Mr. Chair, I would make a motion that we appoint Monica Williams to the Hanley Regional Library Board. All right. We've got a motion. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. This is a voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Good to go. Next one up is Old Dominion Community Criminal Justice Board. For your term of Jay Tibbs, do I have a motion? So moved. We've got a motion. We've got a second? Second. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? You can't vote, Mr. Tibbs. Old Dominion ASAP Policy Board. For your term for Jay Tibbs, do I have a motion? Motion to appoint Jay Tibbs. Reappoint. Thank you. Do I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? All right. Good to go. Madam Clerk, do you want to read this one? Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. The Board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Extension Leadership Council, Redbud District, Parks and Recreation Commission, the Opecan District, and Parks and Rec Commission and At-Large Representative. Applications are available online on our website. Thank you. All right. Committee Business, we're good. Public Hearings, Non-Planning, we're good. Okay. Next one up is Planning Commission Business Public Hearing. This first up is rezoning of 0725 of Madison 277. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. This is rezoning request 0725 for the Madison 277 property, also known as Madison 2 LLC. This is a requested rezoning of 149.02 acres from your RA Rural Areas Zoning District to the R4 Residential Planned Community District. The property is located on Fairfax Pike in the Opecan Magistrate. The property is located on Fairfax Pike in the Opecan Magistrate's Community District. The property is located on Fairfax Pike in the Opecan Magistrate's Community District. And staff would know that you all were provided today or this evening rather with a revised proffer statement dated February the 10th, which reflects changes to the monetary contributions to address concerns raised in the staff report, which I'll cover later in the slideshow. But I wanted to make you aware that you did receive revised and final proffers this evening. This is our countywide locator map showing the general location of the subject property in the southeast portion of the county. east of Stephen City in the Opecan Magisterial District. And this is our zoning and location map showing the subject property outlined in purple. Again, this 149-acre tract is south and adjoined by Fairfax Pike, and it is west and north of the existing and developing Lake Frederick community. And this is your adopted long-range land use plan, which shows the subject property again outlined in purple. The property has two land use designations. The first that adjoins Fairfax Pike in that orange and red striped pattern is your mixed-use commercial office land use designation, and then the polka dot pattern south of that is your neighborhood village designation. You all will recall that a Comprehensive Policy Plan Amendment, or CPPA, was approved by the Board of Supervisors in 2024, and that plan amendment was requested by the same owner seeking to rezone this property. The Comprehensive Policy Plan Amendment, not only looked at the Madison property, but the larger Lake Frederick community, and created a new non-contiguous urban development area, or UDA, to encompass both the subject property and the Lake Frederick community, and it designated the property with those revised land use designation. The property was previously designated for industrial and mixed-use industrial office uses. When considering land use decisions, we look to our Comprehensive Plan to provide guidance on the nature and future use of a property. The Southern Frederick Area Plan, which was amended in 2024, specifically calls out the Lake Frederick development sub-planning area and notes that residential land uses would be permitted only as an accessory component of a neighborhood village commercial use, that in order to serve the needs of the growing residential community in and around Lake Frederick and the urban development area, medical uses should be considered within the core commercial area around the 277 corridor, and that the existing Lake Frederick community is included as the core of the area of this new UDA, and to demonstrate the quality of construction and type of land use patterns desired in this area of the county. This is a zoomed-out version of that long-range land use plan, which shows the bounds of that Lake Frederick UDA. It's that dotted line, which includes the pink area, which is the Lake Frederick community, and that split mixed commercial and neighborhood village area known as Madison, the Madison property. In regard to the comprehensive plan, the proposed rezoning is generally consistent with the adopted plan policy. The rezoning request and proposes a zoning district known as the R4, the residential plan community district, which may be associated with the plan-identified land uses for neighborhood village. And the proposal enables commercial uses along that frontage with Route 277 Fairfax Pike that aligns with the designated mixed-use office commercial land use designation, and the proper design of the land use plan. The proposed plan also includes the proposed land use restrictions to B1 and B2 in that front land bay, which I'll show later, and the inclusion of medical uses in land bay 1, addresses plan policies for the type of commercial uses envisioned in the Lake Frederick UDA. In regard to transportation and site access, our comprehensive plan calls for Route 277 to be an improved minor arterial roadway, and further, the plan envisions a new minor arterial roadway across the subject property. Many of you will be familiar with the South Frederick Roadway, which is a part of the Lake Frederick Parkway, which has been a component of our comprehensive plan for the better part of 20 years. And the proposal generally implements plan policies specific to those planned transportation improvements. Access to the site is shown on the proffered generalized development plan as proposed from Fairfax Pike. They're proposing two entrances, and from a future interpersonal connection with the Lake Frederick community to the east. This is your adopted long-range transportation plan, which again shows the subject property in purple and that pink bound, and the one that splits the property is that future South Frederick Parkway, which runs parallel to Fairfax Pike between Route 522 and Interstate 81. This is the generalized development plan provided with the application. I've zoomed in specifically on that front land bay, land bay 1, which is shown in red. For the purposes of our discussion, Fairfax Pike is on this side of your screen in this image, and then they're showing what is to be the future South Frederick Parkway, coming into their site, collecting in a roundabout, and then proceeding into their property to serve their land bays, and they are providing the right-of-way designation for the future connection of that comprehensive planned road to the west as part of their proposal. When evaluating land use decisions, particularly residential rezonings, staff and the board also utilize what's known as our capital impact, or CAPM, which is the capital impact of the state. And they're also providing the right-of-way designation for the future connection of that comprehensive planned road to the west as part of their proposal. This is a model, a proprietary model that the county adopts annually. It was last updated in October of 2024, and it projects the fiscal impact of land use actions. As you all are well aware, the proper categories as enabled by state code are limited to public safety, schools, and parks and recreation. So when you see on the table, you'll see the full capital impact of a certain housing type, but the capacity triggered amount on the right-hand, part of the table is the amount that we can collect as a locality under the code of Virginia, and the total that we looked at the applicants match. So again, that's just that full capital impact versus the capacity triggered amount. And staff, again, as noted earlier in the presentation, the revised proffer statement generally meets the intent of our adopted policy. As noted in the staff report, there was an error on previous versions of the capital impact model that were included in the staff report that was a result of the changing of assigning particular schools, versus school zones to the property. Again, we are pleased to report that in working with the applicant, since the staff report, they have amended their proffer statement to implement the intent of our capital impact model policy. In our capital impact model, it also provides levels of service. These are the service schools to that future development on the Madison property. It is served by Armel Elementary School, Aylor Middle School, and Sharando High School presently. And you can see that, the, both Armel and Sharando High School are both presently over capacity, and Aylor Middle School has quite a bit of capacity. And then the far right hand column shows what the capacity would be with this project enabled. This is a point in time model showing what it would look like in October of 2025. Obviously, this is not taking into account the fourth high school, and other improvements to our school facilities that may change the capacity and the enrollment of these schools. So again, it's a point in time count, but it's provided for perspective on the level of service. So in regard to the proposal, the applicant has provided a proffer statement dated February the 10th, 2026. Proffer A pertains to the generalized development plan where they specify that they will conform with the generalized development plan included with the proffer statement. Proffer B pertains to the design modification document. When developing in the R4 zoning district, the developer has the opportunity to amend certain zoning ordinance standards, to better suit the needs of their community, and they have proffer to be in conformance with their design modification document. They are seeking two design modifications. Modification number one pertains to rezoning procedure, and they have proposed that they will provide a master development plan prior to the construction documentation phase of the design. And modification number three pertains to buffers and screening, where they have proffer to provide buffers and screening along the perimeter of their property, but not between individual land base. Proffer C pertains to the land use and land use matrix. It provides a land use matrix which specifies what type of development will occur in each land bay. They have provided, or sorry, rather capped their development at 596 residential units. They have provided a one acre dedication to the Department of Game and Inland Fisheries for the extension of the trail system around the Lake Frederick natural resource, and they have proffer to provide a 25 foot wide, mature woodland buffer where their land bay three abuts the Lake Frederick development, which I'll point out when we get to the generalized development plan later in the slides. Proffer D pertains to land use phasing. They have proffer to provide to build no more than 150 units per year, and that any unbuilt units may be carried forward and built in any subsequent year. And they've specified that the development limited to 200 residential units until at least 10,000 square feet of commercial is constructed in the land bay. They have proffer to provide to build no more than 150 units per year, and that any unbuilt units may be carried forward and built in any subsequent year. And they've specified that the development limited to 200 residential units until at least 10,000 square feet of commercial is constructed in the land bay. Proffer E pertains to monetary contributions. Highlighted in red is the amendment that occurred in the proffers you were provided today, and then they make their monetary contributions by the housing types that they provided, which corresponds to their land use matrix, and they have limited themselves within that proffer to 178 age restricted units, and then they provided that annual escalator clause, which allows the proffers to grow over time to keep up with inflation. Proffer F pertains to recreational facilities. They've agreed to construct a natural surface trail prior to the construction of the 201st residential unit, and they've made a commitment to one large community building prior to the issuance of the 299th unit. Proffer G pertains to transportation improvements. They've proffered to provide public roads serving single family or duplex lots, and private or public roads meeting a VDOT standard for those roads serving townhomes or multifamily development. They've agreed to limit their site access to those locations as shown on the generalized development plan. They've proffered that if warranted by a signal justification report or SJR, construction of intersection improvements at the development entrance intersection with Route 277, and then they've agreed to limit their site access to those locations as shown on the generalized development plan. They've agreed to construction of a portion of the four-lane collector road identified in our comprehensive plan, known as the South Frederick Parkway, and they've provided dedication of right-of-way to support the future extension of that roadway to the west by others. They've agreed to right-of-way dedication along Route 277 for the future widening of 277, consistent with your comprehensive plan. And they've agreed to construct improvements at the intersection of Hudson Hollow Road and White Oak Road and Route 277. These improvements were recommended in the traffic impact analysis that they've made, and they've made a commitment to provide an inter-parcel connection with the Lake Frederick community to the east, ensuring that there would be the ability of the existing residents within Lake Frederick to access their commercial land base without having to go on Route 522 and 277. Proffer H pertains to quality of construction. They've agreed that for commercial buildings, facade should be built on the same level as the construction site. They've agreed to limit the site access to those locations as shown on the generalized development plan. They've agreed to limit the site access to those locations as well. For residential buildings, facade should be constructed of one or a combination of the following materials, cast stone, stone, brick, architectural block, glass, wood, drive-it, or stucco. And they've made a further commitment to residential building materials, shall include a mixture, specifying a minimum of two of the following materials, wood, brick, vinyl, fiber cement, cast stone, stone, architectural block, drive-it, or stucco. They've also specified that for residential buildings, they would be consistent with examples of the construction site, including the materials included in Exhibit A of the Proffers. These are a sample of images from Exhibit A. These are a combination of existing multifamily buildings. They're part of the Madison Village development, which is the same owner and developer, and examples of single-family detached units from the adjoining Lake Frederick community. Again, speaking to that plan policy about harmonizing with the adjoining residential community. This is their included generalized development plan. So, what you have on your screen are the three land bays. Land bays 1A and 1B are the red and orange land bays that adjoin Route 277. Land bay 1B is where they proffer to provide medical uses consistent with plan policy. And land bay 1A would be restricted to other B1 and B2 uses, excluding gasoline service stations and self-storage facilities. Land bay 2, which is the yellow land bay in the middle of the site, is restricted to multifamily development. And then land bay 3, which is the balance of the site, immediately adjoins the Lake Frederick community, would be restricted to single-family, duplex, and townhome units, and they are prohibiting the development of multifamily development in land bay 3. The dark green line along the eastern and southern property boundary reflects that 25-foot mature woodland buffer. And then the balance of the site, which is known as land bay 4, is their proffered open space, which would contain their natural surface trail and that one-acre dedication to the Department of Games and Inland Fisheries for their protection of the Lake Frederick resource. Again, they show their potential points of connection to 277 and that collector road as noted earlier in the presentation. So as is customary with our staff report, we provide positives and concerns for your consideration regarding the application. In regard to positives, the proposed zoning district R4, as noted earlier, may be associated with the planned land uses, mixed-use, commercial office, and neighborhood village. The commercial uses in land bay 1 along Fairfax Pike address the planned envisioned uses and policies, including the desire for medical uses in this area of the county to serve the Lake Frederick UDA. As noted regarding the amended proffer statement, it does generally meet the intent of the county's adopted capital impact model monetary contributions, implementation of the planned transportation improvements, and mitigation of transportation impacts are partially addressed. And the quality of design as stated in the planned policy has been addressed through those commercial and residential building materials and exhibits. And they've also provided a buffer with the adjoining residential neighborhood. Noting concerns, there's one outstanding concern. The traffic impact analysis noted that in addition to those improvements needed offsite at the White Oak Road and 277 intersection, there were improvements needed at the 522-342. and 277 intersection, and those remain unaddressed in their proffers. As noted in the VDOT comments, this is a larger issue than just the Madison property. So there were difficulties in coming to an agreement on what type of improvement would be necessary there that wouldn't be torn out later should a regional project be developed. So the Planning Commission held three meetings on this proposed rezoning. And they held a work session in November. A public hearing was held in December. And then they held a public meeting in January, and they ultimately recommended approval of the rezoning with a 12-1 vote. So this item is presented to the Board this evening as a public hearing item. And following your public hearing, staff would be seeking a decision by the Board on this proposed rezoning. Craig George is here this evening with Valley Engineering representing Dave Madison, the property owner. And we are both available to answer any questions you may have regarding this proposed rezoning. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Up to the right. Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Supervisor Lero. Mr. Klein, I have a question on Proff or Gee on transportation. Is there anything in there in terms of phasing, in terms of whether that connection to 277 is built before the first building, whether it be residential or commercial, is built? Let me just take a quick look. So the installation of the improvements to the intersection with 277 should be provided prior to the issuance of the 195th, certificate of occupancy for the residential uses. So in other words, there could be buildings built and those folks, if they occupy those buildings, have to go to the south and to the east? That would be correct. And connect on to 522 through? So that's talking, they have two, sorry, they have potentially two entrances on 277. So this pertains to the signal justification report and improvements at their primary entrance. But they would have, they could potentially have a second entrance from 277 that would serve as the access to the development until the first building. Okay. So they would have to have a second entrance from 277 that would serve as the access to the development until this facility would be constructed. But at any rate, they could build out 195 buildings before they have to connect to 277? That would be correct, yes, sir. Thank you. Anybody else? Any questions for the, Mr. Madison or his engineer? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Mr. Pearson, did you have something? Yeah, one second. All right. Do you want to read out? No, sir. Sorry, we didn't turn all the lights on. That was a good one, man. Yeah. You could have been able to read it. I'll just try to read it. You could have been able to read it. All right. You could have made it up top by now. There you go. There you go. You're going off and on. All right. There we go. Apologies. One clarification on Mr. Lero's comment. The initial entrance to 277 itself is likely going to be constructed at the onset of the project. That 195 limitation applies to when the building is going to be constructed. But that's not going to be the first step. That's going to be the first step. So if there is a second entrance, you can go to the building. And if there is a third entrance, you can go to the building. And if there is a third entrance, you can go to the building. But that's not going to be the first step. That's going to be the first step. Okay. So the initial entrance to 277 itself is likely going to be constructed at the onset of the project. That 195 limitation applies to when the entrance would need to be signalized. So that's just one clarification that the main entrance is going to go in first. But that limitation of those 200 units, that's when it's going to trigger the requirement that they complete the signal justification report and provide that signal control or whatever recommendation VDOT has for how that intersection is going to be constructed. Okay. Okay. Okay. So we do want to make sure that we make sure that the signal restriction is going to function. Gotcha. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, folks, this is going to be a public hearing. I want to make sure we do this. When you come up, the mic is if the red is on, you just saw the demonstration. If it's no red, it's not speaking. Name, Magisterial District. You have three minutes. And, please keep it three minutes. Don't come up with a six-page, trying to talk. Three minutes. Cut it. And we'll do it. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm also gonna ask the the everybody that's attending here. This is a business meeting So let's not do the hooping hollering and clapping of hands and everything Just do what you're supposed to do come up and and Talk to us. Okay, but that said madam clerk the first person is Jay Martz Six pages You're on the mass chairman first off my consolances your strong man. Thanks for the work you do members of the board I'm Jay Martz resident of the Gainesboro district I have previously expressed my opposition to this rezoning action and disappointment the Planning Commission who moved this application forward Thankfully we had one commissioner that voted as opposed I don't think we've had a rezoning action of this type for over about 15 years So I don't think there's a real urgency for approval. So at the very least let's table this action I Had quite a few written comments But since the proffer statement seems to have been revised and I have not had a chance to review it I don't know if any of you have reviewed the new proffer statement It makes it kind of silly for me to go through all these items, but I will say housing in our community I don't think we need more residential units. There's plenty of lots available from the number I hear there's 7,000 out there right now. That's about a 10-year average if we're pulling building permits at 187 over a 10-year average here in Frederick County So, you know in the existing housing market is pretty positive average listings run about 288 a month days on the markets about 53 So I don't think there's a big need for Housing in this community right now to bring on about 600 more units Also the timeline for this it looks like we're limited to about 150 per year. So that's gonna be about a four-year program Times available, so let's not approve this in the short term more Studies needed let's table this thing. I don't even want to I shouldn't even go into the transportation I think it was covered very well here But there's a real problem with that two-lane undivided road at 55 miles an hour putting in this giant Residential area and businesses in there and no traffic light to begin with probably this this pretty rough build the roads first Fiscal impact I don't have anything to say about that because I haven't read the new proffer so everything I had here is Doesn't probably probably no longer applies So I would say that would be enough for you to table this action in the short term as more study is needed I would like to read it Before I come to a public hearing to speak about it I'm not against growth. I would just ask you do we need do we want need more traffic on our roads? Do we need more demand on our electrical grid? Do we need more treatment and consumption of sewer and water? Do we need more students in overcrowded schools? Do we need more service calls to fire EMS? And the sheriff I think the answer to this is no I've heard from many members of this board that there is nothing that we can do to slow the growth in this county because all The over development was put in place years ago by preceding boards. Well Nobody wants to be a hypocrite. I believe the answer to that is no So I would ask you to vote no on the Madison 277 rezoning. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Martin Marv Davis Good evening. I'm Marv Davis a resident of the Opec and district living in Lake Frederick as chair of our community Madison working group we've been collaborating with mr. Pearson staff and mr. Madison's team now for 16 months in a very Collaborative way we appreciate the many constructive changes The Madison team has made to their application at Lake Frederick We've had multiple community meetings and direct contact with all of our homeowners and at this point in time a Large majority do not support rezoning at this time We accept development is coming our way, but we believe the county is not ready Mr. Stowe at the last Planning Commission's Meeting stated that the benefits from their perspective outweigh the risks. We currently disagree specifically The centerpiece of the comprehensive plan change that you approved in January 24 was the commercial element with medical use being the expectation in the last 16 months We've been given no vision no details about Any medical development we've had Valley health twice at this podium and to date we have no vision no details secondly the proposed residential units are not the accessory that mr. Madison identified in the comprehensive plan change in 2023 which you approved in January of 24 to the contrary They're the dominant element of this proposed application third increased 277 traffic This was a huge concern to the Commission in December but they ignored it and pushed out the future in their January meeting We as residents look to the Commission for analysis, but they passed So our confidence that the county has fully analyzed this issue has really been shaken The lake is a central recreational facility in this region up to four different site developers will independently be disturbing land For commercial and 1200 residential units immediately north I will bill this to please Councilor Spencer Levin Thank you, Mr. Chair tonight we are mnie A型 possibility. Let's see that. to take the additional time to examine those risks. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Steve Prater. Hi, Steve Prater, Peckin District, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. First of all, I had a couple more comments on 277, which I will shorten because it's been mentioned a couple different times. But this development and any development in this area needs to be considered as to the total impact to that road. There are, in addition to this, there's going to be the additional traffic from Sherando Green, which is under construction, from the public center, which is going in there, also Fairfax down. There is planned development further on down in Clark at Double Toll Gate. All of that is going to impact 277. You can't look at this as just a singular unit or a singular development. That road is high speed, narrow lanes, no shoulders. There are homes and businesses 20, 30 feet from the edge of the roadway. Getting your mail for some of those people has got to be a life-threatening experience because you have to make sure there's not a semi bearing down on you. So we need to take a look at the entirety of 277. As Marv mentioned, it was discussed. With some degree of detail in the first meeting at the Planning Commission and basically got passed over, essentially it got kicked to VDOT. And says, well, it's VDOT's issue. It's not really our issue. And one commissioner said, well, VDOT's VDOT. Another one said, well, they're only reactive and they only react after somebody is killed. This is not the leadership that we're looking for from our county officials. So before any action happens here, we need to engage with EDA. We need to engage with VDOT. We need to engage with the city. We need to engage with the city. We need to engage with the city. We need to engage with VDOT into a comprehensive planning process that talks about what are we going to do about the entirety of that road from all the way from 81 to 522. Because you can't look at these things as singular instances. Thank you. Bill Moore. Thanks, sir. Hello. My name is Bill Moore. I'm the district resident and leader of the nearly 600-member Lake Frederick Conservation Club. We've you have received a short-sighted recommendation from the planning commission to destroy over 100 acres of natural habitat adjacent to Lake Frederick. You should reject this recommendation and deny the requested rezoning. Who does a 596-member lake Frederick conservation club? Through your bill. Transportation owned by rehab recommending anamen property and from a residential complex with potentially another not-for profit tax exempt valley health facility employing some small unknown number of people served. My wife and I moved to Fairfax County eight years ago to get away from development. Some other traffic snarled roads an overcrowded schools. The rezoning application which increases residential settlers. You move them down to the county if they want to put j下去 in in real life. graduates and older students. working with the islands and dude they do not give you any credit to the state no matter what. 3.7 years to kill Alright. density 20-fold does not serve us or people like us who move to the area for a bit more room and freedom of movement. It also doesn't serve the people who have lived in Frederick County for many more years than we have, sometimes for generations. Do you think they want to see Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William County development? Have you asked them? I do want to thank Vaughn Whitaker of the Greensboro District for being the only planning commissioner to stand up for the local environment and, in particular, the feature resource of the county, Lake Frederick. His plea to protect the lake from harmful runoff and chemicals flowing into the lake was heartfelt and much appreciated. The residents of Lake Frederick have done much to protect the lake. They have done much to protect the lake. We have twice a year lake and trail cleanups. That eight-mile trail around the lake, by the way, was constructed by the residents of Lake Frederick, not by the developer. We pay for the public's trash to be removed from the public boat launch. We're doing what we can. Now it's your turn. Reject this rezoning request tonight. It serves no one but a single developer. Thank you for not just your support, but for the people who are involved in this. Thank you for not just hearing, but for listening. Joe Crane. Joe Crane, Gainesboro. I've been assured by Mr. Pearson that I can come before you fine folks as a private citizen, and so I do. I'm not going to regurgitate what was said before I got up here, nor will I be a preamble to those behind me. You've heard everything. I do ask that... I ask that you vote no on Madison 277, or at a minimum, table it. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Susan Watkins. Hi, I'm Susan Watkins, and I live in Opequan and Lake Frederick, and I'm not going to repeat what they've all said. However, this is very poor planning. However, this is very poor planning. planning. The schools are very overrun by children now. And if they build 200, 300 units, that is going to be far more than 300 students, which I saw up there on the proposal. The roads can't handle it. What about the electric, the water? Where's the water going to come from? Who's going to pay for that? We don't want to pay for new developments. Several years ago, I was here for a low-income housing development, which was voted down. And I don't think this one is a low income. What we need is lower residential costs so that we can get more people into this area. I'm not saying right there, but this is not what Frederick County needs. It's just not what we need. And we don't want to inflate Frederick. We don't want their runoff. We don't want those people on our trails. I mean, it's just common sense. We moved out here to get away from everything in Fairfax County. And now you're going to build 300, 400 houses? No, not apartments, not townhouses. Vote it down. Thank you, ma'am. Blaine Dunn. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. My name is Blaine Dunn. I'm from Redbud. I would suggest that you vote for this project if and only if you make the following revisions. Number one, on the staff report, you have issues on roads. So if the developer will go and address those roads, that would be one positive. The more important issue is that we have a small deficit on your budget, $40-some million is it's $ Summary I think that was the first thing you talked about earlier. Throw proposed propers here were about $15,000. I don't know what the revised profits want. they may be in the $23,000 range. According to staff, your true cost is $39,000. That's a $16,000 difference between what's being proposed and the original property. million differential. My comment to all of you would be ask the developer to go and cover the true cost. Now, I understand the proper costs are $23,000, but as Mr. Klein said, the total costs are $39,000 per unit. So if you can go and ask the developer to try to help Frederick County by increasing his propers, that covers the cost. Otherwise, five years from now, ten years from now, there's going to be a board, some of you may be on it, which you're going to have a deficit because of decisions made today. So if you can go and cover the total cost, then let the developer make his profit and go forward. But if he can't cover that total cost, then I ask you, why would you ask us as a taxpayer to go and cover that cost? The budget deficits we have right now are because of profits that occurred many years ago, and they didn't cover the costs. So I'm just saying that going, forward, Mr. Madison is entitled to go and make his project, but cover the costs. One last comment, and this is to you as a board member and to Mr. Madison, and if he's listening. When he built Sovereign Village, my mom was dying of Lou Gehrig's disease. And I asked him to go, and if he could start at 8.30 or 8 o'clock instead of 6 o'clock in the morning. He did not even have the courtesy to say yes, he would meet with me. So I'd ask one of you to ask Mr. Madison to offer a part of his project, and I'm going to ask him to go and make his project, but I'm going to ask you to do that as a proper. That there's a true medical issue that he postponed the development of his, he postponed working on his project from 6 o'clock to 8 o'clock or 8.30. It's a give or take. But I was up to 4 or 5 o'clock in the morning for months on end. When I asked Mr. Madison, could you please just give me a couple hours of sleep? He wouldn't even meet with me, and I think that's wrong. You can make that, so I'd ask you to do that as a proper. Thank you. Thank you. Elizabeth, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Elizabeth Peldunas. I am Elizabeth Peldunas, a resident in the Opecan District. I strongly disagree with the Planning Commission's recommendation that you approve this rezoning request as presented. At December's public hearing, I told the Commission that I was looking forward to their thorough and robust discussion of the proposal's merits and shortcomings. This did not happen. So I ask all of you to please be present. I hope we ask you friends should also be present, so I ask the Commission if everybody Kalaya, can you please remove your heels? Kalaya, are you okay? I am sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions foriesen? I'll wait to see them. At our wow event, the reporter was refreshing about how getting to Fort S legacy and carrying these outers at Exploit Shift cores in RANS Sports Commission seems like the most powerful event. This event signifies the need for the зак Warning CQB to continue middle來 сделал 7-1 close the University's najbardziej smooth transition for large online organizations and throughout the огatoiana veterans. We heard environmental and Templights in class today attending the league's 2018 moving experience and across Africanertainment events that have made it to necesit, and this time, why are we Cheers memorials? reactionary style of operation and wait seven to ten years for road improvements long after traffic is already a huge problem. Is this a benefit to the county? Second, since December Madison's residential density has been reduced significantly but residential development is the most intensive the county has to support. Proffers limited by the state caps don't count don't cover the costs of providing schools and support services to these new homes. How does it benefit the county to approve these 596 residential units? Particularly since 6,000 plus homes could be built in Frederick County today as of right. Finally, any positive impact for the county might come via a successful commercial enterprise along Fairfax Pike. But Madison is a residential builder. Commercial development is not in their wheels. So, I'm going to ask you to provide us with some examples of what you think is a good idea to improve the residential density of the county. First of all, the county is all about providing services to the county. They also have a legal house. So, the bright shiny object being dangled in front of us is a valley health outpost. It sounds like a fantastic opportunity but is it? Do Madison and valley health have a legally binding commitment? Which services would be provided? How many jobs might it create? Will the county miss the tax revenue a for-profit entity could provide? These questions and many others were danced around before the Commission. Answers were vague at best. Can the supervisors truly make a well-informed decision without this input? Without a detailed plan from Madison and Valley Health, your approval is taking an unquantified risk with our quality of life and pocketbooks. Madison has much to gain, and the county is likely to lose on this rezoning. Negotiate an enforceable commitment with the developer so an approval benefits both parties. Doing otherwise may set a terrible precedent for the county as a whole, and your constituents will live every day with those consequences. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Okay. So if there's anyone who's out there who would like to come forward and speak, name, magisterial district, I'm asking you three minutes. And let's not regurgitate what's been said. Please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I live in the Opecan District. I live on the other end of Fairfax Pike, right behind Martins, right where Fairfax Pike hits 81. This development is a large rezoning of rural area to a high-density development. It's being done because the comp plan discusses this area to be a high-density development. It's being done because the comp plan discusses this area to be a mixed-use area. Only a tiny fraction of this development is mixed-use. So really, it's a high-density development. The concern on the transportation is all of what's going to happen down Fairfax Pike heading to 81. There's no other real outlets to move the people out in a different direction. There's no Eastern 37 loop. The people are going to have to go down Fairfax Pike. They're going to have to go to 81 to start moving towards jobs. The other challenge we have from a long-term perspective here is if we're starting on this edge of the county with this high-density of development, what do we keep doing is we keep moving down Fairfax Pike, all the way down fairly empty area down to the Ace Hardware. When we've set this precedent of starting with a high-density development in this rural area, we've got to look at that long-term plan. The other challenge we have as a county is that normally a county would have what's called a transition area where we transition from very rural to move up to a high-density development. This eliminates any thought of that. Clark County, rural is anything. The moment you cross the line, high-density development. When we think about how we would develop out Fairfax Pike, some level of a transition area would make sense, and it's just not in existence here. We've got to consider both definitely the transportation going down Fairfax Pike, but also the long-term development along Fairfax Pike if we're going to be putting this high-density of development down it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainsborough District. I would like to stand with my community and oppose this rezoning. We can do so much better. I've seen so much better. And when the community is involved, like strongtowns.org explains a lot of lessons to me, oftentimes something very beautiful can come about. We can only build once. So I say, I stand with Bill Moore and Von Whitaker. Our nature is very important. The pace of Lake Frederick is what the citizens want, and I think their vision is very important. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? All right. I'm going to close the public hearing. Supervisors, how would you like to handle this? How would discussion first? Yeah, discussion. I'm looking to the right. Anything? Sure. I'll start it. I imagine I'm probably in the minority, but first I want to thank staff and the Planning Commission. They worked hard on it. The Planning Commission did a good job. Their job is to take an application and polish it up as much as they can before it gets to us for them to make the final decision. So I commend PC for doing that. That said, over 25 years ago, the county made a huge land use mistake and created Lake Frederick. That, in turn, is a huge land use mistake. That, in turn, is a huge land use mistake. That, in turn, is a huge land use mistake. That entire area with the crossroads, utilities down there, that whole corner of the county should be industrial. It should be a tax base. Instead, we have residential down there now that's one of the loudest squawking communities we have in the county. And trying to get the industrial down there now is going to be next to impossible. I've spoken to people in my district. They're not in favor of additional housing because of schools, roads. They're not in favor of additional housing because of schools, roads. So, basically, I'm going to make sure that we get the right land use mistake. So, basically, I'm going to make sure that we get the right land use mistake. I'm not going to support it. I commend the applicant. They did a good job trying to get the project together. But ultimately, I don't think it fully meets the comprehensive plan, so I won't be supporting it. Thanks, sir. Anybody else to the right? How about to the left? Supervisor Grubach. I was of the impression that Valley Health did commit. So I'd like to ask the staff, did we get a commitment from Valley Health to do something? actually say something to build something or is this still just a theory we haven't been informed of any contractual agreements or binding commitments between the applicant and valley health they did take a step in the right direction relative to that by proffering that the land bay in question that's always been considered for this would be restricted for medical uses only so if it's not valley health it's likely to be a competitor if that property does develop after it's rezoned but to my knowledge i'm not aware of any sort of binding commitments between the applicant and valley health thank you can the applicant speak about um their conversations that they've had with valley hill good evening uh my name is craig george with valley engineering um i'm here alongside uh other folks from our uh our team in case there's other questions but regarding valley health specifically um they did have representatives at both uh planning commission meetings and they did speak um unfortunately you know private agreements aren't able to be shared um in a public uh forum but um there are negotiations um that that have occurred and are to continue occurring and really the next step is a rezoning so until that point happens and we go to the next step which will be the master plan of development um which will be the next step in the planning process and we'll um which will be the next step in the planning process and we'll be doing that in the next step and we'll be doing that in the next step and i am not having any staff with us um so you know in the next step in the planning process we will be digging into the details um and looking at different issues um related to you know a lot of the the details um we don't have you know anything to share from a from a guarantee but um they're definitely um at our we're at our side the planning commission and and we continue to uh to to engage with them um and we continue to uh to to engage with them anyway anybody else thanks sir supervisor any few more comments from a developer's perspective I can I can speak for where Madison development is that No one's gonna buy your land unless it's owned the right way And so I can't speak for Valley health But I can see why they they haven't put a contract on it yet because it's not zoned and if it doesn't get zoned Then it's not gonna move forward Because it's got to be zoned right for it to be ball. So from a from a developer perspective, that's how it works I'm looking at this whole project from a countywide perspective. Not just a Lake Frederick and 277 side of things last week's Planning Commission meeting If you haven't I strongly suggest that you that you listen to there's about a there's about a 40-minute Presentation that was that was given that had a probably a 10-minute section and all about housing and the the section in there specifically spoke about How Frederick County's housing is actually being underserved and how is it being underserved? So being underserved by the supply? And even though we have 7,000 housing lots that could be built upon that doesn't mean that there's seven housing 7,000 housing lots that are actually being built on okay You actually have to have someone that's willing to put a shovel in the ground for the you actually to get the houses okay, and Where Frederick County over the last? 15 years Since there has not been very many I think any Rezonings for residential in 15 years what has happened is we've all we all went to school we understand how supply and hopefully many of you understand how supply and demand works and the It's a fact that with increased supply that does not increase demand Okay, what happens there is with increased supply? The housing prices actually come down and what's happened with Frederick County over the last 15 years is the fred account that the housing prices in? Frederick County had far exceeded the growth and so there's now there's not as much affordable housing actually in Frederick County People are going to Berkeley County people are going to Shenandoah County for homes and that that may be what freddy County wants, but I'm just speaking about it from a housing perspective freddy County's Housing costs will continue to go up if we do not start to look at rezoning of housing and let additional houses come into the market Thank you supervisor Lear You good? Alright, I think everybody's spoken. I do want to say that I I'm gonna I Really want to compliment the Planning Commission. I think they did an outstanding job. They're doing it. They're doing exactly what what they're what we're Hoping for with flushing out and getting a lot of details. They spent a lot of time on this I also want to compliment staff you all spend tremendous amount of time on this We've met several times and thank you for the work that's been put in With that said this the Opec in district By sir, mr. Chairman. Thank you very much Let me start out a few statements before I Make any kind of recommendations whatsoever So I'd like to thank those citizens who showed up today I'd like to thank those who have called me messaged me emailed me just stopped me to talk to me had means with me Whether you're for or against this It's not the the big thing. It was your professionalism and your civility and it's much appreciated a Decision has to be made one way or the other. It's kind of like a football game Somebody's a wins and somebody loses and that's where we are, but I want to thank you for your Involvement also thanks to the Planning Commission for their professionalism and holding public hearings Individual meetings and listening to all parties and for spending personal time and researching the negatives and positives of this rezoning So they can make a decision based on what is acceptable in this district and in Frederick County Also, thank you to the planning department and staff for the time that they've devoted to this project Last but not least, I want to thank Mr. Madison and his team for working with Frederick County staff, supervisors, individuals, and citizen committees through this process. His cooperation as a local builder is greatly appreciated. As supervisor for the Opecan District, I feel that over the past two years, and I stress that two years because some people say this is a fast decision you're making. It's a two-year decision. All parties have done their due diligence with the future of Frederick County being the uppermost in their decision process. For the benefit of transparency, I want to publicly state that I am not personally or financially involved in this rezoning. I have not spoken to any of the planning commission members or my fellow board members attempting to sway their votes one way or the other. They vote their own conscience. With that being said, Mr. Chairman, at this time, I would make a motion to support the planning commission's recommendation of a 1-12 vote to approve rezoning number 07-25 of Madison 277, Madison 2, LLC. I have a motion. Do I have a second? Second. All right. I have a motion. I have a second. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Liera. No. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Supervisor Warndorf. Aye. Supervisor Oates. No. And the chair votes aye. The planning, the rezoning is approved. Thank you for all that put your time and effort into this very much. Appreciate it. All right. We have another public hearing. We have a motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion to approve the capital improvement plan to 20262031. Hello, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is your annual update to the capital improvement plan for the 2026 to 2031 timeframe. As you all are aware, the CIP is a schedule of major capital expenditures across the ensuing five-year period. It is intended as a tool for you all to use to assist the CIP's in the long-term development of capital. We have a motion to approve the capital improvement plan to 20262031. The CIP is a schedule of major capital expenditures across the ensuing five-year period. This is a schedule that will assist you in the preparation of the county budget. In keeping with recent changes, departments were advised to ensure the projects were achievable within the plan's horizon, and this is intended to meet the state code requirement that you will know as the 2232 requirement by adding it as an appendix to the comprehensive plan. You'll be familiar with that requirement as we recently debated at the planning commission level. That is the state code section that says every public facility that's constructed needs to be shown in the comprehensive plan. So if something's on the CIP, you don't have to do a separate review of it to ensure that it meets the comprehensive plan. Not major changes this year relative to the total number of projects. I would note the changes to the schools, fire and rescue, but the fire and rescue change last year we were capable of consolidating all the projects on a station basis. So it looks like there's a lot more, but there's really not. And those are really the major changes between last year and this year. Thank you. Thank you. The next slide, please. So this is the CIP plan that was approved by the board. And I'm going to flip through the tables and then open up the web based document and see if you have any questions. I can go to the individual projects and get additional project detail for you. But Mr. Chairman, that kind of concludes my presentation on the CIP this year. Your conference of plans and programs committee discussed it on December 8th, 2025. They expressed that they think the plan should continue to be worked on to be amended to the CIP. to be more fiscally constrained than it is, but overall recommended approval of the plan, and your planning commission also offered their recommendation for approval of the plan. It is presented for a public hearing, and we're seeking action from the board on the proposed CIP. I'm happy to answer any questions, and I'll pull the plan up now. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? I'm actually starting on my left this time. All right. Good there. How about on the right? I'm good. Everybody's good. How's that, Mr. Pearson? That's great, sir. Thank you. Do you need a motion? I think you have a public hearing first, sir. Yeah. Are you good? I'm good. I'm just trying to get these slides back where they were before I closed it. I think we just need a consensus for it to move forward. Is that correct, Mr. Pearson? No. First open and close the public hearing, followed by— Oh, one more. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm jumping ahead here. Okay. I will now open up public hearing for this. Anyone who wants to speak, please come forward. Madam? No one has signed up. Okay. Anybody who would like to speak regarding the CIP? Good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board. My name is Brian Neary. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I'm not sure if my cursory search of the CIP had anything in here. But one thing that the county and the city need to get together on is our courthouse. Does anyone know why the courthouse was closed two Fridays ago? Sewage buildup in the basement. Does anyone know why there's a power truck out back every summer? Because the generators and the electrical can't manage the AC in the summer. We have lawyers bringing in fans so they can hold court in the summer. The county and the city maintain the Joint Judicial Center together. While the city is the one who does the work, the courthouse is falling apart. Even today in circuit court, one of the electric doors that are supposed to keep the juries safe was overheating and had to be removed. These are basic things. The deal that everyone thinks that we're getting in Frederick County because, oh, look at our taxes. We're not paying for anything. That's why we're 12 years behind on schools. Our courthouse is starting to act up. We need to make hard decisions. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else want to speak? All right, now I can close the public hearing. Now we can go ahead and do what we need to do. Board, how would you like to handle this? Again, I appreciate the planning commission for all their hard work on that. I did it for 16 years. You go through it. You weed it out. By the time it gets to this board, I'm pretty confident it's been gone through pretty thorough. I agree with Mr. Nury. Maybe we need to shut down the courthouse. But I would make a recommendation we accept the CIP as presented. All right, we got a motion. Do I have a second? All right, we got a motion. We got a second. We're going to start down to Supervisor Oates. Oates, aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lear. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. And the chair votes aye. Aye. I agree with Supervisor Oates. The planning commission did a great job of weeding this thing out. So thank you, Ms. Pearson. All right. Next one's planning commission business, other planning. We have an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code. Mr. Klein. Yes, sir. This is your ordinance amendment to your outdoor lighting standards. For those of you who are new, The zoning ordinance is the proposed ordinance to modernize our outdoor lighting standards. It's new on the board. A public hearing was held on this item back in December of 2025 and action was tabled on the item and staff was directed to make a couple of changes. In that interim time, in addition to making the changes that were discussed the board meeting, we met with our new board members and we also met with Supervisor Akins to talk through the concerns that were raised at the public hearing to try to understand how we could best address them. As you all recall, this is a proposal to amend Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance, to modernize our outdoor lighting standards. our outdoor lighting standards, to review those permitted illumination levels, to revise photometric plan requirements, and to incorporate LED standards. This amendment was initiated by the previous board back in September of 2025. And at that time of authorizing us to study the amendment and to authorize public hearing, concern was raised with some of the maximum illumination levels and fixture heights where commercial and industrial development adjoins residential and agricultural uses, particularly with the changeover to LED fixtures that has occurred since the ordinance was last updated in 2009. This is your current adopted intent within that section of the ordinance. It states that the purpose and intent of this section is to establish outdoor lighting standards to reduce the impacts of glare, light trespass, and over lighting, to promote safety and security, and to encourage energy conservation. I would also note that in that interim time, we also spoke with the sheriff's office as we were directed. And they did not express concerns with the ordinance. They did not say that they would enforce the law to the extent that they could. So updates to the text amendment that are reflected in that revised proposal that is before you this evening, we revised C1 to further clarify who may prepare lighting plans. We have specifically called out professional engineers, or PEs. In addition, we had noted any qualified members of the National Council on qualifications for lighting professionals, the American Lighting Association, or an accepted equivalent of the National Council on professional certification approved by the zoning administrator. We revised section D1 to further define what we mean when we say high security areas that receive exemptions to the lighting levels and lighting height. And those would be automated teller machines, motor vehicle display areas, vehicle fuel station canopies, outdoor storage and loading docks. Finally, we removed a new provision that we had previously included under D5, which required the extinguishment of lighting fixtures when the facilities were on use. These address the removal of that section address stated concerns from this board regarding safety and security of properties and structures were not open to the public. We looked at other localities dealt with this issue. Most had some kind of tiered structure where they were dimmed to a certain lighting level depending on the use. In talking through that with board members and also with the zoning administrator, we found that to be potentially problematic and difficult to enforce. So we felt it was cleaner. We would not include the provision. There are many best practices with lighting and individual property owners can decide what is best for their property as regards to the safety and security of their structures, parking areas and the like. So again, you all had a public hearing back in December and you tabled action and requested revisions. We have made those revisions and discussed them with you this evening and following your discussion we would be seeking a decision by the board on this ordinance amendment and we of course happy to answer any additional questions that you may have as you've reviewed the proposal. Thank you, sir. Thanks, sir. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Mr. Aitken? More of a statement. Thank you for addressing my comments. All right. Good on the left. How about on the right? Good. Okay. We've already had a public hearing so this is going to be a roll call vote. Do I need a motion? I guess I need a motion. Yeah, I need a motion. A motion to accept the Planning Commission. There you go. Mr. Chairman, I've been moved that we accept the Planning Commission. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Do I need a motion? Okay. Do we accept the Planning Commission's new amended ordinance to the Frederick County Code outdoor lighting 165-201.07 to modernize outdoor lighting standards? All right. We got a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Okay. We got a motion and a second. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. Supervisor Aitken. Aye. Supervisor Leera. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. All right, and the chair votes aye. Good to go. Thank you for your work on that. All right, board liaison reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Orndorff? Charney Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee met on Monday, February 2nd. And Charney Land manager, Kevin Alderman, I believe is his last name, reported several items worth noting. I guess, first of all, it's the snow events. And I can only imagine what it was like plowing Charney Land. So my hat's off to them. But the snow topped the sleet and extremely cold temperatures presented a challenge for the plow drivers. Lots of long hours and determination from the dedicated staff. Made the difference. Overall, everything went very well with just a few breakdowns in equipment. I can tell you from experience that transmissions and then you run into all the things that break plows. And so I can imagine it was pretty difficult. Shoulder repair. The staff have repaired low shoulders throughout Charney Land. Approximately 10 lane miles have been repaired. And when the weather gets better, the process will continue. So I'm sure they'll continue it soon. Pipe replacement replaced and upgraded 190 feet of drainage culverts over the last two months. I talked about asphalt patching, tree removal, again, weather. They'll continue the process. Talked about the fishing derby coming up. And they also talked about Cherokee Lake. And it's down 270 feet below the full pool. This time last year, it was about 50 feet below. So... And then they formed an exploratory committee to review previous studies and remediation work previously done on Cherokee Lake. Also, the Extension Leadership Council met on Wednesday, February 4th. Vice Chairman Brandon Monk led the meeting. Minutes were approved. And they went around the room and introduced new members. So it was good to know who was in the meeting. And then they held a general discussion, what's happening in Winchester and Frederick County. One of the items worth noting is they discussed the Homesteaders Farm Hop on April the 18th. And I believe it's on the Frederick County Fairgrounds 10 to 4. And they also talked about the new hire, Cynthia Fairbanks. And I won't go through the detail, but Winchester Star had a pretty good article, if you haven't seen that, on Ms. Fairbanks. The council did express their appreciation for the Board of Supervisors members who attended the Virginia Tech Research Center Extension Service Overview. And then the Planning Commission. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. Mr. Gubel. The Commission heard a report on the 2025 to 2030 Agriculture Forester District Update that considered voluntary addition to parcels to the Agriculture District by landowners. Hayfield Agriculture District increased to 1,025.54. And South Frederick. I'm sorry. field get ahead of myself redbud agricultural district increased to 1252.29 and the southern frederick agriculture district would increase to 6848.48 acres they held a public hearing and those items will come before the board at an upcoming meeting the planning commission received a report and presentation from partners for economic solutions giving an overview of real estate trends and projected future growth i think that's been briefly commented on and it was an excellent presentation of course they did study and i think that the board will be well informed by receiving that report of the future date with that mr chairman i conclude my liaison report thank you supervisor wonder anybody else yes mr chair a couple of a couple of reports for your department of social service services has met yesterday the 10th some couple of good news uh items two people two new uh staff have been hired in january and additionally a new assistant director so that will give miss green two assistant directors now have been hired and will be coming on board on march uh march 2026 which is next month also transportation committee met last monday the second uh mr bishop did a good job of bringing all the the new folks on board up to speed on gave an update on project pipeline for the county potential transit service areas photo red traffic signal enforcement which i'll come back to in a minute and county produces half the number for 2018 and now a test security is cleared off the state of kansas will not beổing for two days but the schools will be ready to be vandaag on Friday not to change for next month with the simple one last to add piece of information foreign welcome special secretary keita general sr charlie Hispanic who was a July public meetingples of local government and have stepped out immediately for projects update i wanted to point out captain gosnell attended that meeting and protected from the sheriff's department and he given us a briefing on the time line for the three schools on speed cameras coming up online first of all the sheriff's department held a four-day February six to 10 she is just concluded information campaign where they put in for information on their website and facebook about the program as he get into eventualου There's two other phases that are going on. One starting now today, February 11th through March 12th will be the warning period. And then civil violations will start on March the 13th. But there's more details on the Sheriff's Department website. But just to summarize, there's going to be three locations that the Sheriff's Department has speed zone cameras on. Route 7 near Millbrook and Redbud Run Elementary School is one. Route 11 near Stonewall Elementary School will be the second one. And Route 522 North near Frederick County Middle School and Gainesboro Elementary will be the third. The bottom line is you have to be going 10 miles or more over the speed limit to get a warning during the warning period of February 11th to March 12th or a violation starting March 13th. But those will be coming. So just slow it down. Follow the speed limit. You'll be good to go. As far as the photo red traffic signal enforcement, I think the Sheriff's Department is going to be coming to the board or the Public Safety Committee is going to be coming to the board asking us to consider adopting enabling ordinance to allow photo red traffic signal enforcement lights or camera equipment to be put up in Frederick County due to our size based upon the General Assembly. Okay. Bill that they passed. We could put as many as nine locations, intersection locations in Frederick County where we could put photo red. And again, that would be if you enter the intersection after the caution is over and the red light is started, you would get a violation. But they'll be coming to us for more details on that. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Mr. Chair. Last Thursday, we had a productive meeting with the EDA. And there's been a lot of work by the EDA for our upcoming work session that happens tomorrow. And I just wanted to share a brief appreciation to the EDA staff, the board, the board chair. We've had a lot of conversations this past week in preparation for our meeting. And I just wanted to show that appreciation. And thank you, everybody on this board, for their feedback that they've given me over the past week. Thanks, sir. We good? All right. Thank you for representing us on all these different boards and committees. Citizens' comments. Do we have any citizens' comments? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Brian Nury. Good evening, members of the board. I am still Brian Nury from the Opecan District. I want to talk to you guys again. I want to talk to you again about our law enforcement in Frederick County. First, I want to say this. I trust the Frederick County Sheriff's Department. The community policing model that Sheriff Mulholland uses is a fantastic model. It makes the community feel safer. However, again, Frederick County Sheriff's Office has a 287G agreement with DHS and ICE under the task force model. Listen. I don't want a good law enforcement agency like Frederick County Sheriff's Department to have to bear the name of having to say, yeah, we were working with ICE. Under the task force model, what local law enforcement is supposed to do is identify and report suspected immigrants with limited immigration authority. For the most part, I've heard that that is the bailiffs at our jail. We also at the courthouse. I'm sorry. We also have the juvenile detention. We have the juvenile detention center running under the jail enforcement model where officers can ID and process removable aliens pending active investigations. Here, we're housing juveniles. Now, Mr. Wells, we had a chat last week about the two kids who tried burning down Federal Mogul. Don't know how wise it is to try to burn down a building with a ton of asbestos in it. But they committed arson. Get them out. Someone commits murder. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. Get them out. But in the courthouse, in the general district court, when the judges have to tell people that your convictions may result in federal ramifications and someone's sitting there with a, I got a speeding ticket. Really? What that's going to end up happening is you're going to see fewer people with certain types of last names, certain complexions, not coming to pay their parking tickets because they don't want to be seen by our ICE-aligned children. They don't want to be seen by our ICE-aligned children. They don't want to be seen by our ICE-aligned children. They don't want to be seen by our ICE-aligned children. They don't want to be seen by our ICE-aligned children. And you've got so many cases of that that's just not going to go away? But I think that's just not going to happen. And I think that's just not going to happen. But I think that's just not going to happen. It's not going to happen. That's not going to happen. Why are we doing this? Mr. Lero, you brought up the Supremacy Clause. That was a great point. However, I also have Prince v. United States in 1997 that said that local law enforcement cannot be compelled to enforce federal law. This is a voluntary agreement, but otherwise, they can't. Virginia law even allows it if the person has been convicted of a felony, not a parking ticket, not a speeding ticket, not even driving without a license. Again, I ask the board to convene the Juvenile Detention Center Commission, the Old Dominion Criminal Justice Policy Board, the Public Safety Committee, and the Regional Jail Authority to assess whether or not this is worth it for our county. Because if the Frederick County Sheriff's Department wants to hold its promise to be fair and unbalanced and will respect the constitutional rights of all of our citizens, we have to look into this. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, there's no one else signed up. Thank you, Madam Clerk. Anybody else that wanted to speak? Mr. Supervisor, former Supervisor, Mr. Dunn, two minutes. No, I'm just kidding. I just had to say it. Touche. I'm Blaine Dunn from Bed-Bud. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll give you a different perspective. Mr. Norey just spoke, made his comments about ICE and the police. I also live in Frederick County. I'll give you a different perspective. If you come into this country illegally, you're illegal. If you want to come into this country on a legal method, there's a way to do that. We've had a lot of people come into this country illegally. The sheriff was elected by the people of Frederick County to enforce the law. That's state law, local law, federal law. If someone is coming into the country illegally, remove them. Period. It's a fair thing to do. You have 10 to 15, 20 million people that come in here. It's a cost to the taxpayer. So I'd encourage the sheriff to go and work with ICE to remove those people that have crossed the border illegally. And if you've crossed the border illegally, you can leave the country and come back and make the application the way a normal person does to enter the country. That's the first step. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I want to say that if you come into this country illegally, you're illegal. If you go and accept people that are coming here illegally and give them amnesty, you've just penalized everybody that goes through the law and says fine, I'm going to go through a process to do that. And for those that say that the method of getting into the country might be too difficult, then you can change that. But if you come into the country illegally, you want to leave. If the police find you, they ought to take you away and say fine, we're going to export you. You can come back in a legal fashion, but don't come in here illegally. So I would encourage you as board members to do that. And I want to say to the people of Frederick County, if you come into this country illegally, you're illegal. If you come into this country illegally, you're illegal. So I would encourage you as board members, I encourage the sheriff to go and enforce the law. If somebody's here illegally, remove them. Period. And if they want to come back, they have a method to come back in a legal fashion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anybody else want to speak? Nope. You spoke once. Nope. One, one, one. Oh, I didn't see you. You snuck up on me. Hi. My name is Leslie Spencer. We have a, we have a law enforcement agency that is in the state of California that is going to be able to help people. And we're going to be able to help people. And we're going to be able to help people. And we have a invitation to the community to join us for a comprehensive plan work study group. We're going to meet at the Trumpet Vine Farm at 266 Valclus Road on February 26th at 630. Our director is Jacqueline Greenman-Moment. She is the owner of Hattie's Place and Laurel Grove Vine Farm. So we would love to see you there. It's going to be a month's-long project. You should look it up online. It would be great. I am a law enforcement officer. I recently went to Richmond and I participated in Chamber Day. That was awesome. The top of the chamber invited me and I got, it was an opportunity of a lifetime. Thank you very much. So the first day was Wednesday. Second day was Thursday. I met with delegates. And then on Monday I went back for Data Center Reform Day. And Wednesday when I was there at the luncheon and the dinner, over and over and over again, from the lieutenant governor to the commerce secretary. I tried to reach out to everybody, energy corporations, anyone I could and educate them on how great data centers are in Europe. Even though data centers are headquartered here in Virginia or the United States, the amazing innovation is just accelerated. And I wanted to invite those ideas back home. I think that it shows tremendous American pride. Thank you. I'm going to ask you a question now. I was going to ask you, we're going to do something that is that awesome. And so on Monday night I was watching a lot of bills go through. A lot of bills I'm watching. HB 323 is Data Centers. Department of Energy shall lead efforts to accelerate use of waste heat. I find very exciting. That's on the right path. And so I asked the people in the hall, by the couches, does anybody want to help me build the most world class ecological sustainable data center in Frederick County? You know, it was really wonderful. shaking hands, is anyone in data centers? And the gentleman from Meta said, yes, I am in data centers. I said, great, you know. And I said, would you like to do this? And he said, well, I can't. And I said, well, you know, you do heat thousands of homes in Odessa, Denmark. And in this last ice storm, you would have been the hero. Instead, you're a part of the big problem. So if we could work together and bring that American innovation back home, that would be amazing. And there's HB 70, bringing nature into low-income housing is something that's very near to my heart. And SB 263, maybe, is for veterans to have small business grants as a priority. I think those are awesome. So thank you very much. I just wanted to share. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else that wants to speak? All righty, we're going to close it. You get one shot. I can come back as long as there's no other speaker. You get one shot. Thank you. We'll talk afterwards. With that, Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? Supervisor Oates? Yeah, I just want to say we have a public safety meeting in the morning. I will be asking the sheriff just what is going on with ice and what's going on. So you're being heard, Mr. Nury. Now, what comes out of that, you may not like, I don't know, but it will be asked. So just want to let you know that it will be looked at. That's all I have. Thanks, sir. Thanks, sir. Anybody else on the right? How about the left? Oh, Supervisor Kuechumach. Yeah, pretty quick. I just wanted to commend Mr. Pearson. And on this morning's presentation that you made early this morning, on the data centers and miss Spencer was there as well and even to your comments now collaboration is how we get this done and I've seen you come a long way from a hard no to saying how can we do things that are sustainable and better everybody knows and I'm saying this for for hopefully the people that are watching our job is to pay the bills and come up with ways to fund the things that this county has to fund we cannot say no to everything so we have to come up with ways to say yes innovation collaboration is how we get this done so the more forms that we put on the more educational opportunities that we put out to the public led by our staff who do the research helps us get the information out to the public so again thank you for all the hard work that you do and Mr. Barker who was there this morning as well and to the citizens like Lesley who take the time to want to work together for a solution thank you oh vice chair just I know you were addressing Mr. Nuri but you probably don't know the sheriff won't be there tomorrow he's out of town so he won't be there but he is is coming back in town, you could give him a call and then get back with Brian on that information. But he won't be there at the meeting tomorrow morning. Okay. That's all, sir. Thank you. So on behalf of my family, my wife, my daughter, I just want to thank everybody for the prayers, the calls. I want to thank my fellow supervisors for stepping up and covering what I couldn't attend. For those that don't know, my son passed away on February 2nd. And so this community is an amazing community, and they really have come out to support us, and we just cannot thank everyone enough. So I just want to thank you for – I want to thank you. My wife thanks you. My daughter thanks you. And, you know, we're just leaning on God right now. So thank you, everyone, for what you've done. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I would move we adjourn. We're adjourned. Thank you. Here are some remarks, expected to be Attorney General. Uh, again, if rifles are damaged during theerman's surgery, you are not allowed to Thank you.
