Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-03-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=273
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I call today's meeting March 12th of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors to order We're pleased to have pastor Samuel Rogers of Hope Valley house churches to offer the invocation Are you familiar with the microphone and I'm sorry. No, you're good. Good. You can adjust that if you need to thank you. Okay, wonderful. Thank you for having me Let's pray Father God Eternal source of wisdom and authority we ask for your blessing and guidance on these proceedings. I Thank you for our governing officials and for their commitment to serve the needs of our community. I Ask that you were blessed them for their service Lord give them insight prudence discernment and peace So that they may not be unduly burdened by their work May they be a blessing to the people and may your spirit unite our community in love peace justice and mercy Bless us Lord and our days ahead. We welcome you here by your grace. I ask these things. Amen Thank You pastor Vice chair. Yes, let us please join you allegiance I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all Thank you We move to adoption of the agenda, how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? I would move for adoption of the agenda as proposed presented Second we have a motion in a second any discussion of the agenda Seeing no one all in favor say aye aye any opposed we have an agenda Citizen comments miss Phillips. Do we have anyone signed it Brian Nuri? Please begin with your name and magisterial district Thank You members of the board husband of the chairman My name is Brian Nuri resident the Opec Indicator District and arise to address item 9a on the agenda concerning the applications to the economic Development Authority While too many committees might seem minor they make many Initial decisions that appear before this board many of whom are making decisions that only favor one agenda Building off of previous comments by Mr. Rick Miller this board is a serious problem with this committee membership Not just with the supervisors membership, but also with the members of the committee's themselves According to the county website. Mr. Ludwig's sits on nine committees, Mr. Leros, five, Ms. Lockridge, five, while Mr. Jewell and Wells sit on three committees and Mr. Dunn on one. What many people don't know is that at least 12 of the people who've been recently placed on boards are donors to the Ludwig committee, our campaign, with another eight active supporters, with many on both lists serving on multiple committees, one on four major committees. That's just based on campaign filings and event participants that we see online. Now, out of the three applicants on tonight's agenda, one filled out their application with relevant experience and interest in driving economic development. The Economic Development Authority is responsible for assisting new industries in seeking to locate in the area, issuing tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds, as well as retaining and growing existing businesses. Historically, the EDA has been the largest and most important organization in the United States. The EDA has been the largest and most important organization in the United States. Members have been experienced professionals representing various sectors of the county's economy. Out of the two additional applicants, one is not only seated on three committees, but also with almost no apparent experience in business management, but is also running for Stonewall supervisor's seat, refusing to comment, however, on the involvement of Chairman Ronnie Ludwig as his manager. I'd recommend that this board consider another candidate. But it is becoming clear that Frederick County, as being run by the approval of one family, and much like Harry Bird did back for 30 years, and considering the number of active donors that I could track through VPAP and the Department of Elections, I can only wonder what a committee seat costs in Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? This is a chance to address any item on the agenda, unless it's a public hearing item. Please start with name and name. Okay.・ Compare he is he now becomes the lowest ranking member and only makes it any less than 10%, the board underscores that this is a sort of dites raison de la trousse. Nobody took a Ecobank? No. Do you mind finden Kee便 gauze when I thank the trustee? Here I go. He probably has served months more than one time. But I was born here. It's not Rick. I�obr I오w brakearbour make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. I would second that. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Today's consent agenda includes minutes, a transportation report, confirmation that we will close the courts as well as the county offices on May 2 for the 98th annual Shenandoah Apple Blossom Festival. We usually do close on that day each year. And a resolution declaring the week of April 13 Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. That's in honor of our public safety dispatchers. That's a very stressful job, and you don't realize how important they are until the day you call and need them. So all that is on our consent agenda. We adopt all at once. We'll do that with a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. All right. Thank you. Thank you. And the consent agenda is adopted. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Mr. German? Supervisor Dunn? So Tip O'Neill used to be the Speaker of the House, and he said that all politics is local. And unfortunately, we're having some local politics at a national level here. There were a number of people that went to Ben Klein's office demanding that he go and hold an open house, town hall. Ben Klein has held town halls in Frederick County. Ben Klein has held town halls in Warren County. Ben Klein has held more town halls than Senators Warner and Senator Klein have ever held in Frederick County. So I would say to those people that were complaining, ask those two senators to hold a town hall. Number two, I've held town halls, and most of them have been helpful and informative. It's a chance to have a back and forth discussion, and I appreciate the people that have attended the town halls I've done. They've been civil for the most part, and people have laid out comments. And I've been able to respond to those. Unfortunately, I think the people that were looking to have a town hall with Ben Klein are just looking to have less than a civil conversation. So as a public official, you know, town halls are positive. We just have to use them in that vein. Second item. Today, we're going to have a discussion on tax rates and advertised tax rate, which you've seen as 48 cents. Two years ago, we also had a similar discussion. I'm sorry. We had a similar discussion. And two years ago, the advertised rate at the time was 61 cents. And we had a discussion on what the tax rate should be. At the time, there was a consensus to have a tax rate at, to have an advertised rate of 61 cents. And ultimately, the board voted for a 51-cent tax rate, which is something that I did vote for. At that meeting, or during that timeframe, in the February, March 2023, New Year's, I wrote about it in the exacerbation of the tax rate and the Constitutional Law. And I wrote about it in my March 2023 newsletter from the Winchester Frederick Clark Republican Women's Club. The chairman made a comment on that tax rate. And the comment was, there were three votes to lower the tax rate so the taxpayers' property tax wouldn't increase. Blaine Dunn backed out and flipped his vote. When we do an advertised rate, this year, next year, whenever, it is not a tax increase, I come from a school of thought that says you gather all the information you need together and then make a decision. I think that's a good way to go and address issues. After that, I had some people say, Blaine, you voted for a tax increase. As recently as just a year ago in Redbud. And that's a lie. I voted for a 51-cent tax rate, which was a revenue-neutral rate. I'm glad to see that this year this board is not saying it's a tax increase. They're just simply saying this is an advertised rate, and we will determine a tax rate, whatever that tax rate is, in about a month. But just recognize that when we advertise a rate, it's simply an advertised rate to go through the discussion. We have a revenue issue. We have to address that. But just recognize that advertised rates is not the same as a tax rate. And those people that were saying it's a tax rate were wrong. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other supervisor comments? Mr. Chairman. One thing. Supervisor Lockridge. And I don't know if this is the proper time to do it, but last meeting I nominated for the Gainesboro Planning Commission and failed to recognize that Charlie Triplett had served the Gainesboro District for the Planning Commission for over 20 years. So his service is greatly appreciated. And I feel bad I never publicly, I have spoken with him and thanked him for his service, but he did a wonderful job for our community. So I just wanted to point that out and thank him. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? So I'll just say I also thank Mr. Triplett. I was liaison for a while on that commission. He did a great job. That's a lot of work. And to do it for 20 years for the county is greatly appreciated. So I second your comment. As far as boards and committees, there's a narrative out there, as one speaker said, that's wholly incorrect. Sometimes people cherry pick. They look at standing committees. That's not true. There are a lot of committees that I have the right to appoint to or standing committees plus liaisons. But there's a lot more boards and committees that we serve on than that. There are regional committees, for example, that we get elected to. The vice chair, for example, wanted to be drawn down on the boards and committees she supports for personal reasons. And I honored that request. But she's still serving us on other regional commissions. After being here a long time, she was invited by the county and the city together. There are other larger regional organizations as well that we can get appointed to. Supervisor Dunn is, I guess, on one board. That's because he's not serving on two. But I had originally given him three to serve on. So it's not as simple as the narrative that's being put out there. On average, my first two years as a supervisor, chairman at the time to Haven served on more than nine. I think nine was quoted for me. He served on 10 on average. The prerogative of the chair, it's always been that way. I didn't complain at the time. He wanted to see it's a major investment in time to serve as chairman. And he wanted to be on many boards so that he could make sure that things were running smoothly and that the chairs he appointed to each one were operating without any problems. So I just wanted to comment on that narrative that's out there. So closing board of supervisor comments, we move to item eight. County officials. We have one item there. 8A, the Lake Holiday Fund, final disbursement of excess funds. Do we have a presentation or is that just to Supervisor Lockridge? It's just Supervisor Lockridge. There is no presentation. Thank you. Supervisor Lockridge. Okay. Yes. I had met with, well, actually reached out to our treasurer and realized that there was an overage. So Lake Holiday is set up as a sanitary board. And our sanitary district, I'm sorry, when they redid their dam. And when we as the county paid that sanitation fee off in December, we have as the county overcollected $195,960. I met with the Lake Holiday board February 28th. It was a Friday, two Fridays ago. And our treasurer met with me and he talked about there are three different options for our board. And it's at the prerogative of the board. So we can transfer funds to the general fund. We can disperse the funds to the homeowners association. And I would make the motion for the third one, which is refunding these excess funds to the eligible homeowners that paid. I think this makes the most sense. The county overcollected from these individuals. And so my motion would be that, and Treasurer Orndorff said that he can credit this. And that's why he wanted this done soon as possible. So he could credit it for June's bill. So I would go ahead and make the motion to refund those excess funds to those eligible that paid in. It's $195,960. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Lockridge, you also need to include a supplemental appropriation in that motion, please. I'm sorry. So, and I believe it's right. I can't pull it up in time, but and that will go through finance. A supplemental. No. You're just moving that. Okay. So I can amend your motion to add another element, a supplemental appropriation for the Lake Holiday Fund for that amount. And the second, Mr. Chairman, and the second agrees then. Thank you. Thank you. Do we need to vote on amended since we did it that way or just with both agreed? It's one motion. Very good. So we have a motion to refund the excess funds to the eligible homeowners. Thank you. And we'll move to the over collection to those homeowners, those landowners that were over collected from in Lake Holiday. Any discussion? I think it's good to return tax dollars to those that paid out. So good job, Mrs. Lockridge. Very good. Thank you. Yeah, I agree. I wouldn't want to put them in the general fund. That'd be taking from those there who had paid. So I appreciate the motion. Then we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Laiero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. Supplemental appropriation is made. Item nine, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. We have one appointment to make today. That's the Economic Development Authority. It's a vacant term lasting about a year and a half remaining. And we have three resumes in front of us. One of them, the first name had passed through the EDA, I know. And that board is usually appointed from people in a variety of businesses in the county. The other two were also applicants from the county. I don't believe they were reviewed by the EDA. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, as the liaison to the Economic Development Authority, I would make a motion to appoint Tina Murphy. Tina Murphy to the unexpired term. Ms. Murphy is a senior level employee of HP Hood, which is one of our targeted industry sectors in the county. She is a senior level employee with over 25 years experience. And the EDA felt like this would be good representation on this board. I'll second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the next item. Thank you. Ms. Murphy, I would like to ask, as liaison, I haven't served on that board, is the distribution large companies, small businesses as well? Does it look to be a good distribution right now? There is a variety of distribution. We are very fortunate to have the CEO of Trex on the board. We have in the past have had someone from Navy Federal, which is one of our largest employers and she has retired. We've had people from Farmers Union. We've had people from the Department of Agriculture. We've had people from the Department of Agriculture. We've had people from Homework, CTO's, we've had people from browse. We've had a diverse diverse board and she had a wrapped up news report from document smartphone where she made an increase in friendliness and presence within the youth groups. By not hiring people on that board, does that make it wash out existing issue challenges that we see now? First of all. You know, San 북 How does Biden think affects the Carax nation and would he say動 the form of So jungle. Like we've gone heard to view the We don't really trust confer among large entities as a – There has thealous the Speaker. you know, their profit levels and that type of thing. But I would think that we have large and small companies as well. But a lot of these companies are, I'd say the larger ones are major employers of this county and have experience knowing what we need as far as the county, as far as workforce development. That is huge for Frederick County in attracting employers, is making sure that we're working towards workforce development. So back to your question, I think we have a variety of large and small. We actually have Ms. Sullenberger, who is an agriculturalist in this community as well. So there's a great variety, I think. Thank you. Any other discussion? Hearing none, we have a motion. And we'll move forward. Move to a vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the appointment is made. So we have an information on appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. We like to point out when there are vacancies so the public has time to consider whether you might want to serve the county in some way. Ms. Phillips, do you want to cover it? The board is seeking applications for the... following Conservation Easement Authority, a three-year term, and the Social Services Board representing the Redbud District, a four-year term. Thank you very much. So if you want to learn about those boards, contact your supervisor or you can look at fcva.us and check out the boards and committees. There's some information there on each of them. Then we move to item 10. Mr. Chairman, so I would like to say Diane Payne has done an excellent job on the Social Services Board. We really appreciate it. We appreciate her service and thank you. So we move to item 10, Committee Business. Let me scroll down here. Transportation Committee. Let's see. Do we have a presentation on this? Okay. So the Transportation Committee unanimously recommended that we authorize staff to proceed with the project items listed below. I'll read them off briefly. The Committee met and made that request to us on February 24, 2025. I believe all of you are knowledgeable about these are studies that follow in phasing with or are ongoing studies that we had begun and you've heard from before. They include these projects. The Brewstown-Hopewell Road alignment. Staff is to do partial design and cost development. Route 11 South widening. A value engineering analysis. Route 37. New road on the new location analysis. And regional modeling for the comprehensive plan update. Any discussion of these work? They're going to want a vote, right? Roll call on proceeding since there's expenses involved. But any. Well, I'll make a motion that we approve these studies as forwarded to us from the Transportation Committee. Second. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion or questions about these studies? Supervisor Dunn. On the Route 37, just so you all know, 30 years ago, Route 37 on the eastern side was meant to be similar to Route 37 on the western side. And as we've walked through this, Route 37 on the eastern side might become a parkway. But we do need to have additional roads to go north and south. So this study. Is helpful on that. This could be a long term project. It might take 20 years to build. But if we can build pieces of this at times, it'll help to alleviate the traffic as the population grows. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. And I just add they're also looking at alternatives to Route 37. Whatever is the most cost effective way to solve some of our transportation problems. If there's no other discussion, we have a motion and a second. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. So work on these studies is approved. Item 11. Our first public hearing of the night. This is on the notice of proposed real property tax increase. Are we going to present or read this, Mr. Ballhoffer? There is not a presentation, but I'd be more than glad to give a brief summary. Thank you. Yes. Yes. So the board determined to establish, to advertise for a maximum tax rate of $0.48 When the board does this, they advertise this, because by state law, if you increase the real property tax revenue by more than 1%, you're required to advertise that rate. So the board at a workshop decided to advertise the rate of $0.48. That was put in the newspaper. What this means is that is the maximum rate the board can assess for their real property tax when they go forward. So I do support the decision. We will have a meeting tomorrow. Better. Let's get to work. Cheryl. Let's get to work. OK. They are allowed to lower that rate after they have the public hearing or any time up until any time they pass the budget. So this is the public meeting after this has been advertised for the public to respond to that notice of what the board has put down as their maximum rate they can utilize when they go forward with their budget. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Bauhofer? If none, we'll proceed to the public hearing. The first speaker is Jody Yeagey. Thank you. I know you're familiar, but I have to say please start with your name and magisterial district. Always. Hi, I'm Jody Yeagey from the Redbud District. And I stand before you tonight to urge you to maintain the 51 cent tax rate because this is not just about numbers on a budget. It's about our schools, our roads, and the safety of our community. For two. We've fallen behind on critical infrastructure in our booming community. The approval of the fourth high school was just the tip of the iceberg of addressing the overcrowding in our schools. Our community resources such as fire and rescue police and our county staffing have felt the impact of all of the growth we've had. And funds are needed to address the growing these growing pains. You've identified a number of infrastructure projects in the roads and those and to address those. We know that we need to address those. We know that we need matching funds to to get some of the funds from the state. This is going to take money and by keeping the tax rate will be able to address some of that. A few weeks ago, Mr. Dunn hosted a town hall. Which I really thank you for hosting and I really encourage the rest of you to have. I sat in a room with my neighbors, many of whom I actually did not know most of them. One gentleman raised his hand and asked Mr. Dunn to keep the tax rate at 51 cents. And start addressing some of the problems. And I think that's what we're going to do. And I think that's what we're going to do. And I think that's what we're going to do. I did not know he was completing the enrollment at 53 cents. So decided that I had to address as far as the funding could go. And so I wrote to my advisor. The first time that I had or read an interview to my advisor. He says he just needs to keep the tax rate there. And continuing to address those problems because he Würdem just was a little bit more confident within some of the needsintaire room clapped at that time. And I think that that was a strong message of where was this County wants. We're the taxpayers and we're asking you to do the fiscally responsible thing. and every family has first responders who can reach them within a matter of seconds. I urge you to make the responsible choice, keep the 51 cent tax rate, and invest in the future we all deserve. Thank you. Sonia Good. Good evening. My name is Sonia Marfatia Good, and I'm a resident at Back Creek. I have a few questions. What is your plan to address all of the growth that Frederick County is currently experiencing? Do we have enough sheriffs, deputies, EMT, and fire and rescue to address the influx of fire and rescue? I'm going to start with you, Sonia. What is the plan to ease the congestion and traffic issues on 7 and 11, especially at rush hour? How do you plan on addressing the overcrowding with schools? It took 10 years to approve a fourth high school, but the other needs of the district didn't slow, and we are overdue for more elementary schools and a middle school. Jameswood Middle School alone plans on getting 100 new students next year. Where are they going to put them? There are six trailers that are going to be placed on the school grounds. Where are they going to go? And does this not concern you? Student safety is on the line. How does lowering the tax rate keep the community of Frederick County strong and thriving? If you plan to decrease the tax rate, what is your plan to maintain and expand services in the county? It is your job to plan the future of Frederick County. I'm concerned that this board and the past supervisors have allowed for continued growth without reinforcing the infrastructure. So what is your plan? I'm a taxpayer, and I urge you to keep the tax rate at 51 cents. Thank you for your time. Jay Martz. Good evening. I'm Jay Martz from the Gainesboro District. I'm looking for the lowest taxes possible. Property tax is terrible. I can't avoid it. As you know, I'm not telling you anything you don't know. It's on the paper. I don't gain anything from the increase in my real estate every year. Also, unfortunately, I don't have any money to spend on my real estate. I don't have enough to be a landlord. I like my tenants. I don't want to raise the rent on my tenants. But when the property assessment goes up and you follow it with a tax increase, sometimes I have to bite the bullet. And, you know, these tenants, the tenants that I have, can't afford to buy a house, okay? They're renting from me because they can't afford to buy a house. When I find a good tenant, I keep them. Don't make me raise the rent. I don't want to do that. Secondly, find some other source of revenue. I'll pay a little more sales tax because I can find a bargain. I can find a coupon. Find another way to raise revenue other than this regressive property tax that we do all the time. And let me see. I don't call the fire department. I don't call the sheriff. I don't use these services. So, you know, I hope that you can take a look at finding other ways to raise revenue other than this property tax. And lastly, I would just say, Supervisor Blaine and Supervisor Judith, thank you for your service on the board. I understand you're not going to run again. So thanks a lot. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else here who would like to speak on this one item that advertised the notice of proposed real property tax increase? If I may, Joseph Brand from Stonewall District. And thank you. Mr. Blaine Dunn, I thank you for your comments at the beginning to help us understand this issue more succinctly, that this is a lower rate, but it's still an effective tax increase because our property taxes assessments went up 20 percent. So although we are seeing a slightly lower rate, the effective tax that we'll be paying when the tax bill comes is still higher. But I do want to remind the board that many people in this economy, in this county, are living on the same income that they have had for the past six to seven or eight years. Many of the businesses have not been raised. And so many of us are still living on the same salaries we have had. And I know for myself, it's been six years since I've had a raise. And so this minor tax increase does get spread across and it gets flowed into our escrow payments and our mortgages and things like that. But that raises our monthly bills that we have to pay, along with all the other inflation that we're dealing with. So I echo Jay's comments to find other ways to raise some revenue. Other taxes may be OK to increase to find a way to help. I'll do this. But the property taxes have hidden too many people in the wrong place. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing portion of this item. So, Mr. Balhofer, there's no action required on our part tonight. No action. I don't know if we, any supervisors, want to have a short discussion? I'm fine. No, we certainly have plenty of work sessions. We're always making up this time. So, if you feel like we need any additional comments, no worries. The something is on this side of this webinar is the Withdrawal Act. I'm sorry. I forgot to ask. January 29, 2017. The Court passed by a ruling at 1 p.m. Friday, June 4, 2010, in an easy method of addressing our Libraries and National Advisors whereas good of character from the State website to the website. Does it box up to the goods or goods we are passing? We are<|haw|> to planeta goes? every year. So next year, for example, if there was a budget crisis, the rate could change up or down if you're dissatisfied with where we end up this year. But for FY26, for this coming year, 48 cents is the maximum we can have. And that's my only comment on that at this point, I think. So we can move on to item 12. Again, public hearings. We have three under item 12. First one is, I'm giving you time to get up here by running my mouth here, is the rezoning 1124 of Route 7 self-storage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This rezoning application is for a 2.38 acre property from the B1 Neighborhood Business Zoning District to the B2 General Business Zoning District with proffers in the Redbud Magisterial District. This overrides the Zoning District's zoning requirements. So we have three under item 12. The overall county map shows the property approximately where that red dot is east of the city of Winchester along Route 7. It's roughly equal to the distance between the intersection with Greenwood Road to the west and the intersection with Woods Mill Road to the east. This zoning map shows the property outlined in purple. The light purple pink color is the B1 Neighborhood Business current zoning. The yellow color represents the RP residential performance district zoning and that is the Pioneer Heights subdivision just south of the subject property and Granny's Restaurant is just to the east of the subject property. This long-range land use map from the adopted comprehensive plan shows the area, the whole area with the yellow hatching, which indicates desired residential development. And I would note that the current, neither the current nor the proposed zoning is in, is generally in conformance with the comprehensive plan. This is the general development plan. It shows an entrance south off of the eastbound lanes of Route 7, a proposed bridge over an existing stream, a three-story self-storage facility of approximately 40,000 square feet total and several passenger vehicle parking spaces. The proffer statement, restricts the use of the property to self-storage only and has prohibited outdoor trailer storage. The proffer statement has also limited hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the request of the Planning Commission. Some transportation improvements include an eastbound turn lane with a minimum of a 100-foot taper and 100-foot deceleration lane to enter the property and a 75-foot acceleration lane and 50-foot acceleration lane to the eastbound turn lane. The proffer statement also limits hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the request of the Planning Commission. Some transportation improvements include an eastbound turn lane with a minimum of a 100-foot acceleration lane and 50-foot taper to exit the property and they have also proffer that development will be in general conformance with the GDP. To summarize, this is the request to rezone 2.38 acres from the B1 Zoning District to the B2 district with proffers to allow for a self-storage facility. Some positives of the application include that the use has been restricted to self-storage only, which could generate significant damage to the property. Some properties have been re-zoned to a minimum of a 100-foot taper and a 50-foot taper to exit the property. The proffer statement also limits hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the request of the Planning Commission. Some transportation improvements include an eastbound turn lane with a minimum of a 100-foot taper to exit the property and they have also proffer that development will be in general conformance with the GDP. To summarize, this is the request to rezone 2.38 acres from the B2 Zoning District to the B1 Zoning District to the B2 District with proffers to allow for a self-storage facility. Some positives of the application include that the use has been restricted to self-storage only, which could generate significantly fewer trips to the property than other B1 uses that could be done by right. Some properties have been re-zoned to a minimum of a 100-foot taper and a 50-foot taper to exit the property and they have also proffer that development will be in general conformance with the GDP. The proffer statement also limits hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the request of the Planning Commission. Another positive would be outdoor trailer storages prohibited and hours of operation have been limited, along with the eastbound deceleration and acceleration lanes that have been added to the proffer statement and the GDP. In the concerns column is the rezoning is generally not in conformance with the comprehensive plan and any other changes to the plan would be required. The proffer statement also limits hours of operation from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. at the request of the Planning Commission. Some properties have been re-zoned to a minimum of a 100-foot taper to exit the property and they have also proffer that development will be in general conformance with the GDP. To summarize, this is the request to rezone 2.38 acres from the B2 Zoning District to the B2 Zoning District to the B2 District with proffer that development will be in general conformance with the GDP. Plans 4 and machining were epsilon 1500<|sv|> and 0730 to 03130. wird Something to add to the feeding capacity of thebecause of AP Whistler 엔 In addition this program rights is restricted to existentling Reasonableř Thutz. If you wish to regard thisCDU needs to be attended by Board of Trustees estándarte and power of the City collaboration agreement, for which I 캐�to Sally sports an official. Please note The next slide, which appears wanting to reiterate a more detailed talk is interested in theádå touch on 사람들이l issue. concerns. Tonight this item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 15, tabled the application and left the public hearing open until February 19 and at their meeting on the 19th the Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezoning. Tonight staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this rezoning request. That concludes my presentation. I am happy to answer any questions and the applicant's representative, Mr. Davis, is here to address any questions as well. Thank you. Are there any questions from the Board? Supervisor? Yes, Mr. Chair. Mr. Chairman, so the area currently is zoned B1, correct? Correct. Would you please let the audience know, and so on a B1 situation the current landowner by right can do certain things irrespective of what this Board does, is that correct? That is correct. The zoning stands today, the B1 zoning district, there are a number of uses that they could build. Yes, so I'm going to ask you, can you please walk through the uses that can be currently built by right in a B1 situation? Yeah, absolutely. So the list is on the screen. Some of them include real estate offices, veterinary services, doctors' offices, daycare facilities, restaurants and food services. Some of them include fitness centers, just to name a few. So if I wanted to go and build a building for a food center or a veterinary or et cetera, I can build a four-story building, three stories tall, correct? And no one has any say because it's fitting the current zoning. Is that accurate? That is accurate. They would just have to submit a site plan through our office and meet the regular zoning ordinance requirements in terms of parking and building height. Okay. Thank you. So I just want the residents in that area to understand that under the current zone, the landowner has certain rights that he can build a building there and it would be what it would be and it would never come before the board, correct? Correct. Thank you. Supervisor Liero, you had a question also? I think Supervisor Dunn has summarized what I was going to ask about. Thank you. Very good. Any other questions? One other comment to staff, and this is also to the staff and to the sheriff. This area along Route 7 is a 45-mile-an-hour zone. People typically go 55, 60 miles an hour. So if the sheriff can at certain times put in speed cameras or just run traffic control there to encourage people to do 45, not 55 or 60. There's a restaurant called Granny's and people have peeled out of there just so they're not hit from behind. There have been accidents there. So as a community on Route 7 from Greenwood, Goodyear, to the other side of the street, if you can just obey the street limit, that would be very helpful. Thank you. Yeah, I'd like to echo Supervisor Dunn's thoughts. I drive on Route 7 a lot. People don't see much development currently and a lot of people accelerate early. I presume it's already 55 miles an hour. There's turns and some limited visibility. Coming westbound on 7 before you get there, there's a very short left turn lane to go to that road, if you all know about it, that's going to be a little bit more difficult to get to. But if you all know about it, that's got a one lane bridge, I'm always worried someone's going to be driving with their lights off, come around that corner and we're going to have a terrible accident there. So I'm very concerned about the safety aspects of anything that's put there. On the other hand, maybe when it gets more developed, people will psychologically understand that this is still a 45 mile an hour speed zone and they'll change their habits. I agree that that's one of our more dangerous segments in the county. So any other questions for the presenter or for the applicant? I don't want board members to miss their chance with the applicant here. I'll just say if the applicant wants to make comments, please let them. Certainly. Did the applicant want to present? I don't think we have any questions for you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Steven Carpenter. Steven Carter. Good evening, board, and thank you for having us in. I'm Steven Carter of the Redbud District, and thank you for voicing some of those opinions ahead of time. I do understand that this is a B1 and that there are no requests that the landowner would have to make to go and build. Their request is, however, for a B2, specifically for a self-storage unit, which is the appeal and opposition that the residents, over 50 of us, have voiced through a petition that was signed and sent to the board. And I think that the B2 is a B1 that we have to make a request for. So I'm going to ask the board to make a request for a B2. And I think that the board has a request for a B2. So I'm going to ask the board to make a request for a B2. I think that the board who previously sent Advance 8 requires that the board approve. The Board has actually requested that we send a request that we support on thections and the Original resolutes and甸a. graves do not only encompass the Dupuqueérence's uses, but I would like us to forte those claims later on. And so that they can have some indication that there are no positive comments on the the proposal. So it is not our intention or interest, nor the spanning probability. We would like that the Commission based on the criminal proceedings could мехase a clarification from the Customs and Psych viscosities act, toaint after or after bills see the country to take such commitments because these organizations are not so inviting because they do not identify itself at its striking point so they do not necessarily necessarily need to enforce what we can. I think this resolution will<|nn|>가지고 elevation policy for those landowner who vomit. to the left of that on one of those slides. And in my opinion, if we should be having a rezoning appeal, it should be to conform with the county plans and commissions, making it more of a residential use. And actually, one of the comments made by the Planning and Zoning Board was that we would prefer, speaking on behalf of the residents, that we would prefer to have a self-storage facility down there than additional residents. I've spoken to many of the residents around us. We would much rather have neighbors who are there consistently taking care of that land and being around and available to us, who we know, as opposed to transient people who are coming in and renting a storage unit every other month or so, changing who they might be. So hopefully you had an opportunity to read the letter that I had sent. Three minutes isn't enough to go through it all, but I will also mention something that wasn't brought up in the Planning and Zoning, and unfortunately, many of the concerns were left off of there, and a positive being the lesser of all evils being spun as a positive is not one of them. So there are very few positives in the rezoning of this. There are two. There are two zones, B2 locations within a mile and a half, one of them 4,000 feet away from this particular unit. If the developer would like to go develop on that land with a storage unit, there is a Food Lion parking lot that has been sitting empty for over five years. Please encourage that to be developed before this land of trees and an area over this creek and the residential community. There's another area, 4,000 feet west, two point something acres already zoned B2. You can develop that land. By rezoning this property, you're disenfranchising that property owner and you're taking away from their value of their property. So please stop rezoning this property. We understand, again, that a food stand could go down there. That's also another option on that list from the B1. A consistent real estate office, a business office where we know that people are in there throughout different hours of the day or throughout consistent hours of the day. They're typically going to be running a business out of there, not allowing trucks, moving trucks, storage owners. There's a lot of other things that we're going to be doing in the future. We're going to be looking at that, but we're also going to be looking at the the B2. We're going to be looking at the B2 zoning. It doesn't conform with the intention of the B2 zoning. We're going to be looking at the B2 zoning. It doesn't conform with the intention of the B2 property. It doesn't stay within the zoning regulations. It doesn't have the property, the general business area, it says, should have direct access to major thoroughfares. It should be a property separated from residential areas. Adequate frontage and depth should be provided. None of that conforms with the B2 zoning regulation in and of itself. So I know I'm out of time, but thank you very much. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you much. Is it? We're getting echo. Somebody's got, still got it. Well, I'll struggle through. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak on this item? Welcome. Please give your name and magisterial district. Leslie Spencer, Gainesboro District. I'm here to voice my strong opposition to the development of what would be probably our 23rd self-storage facility in our county. This new proposal puts our comprehensive plan at risk, which is the first one we've ever done. It's been carefully crafted, investing significant time and resources. Our comprehensive plan reflects our commitment to balanced growth. By allowing developers to stray from our established goals, we compromise the well-being of all residents and the greater good. Residential and urban areas call for retail, parks, and places for the community to gather. If you listen to this neighborhood, they're aiming for that feeling. Their negative cons sound psychological, fearful, and uncertain, because self-storage is not a cozy feeling for their families. These are valid feelings. They probably are the very reason researchers and planning have put self-storage in B2 areas away from homes. It makes me question their safety, too. Developing a lot into B2 can create an adverse effect. If now B2, would a future B1 home business suddenly become a gray area for more B2? When does it stop? A vote no sends a message to developers to stop rezoning the counties. Sorry. To stop. In the neighborhood, I tell developers what's next for Bill. Can you give me a suo and Lizzie, and を solve this problem? And I don't think so. We felt strongly when they told us to do something. But weren't you the other day? You told us we didn't have an opportunity to make progress. Here are some of Act 2 legislation statements. *** *** *** *** *** *** were calls last week asking me to sell. Now tourism. This plan on tourism says focus for the future. First impressions often set the tone for a visitor's experience and the great majority of travelers arrive in Frederick County through the roadways. The character of Frederick County's entrance corridors, especially areas adjacent to the city of Winchester, is a key factor to the visitor's experience and their decision to stay longer and hopefully return. Enhancing the aesthetics and traffic flow of these corridors will improve their visitor impressions and will benefit the quality of life for residents. These self-storage places are too commercial here and Route 7 is significant. When they drive back home, they remember our county's last glance. We need to go back to precisely what this local community is saying, a neighborhood feel. One V1U says a restaurant without a drive-thru window, which is the type of a better small business that puts us on the tourism map. We should prioritize V1 zoning, encouraging small, local businesses that contribute to our community's identity. This V1 zoning should stay. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak about this rezoning? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, you have an echo too. I want to make some comments and then we'll go from there. As I said to staff, you can do certain things with V1. You can hear me? We can do certain things with... Let me just turn it off and yell. Okay, so if you can all hear me, I'll chat. So, on V1, as I said to staff, you can go build a building. You can do certain things today, and the neighbors and the high school say, I don't like it, but the property owner has that right. That's one comment. Comment number two, a man bought the property on Route 7, he's a property owner, so he'd say, does he not have the right to go build a building there? He can on V1. He can build a four-story building with a roof, and he can build a building on Route 7. And if you're coming down the hill behind Pioneer Heights, instead of getting down the street, you're going to hit the top of a roof building. And what's in that building, you can have a vet center, with cats and dogs and horses and sheep. Or you can have an accountant's office or a doctor's office. You can do a number of things. You're eventually building a building. And I'm inclined to support the rezoning. So I'm just letting you know where I'm coming from. And I think that if you have lived on Pioneer Heights, I would like to see the wisdom fields behind there. If you were on Pioneer Heights, I'd literally walk to your land 25 to 30 years ago, and that was it. If you're looking just to say, I'd like to land, we'd buy it. However, I did have a gentleman here that said, should we talk? And my last week has been extremely . . . So what I'd like to do is delay this for . . . One . . . . . . meeting, so I can have the conversation, when does Pioneer Heights . . . Tell me where I'm coming from. . . . . . . So you're making a motion to delay this for two weeks? Or until our next meeting? I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? . . . Very good. Then we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. Mr. Chairman, . . . . . . Very good. Yeah, I appreciate. We also had some people say they brought up items that had not been discussed before at the Planning Commission. That's unfortunate because it also didn't give the applicant a chance to respond. His turn was over before those were made. So it is appropriate, I think, to delay and give everyone a chance to readdress this. We might want to hear from people and the applicant next meeting as well, but we'll decide how to handle that after you meet. Mr. Chairman, I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . So in case anyone couldn't hear in the public, Supervisor Dunn's amending his motion. He's still moving this to our next regular meeting. He's also asking that the public hearing part of it remain open so that people will get to speak Again next time and whoever seconded do they agree with that change? All right. We have a motion in a second any discussion So we had already approved why don't we vote since We're allowing the public hearing to go forward just to make sure we have that documented supervisor jewel supervisor done supervisor well Oh vice chair I supervisor Lockridge hi supervisor the arrow. Hi chair votes aye before you begin Mr. Ball offer did we mess up Roberts rules of order that because we had a motion and we then amended it after it passed and Actually you did but but you got the spirit of it done correctly, so I don't think there's any issue Right okay as long as we're covered you're covered and we can proceed. Thank you So the next item is 12 B zoning Oh 1-25 of the neff property commercial Good evening, mr. Chairman members of the board This is your second rezoning requests public hearing of this evening for rezoning 0 1 25 for the neff property commercial This is a request to rezone approximately six point six acres of a nine point eight acre parcel from RA rural areas zoning district to the b2 general district general business district zoning district the properties located within the Opec and magisterial district Directing your attention to the screen you can see the subject property is highlighted in red at the bottom of the screen Immediately east of the town of Steven City This is your zoning and locator map showing the subject parcel outlined in that purple color and the current zoning Reflected without a coloration and that is rural areas The property is surrounded to the east and north and northeast by existing b2 commercial Those include the current vacant shopping center in Steven City the dollar general and properties that are included Within the sure endo green development which is preceding under development to the north and east of the subject parcel The comprehensive plan specifically your southern Frederick area plan speaks to the future land use on this parcel It identifies the parcel within the urban center known as the Sharando Center and within the limits of the urban development area in the sewer and water service area. The Sharando Center is envisioned to be a mixed-use walkable community situated around Fairfax Pike with a mix of commercial residential employment opportunities. Staff would note that the proposed rezoning partially implements plan policy specific to future land uses. The B2 General Business District is typically associated with your urban center future land use and staff acknowledges that while the zoning otherwise meets the intent of the future land use, the proposal itself does not fully address all of the other policies contained in your plans as it pertains to the Sharando Center, particularly regarding site layout, design, and the uses envisioned. This is your future long-range land use map again showing that parcel with the urban center designation which is that polka dot pattern. Your plans also speak to future transportation. The project includes widening of Double Church Road and a new minor collector road bisecting this site from Double Church Road towards what is South Warrior Drive and the proposal implements plan policy specific to those transportation improvements and those will be discussed later in the presentation as it pertains to the proffer statement. This is a zoomed out version of that long-range land use map showing the limits of the Sharando Center. It's a fairly large area of the county extending generally south of Fairfax Pike between Double Church Road and to the east going towards South Warrior Drive and in front of the high school property. You can see on this on this map there is the future plan transportation road identified kind of bisecting sorry bisecting the site and connecting with what is currently under development in the Fairfax Downs and Sharando Center. This is a zoomed out version of that plan. The project includes widening of Double Church Road and a new minor collector road bisecting this site from Double Church Road and to the east going towards South Warrior Drive. You can see on this on this map there is the future plan transportation road identified kind of bisecting that same site. This is a zoomed out version of that plan transportation road identified kind of bisecting the site and connecting with what is The applicant has included a proffer statement for your consideration. It includes two elements. The first addressing transportation. They have agreed to construct that minor collector roadway extending from the current terminus in the Fairfax down in sure and a green subdivision towards the west and linking up with double Church Road they've also provided the future right away along their property frontage for the widening of double Church Road at such time that that would project would move forward they also have included a contribution to address impacts to fire and rescue services that would ultimately serve the parcel including the 10 cents per square foot gross floor area contribution that would be paid at the time of building permit this is the generalized development plan included with the application what's important to note on this generalized development plan is the phasing of the future collector Road they have agreed to do it in two phases the first would connect what is existing Berkeley Street coming out of the Fairfax down the sure and a green subdivision to point B on the generalized development plan and then they would construct from point B all the way to double Church Road it's a two-phase project tied to the construction of commercial square footage on the property and it does again implement your comprehensive plan policy specific to a future collector Road on the subject parcels staff would note that they are rezoning only a portion of this parcel so the northern part of this parcel would be rezone b2 and the southern portion of the property would remain RA the intention of this which the applicants representative can also speak to is to buffer their existing properties that they own south of this tract which is their ER neff excavating company is located there so they are preserving a portion of the property is all right a service service a buffer between that commercial area in their existing RA business so again for your summary this is a request to rezone six point six acres of a nine point eight acre parcel from RA to b2 with proffers as is customary with our staff report format we provide you with positives and concerns for positives it implements plan policy for future transportation improvements as envisioned by the plan concerns as staff noted earlier it only partially implements plan policy specific to that future land use designation of urban center and does not fully address the policies for the Sharando Center envisioned by the plan specific to site design and allowed uses the Planning Commission did recommend approval of this rezoning at their February 19th public hearing it is again presented as a public hearing item for you all this evening and staff would be seeking a decision from the board on this proposed rezoning David Frank with Pannoni Associates is here this evening he's representing ER neff excavating and I'm sure he would be happy to answer any questions as is said. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you did he want to present or just available to answer questions? Thank you sir. Board any questions about the presentation or from the applicant? I do have a couple questions for Mr. Klein when you talk about the road with us not having a timeline as far as the full completion of the road over to double church road if that parcel I guess would be to the west isn't developed then the road is never complete is that correct? That would be that would be true should the neff property not develop they would not be required to construct that comp plan road Mr. Frank can speak a little bit about what's going on in that area his organization is also involved with the broader Sharando green project but as you all are well aware just to the east of this property is Shrando green which is where the Publix is going to be opening in Stephen City in a couple of years most likely. One of the key components of that is they have a desire to have a secondary route around route 277 that would connect and Mr. Frank can elaborate on those plans as well. Mr. Klein lastly when you said that this particular plan is not in conformance because of the traditional neighborhood urban center do the other properties that adjoin that would they be in conformance? As you all are aware along 277 those are existing b2 parcels they are designated urban center in the plan but they are existing b2 parcels so there's nothing tied to like rezoning or anything like that which holds them to urban center policies Fairfax Downs developed as a TDR project and there they included some connectivity which is what you see with that planned roadway network particularly Berkeley Street and what this future connection will connect in certainly there's the opportunity if the applicant wanted to add a new roadway network to this project as we're looking at it right now. So if there's any additional questions or comments on this one please feel free to ask them at the end of the session. Thank you to Mr. F Protect. This is Lori Kelley from Monaco entering. Well量ing the any other questions from the board? Hearing none then we'll move to the public hearing. Thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing item. Miss Phillips is anyone signed up. No one has signed up. Is there anyone who would like to speak on this proposed rezoning? Seeing no one I'll close the camera. Thank you earlier you're welcome. Thank you. So Mr. F Protect we're thinking about the future recipient offer. So the work in the place took three weeks. Like we've said the leave was just behind company the materials might not work for now. That's the income we needed and less money to cover from the home recoding to the online or the offIX activity. public hearing portion of this item. This is Opec in is that right? Yes. Supervisor Wells. This is an area that has been surrounded by development. 277 is mixed use and continues to be mixed use. I wouldn't surprise me at all if it doesn't end up more commercial than the old residential houses there down the road. And for that reason I think that this request by the NEFS certainly fits into the area that we see. So I would move to approve rezoning number 01-25 of the NEF property commercial. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye and the rezoning is made. Now we move to item 12C, an ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 165 zoning. This is additions and revisions to define and regulate data centers. Yes sir. Good evening again Mr. Chairman. This is a ordinance amendment for your consideration this evening. You all will recall back in the fall we approached the board with a discussion item about regulating data centers and you all sent this item forward for staff to work on and to work through the committee process and bring back to you all for public hearing. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 165 the county zoning ordinance to add a definition for data centers to include additional regulation sections for specific uses to regulate the siting and use of data centers. In addition to our data center work we identified some other elements that required attention as they are critically tied to the data center industry that includes distinguishing between power generation facilities and transmission facilities and to modify other ordinance sections related to data center uses. As you all will recall this amendment was initiated by the Board of Supervisors and data centers are identified by the Economic Development Authority as a targeted industry in the county for growth and that's one of their key industries that they are pursuing as a Economic Development Authority. The current standard as you all are well aware is that data centers are permitted as a by right use in our B3 industrial transition, our TM technology manufacturing park district, our M1 light industrial district and our M2 industrial general zoning districts. We brought this to your attention when we updated our and it the conversion to NAICS in 2023 and had a conversation about making sure that data centers were clearly listed in those zoning districts as an allowed use to make sure that it met the idea that it's a targeted industry for the county. Data centers are undefined in our ordinance as they're currently included and there are no additional regulations that currently regulate the siting or operation of data centers which is the earnest for bringing this ordinance amendment to your attention this evening. So we are making a number of proposals and I'll walk through each of those for your consideration. The first is an amendment to section 101 which is your definitions and word usage and we put forth a definition for data centers which is a premise in which the majority of the use is occupied by computers and or telecommunications and related equipment for processing storing or transferring information infrastructure such as utility substations power generators and other supporting equipment may also be included. And I would note as we go into the proposal staff has done a lot of work on this amendment we have consulted with a number of industry professionals that regulate and build data centers and operators we've talked through best practices with environmental groups and we have thoroughly reviewed a report published by the General Assembly's Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission known as JLARC to make sure that we were implementing the best practices that were identified throughout the Commonwealth. In addition to that definition for a data center we are proposing amendments to part 204 of the data center. The first is the order of the ordinance which is the additional regulations for specific uses we've included a fairly extensive list of performance standards for data centers to comply with if they were going to locate and operate in Frederick County that includes prior to any rezoning or site plan approval that they would provide water use estimates that would be reviewed by Frederick Water to ensure that there's adequate public utilities to serve this use. We've included restrictions on the hours of operation for generator cycling and testing that's limited to Monday through Friday 8 p.m. to 5 p.m. that's kind of your typical business hours trying to address concerns that are raised regarding noise and the generator cycling that goes on with data center operations. We've specified where on-site mechanical equipment can be located and identified what the screening element of that equipment looks like. It would be screening corresponding to the height of the tallest piece of equipment so that may vary around the site depending on what type of equipment is located where anywhere from six to ten twelve feet depending on the type of equipment that's located. So that's a very broad list of requirements that we've included in the order of time. Most of this equipment is located on the roof so that would be screening the equipment on the roof to serve a sound buffering and also a visual barrier. We've also outlined setback and screening requirements from adjoining properties. We are proposing a 200-foot buffer from adjoining properties that are zoned RA, rural areas RP, R4, R5 which are your presidential zoning districts or MH1. In the absence of an adjoining kind of residential district the base zoning district would apply. We're also requiring that the property be located in a district that is located in a district that is located in a district that is located in. We also requiring that around the perimeter of the property regardless are corresponding to that adjoining property that they would provide a category C full screen buffer which includes the elements of a landscape screen plus an opaque fence element so they could also do a berm and then there's some distance associated with that as well. And then we are including requirements for noise and noise monitoring that would be screening that requires the data center operator to provide a noise study prior to the certificate of occupancy showing what their base noise level is and then to provide at the 24 month period a second noise study that demonstrates that they are in conformance with the noise established prior to going under operation and then failure to do so if they're exceeding the noise level that's allowed elsewhere in the zoning ordinance which is 75 decibels they would have to do additional noise attenuation measures to make sure that the noise is not. Burnt some on the adjoining residential properties. In addition to those supplemental regulations we need to clarify where data centers are allowed in other sections of the ordinance that is part 201 under the nuisance specific to noise specifying that the B3 and TM districts are part of that again those are districts where data centers are allowed but they're not presently listed under the noise nuisance requirements and then part 20428 as it pertains to height waivers again allowing data centers in the B3 and TM to take advantage of that. height waiver requirement the height waiver section grants the board the ability to allow a data center to exceed the maximum height established in the districts for our industrial districts at 60 feet but it would allow through a board of supervisors waivers you all to review a proposal to exceed that height whether that be 60 90 or sorry 90 120 feet depending on the type of data centers data centers vary in height depending on the end user so there are circumstances where they may seek out a board waiver if necessary to operate. in addition to your data center requirements we also took a look at our public utilities section and sought to clarify the difference between power generation facilities and transmission distribution facilities as presently defined in the ordinance they are inclusive public utilities are inclusive of both of those elements of power generation and the transmission distribution of various utilities with setbacks determined by the zoning administrator so we are proposing breaking that into two separate definitions. the first would be public utilities power generating facilities which would be the generation of power via coal natural gas solar wind nuclear biomass hydroelectric or other methods such facilities may be owned by public utilities public agencies or those operating with a certificate of public convenience or those operating under a permit by rule we are further defining transmission and distribution facilities as all the other elements they're associated with public utilities that's going to be your booster and relay stations transformer substations transmission lines stations transmission lines and transmission lines and transmission lines and power lines and transmission lines swimmingemoivia that already river lines and and són on stations and bridges electric system high speed control towers pipes meters and other facilities such as sewer and water treatment facilities again owned public they are owned by private agencies operating with a certificate of convenience. in addition to better defining our public utilities we are making revisions to specify where those particular elements would be allowed in various districts specific to the ra district we are making a revision that public utilities power generating facilities would require a conditional and then public utilities transmission and distribution would continue to be allowed by right so if they sought to locate up if a power generation facility was locate looking to locate in the rural areas district they would now be required to get to get a conditional use permit and then we added power generating facilities as allowed use in our business and industrial districts that's your b3 TM and one and m2 zoning districts that's a existing allowance but we added the new definition to the allowed use list in those zoning districts so in summary this is an amendment to chapter 165 the zoning ordinance to add a definition for data centers to include additional regulations specific to data centers to distinguish between power generating facilities and transmission facilities and to modify other ordinance sections related to data center uses in summary the Planning Commission recommended approval of this ordinance amendment at their February 19th meeting this item is presented this evening as a public hearing item staff is requesting that the item actually be tabled until your next meeting March 26 and that the public hearing remain open there are two companion bills that were approved by the General Assembly that are waiting signature by the governor of Virginia we anticipate that being done on March 24th which would be two days before the 26th meeting and that would otherwise codify a number of the regulations that were recommended in that JLARC study which are included in our proposal given what came out of the zoning diagnostic and including the state government and the state government and the state code reference we would like to include the state code reference in our ordinance to ensure that you know we are in full compliance with the Code of Virginia not only to protect the county obviously from anyone saying that we're trying to over regulate or something to that extent so that is for your consideration this evening and I'm happy to answer any questions mr. Pearson's worked on this as well and we will tag-team your questions to the best of our ability thank you much we've had discussions too I talked to Wyatt just earlier today in fact and I have a few but I'll let the board go first and I'll let the board go first any questions supervisor done so mr. Klein couple questions one's a clarification you talked about the fact that Monday through Friday 8 to 5 is that for the operation or is that just for the growing the construction of a site that is for the cycling of generator so they test their backup generators to ensure that they're in proper working order various times throughout the week and we would limit that battery backup testing or the generator backup testing to Monday through Friday 8 to 5 p.m. and I'll let the board go first. thank you mr. president and I appreciate that second question on the noise 75 decibels I've seen somebody make the request to come down to 70 can we consider something lower than 75 so that there could be a discussion on the benefits or detriments of 75 70 65 from people that are experts in that not just you know non experts you certainly could reduce the decibel level staff would note that our ordinance specifies for industrial noise the maximum decibel 75 so you have existing industrial operators in the county operating to 75 decibels we have a lot of large manufacturing facilities things like that you all heard noise complaints the various times throughout the year in fairness to all the industrial users we kept it at 75 but you all certainly may regulate this in a manner and reduce that noise level in our purview of best practices 75 seems to be fairly common I did see that and of course that I also have the fact that the town's improvements are ruled out considering reduced the discharging power of the generator through between 10c to 20cимся. comment that was had that number thrown out but do you we didn't look at that and we just felt like 75 was appropriate do you know if 75 causes deafness over time or is there is there above that that if you're exposed to a constantly there's an issue I'm not a noise expert I would be happy to look into that given that we were seeking a tabling this evening I'd be happy to report back I like just to be curious on that if it's acceptable that's fine if it's not acceptable and that's why but it would be good to know third conditional use I talked to mr. Pearson earlier but in the what you're proposing right now are you posing a conditional use for b3 m1 m2 and TM as one of the proposals for this public hearing no data centers are presently allowed by right in our ordinance and all of those zoning districts should the board want to make them a conditional use that certainly could be a recommendation and we would be happy to make revisions to the draft ordinance and bring that back to you on the 26 with those revisions I believe in conversations that mr. Pearson have had I have had internally we do think it may be appropriate to do require a conditional use permit in the b3 m1 and m2 zoning districts given that we have existing zoned properties that would otherwise qualify for a data center our TM our Technology Manufacturing Park zoning district is was identified and crafted to be our technology center you know uses and we do not presently have any TM zoned property in the county so it would be an opportunity that anyone that would seek to get into that zoning district not see how that conditional use permit would still have to come through the rezoning process and would be thoroughly vetted by staff and the board and Planning Commission at that time that would be our recommendation but you all certainly may direct us as you all feel appropriate to do it any way you'd see so I'll just make one comment as a supervisor and I would like to say that I before we go through a discussion point I'd like to see as broad a discussions we can on this program as we move forward as soon as possible so we would like to see that if we could be able to see those discussions we can on this before it goes public that way the public has to have some input we get the data to do it so yes I would like to see some conditional use permits for all the areas that we just discussed that's it mr. Sherman thank you super chairman I agree with the CUP I really would like to see that considered I also would like to see consideration on the setback far farther than 200 feet 200 feet is by industry standards where you have your different different economics companies coming in data centers I think there should be some consideration to pushing it farther back from the property line so I'd like to see that as a consideration for staff to look at just from my experience I think it's it's worth taking a look at thank you any other questions about the presentation super you no I would like to just reiterate that I would like the same as supervisor done I don't want these to be by right so I think that would be a good time to break it off right now the TM like you had said would require that rezoning so it would definitely come through and I think that the public it would be a good opportunity for all the other zones for the public for a CUP so public has an opportunity to speak thank you anyone else yes mr. chair I'd like to talk about the setback as well if there's a way that we could make that on a case-by-case basis in some areas 200 might be 200 feet might be appropriate in other areas that might be a case-by-case basis will react like to have some flexibility on the setbacks the to clarify on the sep x the way it is presently crafted it the 200 foot or 400 foot or whatever that great that setback distance would be only would apply if the adjoining zoning district is RP ra is re r4 on the z4 of something into the 305 decision period and for us for R5 or MH1. If the adjoining zoning was a commercial or industrial zoning district, then the base zoning setbacks would apply. So just would seek clarification that you all intend to increase the setback, but only as it pertains to those adjoining residential properties as it's currently drafted or something else. So may I ask the 200 foot setback, is that typical of other businesses? It is. Well, sorry. It is typical of other data centers around the Commonwealth. We looked at a number of ordinances, particularly Loudoun County, Prince William County, and Loudoun County does have a 200 foot setback mimicking what we are proposing. There are some other stipulations in their ordinances about stepping back the height as you increase the building height, it would get, the building would step back a little further. But certainly I think 200 feet is a number that is consistent with what other localities are doing, but you all certainly can create that in other ways. For comparison, our largest buffer that we have in the Commonwealth is the 200 foot setback. So we have a 200 foot setback that we have in the Commonwealth. So we have a 200 foot setback that we have in the Commonwealth. We have in the zoning ordinances, 350 feet. So if someone was developing an industrial property and they weren't doing any kind of screening, the maximum setback they would have would be 350 feet. So this 400 feet would exceed that by 50 feet, just as a point of comparison. But certainly, given that, you know, this is a new industry and that noise is a concern, an increased setback may otherwise be appropriate. And you all could always reduce that setback down the road should it become a problem or you, you know, so forth. Thank you. Supervisor Wells, did you have a question? Just a comment. I don't mind using her name because she certainly knows me and we've talked a lot. She was in Loudoun County on the Loudoun County Board. And as we all know, Loudoun County is certainly the closest county to us that has really had a situation with a lot of these developments taking place. And I appreciate what Supervisor Dunn brought up. She also asked, and I don't know how it would work, but the noise is a big thing. And apparently, every time I talk to somebody from Loudoun County, the biggest thing is the noise of the generators. So she's suggesting that if there's a chance or a way we can use a gas powered generator, natural gas, they're quieter. So I think that's a good point. I think there's a lot of room for improvement. I think there's a lot of room for improvement. And I think the other thing I would like for us to do is to look into that. And I would like for us to research that and see. The idea of keeping the noise down for these units, I think, is substantial. So I appreciate it. And I appreciate her comments. Thank you. Any other questions from the Board? Mr. Chairman. And Mr. Jewell, you may make some comments too. Data centers have changed significantly in the last five to ten years. So with Mr. Wells' comment, I'd like to see if the Board can give us ideas what the current noise generation is. I know that today it's a lot less than it was before. So if you can come forward with examples of here's a new generation, a new data center that was built, you know, six months ago compared with something that was built ten years ago and stand outside a new data center six months ago, what do you hear or not hear, do the same thing. So that would give us, you know, some might it also help the public, I think, to understand the changes that have occurred. It's not only noise, it's on the use of water. I think it's important to understand that. I think the data center is a very important part of the data center. I think the other thing that I would like to see is to see if we can get the data center to be able to do the same thing. Well in light, in ten years, it will be 100 years weg, it it will be 100 years away. So I'm interested in, you know, can you just say, you know, a feature or addition to this idea of analysis, or how this data center, when it heraus aひげ Bowrie home읒 Because most, which you're talking bit to the ноч rice, is that you're talking about information settings right now, right? Is that you're telling people that the state of Maryland needs to do this? You would be aware of that in acáI connect CAV a brief comment? In the idea of building communities? I would say what you're talking about measuring science and robust data centers, if people actually give them a taste of what they do that represents a quantition of the staff that need to do it. And so you close out on that? I think to understand the changes have occurred. It's not only noise. It's when the use of water Water is also changed. Mr. Jules more more burst in this if you want to add in in a minute you can but that's what I I'd like to see a good Analytical layout one. Here's what data centers are. Here's how they operate. Here's how they can affect a population It's different than was ten years ago. That would be helpful to update that. Thank you Any comment mr. Chairman, I mean it depends on the type of data center if it's closed loop, for example, visa has a closed loop system and Ashburn and they're using 35,000 gallons of water a day and that's equivalent of a large pool is what that is But you've also have cloud HQ as data centers three stories high and they use they don't use water, but they use power That's 44 megawatts a day So it depends on that. I think the staff's doing an excellent job of of targeting that making sure work You're gonna be with the whoever the Company is we're gonna have to meet these requirements that give us the studies on what we're gonna do So I really think they're doing a great job on Addressing that yes data centers have changed one that I was part of the belt We are generators for outside the two that I visited about two months ago They're generators are inside actually one's inside and one's up on a roof So it really does it is such a variety depending on who's building and what to how they're building it So I just I really appreciate the work You all put in you really done a great job Thank you. Any other questions for the presentation? I just like to clarify for the public So right now people there are no regulations There are districts where data centers could be built today and we wouldn't have any of these special regulations Unless we pass this yes, sir. That is correct. And there is one current operator down south of Middletown that is operating But that is the only example that we have so I just want the public to understand this isn't an attempt To increase what we're allowing in the county actually it's to regulate that business so that we have the ability to first of all set requirements that we think would that you all think would be reasonable for people in the vicinity and Then it's also been discussed up here that maybe we should amend what's in front of us today when it comes back to us to set up so that we have control in the future in other words like a CUP in some districts a Conditional use not a buy right use so that when a developer comes they wait? We would have to get our approval We would have a chance at that time on a case-by-case Basis to review the only difference is we're discussing right now as I understand it that one particular district technology M would be a buy right use potentially Still but that's because we're planning for something like a data center to be there. So we would be Looking at all those requirements in advance sometimes having a buy right Encourages a profitable business to come if if they don't have to go through that hurdle But that would only be on land that we have approved to be a tech tech that we've already reviewed So that it's ready for such a thing. Furthermore. We don't have any TM right now in the county. So even if we pass this any Developer that came in would have to ask for rezoning and once again just like with the conditional use permit More high fire наy was a闪ous Better assured that everything along the map were tested to give aged that foundation process I started a little prior to the That it would come to us and we'd get to look at that application and approve or disapprove So where I know there's when we got received a lot of emails there may be a lot of people who are about to speak But just to let you know we're trying to and benefit from some things that happen there. The last thing I would say is I'm in Ashburn around data centers multiple times a week, and where I'm at, there's kids' sports facilities nearby, and they're very quiet. So I know they can be quiet. I'm not saying they all are. I have no idea what their power or water usage demands are. I'm not there for a professional reason. I just happen to, related to this, I just happen to be there. So I'd just like everyone, if you're upset, please come forward, make yourselves known. I'm sure you will. But staff is asking that we think about this just a little bit more. We'll go ahead and have the public hearing today because some people may have come down here and want to voice their opinion, don't want to be deferred to another meeting. Any other thoughts? We can discuss this as well right after we hear the public. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one point of clarification. With these potential for additional changes that would serve to greater, place greater restrictions on development, it would be advisable to do a new public hearing as well prior to adopting some of these changes. We can talk about this after the current public hearing, but the original slide of a tabling until March 26 wouldn't allow you to act at that meeting. If we included any of these changes in the ordinance, I think we would have to re-advertise it. So I'll just leave you with that, and we can talk more after the public hearing. I think we can talk about this after the public hearing about options for scheduling. Could we leave the public hearing open to a future meeting, or does that not work when we're going to? I think because... Well, that's one meeting later. Like if we were to add the requirement to make it a conditional use in certain districts, we didn't run the advertisements with that included. So I think no matter what, we're going to have to do new ads and set a new public hearing. If we make any changes, great. Yes, sir. Thank you. With that said, this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Samantha Armell. I thought we did. Has she departed? Linda Reed. Please start with name and magisterial district. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Linda Reed. I'm from the Shawnee District. And I want to start off by appreciating the effort of the people involved in writing this proposal that limits the sound level of data centers to 75 decibels, 200 feet from other structures, and it requires screening of such facilities. I read this to my brother, who's a sound engineer. And he said, that's still very loud. It's the equivalent of listening to a vacuum cleaner in the same room all the time. He also pointed out that we're not like Loudoun County in the fact that we are surrounded by mountain ranges. We're in sort of a nest. And this amplifies and intensifies the sound. Residents of a small town in Texas called Granbury recently set up a data center. And they reported that shortly after, locals started experiencing excruciating migraines and hearing loss, panic attacks, nausea, and some of these issues drove them to the emergency room. The way they currently exist, data centers are just a bad idea for our community. And I understand you know other complications from our discussion tonight. Any proposal that we consider has got to include water usage. They use an enormous amount of water. My data tells me that the average data center in Texas is about a quarter of the size of the state. And that's a lot of data. And I think that's a lot of data. And I think that's a lot of data. And I think that's a lot of data. And I think that's a lot of data. And I think that's a lot of data. The average data center uses 300,000 gallons of water a day. This is the equivalent to 100,000 households, same amount of water. Currently Frederick County has 33,000 households. So this is going to multiply the amount of water that we need by three times. Where is this water going to come from? We have already had to open up little Opec and Creek for more water in the past two years. years and we haven't didn't we have to purchase water from winchester last year where is this water going to come from it may not come from the sky we are currently entering our third year of drought most of frederick county is still listed as moderate drought we all saw our lawns shrivel into brown last summer and we experienced water conservation restrictions there have been dire consequences in virginia because of the drought 411 forest fires took place in virginia 10 times that was in 2024 that's 10 times the amount of fires in the previous year in general 20 percent of fires are started by utility power lines data centers are requiring extreme power requirements with miles and miles of power lines and we're going to put these up in tinderbox forests and we're going to put these up in tinderbox forests and we're going to put these up in tinderbox forests and we're going to put these up in tinderbox forests only god knows how long this drought will last but let's not set us up let's not set ourselves up for devastating fire and water shortages for the good people of frederick county let's rewrite these restrictions to hold these companies responsible and in summary the corporations have the money the technology is improving but it's not there yet for our lovely community we are so blessed to live here this is not the time to allow data centers that are such a threat to our natural resources and peace of mind thank you nicole russell hi thank you nicole russell i'm in redbud district thank you supervisor dunn for all your service and um thank you mr klein i called earlier this week and he had lots of great answers for me um i would just urge you to i i just want to say thank you to the people who are here and thank you for your time and i'm so happy to hear the things you've said about this and we can learn from those who have gone before us to the east um we data centers aren't a foregone conclusion they don't have to come here speaking to the noise issue the national council of aging said that 70 decibels hearing loss above 70 decibels hearing loss can occur so i think if we are not looking only at a safe level but not just a tolerable level but a safe level we have to consider that also consider light pollution especially in rural areas what could the lights on 24 hours a day do for us and what can we do to address that and i think that's what we're going to be doing in the next few months and we're going to be working with the government to figure out what we're going to be doing in the next few months and we're going to be working with the government to figure out what we're going to be doing in the next few months and we're going to be working with the government to figure out on 24 hours a day due to livestock wildlife growing facilities in our county in warren county two years ago they voted 5-0 against having data centers in their county for the very reason that it was a uh it was by right and not conditional they closed the door according to the winchester stock because they didn't want data centers in in their county the 200 foot setback is about 70 steps i'm short it took me 64 steps to get from my car to the next one and i think that's what we're going to be doing in the next few months and we're going to be working with the government to figure out what we're going to be doing in the next few months and we're going to be working with the government to figure out what we're going to be doing in the next few months to the front door of this building so that's about from the corner of the parking garage to the front door of this building if we're talking about a tall building running 24 hours a day that hardly seems enough in fairfax county where they're already dealing with this last month citizens approached their board asking for at least a 500 to a thousand foot step back and these are people who are currently living with data centers in their backyards they're also coming into energy issues they're also coming into energy issues the democrat supervisor from ashburn the democrat supervisor from ashburn said that the equivalent energy use would take a thousand acres of solar fields to provide energy for one of these data centers they're all having to look into microgrids and other ways to provide power to these centers that they're living with they're trying to put the genie back in the bottle and we can keep it from even coming out our county has such history and such important uh spot in virginia's history as an agricultural leader as a place where we have the shenandoah valley we have the blue ridge mountain we have the shenandoah valley we have the blue ridge mountain we have the blue ridge mountain do we really want to have data centers be the welcome into our county coming up 522 or 81 or route 7 or route 11 or flying into the airport what will people think how will people see our county and its character we're talking about kernstown being developed and trying to maintain the character of the kernstown battlefield consider the rest of frederick county too with this so thank you thank you for your comments on conditional use i think that's a start thank you for trying to get ahead of this tidal wave but i think that there are other counties who can do this and it's not necessarily right for us so thank you is there anyone else that's the end of the list thank you is there anyone who'd like to speak on this who hasn't already spoken please come forward oh you're departing anyone else who'd like to speak okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay okay thank you thank you thank you for us and more pollution as they are moving on to private nuclear reactors called new small modular reactors or SMRs that is heavily funded by AI companies. We've already lost 14%, double the amount of farmland since the country's lost since 2017. Agritourism can grow our economy without destroying the future. And this is a real David and Goliath. So please be the guardrails and protect our land and heritage. Dear data center investors, you are amazing and I loved you a lot, but this research has really opened my eyes. I thought we were helping nature and saving farmland together, and now I see that you emerged as the biggest threat to that future. You were born in a great country and became a giant in this state. It is like you grew up and went out into the world and reached your zenith. You need to bring such vanguard innovation back home. In Denmark, you are cool. You are cooling by heating 1500 homes. In Paris, the same, plus heating an Olympic sized swimming pool. In Norway, your sustainability shines with green energy, geothermal cooling, and home to the most beautiful data center ever built. There are some living green walls and roofs here in America and a few geothermal too. In Georgia, you are even using treated gray water from outside your sources. In Maryland, many of these ideas plus a 600 acre nature reserve. You are a great example of that. You share insight with all initiative dein and and all your friends. They have a lot of energy in their lives. One of my attack capabilities is to develop new ways of creative patience and responses to government and digital costs. Know that here, obviously everything金 and tech is happening, why not bring some OFM back into life? Bone health insurance Home rasa Steal Parts and speed, being more optimistic, business lashing down, similar things To those skills which are needed as Commerce is not always easy. The more exceptions you add, the better you handle resources. To woke an ongoing fear and ness of life, practice and solutionlife become part of life conservationists and dreamers and locals. Collaborate the right way. Dream big. Get creative. Mature more. I want you to come here when you're ready to become a legend. I want to see Frederick County on the world's best list, where American and world leaders come out to see the legacy you have built and inspired the world to do better. When you are ready to give back, save farmland, save nature, dark skies, on site forever and ever, then you are ready to be a local at the top in Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I see one more. If there's anyone else, please queue up. Thank you. Good evening. Joseph Brand, Stonewall District. This is such a challenging topic to speak to and address to because of the many feelings on both sides of it, and I will have to confess to being slightly biased because I am in the tech industry. I did previously work at Amazon in their data center expansion capacity, but I dealt with Europe and Asia Pacific, so I didn't deal with their expansion here. But with that said, I think it's very important to do the things that you are considering to do, to look at conditional use permitting so that it is something that is heard before it is approved, looking at specifying technology-focused areas so that they are contained within existing industrial spots, not next to our farms and our residences, and to where the people are. For the setbacks, I encourage 500 feet or more, hearing the concerns that Fairfax residents had and brought to their board. I prefer it's not even next to a residential zone at all, honestly. But if it is going to be, then it needs to have some more space. Data centers do have large parking lots so that their facility can be kept away from the edge of the property lines so that they can have, because they have to have big trucks come in to deliver all the stuff that gets loaded into there. Additionally, I really would consider a study of water usage. It is hard to estimate because every design and every square footage has different amounts of water usage. Loudoun County has a very massive gray water facility right there along the Greenway. And that is so that they can pump water into the data centers and bring it back out and treat it and send it back. And they are not taking from their groundwater table, which we have discussed the droughts and the groundwater table here before. So I would really try to get ahead of that. I would like to see a study of what is expected for some data centers and what is our capacity. Because we may, just one data center could double what we are needing already. So again, I am in support of many of the changes you are looking to do. I would like to see our economy diversified into new industries. We see a chocolate factory coming. We see lots of new manufacturing coming. But bringing in something like this I think could really boost the county from a sales tax and things that can be generated from a data center facility. But let's try and keep it into a very strict industrial zone. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? One last person I think. Please start with name and magisterial district. Hi. I am Kim Johnston. I am from the Back Creek District. And I just wanted to reiterate some of the things that they had said. And that I would like to request some research on the environmental impact of the data centers and how they would affect our communities. And some of the things that they had said. And I would like to request some research on the environmental impact of the data centers and how they would affect our communities. And some of the things that they had said. I think the RPS and the RPS is a pretty high risk area, we've been dealing with things such as droughts, fires, even mental health. And one of the things I would urge to be researched and to maybe considered, and the proposals of each of these data centers, is to talk about maybe the design and implementation that they can include trees and other landscaping to kind of offset some of that environmental damage that may be caused to the areas surrounding and the farms surrounding. So that's it. Thank you. Seeing no one else, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. So, Board, how would you like to handle it? We have a request from staff to table this to our next meeting to accommodate Governor Youngkin's action or to see how that goes, which will be on his desk and presumably signed or vetoed before our next meeting. And also, as I understand, we've asked them to consider changing many districts to conditional use. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make that motion for tabling. Very good. If you need a specific guideline, I know it will require another public hearing, but I'd like to make that motion. Okay, we have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. And if Mr. Jewell will agree, I'd like to make sure we have another public hearing. So that if there's changes, we can have that. So, Mr. Pearson made the comment upon having a second public hearing, and I'd like to include that if Mr. Jewell agrees on this. He said we'll have to if we make any changes. The other quick comment then, Mr. Chairman, is if for some reason the Governor vetoes it, I'm not saying he will, but if he does, then I suggest we push this back until after the General Assembly either overrides the veto or sustains the veto. So, coming to the 2016. It's been vetoed. It's going to change the equation. At that point in time, we might want to push it back further. I agree, unless staff sees a way in that case to get it done working around that. Because keep in mind, the longer we wait, the longer it's a by-right use in a lot of places in the county. So, we do want to get this done. Any other? So, we had a motion and a second. We're in discussion. Any other discussion? Mr. Pearson? Just one clarification as it relates to the public hearing. If it's the Board's intention, we can wait until March 26th and try to bring a revised proposal for your all's consideration. And then you could authorize your future public hearing. That would push a public hearing potential final decision out to April 23rd. The other option would be the Board authorizing a public hearing tonight with the inclusion of the elements that you wrote. And we could write it as an either-or public hearing ad and cover the potential of you adopting all of those. So, if we ask for a public hearing at the next meeting, the county will have posted what that proposal is in time for the public to review and comment, right? So, no. No. So, we've already had a general public hearing ad. We cannot run a public hearing ad. We have to wait until April 23rd to get the ad in time to hold one on March 26th and still comply with state code. The soonest we could do is April 9th, but we would need you all to tell us to do that now. Or you can wait until March 26th when this comes back. We've taken another stab at it, and you can authorize a public hearing at that meeting based on the draft we provide. And if that's the case, we have to wait until April 23rd to get the ad to run on time to then have a public hearing and potential final decision. Just wanted to make sure that the timing and the dates. That made sense to you all before you acted. Okay. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to amend it and put it in for April 9th. Like we said, it's right now by right. I really would like to see this get sooner than later. I don't want to see the can kick down the road. I'll second it. You seconded it originally? No. Yes. And I'm seconding it. So, you're both amending the motion. So, you're tabling this until April 9th? No. No. Tabling discussion on the item until your March 26th meeting and authorizing a public hearing to be held on April 9th to include the additional potential changes the board discussed. Thank you. So, we have an amended motion. Any discussion? Then we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. We'll take this up at our next. Two meetings. And that is the end of our public hearing items. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. We'll start at the end. Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, the Extension Leadership Council met. The three new members were introduced. Master Gardeners is doing a new class and they've got 25 members. So, they're growing. Winchester Equipment was established. Awarded outstanding 2024 Volunteer Business of the Year supporting 4H. And the big one for us is Gypsy Moths. Of the, when working with the extension office, with Mark Shepton and with our County Administrator, we need to get word out that they, we did not receive, there is not a grant been approved for spraying. So, we're working with the Extension Office to see what we can do. We're working with the Extension Office to see what we can do. can do to get additional information out for those that are dealing with the gypsy moths. And one of the things that we at the extension leadership meeting was the master gardeners actually have a help desk that we can advertise for folks to call in and give them advice on what they can do with the gypsy moths. So there's going to be more coming from this, but we were hoping we'd be able to qualify for a grant for spraying, but it looks like that will not happen this year. So thank you. If I may ask, when we took this up last summer and we approved looking into the grant and evaluating the problem, it was improving. It was on a better trajectory last summer from a bad place. Has it continued to improve or get worse? It's right now people are seeing, I've had several folks call me with seeing the gypsy moths themselves. What we got to pray for is a wet spring because there's, there's natural, there's a couple of natural ways that, that the eggs can be killed. It does seem to be talking to Mark and the extension agents that there was a little bit of improvement, but it's going to again, depend on, on if we have a wet spring, because that seems to be the benefit of killing them. So thank you. Please let the extension leadership council know if they want to come to us with an update or requested action. With the county administration. With the county administration. And I'll ask the county administrator on this and come back to the board. Very good. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, I sent all of you, sent all of you an email earlier. So on the social services board, the social services staff has a number of vacancies, like eight or nine vacancies that have been significantly not there. And I asked Tamara Green, who's the director, you know, why did you get into the business? Why do people get into the business? And they got into the business because they wanted to help people. But because of federal and state mandates, they have to do reports. And so she said it made sense. Yeah. Because obviously people are spending 75, 80% of their time having to write reports as opposed to interacting with people, which is why they got into the business. We then talked about how to solve that problem. And a pay increase is one way to do it, not the only way. Then we talked about paid internships. So you have college kids that are interested in this field, and they volunteer right now. But if there is a paid internship, they can provide actually useful work to write some of these reports, and that's what we're trying to do. And then we have a paid internship, which allows staff to go and do the work they do. My concern is that as staff leaves, the remaining staff have more work to do, which leads to a burnout situation. And by law, we have to provide certain items through social services. So I'm trying to leave the workload that many of them have. And I think that a paid internship might be one option. I'm not saying it's the only option. But it's something that we ought to consider as we go through this budget process or afterwards, and that's the workload stress for social services people. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Hearing none, we'll move to citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? No one has signed up yet. Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to comment on anything involving county business? Sorry to speak so much tonight. Leslie Spencer, Gainsborough District. I wanted to say thank you. Thank you for your service. And thank you for your service, too. It means a lot to me. And thank you for tonight. That was really amazing. And I felt a lot of hope. Thank you a lot. Thank you. The other night when I was speaking about nature and having families have gardens or access to nature in the apartment building, I have some ideas. And I didn't really want to fight the developer here, but I've been looking into agrarian trust or community land trust where our local nonprofits can join together to find something and do something really amazing. Maybe work with Shenandoah University or the high schoolers and just think about our needs, our dreams, locations, of where it is. And I think that would be really amazing. Next Tuesday I'm going to speak at my very first school board meeting. And I met with Dr. Hummer and I talked to him about nature, integrating nature and farming into our fourth high school. And I am going to send you an email to invite you, too. But I really wanted you to focus on tonight. Okay. Thank you so much. Seeing no one else, I'll close citizen comments. Board of Supervisors. Supervisor comments. Do we have any? I do. Supervisor Dunn. Next week we're going to do, or in two weeks we're doing a budget. So last year I believe, Mr. Chairman, you took three minutes and down to two. I'm going to suggest that you allow for a three-minute conversation for people who want to testify. We've been here. It might be a three-hour meeting. You cut it to two, which saved us about an hour. So I don't know what the rest of you board members want to do. But I think there's just a courtesy in saying if you've got three minutes, you have three minutes. If you want to change it, Mr. Chairman, then I'd suggest you make that announcement now so people coming would know they only have two minutes versus three minutes. And to those that speak, if you've heard five people say the same thing, just coming up here and saying, I concur with speaker one, two, or three, as opposed to another three-minute conversation repeating things, that's helpful, too. But I think the people that have the opportunity to speak, and then if you hear it repeatedly, just say, hey, I agree with the other first speaker, and we've gotten your input without having to have another three-minute repetition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer that, but I'll let other board, other supervisors, any comments. No? All right. Then I'll say I'm not prepared to decide on two minutes because people want their three minutes to speak. I use the prerogative to reduce it to two minutes, one meeting as a test of how that would go when I thought we were going to have a lot of speakers. I think the general rule would be if we have enough people signed up that we're going to go over an hour and a half or two. I think that's what I would do. I would have a lot of people sign up for two hours of just comments on one item. Be prepared. I may restrict it to two minutes. So just be ready. The first few speakers, when I did that last time, I gave them leeway because it caught them by surprise. And I didn't want to cut them off when they had a speech prepared that was three minutes, and then people worked with it and were able to keep to the two minutes after that. So I'd like to do it that way. But I appreciate the thought. We'll do our best to give everyone their chance to speak. Another thing we can do is I'll explain the rules if we have a really dense speaking list, and that is no back and forth referring to or yelling at somebody else. You're asked to address the board, the chair, not each other. But without turning around, you can ask for people who agree with you to stand or show hands, and that might be able to show us how many people agree with you without them having to come forward and introduce themselves and take three minutes or even two minutes of time for each person. So that's one way to handle it. But I'll go through all that the next time we have a meeting with high interest. Thank you, Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move for adjournment. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion to second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We are adjourned. Thank you. Second. Any opposed? Aye. Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Second. That carries. Thank you. All in favor say aye. Aye. Second. Aye. Vice Chair, this is a motion to adjourn. The motion carries. Thank you, Vice Chair. Thank you. All in favor say aye. Aye. Aye. Opposing? Il-goohoh . Negative. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments or comments? Thank you, guys.
