Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-06-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=285
========================================================================

you you you you you I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County certifies that to the best of each member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law and only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board in the closed meeting to which this certification applies. We have a motion. Second. Motion and a second. I think we need to do roll call for this. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Welch. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. Yep. So we will take a short recess and be ready to begin at 7 o'clock. Mike, was I supposed to give you the stuff back? Excuse me, you didn't have to. You can keep it if you like. There was nothing. Gotcha. I don't know what the one thing that you should have done. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. What you told the ladies. Have a thing in there about restricting. No. I'm not. I will when I create a. I'll just stay. How are you, honey? We're against. I'm just calling. Well, but originally he said he really didn't care. I don't know. Now I care. Yeah. I'm good. That's going to be my credit. I know, Jimmy. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I can tell by車 cinco la espera Goodbye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I call to order the June 11th meeting with Frederick County Board of Supervisors. We are pleased to have Pastor Ross Halberzma here today of, I don't have my paper, of New Hope Alliance Church. Please, sir, if you could lead us. Would you please stand for the invocation? Let us pray. To you, O God of the universe, the King of creation, we pause this moment to acknowledge your grace. Your kindnesses, compassion, and favor upon all of your creation, but especially upon mankind, made in your likeness and in your image. You are omniscient, and there is nothing that we can tell you because you know all things. May we keep this in mind as ideas, recommendations, and insights are spoken of here in this room this evening. You are omnipresent. There's no hiding from you. Because you are... everywhere. Might we be mindful of that this evening in our deliberations. Our world can at times be a hateful place. And we are here this evening to share a common space known as Frederick County. Therefore, may we be kind in our attitudes, our actions, and our manner of expression. May we in this room and those online be good listeners. May the words of our mouth and the thoughts that flow from our innermost being be acceptable first to you in our discourse of this evening's deliberations, so that we might live peaceably together in this place. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Let us remain standing and please join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. We come to adoption of the agenda. Before I ask for a motion, I'd like to take a quick survey, because we've had some requests from the public. If you're here today for the item the Board is going to take away, the Board is going to take up on the interconnection of parcels on the east side of the county from Raven Point to Underwood Lane, that waiver. Could you raise your hand? Thank you. So it's not an overwhelming number. I leave it to the Board. We have... So let's have that... Well, do you want to make a motion either way, and then we can discuss whether we want to move that item? That would be fine. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. I would move that the Board adopt the agenda as presented with the following changes to page 7, and that is the removal of item 12A, as the applicant for rezoning 11-24 has withdrawn the application. And the second part to this motion is the postponement of items 12B and 12C, which are rezoning 03-25, and conditional use permit 04-25, to July 9, 2025, as requested by the applicant for these items. That is my motion, sir. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion or further amendments to the agenda? It would be the prerogative of the Board, if you wish to, seeing the number of hands, that were up. There has been a request from the supervisor of the district that that item be moved earlier in the meeting to allow these people an earlier time. Is that acceptable? That would be fine. Absolutely. Is that acceptable? All right. So we could amend the agenda to include or move item 13B, let's see. We could move it just about anywhere. We could move it before the committee business, a finance committee, if you wished, or before public hearings. Before public hearings? Is that the consensus of the group? That would be fine. All right. So we will amend then 13B to be moved. To follow 10B on the agenda. Would that be correct? Yes, ma'am. Say that again. So it would be 10C. It would be after 10B. So just so the public understands, that's not a public hearing item, so that should not delay the rest of you for that much longer. It should be a fairly quick item as I understand it. Okay. So you have amended your original motion. Do we have a second for the amended motion? Second. We have a motion and a second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? So we have an agenda. Mr. Chair, can I ask a question? Yes. Since that item now 10C is not a public hearing, can those residents address that during item 5, citizen comments? That's when they would have had to. Yeah, I was going to point that out. All right. Thank you. So again, if you are here for that item, well, I'll do that when we, let's see, we have an agenda. Let's see if we're there already. So we are. So citizen comments, this is a chance to speak about any item on the agenda that's not a public hearing. Quite a few of our items are public hearings. But that one item with the Raven Point connection under what is not, so you won't get to speak then. If you're here to talk about that, you would want to come up now at the beginning of the meeting. And we'll be getting to it fairly quickly. So Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? We do have quite a few, and I think many of them are the folks you just mentioned. But we start with Jesse Moffitt. Three minutes, sir. Please start with your name and your magisterial district. Yes, sir. My name is Jesse Moffitt. I reside at 223 Canterbury Ridge Lane, Cross Junction, Virginia. Thank you, Chairman and Board members, for allowing me to address you. My name is Jesse Moffitt, and I have lived in the Gainesboro District for over 36 years. Mr. Ludwick, your outrageous disrespect and disregard for your fellow Board members, our school system, our nonprofit organization, and the long and difficult journey of our long-time citizens of this beautiful county is atrocious and totally unacceptable. Remember, many of us, you are just a Northern Virginia carpetbagger. Simply put, Mr. Chairman, you are truly a disappointment and embarrassment to this community. You know better. Now be better. Thank you. Thank you. Brian Nury. Thank you, members of the Board, husband of the Chairman. My name is Brian Nury, a resident of the Opecan District. I rise tonight to address agenda item 6A on your agenda, approval of regular meeting minutes of May 14, 2025. As written, the minutes simply state that you commented on previous remarks made by Supervisors Dunn and Lero. You discussed a critical letter of the editor to the Winchester Star, and that you suggested that Mr. Lero had a conflict of interest concerning the school budget. Now, no offense to Mr. Ballhoffer, but I believe there's an error on that agenda. What it failed to mention was that the Chairman was campaigning for his wife's own candidates from the dais. If a member of this Board is endorsing a candidate that is personal business, that is not appropriate to be discussed from any position up there, especially that center seat, and to do so violates Section 2-2 of the Rules and Procedures of Conduct that this Board agrees to follow annually and should have been called out by any other member of this Board, especially the Vice Chair, as a point of order. I would advise amending the minutes to reflect that this was out of order. Concerning the conflict of interest issue, we saw the Chairman speak out vociferously against Mr. Lero, and it is pronounced Lero, by the way, but we never heard any such opposition before. In August of 2020, he defended Supervisor Lockridge, claiming that a vote to benefit her brother did not present a conflict of interest and encouraged her to vote for it. What an amazing leap of conscience from then to now. Mr. Lero has no statutory authority to dictate how FCPS spends its funds. Perhaps, while he's looking at his phone from his controller, perhaps he and his master should have missed the meetings where his predecessor, Shannon Trout, used to read a disclosure statement, stating that she was a teacher in FCPS and had no conflict of interest, despite the fact that the county's attorney said it wasn't necessary. Sounds like you're changing your tune based on who's dancing with you. And finally, I seriously think the people of Frederick County need to look into Ronnie and Josh Ludwig's organization, the Frederick County Conservative Committee, and their agenda. Ludwig himself stated that he wanted to install a conservative Christian school board, ostensibly, to carry the governor's agenda from the state. But there's something more. After the last meeting, I was confronted by one of their members, Robert Galilee, who gleefully said, according to him, he said that Ludwig said, once we take over, we're going to do whatever we want. What does that mean? The FCC holds its meetings in secret and is attempting to be the deciding faction in this county by holding numerous positions on committees and boards within this county, some of whom are sitting behind me right now. The county's at a tipping point, and the ultra-conservative candidates aren't fixing anything. It's time the county move on from the Ludwig machine and elect representatives with integrity, not self-service. Daryl Bell. I'm sorry. No. Hi, good evening. Mr. Chairman, other Board of Supervisor members, thank you very much for allowing me to speak tonight. I represent Opecan District as a citizen, and I'm just here to speak about 10B, which is the capital fund transfer in the amount of $852,557 for a weapons detection system for Frederick County Public School. I'm in support of this, and I ask, and I'm asking that you please support the proposal of the new federal government to allow the federal government to do this. I'm not sure if you can see this, but I'm sure that you reconsider or consider supporting this as well. I am also a teacher. I teach in Clark County, and the drills that we have, the drills that all of the schools have, are for very, with very good reason. Unfortunately, we live in a society where gun violence exists. I'm not blaming the guns. I'm not blaming the people. I'm just saying it exists. And recently, we've had situations in our own schools, one in Orchard View, where a student was shot to the school. I think that this would help alleviate a lot of the concerns of our citizenry, certainly of our teachers, and other staff members. Unfortunately, we can hope and pray and wish all we want for this not to happen, but it very well could happen. And we certainly don't want to be caught with our pants down if it does happen. So I ask, and I implore, that you consider supporting this capital fund transfer. I really appreciate it. And I will be happy to meet after you have an opportunity to hear from Dr. Hummer. Thank you very much. James Mulder. Good evening, Board. James Mulder, Back Creek District. I'm here about item 10B also. When I do my budget at my house, if something comes up I want, I either do it, I either readjust my budget, or I do without it. Last year the school board had over 100 vacancies that they never filled. Why can't the school board and the school administrators work out those funds to go toward the metal detectors that they want to? Where did that money go to? It doesn't leave their budget because we don't have that policy. If they don't spend it, they keep it. What about the money that they have budgeted for school ground equipment? What's more prioritized to them? New school ground equipment or these metal detectors? I feel like we haven't even gotten into the next school budget yet. It starts July 1st, and here they are wanting close to another million dollars. The county gave them almost 300 million last year for schools and expansion of schools. I feel like the school board needs to do their homework when they do their budget. They've known about this problem for a while that they wanted these things. It should have been in their budget that was approved earlier this year. Thank you. Deanne Kinney. Deanne Kinney from the Gainsborough District. I'm also up here about the weapons detection systems. I have been to the last couple meetings, and everybody really knows what my opinion is, and that is that we need them, and we need them now more than we need them later. And in March, when a nine-year-old brought a gun to school, not one day, but two days, I don't know how big the baseball bat is that has to hit us upside the head to know that something needs to be done now rather than later. The letter that was included from Sheriff's Office to Sheriff Milholland about the shootings in the United States, three shootings already in the school years in 2024. That's three too many. But we have been given the warning that something can possibly happen when a nine-year-old can get a gun in the school. That is the fact that it is, and we need to be aware that this isn't a want. This is a need. We need to do it now. Because do we want to be sitting here when another nine-year-old, a 12-year-old, a 15-year-old, or a 17-year-old gets a gun and goes on school property and kills somebody? Who wants it to be? I don't have a child in the school system, but I have friends, I have family, that work for the school system. Do I want to know that one of them was killed by accident because they happened to be at the school where this child brought a gun to school? We need to stop this, and we need to stop it now. It's not going to keep the guns. If somebody wants to bring a gun into school, they'll get it there. That's a fact. But we don't need a metal detector system that's going to find nail clippers and nail files. We need it that's going to find a gun. The kid's vape is what the vape can get through. Vape isn't going to kill anybody, but that gun will. And we need to make sure that we do something about it now before something does happen and we're wrong. Something does happen, and we're all real daggone sorry that it happened. You know, we can't be sorry. We have to be proactive, not reactive. And that's what we've been lately. We just react to stuff. We have to plan ahead, and we have to see that it needs to happen now, not later. And I hope that you all feel the same way. All seven of you. Not five of you, not four of you, not three of you. All of you all see that these things are our children, our family members, administrators, cafeteria workers, the janitors. All those people die in those shootings, not just children. But do you want to be the one to have to stand up here and go, well, we should have put those systems in there. Well, we should have, could have, would have, but we didn't. You all have to make sure that's not what we say. The taxpayers want it. They don't care. Most of them don't. I don't. And I hope that you all don't want to wait either. I hope you all don't want to leave until you do. Thank you all for coming today. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you all for coming today. Jeff Wright. Jeff Wright. My name is Jeff Wright. I live on Taggart in Raven's Point. I am here to speak in favor of the waiver for the connection of Taggart to Underwood. And I would like to join, I think it's about 85% of those who made a public comment on the website in favor of the waiver. well and rather than take up more of your precious time I'll allow a subsequent speaker to lay out some of the justifications for approval for that waiver and and I'm a happy fellow tonight all right thank you William Melvin good evening sir name is Bill Melvin I'm the president of the Raven Point HOA and I'm from the med Shawnee Magisterial District we work closely with the residents of Raven wing Oakdale crossing and Raven Oaks on community neighborhood issues common of common concern our combined communities can include well over a thousand homes all residential or an entirely residential community I'm sorry we support the waiver requested by Glaze Development to eliminate any requirement to construct a road connector as the first step in creating a major connector running through our communities the thoroughfare would run from the entrance of one logistics park a major trucking distribution center that you previously approved at the juncture of cover cover stone Drive route 50 and Inverleigh Way to Cincinnati Road via Taggart Drive and Underwood Lane I have requested that our statement submitted earlier be included in the official record of the waiver and I'm happy to take that as a yes thank you thank you thank you Registration doesn't include any achilles and my understanding this is the first dalton Japan state decision is said to Four Reasons in the House inuses election startsJ Advent 어떡解 acc overstating those thinking perfect It's not going to correct any problem in the Underwood Lane community. Widening the roads to meet state engineering standards would double the width and wipe out many of the front yards in this long-settled community. Nor would it correct any problem in the Ravens. In fact, it would negatively impact home values, reduce tax revenues, and create an unsafe environment for our children who play in the streets since no parks or playgrounds exist. The most compelling reason that might drive you to oppose the waiver is that the county would not have to pay the cost of this initial portion of the construction. The obstacles to completion to Cincinnati, however, are cost prohibitive and destructive to our communities. If you oppose the waiver, please answer the question, would you still support the construction of this connector at this time if the county was required to pay for it instead of the developer? Not likely, as most people would consider it a waste of taxpayer money, given the cost and odds of completion. And they would be right. It would be an irresponsible use of our tax dollars. Also, Oakdale Crossing has our sympathy and support for solutions to their excessive use. We are not a state that has the capacity to address the speed problems and need for traffic signal at Cressley and Cincinnati. But even if the connector were built and Underwood Lane upgraded along with Cincinnati, there would be no traffic light installed at Underwood and Cincinnati, according to the county planning representatives. And the resulting increase in traffic from this thoroughfare would compound the problems at the intersection of Cressley and Cincinnati. And this is item 10C on your agenda as revised. Thank you very much, sir. Harvey and Yvette Dexter. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and board members. Our names are Harvey and Yvette Dexter. We live at 231 Taggart Drive in the Raven Point subdivision, which is in Shawnee Magisterial District. We are here this evening. We are here this evening in support of the waiver for the interparcel connection between Taggart Drive and Underwood Lane. As homeowners who have lived here since 2020, we have been very pleased with the neighborhood's quiet residential nature. Constructing an interparcel connection between Underwood Lane and Taggart Drive would open a direct route between Cincinnati Road and Millwood Pike. This would likely result in a significant increase in vehicle traffic as a cut through. And would allow tractor trailer trucks to make their way between Cincinnati Road and Millwood Pike. This would completely change the character of the Raven Point subdivision and would potentially put children and the elderly in the neighborhood at risk. Children frequently play in or near the streets and we have several elderly neighbors who walk in the area. The requirement to construct an interparcel connection between Underwood Lane and Taggart Drive was created in the early 2000s. The requirement to construct an interparcel connection between Underwood Lane and Taggart Drive was created in the early 2000s. The requirement to construct an interparcel connection between Underwood Lane and Taggart Drive was created in the early 2000s. When residential development was envisioned for the area across Millwood Pike from Inverleigh Way. In 2021, the Board of Supervisors rezoned a large parcel of land from residential to commercial where one logistics park has been constructed. And a gas station and truck stop and perhaps other commercial entities are being developed. This fundamentally changes the planning assumptions that were factored into the development of the interparcel connection. The plan was developed by the City of Miami and the City of Miami. This fundamentally changes the planning assumptions that were factored into the development of the interparcel connection. and the City of Miami. This fundamentally changes the planning assumptions that were factored into the development of the interparcel connection. This fundamentally changes the planning assumptions that were factored into the development of the interparcel connection. In order to overcome aורה in 2000 and 2000, the U.S. economy made a big Chatur trend from the rural part of the area, thoughts took to the urban part of the area, EUSG has been accomplished in supporting inter-parcel, A feel-good environment here in Install safety is also important for desire traffic to yesterday. EUSG initially worked on the plan but needed some small items. The plans are to implement more commercial inter-parcel community wearing, In terms of security in terms of safety and protection while anti-shelf buildings are working on lower объjungment with the regions. truck traffic large and small would utilize the cut-through from Sansany to Millwood Pike via Underwood Lane and Taggart Drive to access and depart the commercial development. In addition to the safety concerns regarding children and families in the Raven Point subdivision and on Underwood Lane, there would be an increase in noise pollution at all hours of the day and night as large trucks utilize the cut-through. This would not only affect the homeowners on Taggart Drive, but those living on Summerfield Drive, Underwood Lane, and the Raven Oak subdivision as well. The intersection of Sansany Road and Underwood Lane is in no way ready to accommodate the increased vehicles and truck traffic that would result from a cut-through between Taggart Drive and Underwood Lane. Large semi-tractor trailers and box trucks would have a very difficult time turning off Underwood Lane into Sansany Road in either direction. This would worsen the situation that presently exists at the intersection of Cressley Drive and Sansany Road, where it is very difficult to turn left off Cressley. So since my time is up, I would ask you to acknowledge the changes that the board made in 2021. The situation has changed regarding the planning assumptions and that you accept the recommendation of the Planning Commission to approve this waiver. Thank you. Justin Perry. head to Hello I am a resident of the Shawnee Magisterial District. I live at 204 Taggart. wouldn't have discussed property taihéra characters. I just want to reiterate the safety concerns. I guess I am a northern Virginia 외ược kiTalk demonstration, I'm a Southern Virginia well-rounded legal fleshbander. my family left about five years ago. I came out here to work at<|hr|> we have a 10th year 14 year old lady. we have a job for us. The public lands in this district has been res 2022 as a public land it comes to a state Shaanxi county Child pugadar hyp templates that are more expensive than normal district building, which is best laid out round-the-clock. that's a kind of working class building and public land looks great Brazil is if youuins working solution for um a family or if you live somewhere for public land to live. And I drive the Sterling every day, and what I see is the creep, Northern Virginia creep, coming this way. With regard to the waiver, I ask that you vote in favor of the waiver. No political agenda, no financial agenda, just safety. Okay? You're changing a suburban neighborhood into a major thoroughfare with a truck stop at the end. I feel for my neighbors at Cressley and Oakdale, but I feel that that intersection at Cincinnati and Cressley acts as like a choke point, which helps keep the tractor trailers at bay. Because once you enter into Cressley, it's a snake run. A tractor trailer or 18-wheeler cannot maneuver through there. Yeah, they do. I'm sure there are moving trucks that have to go through there, etc. But it is a snake run, and it's probably developed that way to avoid the 18-wheeler. The 18-wheelers, the box trucks, etc. And the common traffic. It forces you to slow down in your automobile to a 25-mile rate of speed, which, again, is back to my main point, the safety aspect. There are kids on Taggart. There are elderly on Taggart. There are adults who exercise on Taggart. And I walk on a dog on Taggart, and I would just ask that you vote in favor of the waiver. And put this thing to rest. A lot has changed since 1990 in our county. A lot has changed since 2020 when I moved here. I just, like I said, I can't reiterate enough the creep factor from Loudoun, Fairfax County. From, what is it, Summit Church West. From Summit Church on Cincinnati West, they have been developing every little piece of land that they can. And they have been developing every little piece of land they can to financially benefit from housing. And the population on Cincinnati from Summit Church West has probably quadrupled since I moved here in 2020. Sure, is there, should there be a way from Cincinnati to Route 50? Okay, well, maybe that's something you guys should figure out. But, again, I ask that you support the waiver for safety, if there is any, concerns. Thank you. Rodney Wine. Hi, my name is Rodney Wine. I'm in Shawnee District. I have lots of political agendas, but this isn't one of them today. So, I live on Underwood Lane. The connection there, in my opinion, should not be opened. The waiver should be granted for that. You're going from a bottleneck from approximately 37 to 40 feet down to less than 20 feet of pavement on Underwood Lane. You have no clear zone clearance. The road as it is right now, I don't think, would pass clear zone parameters with VDOT. You have power poles that are literally four, maybe five feet off the pavement. We park on both sides of the road, let's say. In 2007, on the master plan from then, there are two notes on the master plan. Now, they're not binding, but there are two notes that says two things should be done prior to this connection being made and Underwood being opened up. The first is that Enverly should be built, the extension to Cincinnati Road from Enverly should be built. That hasn't been done. And the second thing that's on there, the note, is that Cincinnati Road should be widened. And that hasn't been done either. So when you open this, if you were to open this or even just to build a connection and so if you build a connection and block it, eventually it's going to be used. So it should not be allowed anyway. However, if you open that, you get basically a straight shot, maybe one turn off the end of Inverleigh onto Taggart, which would allow tractor and trailers straight access to Cincinnati Road from Route 50. And once a distribution center opens up, you get a big problem because you're going to have nothing but accidents there at the end of Underwood Lane and Cincinnati. So with that, I'd say your ordinance. Allows you to waive these things for safety issues. It is a safety issue. And you should use your common sense, which you all have. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone here tonight who'd like to speak again on an item that's not a public hearing item? Please come forward. Queue up if you do. I see one. Did you want to speak as well, sir? I've signed up for the ones at the end. So if it's a public hearing, you should be able to speak as well. So if it's a public hearing, you should be able to speak as well. I would like to say one item. I'm just going to say this very quickly. No, you've got to do it on the mic because we have to record who you are so that everyone can hear. Yes. I'm Alan Shepard. I'm from the Redbud District. I'm carrying the place up. Anyone that's here with concerns about your children and your family, I'm just going to tell you my seven-year-old son was taken away from me 30 years ago. You do not want to be me. Okay. Tim from the Bat Creek District. I'm not against the weapon detection systems at all. I know you need them. I'm pretty sure they can get... I don't want to get into what they have because I know what it is, and I don't want to reveal anything that should not be revealed. I believe they can get better systems by going to the airports. Now, a woman spoke earlier about... not getting machines that won't pick up keys. If she can come up with a machine that can do that, by all means, let us know because I'm quite sure you'll buy them. But it is what it is. I'm pretty sure that the $800,000 is not going to be enough. That's me. I'm pretty sure you're going to have to go higher with that. You have weapon detections, then you're going to need the x-ray bags. Because like she said, a gun came into the school in a backpack. Weapon detection doesn't pick that up. An x-ray? A machine will pick that up. So you're going to need both of them to work together. And like I said, I don't want to get into what they can do and what they can't do because it would be exposing Dr. Herman's plan. So really, if she can come up with an idea of a machine that can do what she says, let us know because I'd like to see it. But I do believe you do need the weapon detection systems. I think you're going to need better ones than what they're looking at. That's it. Thank you. Thank you. And is there anyone else? Can I make one more question? You've already spoken, sir. Thank you. I see one more. Hi, I'm Vic Canfield, Stonewall. And I'd like to sympathize with the people who have spoke about the need for metal detectors and such for the schools. I wholly agree with them to the point that, yes, something needs to be done or certainly, at the very least, it should be moving on it toward the future, in the very near future with it in some way. In the meantime, though, there are other solutions that can be considered. If you go to some schools, they have to have clear backpacks. That's a help with being able to see what's in the backpacks. They're also not allowed to stuff those backpacks so that things can't be seen in them. If you go out to Loudoun County, many of the schools have their own security right there, on site. They can be checking these things. There's the possibility of just using a wand rather than a system that sits stable to find out who has what. What would it take to possibly hire people? Schools come in at different times to hire the necessary people, maybe for just a year, to basically look in every backpack and if they need to do a bit of a pat-down, even to do that and things. While I sympathize with them, I also sympathize with people who are struggling in our community. Even myself, I've had to reorganize my finances because inflation has hit hard, jobs have been lost, it's just everything is just crazy. Everybody knows that. There's a lot of people doing a lot worse than I am and they're struggling. And to add to a budget that's already there now, as such an extent, you know you're going to have to up the taxes. There's no way around it. And for some, that's fine. They can pay it. Another couple hundred dollars a year doesn't hurt them. That's nice. But there are others who are struggling to make that couple hundred dollars a year. And I know it's always used, well, how many of the old people aren't getting their medication because they need some food or vice versa. You know, it's all through our county. I would ask that you do consider and start working on, and I know you're not going to be able to get that to getting metal detectors of some sort in schools, but I would ask also that you work your way up to that and find some temporary uses in the meantime to try to solve the problem as best as possible. Thank you. Thank you. Seeing no one else, I'll close citizen comments. The next item on the agenda. Sorry, I was making notes. In the future, I'll do that. The next item here is the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion. Can I point out something very quickly? Absolutely. Most of these are finance. As we look at 6E, 6F, 6K, 6L, 6M, N, O, P, and Q are no local funds required. And the others before that, 6G, 6H, 6I, 6J are projects that are either in process or have been delayed for various reasons. There's no additional local funds required and they have already been approved by our board, but our July is the new budget season, so they are just carry forward. So I just wanted to explain there are a lot of items on there that went through finance committee, and that's the reason they're on consent agenda. Okay. Thank you. And I'm just going to move on to the next item, the consent agenda, just explaining that to the public. Thank you. You saved me my usual explanation. Yep. Some of the publics are concerned that we somehow spend money there without having a hearing. That doesn't happen. As the chair of the finance committee just stated, they're either items we did have a hearing on, that we did have public acknowledgment before in the past year, they're just being rolled over, or they're items like grants that do not require any taxpayer funds. So if you want to learn more about it, it's online in the agenda, and you can read and certainly ask us any questions of anything in the consent agenda. So we have a motion and a second. Is there any more discussion of the consent agenda? Hearing no one, we'll do a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice chair? Aye. Supervisor Welch? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes aye, and the consent agenda is approved. Next item is item seven, board of supervisor comments. Okay. I would just like to begin, I had this note written up, we've since had a few items dropped for the agenda, but we still have a lot of public hearings tonight. So what I would ask tonight that supervisors be mindful of how many people are here for these items, and if you can delay any comments that don't bear on the agenda, just as the public did to our concluding supervisor comments at the end of the meeting, that will help us get the county's business done. Thank you very much. With that said, any board of supervisor comments? I do have some comments, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to take probably five or six minutes to cover a couple of issues. First, this is the month of June. As you know, we have a federal holiday, Juneteenth. But just recognize that Juneteenth only freed slaves in Texas. There were still 40,000 men and women and children that were still slaves in July, August, et cetera, of 1865, and they did not become free until December of 1865. So when you celebrate Juneteenth, enjoy the holiday, but come December 18th, when the 13th Amendment was ratified, remember that was the day that all men, women, and children became free. Secondly, D-Day. June 6th was the 81st anniversary of D-Day. And we've had men in this community that were on the beaches on Normandy on that day. So for those men and women that were there, thank you. We appreciate the service that you did for the freedom we had today. Third, transportation issues. Many residents have talked about transportation issues with Maine, talking about the fact that we need to have infrastructure before we have more schools. The board was considering a Winchester East operation, which is at the end of Sunstein Road. And the developer offered to pay for a road there. That road is a $50 million road. To pay for that road, we need to pay $50 million. That road is a $50 million road. That road is a $50 million road. That road is going to be about approximately an additional 100 houses for a total of over 300 houses. And they're going to build a box culvert that's someplace in the neighborhood of $8 to $10 million. I'd asked this issue to be brought to the board, but there was not a consensus at that time to do anything on that issue. Instead, we've had TDRs, which are being used, in which the county will get nothing for the development of that. So because of this, we, the county, may not receive any money. And I'm just going to ask board members to probably bring this back next week. I'm going to bring this back next, in July, to have a discussion on this and possibly a vote to see if we have an interest in building a bridge on that. We would put out $8 to $10 million. We have the money to do that in our capital fund. The total cost is going to be $40 to $50 million. And in my opinion, it could be a good return on investment. But that's something that we need to consider. Finally, Robert's Rules of Orders. Robert's Rules of Order do not address supervisor comments. Our bylaws simply state that we have supervisor comments, nothing else. Mr. Chairman, you as chair are the arbiter of the board. However, other supervisors do have a prerogative when speaking after you have spoken. Under Robert's Rules of Orders, if any supervisor wants to continue a conversation, he or she simply has to say, point of order. And then if a majority of the board agrees with that point of order, that person can continue to speak. At the meeting in May, I was not here. I was on a business trip, and so I could not be here. Mr. Brand and Mr. Ludwig, both of you made comments, so I just want to respond to those comments. Mr. Brand, Mr. Allen, Mr. Lero, and Mr. Sahara, all of you are veterans. Thank you for your service. I mean that sincerely to all of you. All of you state that you are a constitutional conservative. Two of you, Mr. Lance and Mr. Lero, have laid out specific policy positions or voted on policy positions. The other two have avoided policy debates or simply not stated policy positions in which you could be questioned by an audience. Mr. Brand and Mr. Sahara, if you are listening, you are running for supervisor as a Republican candidate. Unfortunately, you would not participate in a Republican-sponsored debate in which you could be asked specific questions on policy positions. That is unfortunate since you are seeking the Republican nomination. Your opponent, Mr. Lance Allen and Mr. Lero, are not. Mr. Lero and Mr. Lero, both were there. We are having two primary elections on the 17th, which will affect the major policy issues affecting this county. So now we go into policy issues. How do you deal with growth? The current population is about 98,000. That has expanded by 40,000 people since 2000. That growth affects our budget, roads, schools, and farmlands. How do you pay for the growth? I have laid out my concerns on county issues on the agenda. I have spoken to the Republican committee on multiple occasions on previous times. My question to both men is, what are your solutions? When I made my comments to the Winchester Star, you had simply made general comments or may have taken no questions when you spoke at the Republican committee, you took no questions. And when you spoke to the Winchester Star, it was an email response. I have previously laid out solutions to these problems and I am going to lay them out. One, economic growth. The EPA says that we can expect less than $5 million in new growth in the next few years. That does not cover the budget deficit that we are running. Impact fees. The cost of new growth is borne by those causing that growth. Do you support impact fees, Mr. Brand? A referendum in which the voters can decide if they want to support a 1% sales tax on purchases, excluding food and excluding medicine. The cost for the average household of spending less than $10,000 on purchases is less than $10,000. The cost for the average household of spending less than $10,000 on purchases is less than $10,000. The cost for the average household of spending less than $10,000 on purchases is less than $10,000. The cost for the average household of spending less than $10,000. Mr. Brand, do you support that referendum? The chair does not. A meals tax, which is arbitrary and only occurs if you choose to go out to eat. A two cent increase raises $3.3 or $3.6 million. A real estate tax increase. Each penny raises $1.8 million. However, real estate taxes are mandatory and they are not arbitrary. And personally, I am not keen on real estate tax increases. Mr. Brand, what is your position with specifics and referendum on impact fees to cover the cost of new development? A 1% tax for schools and or debt reduction of raising the meals tax or real estate tax to balance the budget. If you say economic growth, what specific companies and what revenue will they generate in a year? Budget. We had planned a $15 million deficit for the last three years. And another $14.7 million deficit in the coming three years. And another $15 million deficit in the coming year. How do you balance that budget? Mr. Brand says that on his Facebook page, I think our budget could use a little more balance with the right cuts to bring expenses and revenue into closer alignment. Good. Specifically, what programs and what dollar amounts do you suggest? I am unaware of any specific recommendations other than campaign comments. Chairman Ludwig also spoke about cutting spending on the federal government. He said that the federal government is not going to be able to do that. And he said that they won't be able to do that. Mr. Brand, you have to be careful about cutting spending during the budget two years ago. We have three citizen members on the Budget Committee. None of them had any suggestions on savings other than one member who talked about HVAC savings of less than $1 million for the schools. And that's a school issue, not a county issue. Mr. Ludwig had no suggestions on the amendment during the budget when he proposed cutting fire and EMS personnel and teacher positions for which we have no authority to change. Our general fund budget has gone from $232 million when Mr. Ludwig was elected, to $2.2 million when Mr. Brand was elected. Mr. Brand, you have to be careful about that. when Mr. Ludwig joined the board to more than $288 million today. That is an increase, not a decrease. What are your suggestions on where we can cut the budget? So if you say you're going to cut the budget, lay out some numbers. Mr. Brand, do you agree with Josh Ludwig and Mrs. Lockridge that we should reduce by 50% the annual hiring of American personnel and firefighters? How many more pages do you have there? We just had citizens speak about campaigning from this dais. If you're going to continue, that's fine. But I was hoping we could do this is not county issues on our agenda tonight. Mr. Ludwig, you raised the issue at the last meeting. I was not here. I'm just simply responding to what you raised. I have about three or four minutes to go. I'm going to finish that, and then we can go, okay? I'm looking at multiple pieces of paper. How many more pages do you have? I said, Mr. Ludwig, I have a few more comments to make, and I'm going to finish those comments. That's my prerogative as a supervisor. Okay, we may need to look at rules of order next year about how long. You often speak for 10-plus minutes. So if you could hurry, please. I'm looking at six, seven more pages here, sir. That's right. Can you defer this to the end of the meeting when you also have a chance to speak? Mr. Ludwig, I'm going to finish this now. I said I was going to take five or six minutes, and I'm going to finish this. I think you've already been five or six minutes, sir. Please try and finish. So do we need to raise revenue? If specifically, how and what amounts? Mr. Brand stated that we have extra money in our budget. We have about $36 million in our capital account, which is meant to be used for capital expenses such as schools and roads. How do you recommend that we use that money? Would you use that money to pay for the new high school or school renovations so that we would not have to borrow more money and go deeper into debt? Using $30 million for the high school, we would reduce our borrowing by that amount and would save us about $20 million over the next 20 years. I've raised the issue multiple times in the last few years, including a reduction in the debt by $5 million or $4.5 million or $9 million. All of which were voted no by Mr. Lockridge. The chairman who is supporting you, Mr. Brand, has voted no on each occasion. Do you agree with that position? Or use that capital as it is intended to be to use for capital projects or debt reduction? Proffers. We currently have about 13,000 homes which have already been zoned for new businesses. The proffers on many of these are less than $1,000. Do you have suggestions on how to improve that situation? Will you support impact fees? Will you support impact fees to address that situation? Do you have another solution? Transportation. In 2023, we had $8.1 million for transportation. By 2025, that would have been dropped to $3.2 million. This year, it's $7 million. In my opinion, we need about $14 million. And right now, we have less than 2.5% for transportation. It should be 5%. So for those that say we need to address transportation issues, Mr. Brand, how would you do that? Regarding my Senate race, you should have supported me if you were looking for a candidate who was trying to find solutions to the issues we have. My primary concern, Mr. Brand and Mr. Sahara, is that if you win the primary and general election, you'll simply vote as Josh asked you to without representing your constituents. You should analyze an issue and do what was best for your constituents. I think all supervisors should do that. Having said that, Mr. Ludwig, I will finish the rest of this at the end. Are there any other supervisor comments? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. Unfortunately, I can't delay these comments until later because agenda item 10B is an item about the weapons detection system. In order for me to participate in that vote, I have to read a statement, which I'm going to do here in a minute. But before I read that statement, I'm going to give the background of why I'm reading that statement. Last month on May 14th, there was a charge made. My wife, because she's a teacher in Frederick County Schools, said I had a conflict of interest voting on school budgets. So of course, I immediately reached out after the May 14th meeting. I immediately reached out to the Virginia Attorney General's office for advice. They referred me back to the Frederick County Commonwealth's Attorney's office, and I sent them an email on May 16th. They responded on May 27th. What? I'm going to not read the whole four-page memo. I'm going to read a couple highlights. Issues presented. You inquire whether you have a conflict of interest as a member of the Board of Supervisors because your wife is an eighth grade science teacher at Admiral Byrd Middle School in the Frederick County Public Schools system. Again, this is from a memo from Commonwealth's Attorney Ross Spicer to me on May 27th, and I'm reading from that. Response. It is my opinion that as a member of the Board of Supervisors, I have a conflict of interest. I'm not a member of the Board of Supervisors. I'm not a member of the Board of Supervisors. You may vote on the school board's yearly operating budget without creating an impermissible conflict of interest since your wife's salary is not specifically identified, but it is a part of a larger operating budget. You must, however, comply with the declaration requirements of Code of Virginia 2.2-3105H, which I'm going to read here in a couple minutes. Applicable law and discussion. The Attorney General of Virginia has previously issued two conflict of interest advisory opinions. In the Board of Supervisors opinion, the Associate Attorney General of Virginia, Harlan Spicer, on those issues, the State Attorney's Office of Public Works filed a consultant because their opinions did not fit with the understanding of the combating him as a protected individual. The입bp.com . You may now see the付g.com lock. . Excellent. These are gosh-darn jellyiation notes for those who are not disqualified for a lack of family tuitions or a conflict of interest in voting on the school board's budget due to the spouse's employment as a teacher. I would note that in the notes that Attorney Spicer gave me, one of the examples was a Board of Supervisors member who not only had a wife in the same school system but a son teaching in the same school. system. I further quote Mr. Spicer, as my opinion, as is counseled by the Attorney General's opinion cited above, the act does not prohibit you from participating in the transaction if you are a member of a group of three or more persons affected by the transaction, provided the requirements of 2.2-315H are met. The particular transaction of voting on the operating budget of the school system will not solely affect your wife, as it will affect all teachers, administrators, students, and personnel other than the specific personal interest you hold by virtue of your wife's position as a teacher. Therefore, pursuant to 2.2-3112B1, you may participate in the transaction. Conclusion, you may vote on the Frederick County School Board's budget without creating an impermissible conflict of interest since your wife's salary is not specifically identified, but is part of the larger yearly operating budget. You must, however, comply with the declaration requirements of 2.2-315H. Attorney Spicer did put a note below saying that it is noteworthy that you never made it a secret that your wife is a Frederick County Public Schools teacher, e.g. see Winchester Star Opinion Forum 92324, wherein you disclose your opinion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And, joined me in my, um, looking into this matter, there have been three members of, uh, at least three members that I know of, of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors who were full-time educators at the same time that they served on the Board of Supervisors. That was S. Roger Koontz, who was the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors back in the 80s, R. Thomas Malcolm, who served on the Board of Supervisors in the 80s, later was Superintendent of Schools, and Shannon Trout, who was recently a teacher for Frederick County Schools and served on the Board of Supervisors. I actually got from staff a sample of Shannon Trout's statement that complies with 2.2-3105H, and I've modeled my statement after that. So this was a statement that I needed to read out into the minutes before voting on 10B on the weapons detection system, but that's the background of why I'm doing this. So this is mine, and this is on file with the county office with Ms. Phillips. I, Supervisor Robert Thomas-Lear of the Shawnee Magisterial District of the Frederick County Virginia Board of Supervisors, would like to disclose for the record relative and pursuant to the State and Local Government Conflicts of Interest Act, and specifically pursuant to Code of Virginia 2.2-3102B3 and Code of Virginia 2.2-3105H, that my wife... My wife, Deanna L. Lero, is employed as a teacher by the Frederick County Public Schools and is therefore a member of a group who is or may be affected by the Board of Supervisors' votes on educational-related issues, and that I am able to participate in the transaction fairly, objectively, and in the public interest. Specifically on the vote that's coming up on 10B on weapons detection system, there are 2,500 employees in Frederick County Public Schools, 14,000-plus students, and hundreds of other people that come to our buildings every day. There are vendors, there are visitors, there are parents, guardians, etc., that are in our buildings. They all, along with my wife, they all benefit from the safety provided by another layer by the weapons detection system. That is all. Thank you. Are there any other supervisor comments? Hearing none, we did have... two long comments. I feel compelled to address them much more briefly. With regard to Supervisor Lero, that was a nice presentation, very similar to what he said two meetings ago when members of the public came and suggested he might have a conflict of interest. That's natural to assume. Whenever any one of us up here votes on something in which our household can benefit from financially, that is normally, under the law, considered, of course, as you might suspect, a conflict of interest. However, Supervisor... Lero has pointed out, both two meetings ago and tonight, school board employees are allowed to serve on this board, and they are allowed to vote on the school board budget, as long as they do that at the top level. In other words, we only give the schools a grand total amount of money, but we can't vote on specific line items of the schools, therefore he can't vote on his own wife's salary, for example. Makes sense, right? So, I don't know why schools are different from others, but, you know, I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. But I think it makes sense. Schools are an important part of the community. They take half of our funds, and so, in Richmond, they've decided that school board employees and households that have school board employees can serve on these boards, and can vote on the school budget. So that's all very good. When the citizens made those comments, and Supervisor Lero made a long response two meetings ago, you can go back and look at the meeting, I didn't say a word, because I supported Supervisor Lero getting on this board, originally, and, I was quite familiar with his right to vote on such things. Last meeting, I did speak out, however, because since then, I got his flyer, where he states on here that, in his power as a Shawnee district supervisor, he takes credit for getting a line item of the school budget passed, for getting a particular high-raise done for teachers. I raised the issue last meeting that the public has a right to question this. It's certainly possible, that that, I noticed that Supervisor Lero did not mention that to the Commonwealth attorney. The question is whether his advertised actions in trying to get specific dollars to a specific line item for the school system represents a conflict of interest. I'm not an attorney, it well may, but that is the issue at hand, not, not what he read about, not the fact that he votes on the school budget overall. That, in fact, was perfectly fine. As far as Supervisor, Dunn's comments, we just had a citizen accuse me of campaigning from the dais for a candidate of mine. There's no rule against it, however, I have not come out and endorsed anyone as an individual. I certainly have the right to support candidates that I like, but I have not done so, so that's incorrect. Supervisor Dunn, however, has endorsed candidates, and he put a letter in the Winchester Star, not for the first time, that was full of false information, and that's why I wanted to correct it at the last meeting. I will address that at the end, so we can get on with county business. I would just add, however, though, he went on with a lot of policy questions to candidate for Stonewall District, Joe Brand, and hinted like he did in his letter to the Star, that Joe Brand has avoided meeting the public. That was a false statement. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's to say, a 2015, that was last week, was in our the paper. The FCRC has spoke aDB encouraging people to building their land, designing it for the new government. We will open to a public expo meeting next week for that. That's a public expo meeting, and those who exist on the board of directors will have a chance to speak. The AFCRC will come tomorrow for their coalition meeting. Remember, I mean, this is back in the 60- avait 준 they. But what are we waiting on, in the 75th decade. We will be in the 70- Pros workload camp in the last week alone, and he's usually here at these meetings and speaks to people after the meeting. So I just can't let it be left out there to suggest that somebody is not facing public questions. I've seen him in action answering some good, some tough public questions. And that's what all candidates should do. So with those... Mr. Chairman, I have one quick comment. We can't let this become a back and forth We'll finish this at the end, but there was an FCRC debate, and I'll read the rest of my comments at the end. Okay, that's false. There was never a debate advertised by the FCRC. There was a candidate forum where they could come and talk. There was one meeting he didn't attend. There was no such debate, sir. And if you want to pull something up, you have quite some time, but there was none. So, Board of Supervisor comments are complete. We now move to Item 9, Appointments to Boards, Committees, and Commissions. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll start that one off. The first one is... I'm sorry if I interrupted. No, please. It's for the Gainesboro District, and it's for a four-year term of the Gainesboro District. Dana Newcomb for the Historic Resources Advisory Board, and I would recommend... go ahead and recommend appointing him to that seat. Second. I was going to jump in and second that as well. You can do that as well, Mr. Chairman. That is quite all right. Mr. Newcomb has been on that Historic Resources and worked hard for it for many years in this county. So, we have a motion to second. That was my discussion. Any other discussion of that before we vote? No. Very good. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. The appointment is made. The next one is from the Opecan District Planning Commission. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I would like to recommend and make a motion that we approve Kevin Sudden. His term expires on June the 14th, that we reappoint him to the Planning Commission to represent Opecan. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. We go to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye and the appointment is made. The next Planning Commission appointment is Back Creek. Mr. Chairman, I move that we reappoint Ms. Betsy Broombach. She is eligible and willing to serve. Her expires June 14th. She's been fantastic on the Planning Commission. I just appreciate her so much. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? We'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. The next appointment is a Social Services Board, Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to reappoint Margarita Francisco-Hernandez. Her term expires June 30th, 2025 and she is eligible and willing to serve another term. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of this appointment? Hearing none, we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. The appointment is made. And we have two more to do. For the Winchester-Frederick County Tourism Board, I'd just like to make a note. The reason we're going so fast is we don't happen to have, maybe one reason is there was only one candidate in each case up. So it's pretty easy for us. So, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a recommendation that Levy-Snap and Jack Owens be appointed to the Winchester-Charleston Board. Thank you, sir. Did you say Levi? Yes. Yes. Okay. Very good. I heard a different name. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion of these two appointments? Hearing none, we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And both appointments are made. We move to Committee Business. We're all the way down to item 10 now. First up is 10A, a resolution adopting new provisions and incorporating a section of the county ordinance into Frederick County purchasing policy. Mr. Bolivar, do we have any presentation on this? Or do we need one? I have a presentation of Sharon from our finance department is here if you have any questions. What this generally does, this changes our code to match new changes in state law and then Sharon's or... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Missy has the... can answer any questions you may have regarding this. Very good. Board, how would you like to handle this one? Ms. Chairman, motion to approve. Second. I couldn't hear you. It went green and not red. Are you having trouble? Yeah, I keep on going green now. Ms. Chairman, I make the motion to be approved. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? We've got Missy here. If we do have any, we'll go to her. here if we do have any questions, but this was run through finance and it's just for pertaining to contract terms specifically for IT and it needed to be updated by July 1st, 2025. So she's here if we have any questions. This was to meet direction from Richmond. Oh, it was on. Now you're back on. Yeah. So there's a code update for the Virginia Public Procurement Act that allows us to adopt this new policy. It requires it, right? It is different than usual policy updates where this one actually has to be adopted by the board. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay. Thank you very much. Any discussion? Not hearing any, we have a motion to approve this resolution. We'll go to a vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. The resolution is approved. 10B, capital fund transfer. Who handles this one on the board? Yes, Mr. Chairman. As finance committee chair, I'll go ahead and do you want me to explain this or make a motion? I do have quite a bit of discussion on this one. I think we make a motion and Okay. This one ran through our finance committee. We voted to deny it. Okay. And I'm going to go ahead and uphold that. So I would like to make a motion to deny the capital fund transfer in the amount of 852,557 for a weapons detection system for Frederick County Public Schools. Thank you. I'll second that. All right. We have a motion and a second. We can start with discussion if you'd like to explain. Yes. Just to explain where we were with finance and some additional, just some additional notes. So I just want to clarify this request. And my vote in finance and to this day is not made in opposition to school safety or the use of metal detectors. I have the entire time been very concerned that we're going to spend this money today and it's not going to actually capture what we want it to do. And we'll be back in two years with another request to replace. So we were given two different . . . They talked about Evolve and the CHEA system. I believe the current four system, our CHEA or CHIA that are in our system or in our schools right now at the high school level. So it's based on the belief that the school division having just completed months of careful budget planning must demonstrate the ability to prioritize critical needs like this within their form close to form. I think it was 4 million, sorry, in capital funding already allocated this year. Among the currently approved capital items are multiple playground projects at the elementary level. If safety is truly the top concern as it should be, then we need to be prepared for the future. So we're going to go ahead and make a motion. We should see clear reprioritization of funds already in hand before the division asks for additional public money. It is not fiscally responsible to continually expand spending without at first exhausting and justifying the use of what we have already provided. Beyond the budget concern, I also want to address the lack of transparency surrounding this proposal. During finance committee, we were presented a PowerPoint presentation. It was stated the quote from CHEA included . . . The superintendent stated that the internal staff could conduct the training that additional costs could be handled later if necessary. But this only adds to the concern. Approving close to 852,557 based on incomplete e-mailing. This is not a new policy. The superintendent said that the proposal is not responsible for planning, especially for a system where implementation and proper training are critical to success. If we move forward, we need the fully transparent, fully itemized quotes, a clear and documented training plan, and an honest assessment where funds can be reprioritized to meet the need. Mr. Ballhofer, I had reached out to you in regards to . . . oh. In regards to the budget, what do you think the budget is talking about? I think that the budget is a very important part of our budget process. And would it be accurate to say that July 1 fiscal year 26, that they could use funding from capital funding that we have approved, which is 4 million? Yes, the $4 million that will be appropriated officially on July 1 they can use for any of the capital projects if they so desire. Okay. Because when I contacted this company, they said they have plenty of stock of these devices. And the quote that I received said net 30, meaning they could order them today and we could have them in hand and 30 days they could pay for them. Would that be accurate to interpret that? Net 30 would mean that? Could you repeat that again? On the quote that I received that Frederick County Schools also received, it said the term of payment was a net 30, meaning that we could go ahead and order them and July 1st their funding, they could pay for them within 30 days. Generally, that means that sometimes it requires a town payment, but the net 30 means that the final total payment has to be made within 30 days. I don't have it in front of me, but that's generally what it means. Okay, thank you. So I have asked to just put up our capital that we approved throughout our budget process. Just to show that when we do our own budgets at home, we also prioritize our spending. And if we run into issues... That we can go ahead and take from one pot and pay for it without asking for additional taxpayer funding. But I think that only makes sense. We had one gentleman get up and talk. I wrote down Mr. Canfield. He's from the Stonewall District. And I look at this all the time when we're looking at fire and rescue and when we're looking at the schools. It comes to a point where you can't afford to live in Frederick County. And so I am fighting hard that we can send our kids safely to school. But we can. So if we're to live in our homes. So you will see right here, this is what the division has asked for asset replacements. You will see the 2025. As you go down, you'll see playground for Armall Elementary, Apple Pie Ridge Elementary, and Indian Hollow. Those three combined are close to what we would need for this. And that's the reason I think Finance Committee said they will have their funds. There is no reason they can't purchase these. Again, I think there's a reprioritization of funding. And that's all I have. Thank you. So while Patrick is up, can you bring the spreadsheet I sent you? That we can spare you from coming back and forth. You might have to blow it up there on the bottom right. So this is a simple chart. This is a simple chart of capital funds. So we provide the schools with all of their budget, including capital, building, buildings, et cetera. That goes through the Board of Supervisors. And this lists just the last four years of capital funds. Since I've been chairman, I believe you'll see that they got $3 million shown in the budget resolution. And an increase, $4 million for this coming fiscal year. So the school system has sent us a capital. We'll request, as Supervisor Lockridge showed. And we have given them an increase. The increase is more than enough if they choose, even beyond their other capital expense, the rate they were spending last year, to cover this expense already. They already have the funds to purchase these systems. The other thing, so I think that's good, Patrick. Just wanted to show that there is $4 million already going to the schools. My concerns, my reason for seconding the motion is also not a concern about safety. My concern is, well, there's several. One is they already have twice over the amount of money they need to build these systems. One of them is what was just shown. We gave them plenty of money in the capital program. Secondly, they have a rollover from Supervisor Liero pointed out that they had over 100 unfilled positions last year. So this year they will have much more than last year to rollover. The best figure we've gotten so far, they haven't closed their books yet, is well over $1 million, approaching $2 million in rollover funds that were not spent. These are not projects that just didn't get done. They're rollover funds. So on both those bases, they have the funds available to buy the systems. Now, you might ask us, why didn't we approve it in the capital plan? It's because they didn't ask for them. They didn't prioritize them. They give us a long list of all the things that are breaking down or needing to be repaired or replaced, and they rank them and prioritize them. And as Supervisor Lockridge showed on her chart, if you take the $4 million we gave them and you draw a line at the bottom, the bottom three items, if they really wanted to use next year's funds and not the rollover funds, would be three playground refurbishments. Had, I believe, if the school system is concerned about safety to the degree they want to buy it, they should have put them in the process and ranked them, and I'm sure they would have come out ahead of the playground refurbishments, and we would have handled them in our proper process. Supervisor Dunn had lamented that our capital fund is being drawn down. I just don't think we should go out of the normal cycle and appropriate $1 million. When this was already part of the plan, the school system has been buying these systems or applying for grants for over a year. All the high schools have them already. They started, I believe, at Daljai. I don't know if you've heard of it. I don't know if you've heard of it. I don't know if you've heard of it. We started at Daljai the last school year, before last summer, to test them, so I just don't think we need to bust our budget for $1 million when these systems, they can buy them if they want. That's a school board decision. We'd give them plenty of money to do so. I don't think we have an extra $1 million of your taxpayer money to spend. As far as the other issues, I would try to bring this to the agenda of the Public Safety Committee. I wanted to hear from our SROs. If you had this opportunity— had this million dollars, the school resource officers in charge of safety, if you had a million dollars more to spend, what would you do? Do you want more cameras? Do you want fences around some of the schools? Do you need more, better locks? Is this the answer? We got no one to attend our public safety meeting to address it. I think it behooves us as responsible parties for your taxpayer dollars to think about the problem. There's no point in armoring one or two doors if people can walk in or easily break glass another way. Maybe they want stronger glass for some of these schools that have been built with windows everywhere. Maybe they want other fixes to provide security as the kids go out. Maybe they want another resource officer at some of these schools for when the kids are out doing sports. I want to hear from them about the best use of the dollar. But once again, money that we've given to the school system, they can spend as they wish. But I want to hear from them about the best use of the dollar. I won't approve more funds when they, I have not heard any safety presentation and it hasn't been handled in the normal process and they do have the funds twice over already to purchase this. This is just extra money. What we'd really be voting on tonight is the playground refurbishments. That's what you're asking taxpayers to spend an extra million dollars on because they have the money that they can spend on the metal detectors they just put off the playground refurbishments. So I don't believe that's worth us. Those should go through the normal system. Those are my comments. Other supervisors, do you have comments? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Supervisor Jewell. My background is security and you put in layers of protection. Let's remind you of this conversation goes back to April 2nd during our work session and was brought up after an active kid had a gun, a elementary child. And the school in March. This had none to do with their capital expenditures. They had none to do with their capital lists. We were looking at this for safety reasons. And that is why we brought this up, right? It was brought up for that reason. And I asked at that time for it to be approved. There were a couple supervisors who agreed with me on this. Now, you can put a price tag on it all you want. You can shift it all you want. You can tell them they should be spending their money here and there. At the end of the day, we are not the school board. Mr. Chairman. It is not our job to tell the school system how to spend their money. We are the appropriators. It is our job to give them the money and let them do what they can do appropriately. In this sense, we're talking about the security of our children, the protection of our children. So, I'm sorry. I totally disagree with everything you've said. And you just, you know, the security officers are asking for a discount. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Outside the regular budget cycle. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Liero. I want to make a couple comments. One of them was a statement that they didn't prioritize weapons detection systems, which is really just not a fair statement. I mean, as Supervisor Jewell just pointed out, we were in the middle towards the end of our budget process when this situation happened with the child bringing the weapon on campus. They were also gosting of nobody. Mr. Chairman, I think what's at stake here in our state and then the problem is is just not the option they were looking for, which is not a fair button. They're menging get the 23 nhân that we have. It's just not what they're looking for. They're looking for the right 19 it's cameras monitoring cameras it's all the above it's having a it's having a a attitude in your staff that you're going to protect children and you're going to be out visible and taking notice of what's going on in the building that's that's what the layered approach is so i don't think it's fair that we say that they did not prioritize them as a matter of fact when they had when they discovered that weapon on that campus from what i've seen from the frederick county schools they acted very quickly to prioritize the weapons detectors not only in the three high schools and the two other buildings that we already have them but also in the middle and in elementary schools i'm not a i'm not a big john lennon fan okay i'll just tell you that but john lennon said life is what happens when you're busy making other plans i mean yes we were in the budget cycle and no it was not a request right up front but it became a high priority due to things that are and i think it's a good thing that we're going to be working on this effort and we're going to be occurred on the ground, okay? That's all I have. Thanks. Mr. Chairman, may I re-chime in? I think we're missing the point here. Nobody, I have never once said that weapons detection is not a priority of mine. Safety is a priority of mine. I'm a former teacher, and after Sandy Hook happened, I remember waiting at my door, waiting for that to happen. So if this could give a peace of mind to a teacher, that makes me really happy. However, July 1st, they can absolutely spend that funding as they choose. Is that accurate, Mr. Ballhofer? Could they, July 1st, when that $4 million went fiscal year 26, couldn't they meet with their school board and re-prioritize what they want to spend their money on? When they get the $4 million or it's available on July 1st, they can spend it on which capital projects they deem are important at the time. And could they modify their and add on that as a priority? They could. So us saying no to this is only saying additional funds. They can absolutely use their $4 million and buy their weapons detection. I am not against safety, and the narrative here is run on emotions, and that's not fair. When you are pushing people out of their homes because they can't afford an extra $200, you guys laugh because you're moving in from Northern Virginia, and you may have, I'm not talking about you. I just. We can't run on emotions. And the reality is if the money is there, which July 1st it will be, then they're going to have to pull a special meeting with their school board because that's what they get to do and re-prioritize their funding. So don't let it be that I'm against children's safety. I don't like what I'm hearing. Thank you. Yeah, I'd like to correct a couple things from Supervisor Lierro, and I agree with Supervisor Lierro and Supervisor Jewell about. Safety. That's why I want to hear about it. I want to discuss it in public safety. I want to see where else we can help and what the best maybe policy changes or other funding from this board is really needed. Maybe safety is lacking. I want to have that forum and that discussion and see what the real need is. But as far as Supervisor Lierro's comment that it wasn't prioritized, he's mixing up security events. The one at Apple Pie Ridge that happened during the budget cycle was a very regrettable event. Where a child brought a gun to school. Jordan Springs. Jordan Springs, sorry. Thank you, because I'm going to terrify some parents by using the wrong name. So very lamentable event. I've asked many times for explanations of exactly what happened, and everything I've heard is that there was no ill intent. It was just a horrible decision by a student who wanted to show off something he had at home. The event that I think Mr. Lierro is confusing it with happened early in the school year. And I think it's a very lamentable event. But the event that I think Mr. Lierro was talking about, that was the event that happened earlier at Millbrook last year. Actually, it didn't happen at Millbrook. It happened in the home of a student at Millbrook, an older student, obviously, who had an issue and left his home with a gun. He never came to his school. And again, in that case, there was never any intent found expressed to us as a board, certainly, or to school board members that I've talked to, that there was any beef with anyone at the schools or any intent there. However, the school system reacted by locking down the school system. I was in Millbrook that day. I know my son contacted me, and he was locked down, and shut down the whole school system the next day. Definitely an abundance of caution. However, that was well before the budget cycle. And a year or more after the school system had already decided to use funds that are extra that they have, and had started applying and winning grants. Another thing by doing this carefully is that we might continue to apply and win grants and get this security system put in place on grant money rather than your local taxpayer dollars. So, I really like the approach the school system took in applying for grants and using a little bit of rollover funds. Also, they already have all the high schools covered, and I think they should continue with the program. I just think they should prioritize it in the budget, continue to apply for grants, and discuss with us the multi-layer security. I want to have that at public safety so the sheriff and the SROs can go over, and we as the public then would also understand exactly what's involved with the security of our schools. So, several of us have spoken, me twice at least. Supervisor Dunn. A couple comments on this issue. One, the schools had made an initial request of $14 million for capital funds, and then they cut it to four. So, we asked them to cut it down to three is another cut. I understand that there's a lot of concern about that. But I think that this issue came up because you've had four guns in schools in the last few months, including a discharge. I got that information from the school administration. Supervisor Dunn, if true, we need to hear that because that's nothing I've seen in public, and I certainly haven't been notified. Okay. And in this case, I thought you'd had four. Dr. Hummer is shaking and said no. So, he's welcome to... Nowhere have I heard of a discharge at a school. Okay. Dr. Hummer can correct the record for that, but let me just finish my comments, and we'll go from there. So, I know there's... I was told there's more than one. Dr. Hummer, just correct my record. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Dunn. Good evening, everybody. Good evening, Mr. Chair, community. So, we only had one situation this year. I think, Mr. Dunn, what you're referring to is in Virginia. Okay. There were four incidents, and there were two actually where the gun did go off, but not here in Frederick County. Thank you. Just wanted to clarify that. Okay. And they were elementary school students as well. Okay. So, thank you, Mr. Dr. Hummer. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's fine. We have that clear. The system that we have here, I asked Sheriff Milholland what he thought about the system, and he said it was a good system. He said they used it for airports, they used it for courts, et cetera. So, as Mr. Jewell has said, it's a layered system. It's not going to solve all problems, but it's another layer to do. The sheriff, who knows more about this than I do, says it's a good system, and therefore, I'm inclined to support it. I think you need to go, put as many obstacles as you can to prevent something bad from happening. I understand your comments, and both of you, when trying to deal with public safety, there's a way to upgrade that, but I don't think this was a case of them not adding it to it. We've had an incident, and we have $36 million in a capital fund. So, yes, I would go and put this in, and if we can improve it as we go along, that's fine, but I think this is, if we do it now, they can have it in place come September or August when school begins. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. One small quibble. You said this would be a cut from their $4 million if they have to spend a million on these new systems. I just want to reiterate that they have a very large rollover this year of unspent funds, approaching $2 million. Are there any other comments? I guess I want to make one last point, and that is metal detectors have caught criminals in the past. Certainly, that's why they're not in the way they're used, right? They're used at the airport. In fact, it's much more onerous. They're set often, you know, at a low setting, they go off a lot. You have to go to the side, right? People who have traveled, you have to go to the side, and you have to take your belt and shoes off and all of that. The discussion, the only information I've gotten about our process that we would use at schools is they'd be set at a much higher rate than that, so children could get in without a strong delay. They will not detect belt buckles, other things. They will detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. They will not detect those big metal flyers. Water bottles, so those have to be set aside, and laptops. They will not detect most knives. And I know that's for certain because my child was at Millbrook High School. Well, actually, I think the student may have used scissors that he found inside the school, so I stand corrected. They might not have entered through the metal detection system. But I just am making the point that nothing is perfect. There's no perfect security, and we need to optimize the spending of our tax dollars. To get the best we can, and I just, I think they should continue with the process they've wisely followed up to now and not ask us for an out-of-cycle. We have had no incident of intent of harming anyone at our children from someone who's bringing something to school. We have a great community. I hope that that continues into the future. The plan that we're asked to approve would put metal detectors at every used entrance at every school. And I think if we spend all that money, we may be the only county in Virginia that has such a system. I've contacted school board members in Warren County. They tell me, absolutely not. We're not going to make our schools like prisons. And I've researched articles. Even the richest counties in the state, like Loudoun, do not have metal detectors at every entrance of every school they have. That may be right or wrong, but I don't understand why this county is, you know, going to the taxpayer for such a large amount of money. I don't understand why this county is, you know, going to the taxpayer for such a large amount of money. When school systems that have far more threats than our great community do, they have not chosen to do so. Any last comments? Anyone wants to rebut what I have to say? I just don't think it's a wise expenditure of funds. So this was a motion to deny. Just want to clarify. Yes. So yes is a motion to deny this extra appropriation of funds. Are we ready for a vote? Yes. So, if we can vote, Supervisor Jewell? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? No. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Lero? No. The Chair votes aye. The appropriation is made. We move to 10C, what many of you, most of the people who spoke. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. I thought Mr. Lero was going to make a motion to approve, but I can't. motion to approve it is not approved because oh that's what happened was is that it was a denial family right now I was not approved so it would still need another vote as chair I'd like to make a motion that we approve this capital fund transfer in the amount of eight hundred fifty two thousand five hundred fifty seven dollars for a weapons detection system for Frederick County Public Schools mr. chairman I second that much we have a motion in a second any further discussion then we'll move to a vote supervisor Liero I supervisor Lockridge no vice chair I supervisor well hi supervisor done my supervisor jewel I the chair votes now now the appropriation is made and you even set me straight with the negative vote we're making all right now we move to 10 C waiver zero three twenty five what many of you spoke on today Raven Point section nine do we have a presentation on this your mic is off there you go yes sir mr. chair we do so thank you mr. chairman and members of the board this is a waiver request for an inter parcel connection the property is zoned RP and is phase 9 of raise Raven Point subdivision the current approved master development plan shows the future plan connections and the applicant is responsible for the current plan that the applicant will be approved for will be approved for the future planned connections and the applicant is requesting a waiver to remove one of those connections. The subject property identified in red is located east of 81 north of Millwood Pike and south of Senseney Road. It is located within the Raven Point subdivision. The property is located in the Shawnee Magisterial District. The 6.9 acre property outlined in purple is the planned section 9 of the Raven Point subdivision which lies directly south of Underwood Lane off Senseney Road which is located to the north or to the top of your screen. The current approved master development plan includes a total of three inter parcel connections.The inter parcel connection on Dewberry Drive was completed The second inner parcel connection which is Hyatt Way外 japan United States Westminland Utility this is the 3 district inter parcel connection east of age 8 죄다 vignettette million.sawyer.cat original.sawyer. building is completed on December 17 hatched in gray is located here at the intersection of Summerfield and Fairfield and that is scheduled to be completed with section 9. The third inter parcel connection is highlighted in yellow or is identified in the yellow rectangle outlined in red and would be an extension from Taggart Drive on to Underwood Drive. This third connection is the subject of the waiver request. All three of these inter parcel connections were noted on the master development plan to be completed at the completion stage of phase 9 or the completion of the improvements to the segment of Cincinnati Road between the City of Winchester to Greenwood Road as identified in the Frederick County secondary road improvement plan, whichever occurred first. The zoning ordinance requires all residential subdivisions of more than 10 lots and the RP, R4, R5 and MS to have inter parcel street connectors to adjoining parcels. The Board of Supervisors may waive the inter parcel connection requirement under certain circumstances. Item 4 is the specific clause the applicant is seeking to address. The ordinance states that the Board of Supervisors can waive the inter parcel connection requirement with other good cause shown by the applicant not contrary to good planning policy. The comprehensive plan specifically the Cincinnati Eastern Frederick urban area plan plans for a new minor collector along the eastern boundary of the subdivision with the extension to Inverly Way to Cincinnati Road and it's highlighted in the red clouded area on your screen. The plan designates the Greenwood Urban Center as a mix of uses into an already developed area that embraces traditional Main Street feel. Access management is a significant consideration with this area plan by use of road pardon by use of frontage roads collector roads and the City of Winchester to the City of San Antonio. The plan is also designed to be used as a part of the City of Winchester's urban area plan. The plan is also designed to be used as a part of the City of Winchester's urban area plan. The plan is also designed to be used as a part of the City of we're the public especially under the antibiotics waiting Dankea 2015小心 and keeping an enjoying average 1940 and theiban vision a and the adopted interv... interv... interv... way, the connection would have an unintended consequence on the small subdivision with straight connections to Underwood Lane. The item is presented as an action item. The Planning Commission discussed the waiver on May 21st and recommended approval. Staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on the waiver request. Thank you Mr. Chair, that's all I have. Mr. Frank, who is the owner's representative, is also in attendance. If you... and would like to say a few words. He would like to say a few words? Yes, sir. Any questions for the present... presenter first before Mr. Frank? Okay, thank you very much. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. My name is David Frank and I am representing the owner this evening on this waiver request. I just want to start out by saying that the... the owner is prepared to make this connection as has been planned. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start off by saying that the... the owner is prepared to make this connection as has been planned for the last several decades. However, we're before you today because we feel pretty strongly that when you look at the situation and the facts at hand in 2025 that there's a better alternative before us and it is not making this single inter parcel connection in Frederick County because of many of the things you've already heard. I'll keep my statement brief. Essentially, we have capacity issues on Underwood Lane. That's the vision for the Valley Road Initiative weil there'slühe, and I very much ask how we can historicize if we could fight with local governments for a to consider the podcast effect that we have on development in the permanent ground. So I think that in advance we can maybe rekindle the conversation because I think we've gathered some take savings with the obras and with the community. So, again, it's recognized that thisjenet<|kn|>act俺 question is ourcómo. No doubt. And we certainly are wondering about the demand for 快ί characterizeHay, correct or not I guess ourنيricon? One of the points that you had raised was that if this goes through, you're going to have more traffic, not less traffic with Crestly. My comment to you was I'm still looking before I say, yes, I'd approve the waiver, is what's the alternative? So if you can lay out potential alternatives for me before we shut this down, that would be helpful. Alternatives to making other connections for transportation? As opposed to how do you connect Sensany Road and Route 50? The best connection before us is what has been planned for several decades, and it is a major collector road. Right now it's called Inverleigh Way that would connect Route 50 to Sensany Road. And when that connection is made, the appropriate engineering would happen, right away acquisition would occur, appropriate turn lanes, potentially a traffic light on Sensany Road. All these things would... And that is the best alternative, a collector road. Any alternative that makes connections in subdivision streets and local roads prior to that road being built is why we're in front of you saying it's not a good alternative, and that's why we're making this request. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Frank? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Board, how would you like to handle this? This is Shawnee District and my neighborhood. My house was right off on the map there, so you or I can take this, Supervisor Leroy. I'll let you choose. Mr. Chair, I would like to make a motion that we approve Waiver 03-25, Raven Point, Section 9. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I think this is going to be unanimous. I do want to say, though, that I live in the Ravens, very much near this connection, and would be personally facing a whole lot of traffic if we don't approve this waiver. However, my job as a supervisor is not to be selfish about it. I'm not going to be selfish about it. I'm not going to be selfish about my own interests. It's rather to look out for the whole community. When this development was put in place, I believe the farmers that owned the land where Inderley Way is supposed to go warned that they did not want to break up their farm and sell, and the county better not approve this without some other solution. Well, the county did approve all these homes, including mine, to go there. Of course, when we moved there, we don't have any idea about the history. And there we are. We're stuck with the situation. We're stuck with the situation where there's a tremendous amount of through traffic. Now, I'm lucky it doesn't pass down my street. But it does pass through Raven Oaks and go to Cressley at Senseney, where there is no light. It's a terrible situation. In fact, Raven Oaks has no sidewalks, the way it was built, and not enough street lights. So their children ride their bicycles. They take their walks on the edge of the street. And there's a tremendous amount of speeding. Let's be honest. Through traffic is generally going to speed a little bit more than local traffic. And now, with the opening, another thing that wasn't conceived of when this was approved was the opening of One Logistics Park. Right at the bottom of Inverness Way, there's going to be a massive trucking, warehousing, and trucking center. What happens when the interchange is blocked at 81 or 81 is jammed up somewhere else? Well, they're going to be very tempted to put in their GPS systems, how else can I get where I need to go? And right now, people go north through my part, the east side of the county. We don't have any of that. So they have to get down there. And they're going to have to be a little more aggressive. But they're going to have to do it by cutting through these homes. They cut down Cressley. So I called a meeting, not just of Raven Point, where I live, but Raven Wing, Raven Oaks, Oakdale Crossing, which is affected, and the houses on Underwood Lane, who do not have an HOA. And I made sure that I got the word out as much as possible. There's nothing more annoying than when something happens and you didn't know, as a citizen, that some road is going to change. for the residents of Oakdale Crossing, but the people who showed up at the meeting were about 90% in favor of this waiver of not making the connection. The connection, unfortunately, would short circuit the connection between Cincinnati and 50. So it would be much easier than the problem that the people who live in Oakdale Crossing face now to travel through. So the problem would just get worse. The problem is it would just hit other neighborhoods. So I am in favor of this waiver of not making the connection, but I also promised the people that I would continue working towards solutions. The county cannot build traffic lights. We've talked to VDOT. VDOT has to approve them and operate them. They've done the traffic study recently. They don't find enough accidents yet or traffic backup to authorize it. So I have talked to the planning director, Mr. Pearson, and expressed my interest in discussing alternatives. If Inverleigh Way can't go through, I'm not in favor of eminent domain and seizing land from people who don't want to sell it. I'm in favor of the county's already reached out once to see if the farm owner would change her mind and sell us a way to put the street through, maybe on the edge of her property. But other solutions that we can do, we can widen roads with our own funds. We can apply for smart scale Richmond funds to augment on our plans. And we can look at things like a traffic circle. So you can look at things like a traffic circle. So you can look at things like a roadblock that's not in the way of traffic. You can look at things like a traffic circle. So you can get out of Cressley Drive without risking your life making a left turn across heavy traffic. You can also get in to my community with the traffic circle without getting the risk of rear-ended because you're stopping on the road and waiting forever to make that left turn. So I did pledge to keep working on this. One positive that came out of the meeting which I had not heard, the developer, J.P. at the meeting that he has no intent in the near future to connect Summerfield to Fairfield, which would also probably add to the problem. It wouldn't be as short, so it wouldn't be as bad. The problem is any additional traffic would go through new neighborhoods and add. They would have no way out except Cressley, so they would add to that dangerous situation I just described. So I'm glad to hear that we appear to have time, hopefully years, so we can get a solution in place before any further connections are made. Those are my comments. Any other comments before we vote on this waiver? Mr. Chairman, Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Frank and I had a conversation, and he made one good point I'll just make to all of you. The point was that if this waiver is approved, sorry, if the two roads are connected, Taggart and Underwood, that you'd find a lot more traffic going through. In his opinion, you'd have more traffic going through, and it would not relieve the issue on Cressley. If I'm incorrect on my comments, just nod your head. I told Mr. Frank that I was not in favor of approving the waiver because I wanted to see an option. Before you close off a possibility, what's the alternative? That's why I asked him the question here. J.P. Carr said that he's not going to go and build this in the next short time frame, so it's not going to become an issue today. But before I would vote in approving the waiver, I'd like to see what is the alternative. The farm next to it is not an option at this time, but it might be. And when Glaze built the Ravens where the chairman is, I asked the question, why couldn't they put a road at that point from 50 to 7? And he said that when they got up to the houses that were on Underwood, they didn't own the property, so they could not build it. So I just think we need to come up with a solution. I don't like to close out options before you have a solution. I don't like to close out options before you have a solution. I understand those of you that live there don't like that. I've driven that road, but that's kind of where I am. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn, and thank you all who attended and spoke tonight. I also asked Supervisor Dunn for options, ideas from the public, and they came up with some, but there was none that had a majority support. One of them was making it a bicycle path connection, so no traffic, but that we would own the right-of-way for a possible future connection. I threw some out. Some other people talked to me offline with other ideas, but at least as far as the community at the meeting I was at went, there was just no other option. They were 90 percent or more in favor of this waiver. All right. If there are no other comments, we can proceed to a vote. This is a vote for the waiver, so a yes means the connection will not be made. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. No. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Rockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The chair votes aye. So the waiver is approved. Thank you all from the community. You're welcome to leave if you want. You don't have to stay for bearing with us till almost nine o'clock. And I'll introduce the next subject, but we won't start talking until the hubbubs die down. So we go to our 11A, is that right? Correct. 11A. Proposed ordinance, salaries of the board of supervisors for the next fiscal year. Mr. Wallhoffer, do we have a present? Do we have a presentation on this? There is no presentation. Okay. So we have, I'll just introduce it. We have advertised that this board had consensus at a previous meeting that our salaries would not be changed, would not be increased. I think we're at the minimum. Is that right? So we couldn't lower them. I believe it's the minimum. Is that correct, Dan? I'm pretty sure. We're at the state minimum for our own salaries. Okay. Um, how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. This is a public hearing. Oh, okay. So do I need any, I'm sorry, Supervisor Dunn. Do I need any other explanation of this? Did I capture everything that we have advertised keeping our salaries flat into the next year? That's covered everything. Okay. So this is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips. Willie Deutch. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutch. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I am a member of the U.N. National Board of Judiciary. Um, this may not be a popular opinion, but honestly, I think y'all are underpaid. Um, and you know how I know that? Because I've heard that your salaries have not been raised since 2000. Um, some of, I was told they've stayed the same for about 20 years. Now, if my salary stayed the same for about 5, 10 years, what that means is I'm getting a pay cut every year. Because inflation's kicking in and I'm getting less money than I was getting before. So, we're not talking about whether or not this board gets a pay cut, pay raise. system that keeps you all just equal with inflation, so you're getting paid the same as what you were getting paid 20 years ago. I know that's probably politically unpopular for you all, but it's just economic reality. And so, you know, if I ran a calculation off of the inflation calculator the federal government has on your 10,000 number, based off of that, it would put you all at about 18,000 in current dollars, which might be a little more fair for the amount of work you all do. You probably should run a calculation based on the percent pay raise that employees in this county have received for the last equal period of time, see what your salaries would equal if you had a similar percent pay raise, and at least then, you know, you'd be keeping pace with how this county values employees here in the county. But look, if you keep somebody's pay the exact same for years on end, you're giving them pay cut year after year. Thank you. Is there anyone else? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on this matter? I see one. Please come forward and name in Magisterial District. If there's anyone else, just queue up behind so we can move on quickly. Vic Canfield, Stonewall. I was here last year when the same thing came up. I just want to say I'm in agreement with what the last person said. I'm not going to say 18,000 necessarily, but I think some sort of raise is appropriate. Thank you. I see no one else, so I will close public comments at this public hearing. Now, Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'm going to make a suggestion that we raise the salaries to 30,000 for Board members, 30,500 for the Vice Chair, and 31,000 for the Chair. And here's the reason why I'm making that suggestion. In 2001, the Board had the last pay raise. It was $9,000. This County had 59,000 people. The budget for that County, the general fund budget, was $74 million. Today, we have about 98,000, almost 99,000 people. The budget today that we're dealing with is north of $280 million. The amount of constituency each of us has is significantly more. If you took the $280 million, the amount of constituency each of us has is significantly more. If you took the $74 million to $288 million, and proportionately, that would be about a $14,000 increase. If you take the inflation issue, it's about $16,000. So it's a little bit more than $30,000, so that's how I'm arriving at my number of 30,000. In Loudoun County, a little bit to the east, I've heard lots of people say, well, especially teachers and school administrators, we need to be paid similar to them. In Loudoun County, the supervisors make $7,000 a year. I'm rounding off. About $75,000, the vice chair, $82,000, and the chair, $91,000. And they receive health benefits, and they receive retirement benefits, and it's a part-time job. And they also have a staff person. I've made these comments for the last 10 years. It has to be done during an election year, and this is an election year. So I still feel very strongly that we need to do this. I've had multiple people say to me, I can't afford to go and run for the board of supervisors. But if the pay were higher, they could. And I said to one person, if I paid you $100,000, would you? He said, yes. Then we started to walk down $90,000, $80,000. But the point is that the $9,000 is an insignificant amount for the time spent. I think that successors here should do that. I would say to all of you, if you think that the current salary should be kept, then go back to your employer and say that you want to be paid for whatever your job was paid in 2001. If you have, money that you're getting from Social Security your parents do, then go back to your parents and say to them, you need to be paid whatever Social Security paid in 2001. If you have a private pension or a public pension, you need to go back and say, you need to be paid whatever was done in 2001. But I don't think you're going to get good quality people at $9,000 unless you expect people to go and volunteer their time. And people do volunteer their time. All of us are volunteering their time, and it is significant. It's a significant amount of time. I'll put in 30 hours a week, and so that affects my business. I know one supervisor said this job was costing him over $100,000 a year. I know another supervisor who had a job, had a second job, but that supervisor then couldn't make some board meetings because of that second job. So there you have the high end and the low end. And for those reasons, I think that a pay increase of this would be appropriate. And I know all of you are going to say, from $9,000 to $30,000, that's a big jump. I understand that. But if you're going to go back and say, you know, I'm going to have to pay for that, I'm going to have to pay for that. But it hasn't been done in 20 years, and my suspicions are it won't be done for another 20 years, so at least it puts a higher baseline. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn, for your comments. Certainly consistent. You've been arguing that for many years, for our salaries to be increased. Point of order, though, I think under Robert's rules of order, we have to make a motion, and then we can enter discussion. I so move. Well, I believe you cannot make that motion because we did not advertise for a raise. So instead, we would have to, if the board wanted to do so, we would have to re-advertise. Mr. Bauhofer, is that correct? They would have to be re-advertised, correct. So all we can entertain now is a motion to approve or deny the proposed ordinance here, and if we deny it, then we can bring up the discussion of whether we want to consider something in the future that's a raise. Good question. So I had a conversation with Mrs. Phillips. My understanding was that we could do that, and that if there was approval, and I'm not saying there is, but if there were approval, then we would have to have a second public hearing this month before July 1. And so that was my understanding of where we are. And if that's been miscommunicated, I was told that basically this was going to be a, you could make this decision here, and if there were a four-vote approval, then you'd have to have a second meeting by there. Right. If it's not, let's see if there's... Four people that have an interest, and if there is, we'll cross that bridge. If there's not, so be it. Well, I would have let you made your comments, even if we had a motion on the table already. So I went ahead and let you go on. I knew you wanted to make them. But we need a motion, and then we can enter discussion. So is there someone who'd like to make a motion to approve or deny the proposed ordinance? Okay, Mr. Lueb, a motion. Mr. Chair? I'll make a motion to deny the current salary so that we can have a discussion on a pay increase going forward. Okay. We have a motion to deny the ordinance keeping our salaries the same. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? I've made my points. Thank you. Yeah, I don't have much to say other than I see this as a public service. There's no easy solution. Loudoun County, they have staff and lifetime salaries. Of course, it's a much, gigantically larger county. Okay. And counties like ours do this. We get pay at all because the state mandates a minimum. In fact, we will get a raise soon, within a few years, maybe next year, when our county population goes over a certain level. I think it's 105,000, and the minimum goes up, and we'll have no choice at that point. But the pay we do get, I consider a stipend. It covers my gas. It certainly doesn't cover my time. I'm comfortable with that. So, I'll vote no on the motion to deny, because I'm fine with the salaries the way they are. Does anyone else want to make any comments? A couple comments, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. I mean, bottom line is what you want is you want to have the citizens have multiple choices when people, in other words, you're going to have people running for office, and they're going to have multiple choices. We've got three board of supervisors races right now. Two of those. Those are opposed. So, actually, the proof's in the pudding, I guess, against maybe Supervisor Dunn's statement. We've got two of our three races are competitive. But what you want is you want to have competitive races. I will echo his thoughts, though, about, you know, being too sometimes can be too expensive to be a supervisor. I'm retired, so I can go to 830 meetings. I can go to 830 meetings on a Monday morning or a Wednesday morning. Had I been doing this four or five years ago, I would have had to take leave from my job to go to a couple-hour meeting for a finance department or transportation. That would have actually cost me more money than holding a job as a supervisor. So, the issue that you come in and you get to is are you excluding people, not saying that we're old up here at the dais here. Okay? I'm not calling anybody. I'm not calling anybody old. But are we excluding working people from being, from serving on the board of supervisors due to an artificially low pay scale? I'm prepared to vote to keep the pay the same, but I'm retired. It's not really any skin off my nose, so to speak. But you really want people working. You want a cross-section of people on the board. You want people that are not just retired. But you want working people and so on. My suggestion would be put an HR working group together and study the issue and make some recommendations and come back. I would vote yes on this ordinance right now, but I would suggest an HR working group because, again, bottom line is you want good people stepping forward that want to serve, but you can't expect them to take a loss on their pay. You can't expect them to take a loss on their pay. Or take leave and that type of thing. Burn up all their leave doing county business. So that's all I have to say. So, Mr. Leroux, I'm saying this with a smile. So thank you for saving me tax dollars, and I'm sure that you're going to take the 2001 pension that you get from the school system, and I'll pocket that money. Thank you very much. And for all of you in the audience, I've said to all board members this in detail. So I laid out my case on why, and they've already seen that. I did that yesterday. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, just to clarify. Sir. I'm not going to say anything. I'm not going to say anything. I'm not going to say anything. I'm going to have Ann correct me if I'm wrong. If indeed the board were to go a different direction, and I think it would also require to schedule an unscheduled meeting before July 1st. So it would also require that. It would require advertising your public hearing meet twice a week apart, which would mean if you called a special meeting, it would have to be the 27th or the 30th. That would be about the only two choices we would have. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chair, I did. I did have one other comment that I forgot to make. And this might be a question for you, Mr. Bullhofer. Is it within the confines of Virginia law? Could we have something in our ordinance that states that we vote for a pay raise, but it does not take effect until the next person for each seat occupies that seat? I would have to do some research to find the answer for you on that. Because that could be a solution to incrementally raising the. The pay without benefiting ourselves individually. Mr. Leroy, I believe that the law states that it has to be an election year. So basically, by having it in an election year, the citizenry gets to say, yes, we agree or disagree on that. But right now, under current law, if this were to increase, that would take effect in January. So you can make a change on the ordinance, but that's not in the current law. So a new pay scale would not take effect until January 1st, right? If there was. I believe it's July 1. I'd have to do more research. I have the statute here. And the fact that you have staggered terms changes how it's done. And I'd have to do further research to get you to answer someone. It would take place. OK, thank you. Any other comments, discussion with the board? OK, then. So we'll proceed to a vote. So this is on the motion to deny. And the only other option would be to schedule. Well, then we'd have to discuss what salaries we want because we'd have to advertise the amount, right? Correct. So this is to deny the proposed ordinance that keeps our salaries the same. Supervisor Liero? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? No. The chair votes no. So the motion to deny fails. Now we need a motion to approve. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion to approve as presented in our agenda. Second. We have a motion. Motion and a second. Any further discussion? Very good. On the motion to approve the salaries staying the same, Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? No. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The chair votes aye. The salaries stay the same. We move to 11B, ordinance to amend Frederick County Code, Chapter 158, vehicles and traffic. And there's more there. I'll leave it to you to present and describe. I have a very brief presentation. It's very much similar to what I did last time. The ordinance amendment before you is to approve the use of golf carts within the, uh, Lake Holiday Community. You know, in the past, the Lake Holiday Community, uh, there was an ordinance passed which allows us to designate the roads as public highways for traffic enforcement. Because that was done, they will now need permission from this, an ordinance from this Board of Supervisors in order to drive golf carts on their private roads. If they had not done that, they would be able to use golf carts without coming to this Board to seek authorization. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The, uh, Public Safety Committee met on April 24th and recommended this go to the Board of Supervisors for public hearing. On May 14, the Board of Supervisors, uh, sent this to public hearing, which is here tonight. Currently, uh, golf carts are not allowed on public highways, on private roads that are designated highways, which is allowed in many communities in the state of Virginia. Um. This code would allow the golf carts on private roads that have been designated public highways that have been approved by the Board of Supervisors. It would require all those three elements. Thus, if you, if this were passed tonight, it would allow golf carts on the private roads in Lake Holiday. Nowhere else. Uh, here are some of the regulations, key points of the regulation. The golf cart, uh, may be operated only on, uh, roads with a posted speed of 25 miles an hour. You must have a driver's license to operate the golf cart. Uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, a drive with stars a between violence all victims are denied for CWS activities at all private, uh, công gently, have how to drive and license players to the flight and�� sells there, H HOA, POA, etc., may impose further restrictions. A question was asked of me, if indeed the board approved this ordinance, could their POA change the rules later and deny it? And the answer, we've checked this with the attorneys, reviewed it. Actually, the POA could say later on if they did not like this, without getting an action from the board, they could actually remove that authorization for golf carts based on this section in the code. All right. Here's some rules that are to be established by the actual POA that they have sent to us. These are not part of the ordinance. And you don't want to put these in the ordinance in case you consider this elsewhere, because each community may want to impose different rules. This is one of the big issues. It requires golf carts to be insured. One of the big questions when you look at golf carts in communities, since they don't have to follow all the motor vehicle rules, if they're not insured and there's an accident, who would pay for it? So that's been a big issue. with golf carts. They're requiring all golf carts to have headlights, taillights, brake lights, and a turn signal. They must pass the safety test every two years. It must be battery operated. It must be at least a 48 volt or greater for the batteries. And the golf cart owner must sign a liability waiver protecting their community. So if indeed, if this board were to pass this ordinance tonight, they would be allowed in that community. I had a few pros and cons. It really, the biggest con on golf carts is that they may slow down traffic. Some people don't enjoy having golf carts on the road. Some people may argue there's a safety issue with it. The biggest pros for golf carts is it provides an affordable, cheap way for people to drive around within the community. And in some instances, golf carts can actually make the roads safer because it does slow down traffic. I can tell you, as I told you in the last meeting, I've had quite a bit of experience with golf carts, you know, living down in Florida, where many, many communities have golf carts, the villages. There's numerous residents and there are hundreds of thousands of golf carts. And they've actually proven to be very safe. This has happened throughout the United States and they've been very safe. And I think that's the biggest pro. And I think that's the biggest pro is that if you haven't said that, you may pass a rule, pass an ordinance, and the next thing you know what happens is somebody's driving a golf cart slow on a curved road, somebody decides to pass them and somebody's coming the other way, and you could have an accident. So no matter what you do, there is always still a risk of accident. But that can happen with any type of vehicle on the road. And I'm here to answer any questions you may have. I know there's people from the community here tonight speaking. Board, are there any questions for Mr. Boahoff? Yeah. My understanding, Mr. Boahoff, was that if we passed this, that the community, the HOA, would then have a vote on whether they wanted to do it or not. In other words, we would be giving them the opportunity to say yay or nay. From what I saw, there was an initial vote, which was a few people more, there were more no votes than yes votes. The HOA board is split, I think, four to four. So my question is, if we pass this, does the HOA then have another, do they have to have another vote, which they say to all members? The board has changed the ordinance, and therefore, what do you, the HOA members, want to do, whether they vote by one vote per house or each person voting? I don't know, but that's the question I pose to you. My understanding was that if we pass this today, that the HOA would then make a decision. It was not a final decision on the golf carts on the roads, but it would now be subject to the HOA making that decision. Well, I don't know their HOA rules. If you pass this today, the ordinance now will give that community the ability, the authorization to drive golf carts. If their HOA may state that their board of directors can make this decision, their rules may stay. It takes 60% of the votes. I'm not sure what those rules are. I believe there are representatives here that could probably better answer that. OK. But this board is just voting to give them the authority to drive golf carts. At that point in time, this community could either move forward it, even if it was already approved through their board, we're not going to have that. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. We're going to be making decisions. If we do that, we're going to be making decisions. I think that's what we're going to be doing. We're going to be making decisions. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. We're going to be making decisions. If they're going to be able to move forward it, even if it's already approved through their board, they could also change that at a later date. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Bohoffer? I do have one. So I've talked to several people, including representatives of their board out there. There were a lot of restrictions that I saw proposed by their board. For example, you'd have to have a driver's license, so minors wouldn't be driving golf carts around. Do you know if that's been instituted out there? At least they've told me that their intent is to have quite a few restrictions. The driver's license is actually required by law, by this ordinance, and also by state law. So there are several of those that are state law. Is that because... These are their late holiday rules that were additional. Okay. And the primary ones. I think the most significant one there is that the golf carts have to be insured. That tends to be a big issue with golf carts. Okay. So I'm not... I'm not entirely familiar with the history out there. I know it became an issue. Their board passed it to us originally. I think it was five to four. It was close. They did a community, Supervisor Lockridge may know better than I, one vote per lot online. And it failed, but very close. So it's been very close. They then had a subsequent board meeting. Someone was absent. And so... Who was in favor. And so it ended up deadlocking four to four. So I know there's division. I wish they had a 60% rule so that nothing would pass without, you know, a super majority. But as long as it doesn't have to come back to us, that would be their battle to fight. You know, maybe every board election they're going to change the rule back and forth. I don't object to it. I talked to the sheriff, and he felt that there wasn't any strong safety concern. But I'm already entering the discussion. I'm just going to go back to the last part of the debate. I just wanted to hear from you if you had heard the same things I had about regulations. And I'm glad you have them up there. Because that might have been done since their votes. And maybe I spoke to one member who said they had voted against. But now with all these regulations, they're now four. That's just one person. But... Yeah, I received these. These, it says amended on October 31, 2024. Okay. And just so the board knows, if you haven't checked your emails, we got a lot of emails today against approving this. So there's definitely still a contingent out there who doesn't want us to approve this. Supervisor Lockridge, do you want to say anything? It's a public hearing. It is. I don't know. Yeah, and I... Any questions for Mr. Balof? Because you know more about this than anyone. I was just going to say, just so there's no misunderstanding, they can pass their own rules and regulations, but they have to be more strict than what the county's rules are. They can't pass any rules that are less strict than the county's rules in the ordinance. I guess one clarification. I guess one clarification is that in 1993, they came to this board and asked to be designated for law enforcement purposes. So is it fair to say that if we don't pass it, they could still come and rescind that or get rid of that 1993 designating for... That's correct. I'm not sure the process of how you would rescind that ordinance, but if that was rescinded and they were no longer under the traffic jurisdiction, then they would not need this board's permission for golf carts because then they'd be purely private roads. And this whole process started over two years ago. I worked with the previous county attorney, Mr. Williams. We went back and forth, and to me, it's handing it over to less government and let them have the ultimate control. And I think that... But I'm excited to hear from the public. I have spoken to many residents in favor. And again, thank you. And so I'm ready for public hearing. Very good. Any other questions for Mr. Boboff or before we go to public hearing? Can this be changed so you require a supermajority if there were consensus among the board to do that supermajority being 55%, 60%, two-thirds? Is that possible or not possible? I'm not sure if it's possible. It gets to be cumbersome then because then you're defining the rules of their HOA. If that's what you're saying, you'd require their HOA. That would be pretty difficult. Then this goes back then to if this is passed, then the HOA sets the rules. Correct? But you made the comment that if this is passed, the rules were already in effect. So what I'm not seeing is the members, the HOA members, having another chance to say, yes, now it's been passed in addressing this issue. Well, HOA boards change, and they change frequently when people are in the public domain. And so that's a good point. They change frequently when people aren't happy. If the board changed and they weren't happy with this, they could put stricter rules or make the rule they're not going to allow golf carts in their community so they could change it at any time. It gets to be very tricky if a board of supervisors starts trying to change the rules of an HOA rules or a homeowners organization. Okay. Any other questions for Mr. Valhoffer? Hearing none, thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips. Elizabeth Hare. Yes, sir. Are there a lot of names, may I ask? Four. Just four. Okay. Good evening. My name is Elizabeth Hare. If you could push the button until the mic lights up. There we go. Thank you. My name is Elizabeth Hare. I am the current president of the board of directors for the Lake Holiday and Gainesboro Cross Junction. First, I want to thank you for your service. I know it sometimes can be a thankless job. Initially, I was opposed to having golf carts within Lake Holiday until I considered the following. Most importantly, I was not sure I would be able to get this job. The board of directors has been very supportive of me. I'm very proud of my job. I've been a member of the board of directors for the Lake Holiday and Gainesboro Cross Junction. First, I want to thank you for your service. I know it sometimes can be a thankless job. Initially, I was opposed to having golf carts within Lake Holiday until I considered the following. Most importantly, low-speed vehicles, also known as LSVs or street-use golf carts, by law are already allowed on Lake Holiday roads. The Lake Holiday requirements for the recommended golf carts have almost all of the requirements that LSVs have. Allowing Lake Holiday street-use golf carts would save our members from getting into the Gainesboro Cross Junction. Thank you. I would like to thank the board of directors who have responded to my request. I understand that there's a considerable amount of money. The cost of a golf cart can be cheaper by up to more than half the cost of an LSV. LSVs are upwards of $7,000 to $8,000 whereas golf carts are around $4,000. LSVs are required to be tagged licensed and personal property tax paid each year which golf carts are not. People who are concerned about safety, I submit the following. Racing golf carts can only go 25 miles per hour. Cars can go much faster. Kids sliding off seats are a requirement and are responsible for the safety and safety of all people who drive them. Thank you. is that every single seat has a safety belt. However, we all know parents don't always require kids to wear safety belts because we see kids and adults riding in the back of pickup trucks, but we shouldn't hold the whole community hostage for that reason. Individuals are not protected like a car is a concern. They would be more protected than a person walking, riding a bike or a motorcycle, which happens often in our roads. And then there was a comment that was made about them tipping over. Well, they're not top heavy, they're bottom heavy, and some vehicles are much more top heavy than they are. So if a golf cart's gonna topple over, a car would topple over. Slowing down cars, golf carts can only go 25 miles per hour, which is the speed limit, but sometimes on hills, I have seen where they slow down to about 17 based on the battery voltage that we are requiring. I've driven behind cars and trucks that have gone much slower going around the bends and the hills, so what is the difference? There was a survey that was taken. It was not a vote. The difference was less than .01%, and due to the form not being completely filled out meant that survey result was thrown out. There were quite a few. There's a considerable amount that were thrown out. At the time of the survey, misinformation was purposely shared by a board member who was not in favor of this, creating much confusion. So other than the requirements the gentleman showed, we are requiring that these golf carts be registered in LHCC so we can monitor them. They are required to have mirrors on them, just like an LSV. As I said, each have to have a seatbelt. We are requiring that they have a license plate so we can track them. So I'll go basically, based on what I've just presented, I recommend the board vote in favor of allowing golf carts within Lake Holiday, as I believe the members of the community should have a choice. Thank you. Chris Tierney. Chris Tierney. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, appreciate your time. I think Supervisor Lockridge kind of hit the nail on the head here. I think it was a good point. I think the board should have taken a step back and made a decision to allow golf carts. I think that's a very important point. I think the board should have taken a step back and made a decision to allow golf carts. I think that's a very important point. The reason that the board is not allowing golf carts within Lake Holiday is because of the effort that was made back in 1993 to get law enforcement for speeding and so forth out of Lake Holiday. That designation, which the board at that time made, puts us under that umbrella that requires us to come here first to get your permission to allow the golf carts. If you allow it, then you're not getting a license plate. That's a very important point. If you allow it, it's still up to the board of directors at Lake Holiday to put whatever rules they choose to in place. And they could also rescind it. They could say we're not going to allow it. So we really just need to clear this hurdle to put the discussion back into our community where it really ought to be in the first place. The objections that you've gotten, most of which I would say deal with safety, to me don't hold water. They're a community. They're a community. We're a community. And we have communities all over the state and all over the nation that allow golf carts. It's quite common. Our roads are narrow. We do have a 25 mile an hour speed limit. For every trip that somebody takes in a golf cart, it's a smaller, slower traveling vehicle taking up less room. Someone picking their kid up at the bus stop, going to get the mail, going to the beach, what have you. If anything, I would say it would enhance safety, not detract from it. So. I'm going to give you a couple of examples. I know you've had a long meeting. I would ask with the board's indulgence, if I could ask the people who are here in support of this to stand so that you can see that it's more than a handful. These are people that took time out of their day to come because they feel strongly about this. So I appreciate your time. Thank you. Chad Harrington. Okay. Good evening. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and the members of the board. I know that this job is not easy, but I do appreciate it. My name is Chad Harrington, and I'm from the Gainesboro District. And I appreciate the chance to speak about in favor of the golf carts here. Some of the questions have been brought upon the fact that we don't actually have support of this. Obviously, from the board perspective, we recently had an 8-1 vote to resubmit the request to the Board of Supervisors. That makes it clear that this initiative has strong backing. The goal is not about convenience, but about aligning our community's rules with Virginia law while ensuring safe, responsible use. The state already has strict safety standards for low-speed vehicles, LSVs, and this ordinance applies the same rules to the golf carts as has been mentioned previously. These vehicles must be registered and insured, equipped with seatbelts, mirrors, lights, and more. Concerns about safety, especially regarding speed and enforcement, are understandable. But the facts show that the golf carts operate safely within planned communities like ours. Some fear golf carts will slow down traffic, cause problems. But the difference between 25 miles an hour and 20 miles an hour on a typical Lake Holiday road is very minor. It's often about two minutes that we actually did the study of that. If anything else, reducing speed is probably a positive step to safety, especially since speeding is already very common in our neighborhood. We're trying to reduce that speed. Concerns about reckless driving and underage use is also addressed. Every driver must be 16 or older, similar to having a valid license and being able to use LSVs. Lake Holiday security will enforce these rules for compliance and accountability. This isn't about adding risk. It's about practical, regulated options for residents that improves mobility while keeping safety at a top priority. By approving this ordinance, we align with state law, maintain strong enforcement, and give our community a solution that works for everybody. I urge the board to support this proposal and let Lake Holiday move forward with safe and responsible golf cart use. Many community members are here to support this, as you see, so thank you very much. Bob Gibson. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, board members. First of all, I would like to address the 4-4 vote that you had mentioned earlier. It's just as you guys were to make a vote that wasn't, wouldn't be popular with the election coming up that you have. A lot of those people that were on the board were replaced. So we then sent out another letter to you with an 18-year-old who was a former member of the board. And I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. Thank you. And then I have a vote for the 8-1 board vote. So that should tell you the influence that the people who are in support of golf carts have in that community. They are voting members. They support golf carts in that community. We hear those opposed to golf cart use mention Lake Holiday roads are too dangerous for golf carts. They fail to mention we have pedestrians, school children walking on our schools every day. We have children on bicycles, scooters, skateboards using our roads throughout the community. We have mopeds, motorcycles, and finally we now have LSVs on our roads, which are very much like golf carts. Thank you. golf carts and the requirements we're recommending. Golf cart use on our roads is an example of a one-to-one exchange, meaning for every resident who chooses to drive their 1,000-pound golf cart with a maximum speed of 20 miles per hour to the clubhouse, marina, bus stop, or neighbor's house, it takes a 4,000 to 6,000-pound vehicle capable of going much faster off the road. You can't drive them both at one time, so if they're going to pick their kids up from the bus stop in a golf cart, it's much safer. We all know kinetic energy matters in an accident, so that larger vehicle is going to make more damage to whatever it hits than a golf cart would. A golf cart makes it that much less likely for a major accident to occur with a pedestrian, cyclist, skateboard, or animal who may be using the road since it has a maximum speed of 20 miles an hour. We're all aware anytime there is a contentious subject or a new idea presented to a community, there are some who respond out of emotion or fear. You saw it tonight. You see it every time. You have a board meeting. While emotions are considered, it's the metrics and data that matter most. Lake Holiday currently has two speed cameras, which issue citations, as well as a roving security officer with a radar device. According to the minutes from our compliance committee reports backdated going back to last June 2024, there were 19 pages of infractions for a total of 102 infractions, with only four of those being speeding tickets. So speeding is less and less of a problem in Lake Holiday. Now, we've made it a safer community by installing these traffic cameras and having roving patrol. Jumping to our most recent compliance committee report, there were a total of two speeding tickets. Similarly, a few years back, Lake Holiday contracted with Frederick County Sheriff's Office to hire off-duty deputies to patrol our neighborhood and write citations. The effort was deemed a failure by the board, as deputies were found very few infractions and wrote only a handful of tickets while the program was run. I don't know about you, but I don't deem that a failure, but rather a success. We're a safe neighborhood. Likewise, Frederick County Sheriff's Office agrees Lake Holiday is a low-crime area and has repeatedly said it's difficult to assign on-duty officers. In summation, I ask you to approve the golf cart motion this evening, and thank you for your time. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here tonight who'd like to speak on this matter? I see one. I see one. If you'd like to come forward, please. I'm going to line up outside to speak on the matter. If there's anyone else, please queue up behind so we can...no, you can go ahead. I'm saying if there's anyone else, please come forward to speak after you. You can go ahead. For those of you who live in Lake Holiday, I'm your future neighbor. I am moving there, and I love the place. I really do. I love all you guys, and I want everyone to enjoy their home. And I want you to be able to do what you want to do. There are some areas of Lake Holiday that a golf cart would be awesome. There are some areas that are going to need some planning. Sir, could you start with your name and... I'm sorry, Alan Shepherd. I'm in the Red Bed Desk District. Perfect. And sorry, Mr. Supervisor Dunn, I'm leaving you. And I hate to be rude. We have a rule where you address us in public. Yes, you're correct, and I'm sorry. Not for you because some people get in arguments with each other. I know. I'm so sorry. The neighbor side of me. It's quite all right. We just got to keep to that. But for my future neighbors, I would tell you that some of the areas are very steep, very steep and unusual driveways. The roads are very winding, and I would be concerned about the maneuverability of people in a golf cart and sustaining a golf cart on those roads. I just don't want to see anyone get hurt. That's all. That would be my input to you in your... It is... You need to see the place, but it is gorgeous. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, I'll close the public comment portion of this hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? I will go... As it's in Gainesboro District, I'll go ahead and make the motion to approve this ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 158, Vehicles and Traffic, Article 4, Law Enforcement of Private Roads and Streets by the addition of Section 158-18.1 definitions to allow them to make their own decisions about golf carts and their community. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? I do want to say a few things. Please. Yep. So Lake Holiday is a private gated community with roads that were designated in 1993 as highways for law enforcement purposes, enabling the Sheriff's Office to enforce traffic laws for this area. Thank you. Thank you. So Lake Holiday has enforced traffic laws for the safety of residents and visitors. Since that time, the community has invested in additional safety measures such as speed humps, signage, and speed cameras, demonstrating continued commitment to traffic control and public safety. Allowing golf cart use within the community under proper guidelines, which was in our packet, and Mr. Ballhofer, but it was the last page of this ordinance, would be a logical and beneficial step forward. Golf carts offer residents, particularly seniors, and those with limited mobility, a practical and environmentally friendly way to get around their own neighborhood. Lake Holiday is well positioned to manage golf cart use responsibly. They already do this with their boats. To my knowledge, they have to take a safety course every two years, very similar. They already have, I mean, safety measures within their Lake Holiday, within that lake. So I'm pretty sure with that being before this, that they already know a lot of the hurdles they're going to be dealing with. Approved, let's see, some have expressed concern about road safety due to the community's winding roads and steep hills. While I understand the desire to proceed with caution, it's important to recognize that these same roads are already regularly used by pedestrians, bicyclists, dog walkers, and families with strollers. In this context, golf carts, when operated responsibly, can blend into the community. 2nd, it's a sporty littleкий little streets, but it無 ij inverted a little s oad 8 1 ا 2 Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes aye and the ordinance to amend is approved. So on our agendas we had 12 A, B and C. A is withdrawn, B and C, I hope anyone here for that had already gotten the message. B and C were postponed so we move to 12 D, draft update of the 25-26 Frederick County Interstate primary and secondary road improvement plans. Mr. Bishop. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Lost my audience. As you've noted this is the annual update of your interstate primary and secondary road plans with the secondary one being the one that is enshrined in state code as as a requirement for how secondary funds get allocated each year and as more of a programming document done in concert with the Virginia Department of Transportation. Interstate and primary plans are Frederick County animal that we have traditionally included along with the secondary as a way of sharing priorities with VDOT as we send the plans forward. The changes or updates are fairly minor and as you've had a long evening I'll move through them fairly quickly. Beginning with the interstate road improvement plan the actual priorities and their numbers have not specifically changed however there was a language update on page one specifically as relates to the promotion of rail along 81 to create more of an emphasis on freight rails so you'll see that notated in the language and in addition to that the first section not the interchange improvement but the widening priorities the first priority from exit 313 to exit to exit 317 that has been fully funded previously it was noted as partially funded. Moving from there to your primary road improvement plan once again minor textual update to note to stop referring to the road improvement plan. Once again minor textual update to note to stop referring to the road improvement plan. Moving from there to your primary road improvement plan. Once again minor textual update to note to stop referring to the road improvement plan. Once again minor textual update to note to stop referring to the road improvement plan. Second section Viewpoint 605e was done so to different addresses and suggestions update so to that point we have in要咬 The new ways of looking at the 37 bypass through that study would no longer be appropriate to necessarily treat that as an alternative to 81 so that language has been removed. Finally moving on to your secondary road improvement plan. Item the first is your major road improvement plans which you have a very lonely redbud road on that map. The reason for that is simply the shifting way of VDOT funding of projects. Obviously smart scale rules the roost these days. You no longer have the older method of program funding or I'm sorry formula funding through the secondary program at least. That's why you still see redbud on there even though it's primarily a revenue sharing project. There is still some old formula money on there in future once redbud road realignment is complete. You can see that on there and frankly this map would likely phase out of the plan. The plan then would become more about these next two maps which is the paving of unpaved roads within the county. The first is your projects which are expected to be completed within the next six years approximately six years assuming that the funding projections are correct from VDOT. This list is unchanged. The reason for that is number nine, Honey Ridge Road phase two. Phase two was added last year as a partially funded project so any additional funds that were able to be added to that project this year were thus added but didn't leave enough to promote another project. That's why you don't see another being added to the list. I will note the work on Fishel Road is underway as we speak and shortly after that they're going to be moving on to Canterburg Road. And finally if only that was all the projects we had to worry about in terms of undeclared. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was trying to get this on the screen. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's all I have. I can't see any more. I made it clear on the board that I was going to add the new buildings. I did want to make sure that you know the new buildings are not unpaved. It's not. We do have the unscheduled list which currently holds 15. I will note we have one waiting in the wings that frankly didn't make a lot of sense to add this year since nothing was moving up anyway. But I want to make sure I acknowledge it's out there with the requisite petition that goes with it and that is Veterans Road down by Middletown. We do have that petition. Assuming things get moving next year with more funding we'll go ahead and bring that forward as part of next year's update. With that. With that, I can take any questions you may have. As we've already noted, this is an item for public hearing. Transportation Committee and Planning Commission have both reviewed and recommended approval. So following your public hearing, staff is seeking an action from the board on these three plans. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Any questions for Mr. Bishop before we go to the public hearing? You've done a great job, or we've heard it many times before since we're on your committees. A little of both, maybe. This is a public hearing. No one has signed up. Is there anyone who'd like to speak on our road plans? Seeing no one, I'll close the public comment. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, would it be proper for us to go ahead and is it a motion that we have to make to move this forward, or can we just move it forward without that? Motion. I would move that we move forward the request of the Planning Department to update the project as presented. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Mr. Chairman, I would second it, but it would be the adoption of the update and... Yes. Okay. Very well. Thank you. I'll second that motion. Okay. We have a motion to adopt. Any discussion? Seeing none, we can move straight to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. And the draft update is adopted. I think that was our last public hearing for tonight, because if I'm correct, 13A is not a public hearing. Waiver 02-25. Ms. Pellequin will let me know. Yes, this is not a public hearing. So, thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. This waiver request is for Storage Solutions. It is for a 27.12-acre property, zoned M1, light industrial, in the Stonewall Magisterial District. Here's the overall county map. The property for the waiver application is in the red box. It's in the Clearbrook area. It's a and it is east of Martinsburg Pike, Route 11, and north of Bruce Town Road. Here's the proposed master development plan. The main truck and car entrance from Route 11 that is highlighted is proposed to be a and it is east of Martinsburg Pike, Route 11, and north of Bruce Town Road. It is proposed to be a and it is proposed to be a right-in only. And the private street that's shown in orange would be a full-access private entrance onto Bruce Town Road. And the private street that's shown in orange would be a full-access private entrance onto Bruce Town Road. So, the MDP shows three lots to be subdivided from one lot, and they do not all have direct access to a public road, which is why they're seeking the waiver. So, this is a request to waive the subdivision ordinance, Section 24C, that requires all new lots to have direct access to a public street. or right-of-way maintained by VDOT. And the ordinance allows the Board to grant a variation in or an exception to this requirement. And the ordinance allows the Board to grant a variation in or an exception to this requirement. And the ordinance allows the Board to grant a variation in or an exception to this requirement. This waiver request is presented as an action item. The Planning Commission discussed this on May 21st, and recommended approval of the waiver. Staff is seeking a decision by the Board on this waiver request. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions. And Mr. Painter, with Painter Lewis, is rep- who is representing the City of Fort Wayne, the City of Fort Wayne, and the City of Fort Wayne, are here today. are here today. presenting this application is available to address any questions as well. Board, any questions for the presenter or for the applicant? I see mics on. Does that mean we have questions? No? All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Board, how would you like to handle this? This is in Stonewall. Stonewall. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of waiver 02-25. So it comes. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing none, we'll move to a vote. The motion is to approve. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. And that is approved. 13B. 13B has been handled earlier in the agenda. So we're now down to the final stages. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? No board liaison reports? Very good. I'll just mention Frederick Water. I've been tracking the situation with all the rain. In a prior, when the rain first started coming, we saw some of the groundwater go up, but then it dropped right back down when it got dry again. A little concerning. We've had a lot more rain since. The last report I've gotten is that the wells and the groundwater have returned not quite halfway back to normal. However, I haven't checked that in a week or two. I'll give it more time to see where we're at, and I'll continue to report back to the board as long as Virginia has declared us in a groundwater emergency until they lift that. That's my only board liaison report. Citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed? No. We're signed up. Willie Deutsch. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I'm from the Opecan District. I want to speak to the topic of data centers. They're not on the agenda, but they're definitely on the agenda here in this county. I think every board meeting I've been to, the chairman and probably others have addressed the issue of water here in the county. Water is a precious commodity and a critical resource. But just as much as water is energy. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Thank you. Thank you. And while we're tracking our water availability in the county, we need to be looking heavily at our energy availability here in the state. And what you'll find is that we are in a drastic deficit. JLARC, which is the state's commission that does studies that are authorized by the General Assembly, did a power study in the last two years and showed just how bad our deficit is. Right now we're bringing power in through Maryland, from Ohio, through West Virginia. because our state does not have the power it needs. And the reason for that is not homes, it's not growth, it's not businesses, it's data centers. Data centers consume an incredible amount of power and Virginia does not have the energy for it. And that has to be taken into consideration before we look at adding any here in Frederick County. Just as a comparison point, one megawatt of power is the equivalent to powering about 200 homes. Your smallest data centers are 10 megawatts. So that's 2000 homes and that is a tiny data center as far as the new ones that are being brought online right now. Prince William County is right now the data center capital of the world. It passed out Loudoun County with all the data centers it has approved. It's got 80 million square feet of data centers approved. This would require 76 gigawatts of power. Lake Anna alone provides only one gigawatt of power for the state. That's the extent of the deficit that we're in here in this state. And just recently there was a presentation here in the county about a proposal for a 600 acre data center complex here in Frederick County. That's not dipping our toes in, that's jumping all the way into the deep end of this pool. That's a third the size of the digital gateway that was just approved in Prince William County and was a huge fight in that county. So we've got to figure out, do we have the power? And honestly, we don't in this state. I'd also urge that we've got to consider what that does just for our state in terms of power, but also what that does for data centers. And we've got to be very careful. And so I would urge that y'all are careful. The other thing is data center infrastructure. That was thing that just flew my mind real quick. All of this requires substations and power lines. So you're not just looking at the data centers you're approving. You've got to think of where you're citing these substations, where you're running huge power lines through our county. All of that together is gonna drastically change the agriculture and current aspects of our county. Thank you. Daryl Bill. Hello again. Thank you again for your time and your time. I'm going to turn it over to the governor to talk about the data centers. I'm also here to talk about data centers. Specifically, I'm opposed 100%. I actually had the opportunity to listen to a webinar that was put together by the National League of Cities. And it discussed the data center impacts on municipal energy, water and air systems. Specifically, they were talking about the public health burden of data center backup generators in Virginia. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. The data center is spending 10% of permitted emissions. It's costing $200 to $300 million per year in health costs. Right now, Montgomery County, Maryland is spending $19.9 million a year. Fairfax is at the top for Virginia at $18.9 million per year. Loudoun is spending $5.4. Prince William is spending $5 million. And that's just for additional public health and safety concerns. And that's just for additional public health and safety concerns. But what my perspective is, I think that's a good thing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My predecessor talked about was the consumption of water, which is a very precious commodity. We have been fortunate with all of the rains, although I have to mow my grass now twice a week. However, the total embedded water consumption in purchased electricity would be 31,924 megaliters of water. And if you don't know what a megaliter is, I certainly didn't. One megaliter equals 2.5 megawatts. One megaliter equals 2.5 megawatts. That equals 264,172 gallons. So you're talking about 34,000 of those megaliters. So multiply that times 264,000. That's how much water they're going to wind up using. And of course this is a presentation and these are estimates that are being made. So, because the water, basically the water is used to cool these systems, and lots of water evaporates in the heat, which also causes environmental concerns. It's much more than typical use. I also was able to glean from this some of the health concerns, one of them being cancer-causing, which, of course, I mean, if you read different studies, everything causes cancer. But unfortunately, we don't need any more help in that arena. So I would urge you to really do your homework, and those citizens that are out there watching, to do their homework. Watch, listen to, attend meetings on what data centers can bring, both positive and negative. Oh, one last point with regards to data centers. I believe the estimate was about 400 jobs that it would bring to the county. How long would those jobs last before artificial intelligence would be able to take over those positions? And I'm not talking about science fiction. I'm talking about reality, because artificial intelligence learns every time you use it. Thank you. Alan Shepard. Again, Alan Shepard. I am currently in Redbud, and this will probably be the last time I get to talk to you guys. The reason I'm moving to Lake Holiday is because of some of my disabilities and illnesses were renovated. I'm not going to be renovating their second home, but I will not be that mobile. But there's something very important to me. Everything I have to say tonight, I have backed up data and documents and recordings that I've gotten from Frederick County. I've been speaking with you guys multiple times about what I feel are conflicts of interest, and even tonight I heard more than one person say the terms conflicts of interest. I'm going to tell you about a contract for managing the information, the information that's used to determine much of your tax bill, and just exactly what it costs for you to live here. I've met with the Commissioner of Revenue to research why we use a vendor in Massachusetts instead of a local IT business. For that contract, the answer lies in the choice to use a company called Vision Government Solutions Products and Services, but based upon what requirements. I asked for those requirements, and I could never be provided with that information. I'm going to tell you about the contract. Thank you. Thank you. So I did some research and found out that that contract was built upon an RFP that was done by Dinwiddie County, the only other county in the state of Virginia that I could find that was using the Vision Government Solutions. Now, I have no issue with Vision Government Solutions itself, but I do have an issue with the way this contract was built. This contract was put together and approved by a previous Commissioner over the summer of revenue, and an IT manager that was here in Frederick County, and neither of them are here now. Okay. Where they are now I don't know, but the current Commissioner of Revenue, I've met with her. They explained all this history to me. And by searching all the other local jurisdictions, I found only one other jurisdiction. That was Dinwiddie which is down near Richmond that uses these services. And there's plenty of services out there, and when I looked into to find out how we might be able to make a contract, there wasn't a contract. migrated our database to their proprietary cloud service everybody kept throwing up system security system security system security FYI I'm a cloud expert okay and I can tell you that it's not that is about that's a purchasing request okay just to move from one Amazon account to another or did you just give them the proprietary root password okay those are good questions to ask now the so I requested the Commissioner of Revenue to put together a public committee to look into this matter sir how much more time do you how much more time do you need pardon how much more time do you think you need 30 seconds if I'll give you a minute because any any concern about spending I want to hear so please if you can finish in a minute that'd be great so I asked the Commissioner of Revenue to establish a public committee the first response I got was we don't have the resources the second response when I revisited was what we're happy with the system and the third one when I said well none of this makes sense you to be escalated to the Virginia State Attorney General's office State Attorney Attorney General's office response was well I know him very well go ahead I'm sorry I don't like any of those responses and I think they're nuts they're necessary I'm sorry I don't like any of those responses and I think they're necessary decision in thanks wyst bigger motion ayeSo I'll hazards are those that und centriny people bid challenges and Nestor positive I wanna thank those that are more accountable on her team and but before we всейany others I just want to thank our virtual photo team out there we needifter back to the front and see what various participants will benefit as well. thank you thank you so much thank you thank you thank you If he agrees with me and wants to take this on I think he would be a good person to take the lead on that Thank you for the extra time. Thank you, sir That's the end of the list, thank you is there anyone who'd like to speak on anything Involving the county I see one any others, please queue up Chairman members of the board tip for the Bat Creek District Last month's meeting I thought was very interesting As you all sit in your chairs you represent the people of your district. So you're an extension I'm sorry, mr. Jules. You're an extension for me because I'm from the back So the way you act the way you talk the way you respond is all in a reflection of the people you represent and Last month I watched What's his name? Mr. Allen? Snap out of here screaming and I'm like, that's not what you are. I mean, I know you you're very nice You're Calm relaxed person so I don't know what his issue was, but I haven't heard him correct anything on it I would just want to take that into consideration when looking at him because I've dealt with you very nice and I hate to see you go But that's just something like I said, you are an extension of the people you represent and if you're gonna be nasty and disrespectful That makes the people you're representing the same way. Thank you James Mulder Back Creek District the last meeting I attended on April 23rd I asked supervisor Lero about the conflict of interest of giving his wife a raise The reason why I asked that was because he had posted that he gave teachers the raises He also posted about giving County employees a raise He said that he was going to give his wife a raise He said that he was going to give his wife a raise He said that he was going to give his wife a raise He said that he was going to give his wife a raise After that meeting and I since realized that you guys all y'all do is approve the big budget School board does as they want to with it After the meeting got a message from supervisor Lero asking for my phone number So he could give it to people to call me to ask me to stop lying. I Personally felt like he was trying to intimidate me Personally felt like he was trying to intimidate me I don't know why Also, I would like to bring up another point Most all you guys run as conservatives Republicans When you besides mr. Wales he ran as Frederick first not sure what their affiliation is, but the rest of you guys when y'all run And get endorsements and stuff Don't go to liberal organizations Such as Frederick strong Which is a hundred percent against government governor Junkin's Ideas about school kids being two-sexed and stuff like that Don't go after liberal organizations for their endorsements and ask them to cross Party lines and vote in Republican primaries such as what supervisor Lero has done. Thank you I don't think you'll get it Leslie Spencer Gainsborough data centers my friends are wondering am I pro data Center? Well, I am pro farmland nature community and I have no ties to power or influence I'm a mother and the farmer the nature conservationist who is deeply saddened and Frightened by how data centers and solar farms are ruining American farmland But I'm also the dreamer The one trying so hard to lay the foundation and hold the door open for the visionaries to come find us, or is one of us. Imagine this. We're writing a children's book together for the youth of our county about our data center, one of the first of its kind in America and one of the most legendary models in the world. It would never begin with, first we destroyed 100 and 600 acres of nature because we were promised a giant pile of money. No, not one single acre of our sacred farmland would be in our legacy story. Farmland and forest must never be given to a data center. Not now, not ever. Would you please hold that promise in your heart for a moment? The first page of our story would be hopeful and creative, telling how we took the roughest land, perhaps an old quarry, and made wildlife flourish again, and a data center underground blending seamlessly into the landscape and becoming one of the world's greenest. Or the most beautiful, that integrated into a new aquatic and sports center, heating the entire pool, building, and more. I am pro-legacy data center, and most of all, pro-Frederick County. Let's only say yes together to a project that inspires a movement. One our kids can look to and say, that's how we build a better tomorrow for Frederick County and America. Now our EDA is working hard for lucrative outcomes that minimize farmland loss, keep taxes low, and ensure people are paid well. So what matches rural prosperity? What about a wooden toy factory, where a proud father brings home new toys to his little ones? That would add more sweetness to our parades, and be far better than him dying early from the chemicals used in his scented kitty litter. It's a real career and could inspire joy-filled lives for generations. Or an agrotech company that seeds crops and natives, a design company that makes toothbrushes from native plants, or recycles glass, makes glass products from our recycling, or a farm to factory for natural soaps. Or tons more flower farms, our valley becoming an American flower capital, where stay-at-home parents raise healthy kids in beauty and joy. And where agritourism can create giant piles of money and save farmland. Data centers will threaten our community's success, health, and resources. Please dream big with me. We are on our way. We deserve to be believed in, protected, and cared for. Thank you so much for your time and dedication. Thank you. Is there anyone else, Ms. Phillips, on the list? Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Joy Dunn from the Redbud District. My comments are in response to Mr. Ludwick stating that he had personal attacks on him last month. In the Bible, in Luke 6, it says, The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth what is good, and the evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth what is evil. For this mouth speaks from that which fills his heart. People's inner character produces their outward actions. I've lived in Frederick County for almost 18 years and have enjoyed getting to know people. However, the past four years, I have been attacked by some people who have had a leader using slander and lies about me. Examples. Number one, I go to Walmart. I get stopped by a person who I met in political circles. She said, I heard you're the one that called the Winchester Star regarding Miles Adkins. My reply was, no, I would never do that. My church. A woman approached me and said, why do you hate so-and-so? I replied, I don't hate anyone. Her reply was, well, I was at this woman's house and she said, Joy hates me. And stay away from Joy. Stay away from Joy Dunn because she is mentally incompetent. This woman also used the F word, Mrs. Dunn, about you several times. Another time at Walmart, I was approached by another woman telling me how this person told her to stay away from me. In 2021, I received a call from Chuck Smith, who was running for Attorney General, from his campaign manager, asking me why I was against him. I replied, I was not. I reported him by door knocking and financially. She said that she received a text message from this hateful woman. The text message said, Never got a call from Chuck, please have Chuck call me. I need to hear from him or else a lot of people will not be voting for him tomorrow. This was a threat to Chuck Smith, but when his campaign manager spoke to this hateful woman, and she said, someone is sabotaging Chuck Smith's campaign. And it is Joy Dunn. That was a lie. These comments are only a few that have been told to me. All these people have approached me to ask what happened came from one evil heart and out of her mouth were lies about me. All these people who came to me said the same thing and they said Ronnie Ludwig said these comments about you. So Mr. Chairman you talk about personal attacks. You need to tell your wife Ronnie Ludwig to stop the lies about me and Mr. Dunn. Frederick County has had enough. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Seeing no one or close citizen comments. Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have? Yes Mr. Chair. The supervisor. Thank you sir. A couple months ago James Mulder came up and came to the microphone and had some questions and said since I've been on the board since January of 2024 he wondered whether my wife had gotten extra raises over and above other teachers or more frequent raises or higher raises and made some comments about doing a FOIA request to see if that was the case or not. So Mr. Chair I'd ask you a request that you open citizen comments again. I was just curious whether he'd like to come back up and tell us what he found on that. But let me finish first. I'll make a couple other comments. Most people here know I'm retired military okay. Since I've been since I'm 65 now since I was 59 I've been retired military. Been getting TRICARE reserve select luckily for me and my family. And I think that's a big thing. I think that's going to be a big thing. And I think that's going to give me the opportunity to be a part of that. And I'm going to appreciate it. So six years ago we were able to take my wife off of Frederick County Public Schools health care and not take that as a benefit and just take it from TRICARE reserve select. I recently called the school board office and asked them how much I'm saving the county per month. They said 640 dollars per month for the last seven years we've been saving. So I was curious if you'd found that when he was asking about the extra the money. But I think it's going to be a big thing. So thank you. Ms. Chair, if you would like to let Mr. Mulder speak, I would be curious about that incident, about whether she got extra pay or extra raises or anything. So I don't want to create a back and forth. This is for citizen comments. Is there anyone else who's going to make a request like that to reopen old matters from today? You're free to address or not, but this is highly irregular, and this is in danger of turning into a circus as it is. Sure, I have no problem. I believe, if I'm not mistaken, my comments were you voting for the teachers, including your wife, to get a raise. I didn't say that your wife got extra raises involved in that. I asked how much extra had she gotten since she had been voting for teacher raises, as your quotes were. I voted to give teacher raises, not I voted to approve the school board budget. That's right. That's right. The included teacher raises that the school board so desired to give it to them. Thank you, sir. Okay. Any other comments from this side? Any supervisor comments? From this side? Yes. Supervisor Wells. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. I want to read something. Hopefully, it will sink in. In Virginia, the Board of Supervisors serves as the governing body for each county holding legislative and policy-making authority. They're responsible for enacting local laws and ordinances, for setting county policies, approving the county budget, levying taxes, approving land use plans, and additionally, they make appointments to various commissions and boards. In Virginia, the chairman of the Board of Supervisors has several key responsibilities. Presiding over meetings, supervising the board's administrative work, ensuring proper record keeping, making sure that each meeting is planned effectively and conducted according to the Constitution. And these matters are dealt with in an orderly and efficient manner. They also act as liaison between the board and other county officers. Additionally, the chairman may appoint representatives to the board and to committees. And they hold the right of vote in board decisions. He or she plays a pivotal role in fostering the effectiveness of the board and the administration of the board. Thank you, sir. and must make the most of his or her committees and fellow supervisors in building a leading team. The chair does not make unilateral decisions, does not impose their will or unduly influence the options of other board members. A good chair has excellent listening skills and is able to bring people together. As members of the Board of Supervisors, we signed up for this position. We gave up our personal and family time to get elected. We knew what we were signing for. We knew that we would please some people and disappoint others. We knew that we would be labeled and called all sorts of names. As elected officials, we always need to remember that we're here for you. We're here for one reason, and that is to make decisions in the best interest of Frederick County. We do not need to use our seats on the board meetings to express our personal disgust or anger over individuals and or groups who we do not like or criticize or berate us. We should not use our seats in the board meetings to politicize our personal positions or criticize other positions. We do not need to use our seats at the board meetings to campaign for individuals who are running for local, state, or federal positions. We do not need to use our seats in board meetings to criticize other boards, other county departments, or other county employees. We do not need to use our seats at board meetings for the purpose of name-calling and demeaning. We should not use our seats at board meetings to criticize other board members and their families. If we have a problem with individuals or organizations or groups, it's our responsibility to make arrangements to go outside of the board room and meet with those individuals and groups and try to resolve these issues, or at least come back and agree to disagree and be professional. Personal confrontation with other board members and visitors. Personal confrontation with other board members and visitors. Personal confrontation with other board members and visitors. We cannot control the newspapers printing of individual public comments, nor the social media postings that we do not like. But, as elected officials, we can and we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard. We can and we need to set the example. We can and we need to be leaders in our community. I'm going to close with a few words that my grandson Jackson, who was nine years old at the time, we were in Charlottesville at Thomas Jefferson's home, and they had a table set up with quill pens and paper. And at nine years old, he sat down, I framed them, and he said, new people are entering your life, and that means new ideas. Being kind will get you far in life, and peace is a great gift. Those are pretty good words to live by, whether you're nine years old or you're 80 years old. And the last thing is a sign I have in my office, and it's called Four Things You Can Never Recover. The stone after it's thrown, the word after it's said, the occasion after it's missed. The time after it's gone. I encourage all of my fellow board members, please work hard and work together and do so in service to Frederick County. Thank you very much. Are there any other comments? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'm going to finish the comments I made before I concur with Mr. Wells. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. You should have let the sleeping dogs lie. However, since you brought up the issue when I was not here, I'm just going to respond to some comments you made. I believe that you did not like the comments that I made about the campaign manager for Mrs. Lockridge. I did not appreciate the comments you and your team, I did not appreciate the comments you and your team have made about me and my wife. Nevertheless, we both were elected to find the best solutions to the problems facing Frederick County. I reached out to you at least on three occasions to try and resolve this problem. I reached out to you at least on three occasions to try and resolve this problem. the differences and work together for the benefit of Frederick County. You have refused to respond. If you want to go into more details, I'll be glad to do so after this meeting. The Winchester Star article to which you referred, 2-9-2023, did not say I have three witnesses. It did say that Joe Crane concurred with my statement. A FOIA request was made for February 7-8-2023. I fully complied with that FOIA request. If you looked for an email on February 9, 2023, you may have found the email to which you were seeking. You said that you did not want, sorry, you have said that you do not like what I've done to your family. In that respect, I do not appreciate that your wife trying to sue me. I do not appreciate in the last three years the false comments your team has made about my wife. When your team cannot attack me, you attack her. How sad. Your team threatens and harasses those with whom you disagree. This needs to stop. We may not agree with each other, but we were both elected to serve Frederick County. Regarding Mr. Lurio and his conflict of interests, your conflicts, your comments as Chair are inaccurate. If you have seen the email that Dr. Hummer wrote to all of us, stating that no principal or vice principal has any influence on school the next year, let this not affect that topic. The withinานand DR. Lurio was a Gary employees' salaries. The school administrative staff makes recommendations to the school board. The school board then votes on salaries. We as supervisors can make suggestions and recommendations. However, all we can do is appropriate a specific amount of money to the school board. The school board and only they have the authority to spend that money as they see fit. Mr. Leroy has no ability to influence schools' salaries or for school employees. You advocated for Mr. Leroy and voted for him when he was appointed to this board. You supported him in his GeoPre primary last year. You knew at the time that his wife was a teacher, and you knew that we would be voting on appropriating money to the schools. If you had a concern, you should have raised the issue then, not after you decided to vote for a fourth high school, which you opposed. The board addressed this issue a few years ago when Mrs. Trout was the supervisor, and the county basically did a due process and said that she did not have a conflict of interest. For those saying that Mr. Leroy has a conflict of interest, please stop. He does not. Please stop. Please do not continue to say otherwise. Mr. Chairman, we need to work together to solve the problems facing Frederick County. Some of us may or may not agree with each other. Some of us may not like each other, but we should all focus on policy and find the best solutions to help our county. Thank you. Are there any other comments? Mr. Chairman, sorry. I had my hand up, but I think I got missed. I'm sorry. I just want to address, we've heard a lot about conflict of interest, and when I made, Mr. Leroy, you got up and talked about the Aylor sale, and I just want to inform this board, and Supervisor Dunn, I wish you would talk about this conflict of interest. I went to our previous county attorney before that vote. I was very vocal when I made that vote, so I just want to let it, I've never addressed this, and I think it's time to address it, and then it can go away. But... Um... I think you guys, it was, it, some of you were not on the board. It was a six to one vote. Supervisor Wells is the only no on that vote, and happy to report Supervisor Wells. I know that Supervisor Dunn and I were very passionate at looking at numbers with overcrowded schools. My philosophy with this entire thing was if I can provide an option for families to educate their child in a different space, because some, parents like to homeschool. Some parents like to private school, and that's okay. They're continuing to pay taxes like every single one of you guys. Um, but I, I'm pleased to announce that I reached out to Eukaria, who currently occupies, um, the Aylor space. At, on Valley Pike, they were capped at 250 students. Going into 20, um, 25, 26, so starting in September, they can offer, or they have 420 students. Coming to their school with a wait list, because they have very small class sizes. So, I just wanted to report that I did pull Frederick County Public Schools. Um, Frederick County Schools charges $8,997 for you to go to Frederick County Schools if you're not a county resident. Um, out of state is $16,336, but the impact of state and local funds to educate per year, per student, is close to $17,000, with buildings in it. So, the numbers behind this, and the reason I was very passionate about the, the, allowing them to occupy this space, was just from when they were at capacity at 250, to an additional 170, the math of, um, the 420 they have enrolled. That additional 170, they were not able to have in their previous location. They were 340. She said they were using hallways. They were, um, they were holding classrooms in the gym, the teacher's lounge, and, and even the foyer. So, this is a small blessing to our community, where those 170 children that they are now able to school, um, at just 9,000 that Frederick County would charge somebody to come there. That's $1.5 million this year that, that additional is actually helping our county. But, if we actually went with the true impact of state, we would have been able to have a lot of students. Our school district office is Diddy. Our office is Your F Greum. Our section counts. Southth без a schönm quét mi, we're costing We are not, we will be due for Christmas again. To get the 1% those 2 million now, I see our are dobrze. Uh. May I sit here. the 8 interочку. Where's the covered. In Wood XD was looking through different books he didn't wont. That was, um, we won't have a five-.' That's what I was thinking. So, that's going to be carried toward산cafigo.com Yeah. Uh. Address let's see, it's 18TM2 star. Y'all can use their own. SB always sitting right. but I was passionate in saving the taxpayer money. Not only am I saving the taxpayer money, so it was a great decision. Like I said, at just 9,000 or 8,997 with 170 in excess that they're able to accommodate now. So 1.5 million every single year. Not only is it this year, it's ongoing. So from a taxpayer for overcrowded schools, we heard you guys talk about overcrowded schools. This gives an option for families, an option. And I understand Frederick County doesn't want their children leaving. It doesn't look great on them, but it gives options for families. And so I just wanted to, I finally am able to openly say that we're talking about a lot of conflict. Supervisor Dunn, I would have liked you to step forward and say, you know, here he's getting slammed. I got slammed for months on that. Luckily, my district was very supportive of me because I can show the numbers. Supervisor Dunn, you are very passionate about showing numbers. We talked about how this could save, you know, allow families have options and they're not getting a tax break. These families who choose a private education are not getting a tax break. So it's a win-win. And anyways, all six of us on this previous board were in favor and Supervisor Wells, that investment, I think, was pretty clear. And I think it's incredible. I'm happy to report that that was a really good investment. Thank you. Any other comments? One other comment. Mrs. Lockridge, the reasons I voted yay on that, I laid out at that time. So if you want to see my thought process on that, I think I laid out the reasons on why I did it, et cetera, at that time. Yeah, with numbers. You were really good on the financial side. Right. I was just laying out, here's how I arrived at the conclusion. And so if anybody needs to see that, they can see that video. So if there are no other comments, I'll address things that have been said about me and my wife. I do want to start about the, it's unfortunately, it's political silly season. People will go out there and they'll put false information out there and people get attacked. It's just part of doing business here. With regard to Supervisor Lockridge's connection with that school, the contract was written, it was always planned that that was a donation. That could have been no profit gain. I tell you, it's actually a significant, but we had a lot of money involved in that. And this is what happened in that donation. In fact, your relative made quite a sacrifice and quite a donation to this county. All of this board and the staff made sure that it was carefully written so that there was no possible financial gain. And therefore, the attorney, I don't think you completed the thought, told you that you could vote because of the way it was set up. But people will say what they want to say. If you get a flyer in the mail and it says that somebody's opponent likes to vote, that's fine. But if it's been a draw, then that's fine. But if it's a ground vote, that's fine. But if it's a ground vote, that's fine. But I don't think we can vote for this board. We can vote for this board. We can vote for this board. We can vote for this board. We can vote for this board. I think that's not important. Our People will say what they want to say. If you get a flyer in the mail and it says that somebody's opponent likes to stomp on bunny rabbits or kick over baby strollers, don't believe it. If there's no receipts there, if there's no citation, no picture, no proof that this person hates the fire department or hates police officers. I've had it all said about me or hates children. It's just not true. Don't believe everything you hear. If a supervisor's wife comes forward at a meeting and attacks another supervisor's wife and has no receipts, gives no names, you know it's false. You know it never happened because people have time to prepare these attacks, these nasty attacks they make on other individuals. And if they had the proof, they would make it. Mr. Fly, I have two things to present. So the subject, the wound got open from two years ago. Two years ago. Supervisor Dunn made a false attack on my wife. And I now have proof that it's false. So I'm going to present that. It's the kind of negative thing we don't need. But people think they can win elections and maybe intimidate others by lying. Could we? I'm going to want the video first. So, but wait one second. Yeah, it'll be the video player. But hold on one second. Supervisor Dunn at the time said that after a primary. Election, my wife was overheard insulting veterans. And that's to me with both our families having relatives in the military. That's, you know, stomping on bunny rapids kind of kind of a claim. He made this even though he was not present. He wasn't there. He was never at that primary. So to me, one of the most outrageous things you can do. Sure, people post crazy things online, but it's to come up here and sit on this dais and attack the wife. I don't think any of you would like it. Especially if you knew it was a lie because you were there because I was there the whole time. So he said he had it went in the Winchester Star. You can look it up. He said that he had a call from the person telling him that something was said and that he had two emails from other people supporting that. All of that is fiction. It's made up out of whole cloth. And again, I approve. The first thing is a one minute and a few seconds. And I'm going to tell you. I'm going to tell you. I'm going to tell you. I'm going to tell you. We need it now. Put that in the up tray. All right. All right. He was trying to get his air. And that's amazing. That's like a many- centralized idea that my private67 knew something is bad, whitewashed wisdom know something and he sprinkle and He was communicated in a kind of like a accursed, however. Go back to the video. I had two lodges back home in Boston. My wife was. A ten minute back. After that. Do you mind restarting it because this has been a matter for two years and I want to put it to rest. Keep it down. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize for misunderstanding what was said. I am angry that I've been played for the fool and asked to run and I had no idea why until and I was wondering what Heather was talking about with the updated list when we got there. She seemed very upset about that and I honestly, I had no idea. In fact, my wife wasn't on the list and you know, we've both been registered voters for 20 years in the county. So listen, I apologize. I apologize. So that's a video from the only source that Supervisor Dunn has claiming that my wife made an insult to veterans from the man himself. He was not clear what he heard and he apologized for ever having brought this forward. As far as he mentions that it's a longer discussion, he mentions that he brought his concern to Supervisor Dunn. He said, no, you did hear that because I heard that I got emails from two other people. So if you go to the presentation, please, there's two slides. Mr. Chairman, so a FOIA was, we're almost done. Mr. Chairman, a FOIA was done for those two emails. The FOIA began on, it included the date of the election when this was supposedly said all the way to the date when Blaine Dunn spoke. So it covered the whole period. I'm sorry. And I'm just going to repeat the point that Supervisor Dunn made. The FOIA began on, it included the date of the election when this was supposedly said all the way to the date when Blaine Dunn spoke. So if you go to the presentation, please, there's two slides. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. I apologize. Asking for all his emails from those two days. And the second slide is the response from the county. There were eight emails. I have all of those emails. Absolutely none of them addressed my wife or anything she would have said. This includes his, the request was for his personal emails as well as public. So I think I've proven beyond a shadow of a doubt. that there is no evidence whatsoever. My wife said any of those things. And I think for all the grandstanding here, for people to say we need to behave and how we run meetings, lying about the spouses of people on this board is about the worst thing I've seen. And that has colored my trust of Supervisor Dunn ever since. Although I have tried to be respectful and give everyone their time and run meetings as a chair should. So that needed to be said. Mr. Chairman, move to adjourn, please. Move to adjourn. And the air needed to be cleared. We've been here for five and a half hours. Move to adjourn, please. So it's been said, and I hope the air is cleared. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I have one quick comment to make, please. That's a courtesy. There is an email. On February 9th, which you can go and do your FOIA request on, which talks about what I did. It's irrelevant. No, it's not irrelevant. Because it means you lied. You said before February 9th you had two emails. If you got an email after the fact, why did you say you already had emails? Mr. Chairman, Joe Crane told me what he's told me. The Winchester Star article said that he confirmed it. We will agree to disagree, okay? There's no agree to disagree. You just heard. The public just heard from Joe Crane. Mr. Crane. You have no receipts. You make false allegations. Mr. Chairman, with all due respect. And personal ones. Well, show the receipts, Supervisor Dunn. You don't have any. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move to adjourn. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. We are adjourned. Does Rady have evidence of your kid crapping himself in school? If she made that allegation in public. I feel sorry for your kid. I'll take some water. Thank you. Appreciate that. The people keep coming. I agree. I don't think he's going to do anything but put him in jail. I mean, what do you got, Josh? Did he actually crap himself? Or did Randy Kline say his word? Just to promote your agenda to prevent the high school. I think you guys are doing very well. I want to get back to this. I got from my dad. I'm going to do some stuff. I'm going to do some stuff. He said fuck. He said fuck. Yes, sir. I like popcorn. I like the popcorn. It was worth it.
