Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-02-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=176
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner, I want to remind you we've got a new microphone system. Push the button to turn it on. Push the button after you speak. The system works where you can only have five microphones on at a time, so please remember to turn your button off when you speak. Thank you. Adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? So moved. Got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. The agenda is adopted. Meeting minutes. Do I have a motion to accept the minutes? So moved. All right. We got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. We are set there. Committee reports. Let's start with CPPC. Mr. Akins. Thank you, John. The committee met on Monday the 13th and discussed the following items. The NELA update, the CPPC, seek firm the land use plan drafted by the CPPC prior to public input. The CPPC did not support the staff recommended changes. The NELA will come back to the planning commission for discussion on March 1st. The next area plan update that CPPC was briefed on the next land use study, which encompasses the Round Hill Community Plan, Route 37 West plan and the West Jubah Early plan and include the area known as Sunnyside. Staff will be available for discussion on that. Staff will begin to initiate work on these efforts with a public kickoff letter in the spring. The CIP, the CPPC, say that 10 times fast, endorsed the capital improvement plan as presented by staff. This will be presented to the planning commission this evening for additional discussion. Thank you, Mr. Akins. Mr. Triplett, thank you for a good job running that the other night. So, okay. DRC, Historic Advisory Board and Federal Commission, the historic advisory board in Derek Water is next week, so we're good on that. So, Winchester planning, which is city planning liaison. Hi, I already today. Very well, thank you Mr. Chairman, The Winchester Planning Commission met for its work session February 7th in consider to two four items the presentation review of the 2022 community development department, zoning ordinance of Winchester pertaining to the addition of accessory dwelling units and related clarifications this work seeks to fulfill a resolution by the Winchester Common Council in June of 2022 seeking to develop a comprehensive approach to address housing availability and affordability in the city thanks sir we didn't have a report for DRC for January so mr. Thomas is going to read our January report we met on the 26th of January we had the election of officers of course Elizabeth Cazales that the chairman but she is unable to be here tonight so we discussed revisions to the sign ordinance this will be presented to the Planning Commission on the 15th which is tonight and discussed waiver for overhead utilities in certain districts and the staff is going to do some further evaluation and then it'll come back to the DRC at a later date all right thank you thanks sir Board of Supervisors mr. Ludwig how are you tonight good thank you the Frederick County Board of Supervisors approved the county administrators request to clarify the Frederick County ordinance chapter 48 involving animals and fowl dog licensing although need to bring it into alignment with state legislation so the board approved beginning that work the board also approved initiation of the route 37 study and that's all I've got tonight thanks sir appreciate it alrighty next up is citizens comments this is an opportunity which is open for any items not before the we did we did that we did that we did that so next up is the citizens comments which is open for any items not before the Commission for public hearing or on the agenda for anyone that is here and wanted to speak remark please come forward and state your name as your district seeing no one I'm going to close the citizens comments portion all right now we're up to public hearings next item is a public hearing regarding rezoning number 0 1 2 3 car credit nation Mr. Ludwig the board will now move to the next item please stand by for public hearing. Mr. Ludwig. Mr. Ludwig. Alright next item is a public hearing regarding rezoning number 0123 car credit nation Mr. Ludwig. Mr. Ludwig. Mr. Ludwig. climb good evening mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is rezoning application oh one twenty three four car credit nation and this is an application to rezone approximately one point three four or five acres from the RA rural area zoning district to the b2 general business district on a property that totals more than three point nine six acres with proffers to allow for the expansion of an automotive dealership and this project is located in the Shawnee magisterial district directing your attention to the screen on the left this is the subject property is outlined in blue I would imagine most of you are familiar with this property what it does front on Front Royal Pike and what you see in orange is the existing b2 zoning on the property that is the current car credit nation operation and they have purchased this home to the south of their initial property they have some of the property that they have purchased and they have purchased this they have combined the properties and they're seeking to rezone this parcel here that is currently shown as RA comprehensive plan is our guide to when considering land-use decisions and the plan identifies the subject property with an urban center land-use designation which the urban center designation for those of you who are not familiar envisions a mix of uses to enhance the economic performance of these communities the designation of urban center on this property is consistent with the existing b2 to on that portion of the site. While the proposed rezoning does not include the mix of uses that the plan envisions, given the relatively small size of the site, that would be difficult to achieve. And further, because they are seeking to just expand their existing operation onto that balance of their property, it may otherwise be appropriate. This is the future land use map, just for your reference again, showing everything kind of east, north, and south of the property being in that land, that urban center designation. When considering the application, the applicant has provided proffers for the Planning Commission to evaluate. In their proffers, they have restricted the use of the property only to the automotive dealership and to a general business office. That is consistent with the existing use of the property and what they intend to use the property for in the future. They are of course making a contribution to Fire and Rescue Services for their expansion. And they have proffered to provide a full screen buffer along the perimeter of the property where adjoining properties are residential. So following a public hearing this evening, staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed rezoning application. Tim Stowe is here representing Car Credit Nation and the owners of Car Credit Nation, Chris Mayer and Chris Mayer Jr. here this evening as well. And I'm sure they'd be happy to answer any questions should you have any. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you Mr. Klein. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Any questions for other representatives of Car Nation? Okay. Everybody's good. All right I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward speak for or against this item please come forward state your name, magisterial district and you limit the three minutes for talk. Well no one's running up here. Oh yes, yes. I have two people picking up. I have two people picking up. Thanks for having us. My name is Dan Kress, 1495 Front Royal Pike. We are the property next door adjacent, adjoining. I'm Jennifer Kress, his wife. We are the property to the immediate south. Tonight we don't have any strong opposition but we had some comments and concerns we wanted to be put on the record and just with the property right there we've of course talked with Chris. He's a very good name. We know that there's going to be some developments. He talked those over with us a few months ago and one of the things that we wanted is concerns about any additional paving that may go on considering that does border our land. There could be runoff. There could be things you know with that being a car lot. Yeah future development too by rezoning this. We know that there's no immediate plans other than to expand the current business there but we know that once it's zoned for business, we're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. It could be anything. We know that that is permanent so we wanted that to go on record that we do have concerns that business area could become anything in the future. We of course just signed a 30 year mortgage so we're looking way down the road. We found a property we love and want to stay at so we just wanted that to go on record that by doing that we know that we could eventually be living next to a much larger or even different business than the Car Credit Nation neighbors that we love today. We don't have the much of a margin of land. We just want to look Fully much, much further from the home to open it, right? That's what we're looking for . Any other questions about that? You can see where his pond, there's a nice little natural drain, but it has a buffer zone. But like I said, we love the animals, we love the neighbors, and we're excited. So we just want to put that on record. Thank you. Thank you. Your property, is it 1495? Yes, sir. You said just one south? Yes, sir. You got that fence right there. Yes, sir. Thank you so much. Thanks, guys. Anyone else who'd come forward? Hi, state your name, Magisterial District, please. My name is Douglas Kern, Shawnee District. And, yeah, I just wanted to make it for the record. My property joins the property that he purchased for the car lot. Next door. In the back only. But there's a discharge that comes through there. And I've talked to Chris, and he assures me that they will monitor and make sure that there's no, you know, contaminants getting into it because the ditch line comes down to, like Dan said, my pond. And I have sheep back there in that property, and I've got goats. And so I just wanted for the record. I've been living there 36 years. So the car lot that's there now, Car Credit Nation, is probably one of the best run places that has been in that facility there. And I just wanted to speak for Chris and the guys. They do a great job. I've gotten my vehicles inspected over there. Pretty convenient being right two doors down, you know, drop your car off and then come. But they've been good folks to me. And I just wanted for the record to make sure that that's noted. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Is there anyone else that would like to come forward? All righty. Well, then I'll close the public hearing portion. Discussion among commissioners. Mr. Akins. I think both of the citizens that came up have some really good comments about drainage. And so obviously the staff is going to take that into consideration. But I would recommend the staff to take. Consideration offer also additional screening possibly to the south side and to make sure there's a little bit of a buffer zone between the B2 and the residential because they are very tight. Thank you, Mr. Akins. Anybody else on my right? All right. Mr. Chairman, I support approval of this. I'm confident that it's an appropriate use for the for the lot. Thank you. Okay. I look to the left. Yes. Mr. Mark. I just have for the record. I support the use of that land to and I see that as proper. If there is a problem or an issue of a simple solution is quite often an oil water separator for any water to run off and go under a barrier so that it traps any oil from going downstream. That wouldn't be a big deal. I think that's something that staff could should consider. Thank you, Mr. Mark. Yep. Ms. Brannon. I also think it's a good idea. I like it when small businesses expand and they're going to keep the house a house and just remodel it inside and driving out there today. I saw the restaurant up the street did a similar thing. So I'm in full support. Ms. Brubach. Yes. I have a question. And can we ask staff a question? Yes. Absolutely. So the drain field and the well. Can they be paved over? So are they limited on where they can actually pave? They will be utilizing the drain field and well. I don't believe there is a proposal to expand the pavement onto the southern part of the parcel. Okay. Obviously, a lot of the concerns that were raised by the neighbors and discussed on the planning commission are site plan requirements. So in order to utilize the. Building as an office, they will need to do a change of use, which triggers a site plan and all the county agency reviews and V dot review. So we'll ensure that there's no problems with the runoff, things like that. As far as the buffer goes, they are proffering a full screen buffer, which is our most intensive buffer category involves of landscape screen plus offense plus distance separation. So they'll be putting in all that in around where the property joins residential. So, you know, Russ assured a lot of those concerns are being addressed at the site plan level. That doesn't necessarily reflect. On the rezoning, but that is a ordinance requirement if they tend to develop the property as they proffered. Thank you, Mr. Client. Uh, anything. All right, Mr. Mullen. Um, the water and sewer is obviously the green shaded area of the Green Line. Will that be expanded upon in the future? Will they have the opportunity to do that? Uh, they would need to request a plan amendment to extend that sewer and water service area. They don't intend to utilize that because the home is already on a septic and drain field. So they're going to continue. You know, like. They're going to continue to use that because it's just office staff that are going to be there. The rest of the property, the actual the existing car dealership that is within the sewer water service here. But the the office building will not be in the sewer water service area. Okay, just wanted to note that and I'm in approval of this. Mr Thomas. Yes, I support this. And Mr Klein, I think answered a lot of the lot of the, uh, uh, people's questions when if you look at their proffers, they've proffered to this will only be for an automotive dealer and general business. So I'm going to be for an automotive dealer and general business. So that that's the use even in the future. They would have to come back in with a new rezoning and try to revise the proffers to change it to something else. So the intensity of the use won't change. So you protected there. And they've also proffered a full screen with that full screen. Just as Mr Klein stated, they have to put a buffer and they can't pave up to the property line. So there will be a landscape area for the for the groundwater to be protected. And then there will be a lot of water to percolate through to keep the pollutants from going under your property. All right. This is anybody else before. Okay. All right. This is in the Shawnee Magisterial District. Chairman, I move for approval of application 01.23. Okay, I've got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. Second. All right, we got a second. I will start down. We'll have a second. One second. Okay. Ms. Brown. Ms. Brown, yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chairman. Yes. Chairman. Chair votes yes. So this will move on to the Board of Supervisors on March the 8th. So thank you, everyone. All right. Next item up. We have a public hearing for ordinance amendment. Do you have a motion? So moved. Motion approved. amendment. Mr. Klein, you're back up. Yes, sir. You all will be quite familiar with this. You've heard this recently. Nothing has changed, but because it is a public hearing, I will be given the full presentation. And I'm, again, happy to answer any questions you have. This is an ordinance amendment to our OM, Office of Manufacturing Park District. This proposal would address stated concerns, some of which have been raised by the Planning Commission regarding the implementation of this zoning district. It's intended, the amendment to better implement the county's identified targeted industries, and probably most relevant to this group, remove the link between the Office of Manufacturing Park District and our planned land use designation mixed-use industrial office, which is included in the comprehensive plan. The text amendment originated from discussions related to the update of the county's northeast land use plan, which contains a number of nodes of mixed-use industrial office, planned land uses. Which, again, as currently planned, are intended to implement the OM district. Won't read the entire standard, but again, it's kind of a transitional district, providing research and development, office parks, minimal impact industrial and assembly uses. The district is designed in a manner not to create noise, smoke, dust, or other hazards, so it's not as intense as our other industrial districts. It's supposed to be some kind of middle ground between our commercial districts and our industrial districts. As you all are well aware, the OM district, as it's currently implemented in the zoning ordinance, has not been well utilized or implemented in practice. Only one property has rezoned to include OM as part of their proposal, and that property that is zoned OM is actually currently in the conservation easement, so it will never develop as intended. It will always be open space. The proposed text amendment, there are a number of changes. Again, you all are quite familiar. We removed that stated link in the intent section between the district and the planned land use, the mixed-use industrial office land use. We have amended the district name to better reflect what the committee, the DRC, and others have hoped to get out of the district. We've changed it to the TM district, the Technology Manufacturing Park district, which again reflects those kind of targeted industries, and the transition of the industry away from office as the primary use to other types of uses. Probably most importantly for the district, we've added a number of additional allowed uses. That's going to be your food and beverage manufacturing, your specialized manufacturing, your zoning-oriented text amendment. What happens? What is the benefit to the county? Well, it does create a greater allowance for work, and it's going to be a lot more effective. We've also added a number of additional allowed uses. Again, reflecting those targeted industries, and we've amended and removed the majority of the required design standards, things pertaining to building design and materials. We've added an allowance for outdoor storage, so we've lessened those design standards to make the district more attractive to development. By making this change, by adopting the zoning-oriented text amendment, what happens? What is the benefit to the county? Well, it does put again us into the investment of the state. We're the prepared district. We're These are big types of increasingly artifact BACKUP would not be required to submit a master development plan. This expedites the time to market for potential projects. We understand with this fast-paced market that these industries wanna get into ready sites. So removing an additional step from there, rezoning to implementation step is important. And by not requiring the master development plan, it does allow those seeking to rezoning to that district to receive a waiver from the Board of Supervisors for underground electrical equipment. Underground electrical equipment is very expensive in the current market, and by removing that barrier, some of those energy-intensive uses going into the TM district is, again, more desirable. So where has this been? The Development Review and Regulations Committee reviewed this extensively in the fall, and they endorsed it at the end of 2022. The Economic Development Authority actually reviewed and endorsed this proposal on February 2nd. And what we're seeking this evening from you all is a recommendation to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. This is a public hearing item, and staff is, of course, happy to answer any questions you have as it pertains to the amendment. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Okay, do we have any questions for Mr. Klein? I'll start on my left this time. No? Anybody on the right? Mr. Akins. I wanna say thank you to the DRRC Committee for, really, the removal of the language pertaining to the mixed-use industrial office. I think that was a smart move for how it aligns with the future comprehensive plan and all the changes with that. Question for the staff would be is that, does the new district align with the updated study with that was just done by the EDA for the bioscience and information technology and the advanced manufacturing? I couldn't tell by the SIC codes if all of those boxes were checked, and if they weren't checked, if this district is really to help the EDA focus on targets and that kind of thing, what would have to happen in the future to tweak the district to make sure that the EDA feels like they're empowered when they get a potential individual industry or something like that? So the EDA did, was involved, early on, in the process. And I think that's what's going on in the draft in this ordinance. Patrick Barker was, as I understand it, that study informed the comments that he provided us, and those industries were captured in the revised use list, data centers, et cetera, events of manufacturing, things of that nature. In the future, if they change their targeted industries, we would have to do a text amendment to change it, but obviously it's a pretty straightforward process. So, as I understand it, and I believe there's a representative from the EDA who may speak this evening, they are satisfied with the use list that is there and that does achieve their current policies and goal setting that they're doing. Last question I had is that if a developer was going to come and ask for this zoning district, does staff and the EDA feel that there's not enough, or excuse me, there's significant amount of strings not attached to this district? I think that's a good question. I think that there's an issue there, but I think that's a good question. I think that there's some kind of a risk that we're going to have to address with this new zoning district, versus say M1 or M2, because it seemed like, and I'm not an expert on this, that there's a lot of other things that could, the things that are on this list could be done in another zoning as well. But we're restricting, in a way, the secondary uses, so as a developer, I would be more apt to go with a, with a, if the strings attached to it, that's a horrible analogy, but it makes it really attractive for me to be in this zoning, is so valuable. Does staff and the EDA feel that what is proposed has the meat to it to actually help do what they need to do? I won't speak for the EDA's position on where they think the district is. I will say from staff's perspective, we've received a lot of negative feedback and a lot of criticism about this district over the years. We're trying to provide something that is more attractive to development that helps us implement our long-range land use plan. And you know, we did remove a lot of the design requirements and things that potentially were unattractive about this development, and then also removing that MDP requirement, allowing for the overhead utilities. Those are two kind of carrots, if you will, that make the district more attractive than going into like an M1 district, potentially. And again, those, you know, they're not the best ideas, but they're the best ideas that we have to work with. And again, those, you know, those are the things that we're trying to do. And I would say, you know, we're trying to work with the EDA, and we're trying to work with the EDA, and again, those, we do feel like the use list is broad enough now that we can get those targeted industries into this district where we weren't able to do that in the past. I just want to make sure that we're looking and we're approving something that could be used, because what we had in the past hasn't been used for 15 years, and we want to have a good tool in our tool chest. Somebody drafted the ordinance, I guess I believe that we're achieving that, but it's up to you all to decide if you think that's the right thing to do. But I'm not sure if you think that has been, if we've done enough. All right, thank you, Mr. Klein. I will open this public hearing to anyone who wants, comes forward and speak for or against this item. Please come forward and state your name as your district. Well, how you doing young man? Good evening. Hello, sir. I'm doing just fine. It's good to see all of y'all. Great to see you. My name is Stan Crockett. I reside in the new Gainesboro Magisterial District. I'm a citizen volunteer. I currently serve as Board Vice Chair of the Economic Development Authority for Frederick County. And I want to thank you all for giving us the opportunity to express our views and our support of this amendment revision to the OM Park District. As you all know, Frederick County EDA's mission is to facilitate economic development efforts for Frederick County through retention, expansion, and attraction of businesses that create high quality jobs and new capital investment, resulting in Frederick County becoming a premier business location and enhancing the quality of life for its citizens. Recently, the Frederick County EDA completed a new project, which is the EDA for the City of Frederick County. It included a pretty extensive study of target industries for Frederick County, which identified bioscience, information technology, and advanced manufacturing as desired industries for Frederick County. The proposed revisions to the OM zoning district will significantly enhance Frederick County's competitiveness for these targets. In addition, the revised ordinance reduces the number of units, and it will be the largest in the state, and it will be the largest in the state. The proposed revisions will also reduce the design standards and the master development plan requirement, which equates to reducing development costs and accelerating the time for target industry to become operational. In this very competitive world of site selection for high value industries, these proposed revisions provide direct value to the EDA target industries, which should provide significant tax revenue through it. And the change happens in intersects great with the adjustment of the şeked andots tocoalatания industrial productionбы freeze-at-risk systemsthis is because there is a lack of support into one of these determines, how traps were smack as well as policies. It's incredibly difficult for a single company using such a technology system. So, do not expect to see that instead. Thanks, Stan. Good to see you tonight. Thank you. Mr. Barker, do you want to follow up on anything? You good? All right. Anybody else want to speak? Then I'm going to close the public hearing portion, and commissioners have a discussion. I'll start on the right. Anybody? Everybody good? On the left? All right. Well, I do want to say this. I want to thank staff for taking this and running with it. I mean, we did a lot of work, discussions at the committee level about OM. We really, I mean, we felt that OM really, it may have been a good idea at the time, but it really did not do those that were trying to rezone any good. And I really appreciate all the work you put into the TM part of it. So thank you. Thank you very much for that time and effort. Okay. Do I have a motion? I move to accept the OM district. I got a motion. Second. And I have a second. And I will start down with Mr. Triplett. Triplett, yes. Bakins, yes. Manuel, yes. Kern, yes. Horned, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Rumbach, yes. Brennan, yes. And the chair votes yes. This will go before the Board of Supervisors on March the 8th. Again, thank you for all the work you did on this. All right. Next item up. Next item up, Mr. Pearson. Mr. Chairman. How are you? I'm well. I'm well. Tired, but I'm here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. You saw this last when Mr. Bishop was in front of you. It is a modification to our development review fee schedule. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. postponing applications after they've been advertised for public hearing and that's going from 500 to 750 to better represent the costs that we actually pay as the county to advertise those applications a decrease in the bond replacement fee from 500 to 300 which is more in line with the associated staff time to process those applications and then the implementation of a $200 fee for short-term lodging permits that are good for two years with a renewal fee of $100 when those come up for renewal after the two years are complete happy to answer any questions you all might have on this the DRC discussed it on January 26 and agreed it was a necessary change it is a public hearing item and we're seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the board on this proposed ordinance amendment Thank You mr. Pearson any questions look at my left miss Brandon I have a question I'm not sure if this is if you're the right person or someone else I've a couple people have contacted me trying to implement this and it's extremely tedious can we make it simpler or is that a term lodging yes okay we've received similar complaints from members of the community who are trying to navigate the administrative permitting process we're going to continue to make changes to that the one thing that we've been trying to provide as assurance is that however tedious it may feel to navigate that process it is far better than processing a conditional use permit and the cost and time associated with that but we're taking those comments and trying to make changes to the permit to make it more clear and provide good customer service on that I just want to understand and have it on the public like what I'm seeing is they have to itemize everything forks puzzles sheets like is that required by Richmond can we get rid of that kind of detail that is not a county requirement not part of our application process I'm not sure that's for insurance purposes or some other type of mechanism but that is not a requirement of any of the accounting departments as part of the application yeah the only thing that we've heard complaints on is that we're requiring them now to correspond with two separate departments building inspections and the fire marshal to ensure that the properties are safe for operating the short-term lodging and sometimes we've received complaints that they don't like coming to our building to do a short-term or they look like going home just because they're working hours or it's an 사람들 museum or they've got four colors in there it's not required to have at least one part of the apartment so that would be of course different but coming to our Eugene we have some additional livestock zoning and we imperfect as said before we have two additional dollars along the site and it's sort of whereby that the housing contractors they really Jahre an annual budget is what they're supposed to pledge and that other to that would be the Commission revenue and that's where that's where they've run into the problem it's not on this part it's all the Commissioner revenue part with the way the licensing is done so so then based on that comment it must be related to the business personal property it's definitely on that side I didn't know if we could have gone to said no we're not asking for this it's not a Planning Commission Planning Commission purview but your resident of Frederick County who could you know contact the Commissioner revenue accordingly anybody on my right okay I will open this up for a public hearing anyone wants to come forward and step forward and speak for or against please do so state your name at Sherrill district I don't see anybody running out so I'm gonna close the public hearing portion all right discussion among commissioners anybody my left we're good you all right all right I would like a motion mr. chairman I moved to be as accept this ordinance amendment as well do I have it all right we got a motion in a second mrs. Brandon we'll start with you yes run back yes yes Thomas yes yes current yes manual yes Akins yes yes and chair votes yes and this will be go before the new paper and Liebherr has stomach needs but if it serves the needs of everybody all right firstamental米 the bill bill I'm able to put this downось.com two other議員 just telling you Mr. Klien I will do this Stein just saves in the rate right now I will slide this now Mr. Klien has to tell us how much money and ILF it's being financed but why there will be more amendments bill funds can't be dosted to the ordinance Arizona. Specifically, there was a ruling that specified that signs may only be regulated in a content-neutral manner. The majority of our sign standards in our ordinance remain unchanged as a result of this reorganization of the ordinance. The size, height, number, and location of the signs have not changed in most cases. But we have reorganized the ordinance in a manner that regulates the signs by the district type and not by the type of sign that it is. That ensures that kind of content-neutral ordinance requirement that came out of that ruling. Again, our sign standards are designed and established to regulate the erection number, area, height, location, type, and maintenance of signs to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the public in the order to lead development of the county. It ensures there's adequate signage for businesses and motorists. It provides a good sense of safety and safety for the public. It protects and enhances images of those businesses, appearance, economic vitality of the county, and it supports comprehensive land policies. That's from the intent section of the ordinance. I will highlight one change which we think is a necessary change and we do think it helps in situations that have arisen recently, and that is it pertains to wall-mounted signage. Currently, the ordinance permits for any wall on a building, you can have 20% of the wall area as a sign, not to exceed 200 square feet. What happens when you have multi-tenant wall faces, again, that where you might have an anchor grocery store and several small condominiums, the big box store takes up all the sign area and the tenants are left with essentially nothing. And we have, we've had that situation arise where the tenants are given really small signage which is inadequate for their use and the visibility and some of the things that the sign ordinance hopes to implement. So what we have done is we've actually changed that standard and we've applied, a calculation that a number of other localities are implementing, which is we permit one and a half square feet of sign for each linear feet of building frontage. You can have a minimum of 25 square feet or whatever that calculation is, whichever is the greater number. What that does is that ensures that all of the tenants on a strip will have a sign area a minimum of 25 square feet or proportional to their frontage. And if they have two condo bays, they get a bigger, you know, proportionality. of that. And we think this is a good sign that the diagram there kind of shows what we're talking about. You know, each tenants three and four get a smaller sign proportional to their frontage versus tenant one and tenant two. Again, that'll help with that issue. What we've seen is some projects, a business goes out of business, their sign is taken down, the smaller tenants eat up all the wall face, the tenant comes back into that anchor space and they're not able to get a big sign, they're only able to get a small sign and it looks inadequate for the amount of frontage that they have. So we're trying to rectify that issue in a frequent complaint that we get about our sign code. So the DRC discussed this item on January 26 and supported the proposed changes from staff. Staff is seeking any comments from the Planning Commission to forward to the board on this proposed amendment. And again, this is an information discussion. And what you see in the text is the entire definition sections and the entire sign section is being rewritten. So that's why there's no track changes, just assume that all those are scratched out. And staff, with help of the County Attorney's Office, have scrubbed the ordinance of all the content related sign and we feel that the sign ordinance that is in front of you is content neutral. It will implement the Reed versus Gilbert changes and will ensure that the county is not in a situation where we are potentially accused of regulating signs in a content regulated manner. So thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Okay, on my right, any comments? Mr. Krunz? Yeah, just one quick question. It's probably obvious, but I didn't see it written anywhere. These, when, if this were to be approved, these changes would be any signs moving forward, correct? This wouldn't affect any signs that are currently up? Correct. Any new signs moving forward, old signs, they would be essentially kind of grandfathered in. Now, people that are, have complained about their sign size, they would be able to take advantage of these new changes and upgrade their sign if they so desired. So it can be beneficial, but it will not negatively impact anyone that has a current sign. Okay. Anybody on the left? Okay. And this will go before the Board of Supervisors on March the 8th. Thank you. Thanks, sir. All right. Next item up for discussion. This one of Mr. Pearson's favorites, CIP. It's very fresh in my mind the time I spent just recently this week with the CPPC discussing this item, but if it's not my favorite, the NEILUP for sure is, and my CPPC members will commiserate with me in that regard. So thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. This is your 2023-2028 Capital Improvement Plan. It is the county's major expenditure schedule for the ensuing five-year period, as well as a category for longer-term projects. You see this annually, and it's for a purpose. The Code of Virginia requires that we adopt a CIP in order to accept cash proffers for capital improvements from rezonings. You can see the code section from the Code of Virginia there. The projects identified in the CIP are utilized in our annual update to the Development Impact Model, and so those costs really do matter as they're a direct input into the calculus for what an appropriate cash proffer is for new residential rezonings. So the ComPlan and the CIP are intended to be mutually supportive. The ComPlan identifies areas that might be suitable for development. The CIP is a project that is being developed by the individual departments responsible for those, and the Planning Department really just serves to consolidate those department requests and then bring it through the process to ensure it's consistent with the comprehensive plan. Many kudos to Parks and Rec for having a representative here, so if you have any Parks and Rec questions, they're happy to answer them. Otherwise, I will do my best for any of the other departments who couldn't be in attendance. The program is a really long-range plan. It's important that we view it that way. I know we talked recently in a retreat context about some of these items, but it is a basic tool for ranking these projects. We are not taking any of the outputs of your retreat conversations and trying to do county priorities this year. I know we did a ranking kind of conversation in that. We're not going to input that into this CIP necessarily. And then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, we're going to do a separate section of the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, we're going to do a separate section of the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, Subtracting the CIP from the CIP, and then, mostly inflationary factor increases to cost estimates or changes to very minute pieces of the language. The volunteer system did come together and put all their projects out into the CIP in an updated format this year, and we did our best to incorporate that, but I would note their projects are not a calculus in the development impact model and cannot be. So they are more there for record-keeping sake and for the volunteer system to work collectively with the career fire and rescue system to try to figure out how to best meet the combined system's needs. CPPC did endorse this earlier this week and determined the CIP is in conformance with the comp plan. Forward the CIP to you all. I'm seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission on this draft CIP to bring forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have on this topic. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Any questions on the left? Mr. Thomas. Yes, sir. Are we bound by, I guess, what restrictions are we bound by in the CIP as far as, I think we ought to, I would like to see us break it into a brick-and-mortar CIP, Part 1 CIP, and an equipment Part 2 CIP. I think that would help some of the departments get funding for critical pieces of equipment that sometimes fall below the line, and some item. Or some equipment items that maybe would be considered as annual replacement items, but because of the cost, they need to have more of an injection of funding to be able to afford it. So could we break the CIP or have two parts to the CIP? And I think that would give more visibility to the county and to the county residents on where the CIP is going. So if we had a brick-and-mortar part, and an equipment part, I mean, the easy ones that come to mind for the equipment part are mostly police, cars, fire, and fire, fire and rescue, pumpers, ladder trucks. I mean, those are very expensive items, and cars individually might not be, but if you're replacing 10 a year, it ends up being a fairly expensive item that is a burden on a budget, for an operating budget, but could fall into the capital improvements plan. So I'm not sure what restrictions we're bound on. I mean, I think we're still in the air as far as breaking it into two parts, or not breaking, yeah, having it as two parts or two lists. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think there's any specific restrictions to that effect. It's something we're happy to explore. I do believe that replacement vehicles that are not an expansion of the capacity of that given department are not a calculus and development impact model. After our retreat conversation, I looked in the sheriff's vehicles, because they are replacement vehicles and not an expansion. Yeah. So the course size does not factor into the development impact model. So the county administrator's recommendation is actually to remove those from the CIP. That does not follow the same logic for fire and rescue apparatus of substantial cost. And so there may still be some merit to your suggestion. My request would be allow us to evaluate it as we go into next year's CIP, because we really are supposed to have this done before the budget process hits full kickoff with the Board of Supervisors. My comments weren't meant to be a future. Thank you, sir. Not a today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I was curious on, there's a Jordan Springs Elementary School classroom addition under schools, and there's a Jordan Springs gym addition under parks and rec. Yeah. Is the parks and rec, or does the park and rec control the gyms and the schools control the classrooms? Extremely fortunate that we have a parks and rec member here to address that. I can speak to the schools item is a separate thing where the schools need it from a capacity perspective, but it stays. So I'm going to go ahead and see if you'd like to add anything for the gym addition. Sure. The gym addition, we have some co-located facilities now that's worked really well for us. The school has used the gym throughout the day and then after hours . When Jordan Springs was built, that model was not brought to the table at that time. So if there's an opportunity, we'd love to have it be at the table and hopefully we can use it for community recreation. . Is that similar to Orchard View? Orchard View is a building for . I have a couple other general comments, but okay. I'm concerned over the costs of our capital improvements plan. It seems that our school costs have escalated significantly. We have a fourth high school that's $137 million. We have a . . . . . . . . . . . high school renovation and expansion that's $125 million. So you're telling me we're going to build a new high school for $137 million, but renovate and expand the current one for $125 million. That seems unusual to me from a construction standpoint. But I think the schools . . . I would like to see, and as a county resident, would like to see more input of what is the cost drivers on this I mean I can remember not so long ago us programming 45 or 50 million for a new high school and now it's 137 million that seems to be any a very large cost increase over a short period of time but that's more for the board to worry about I guess than us but from a taxpayer standpoint we're gonna worry about it because our taxes are gonna go up I'll pass your comments and concerns along to the appropriate department representative as well the the other one that concerns me is Parks and Rec and I brought this up during our retreat with Parks and Rec if you look at the Parks and Rec list of facilities there is nothing on there for people of older ages 45 or 50 and older or for disabled kids adults that have limited little less activity or less limits more limits on their physical movement than others the only thing that was on there previously that would fill a year round activity for older people and also for people with less mobility was the indoor pool and that has essentially dropped out of the listing or drop to the bottom of the listing we have a very good listing for people up to 30 or 40 for high school kids to use at school and some second looking to smells some� ein-biernot an activity again zoals il hari re wishing council fosse indek poet es efficiently tro cai el momento r haven't commencé och das c'est for playing you know basketball baseball softball indoor ice rink I don't think that's going to hack it for older people or people with a physical disability so I would like to see and I made this comment at the retreat I'm curious why the Parks and Rec doesn't look at that segment of the population because fortunately or unfortunately Frederick County's demographics we're getting an older population than we had before so doesn't appear that there's anything in here for year-round activities for the two categories of people that I mentioned there could be others I mean I pick out the indoor aquatics facility because that was on the list before and one of the reasons it was on a list is it was touted for year-round activity for all age groups plus people with physical limitations and now that's dropped out and it's not a problem. And there's nothing that's replacing it up toward the top of the list. Sure and yes we talked about that at the retreat and we certainly want an aquatic center and feel there is a need for one it mainly dropped a little bit down on the list because there is you know the group that's trying a private group so our commission felt like let's see what happens there take it down a little lower on the list and prioritize some things especially the old Charlestown Road Park that meets a very high demand need that we're looking for. We do have we're not dismissing the aquatic center by any means and I do understand your concern with older folks and activities needed for them we try to address some of that with our programming needs but definitely I hear you I do so we're not dismissing any population you know in special needs or anything like that either so. I know it's an expensive item but you know. Yes sir. I was just looking to fill a need for a group of the population. Absolutely. And my concern is once we drop it down the list it's hard. Well that that list is pretty fluid for us though it'll go up and down as things are attained and then we reevaluate that with our budget process every year so you know I'll make sure our commission is aware of your concerns so that and you know next year when we do rank those items again they'll definitely hear you. And there might be some other type of activities for the categories of people I'm talking about. Sure and we can explore those. You're welcome. Thanks Dave. You're welcome. Anybody else on my left? Anybody on my right? Okay we're good with letting the CIP go forward then you know. All right. All right Mr. Pearson I want to thank you for the work session we had with with the Board of Supervisors and with all the directors I think it was extremely helpful I think it was great to be able to sit down with all the directors and talk about some of the things that we've been discussing and I think it was really helpful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right and so I want this session and the current one and the discussions between the directors and talk about the their needs and what they're trying to do while they're trying to do it and just put everything in context. So thank you for putting that together and I hope we continue to do that so. Anybody has any ideas for next year please pass them along. All right. Moving on Mr. Pearson other. While you're here don't go far. There is nothing. Okay. Hello. So, I'm Tom Disperps and this is the senior Cal CARS review and grace universal service manager and formal creow. Particularly substantial to note on the current planning application side of things, Redbud Run Solar has been approved for their site plan, so that includes Redbud Run and Bartonsville both have approvals. Hollow Road and Foxglove are still working through the approval process. Beyond that, I don't really have anything to note for the Planning Commission, but I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have about the department. I think everybody's ready to adjourn. Do I hear a motion to adjourn? So moved. All right, we're adjourned. Thank you.
