Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-03-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=180
========================================================================

Thank you. Good evening, sir. Maybe. There's some for. The first one, right? Yeah. No. No for the first citizen. Only for after. The second. Okay. Thank you. Ready? Call the meeting to order if we could, please. Vice Chairman. Mr. Chairman, the board will. No. I'm sorry. Let me come back to that. Bob, would you lead us in the invocation, please? Let us pray, please. Father, we pray for peace, for compassion, for understanding, and we pray for your guidance and direction as we go about our personal and business lives and the business of Frederick County. We pray for all of those who are suffering with illness and personal sadness, and we pray for our servicemen and women, our first responders, and our caretakers. Hold them in the palms of your hands and keep them out of harm's way. Most of all, Lord, we ask for your forgiveness and your love. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Pledge, Vice Chairman. I rise to pledge allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. That'll bring us to adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to... Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as presented. Citizen comments or agenda items not subject to public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. If I may. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So there's been some concern that I have voiced at various board meetings here over the last several meetings that this board makes decisions and staff may or may not be following through with some of the direction that this board has been given. There was also some comments made at the last Board of Supervisors meeting by some residents that was directed towards Supervisor Ludwig and myself that we needed to include the voices of the Gainesboro Dome. And I think that's something that we need to be doing in the district as that seat is open. I'd like to share with everyone who is listening this evening and anyone who would be willing to listen that there was consensus and there was buy-in and there was input by the Gainesboro representative being Vice Chairman McCarthy while he was still on the board. I would like to play an eight minute clip of our first, very first work session of this year in January the 11th where we were trying to come to a consensus on what the tax rate should be advertised as throughout the county. If you look at the data, we have a lot of data. If you listen to this consensus that is attempting to be drawn near the very end, you will hear Supervisor, Vice Chairman McCarthy state, we have four on this side of the table. You will also hear the chairman speak, we have a consensus. Why the board did not, or why staff did not go forth in advertising what the consensus was is beyond me. I believe that that is something that can be addressed when evaluations are done this May or June. There also have been some complaints to me about some things that have been happening within our registrar's office and I know that there are some here to speak on that this evening. I want everyone to know who has called me regarding the inconsistencies that they have noted that is against the law. I am in possession of some of the information in which you have spoken of and I have asked the county attorney to look into some of the indiscretion that has been mentioned and once a determination has been made on whether the facts that have been put out, whether the facts that have been put out, whether the facts that have been put out, presented to me are accurate, I will publicly present them. If what has been displayed or what has been given to me is accurate, it is a shame what our registrar's office has done if the facts that have been presented are true and I do not know if they are true or not. I have asked our county attorney to look into them. The facts that I have seen have verified the information that has been shared verbally and through an email. On that note, I would ask our representative here from IT to play the eight, a little over eight minute clip of the, The first one. of the consensus trying to be reached for a 51 or 61 cent tax rate. Thank you. really come from the commissioner and that final component comes from finance and it's just based, well, from Cheryl. She's upset about that. She's, I know she's got more information on that, but so we need you, I believe, maybe I'm speaking for you, Cheryl, but ideally we'd like you to approve that, go to the newspaper so that, and that's the first step. It prepares, we have to have that in like 30 days before a hearing on the reassessment and then later comes a hearing on the budget itself. So this is just. And they can't be done at the same time. And they can't be done at the same time, but it's designed to inform the taxpayers that, hey, if nothing else changes, your effective tax rate is going to go up a lot, 21%. Does this require an actual vote of the board to approve or is it a consensus of the board? How does that process work? So as far as the ad, in the ad, previously we just, as long as we have a consensus that, you know, this, we're going to have a public hearing on this, you're not going to necessarily vote on it. You vote on the tax rate during the, during the budget resolution, but it allows everyone to know. So I guess my thought is I, if I was going to be here, I would have no intention of voting for something like this. So you, I didn't hear you. I said if I was going to be here, I would have no intention of voting for, to keep it level. So my question is, can we advertise a more neutral rate? I know you can't go above that rate once you pass your budget and all that for, vote for your tax rate, but we don't have to necessarily advertise 61 cents. We can advertise . Are you talking about when we do the budget ad? No, the assessment ad. I think, I think this, if I could try to answer this, I think for this purpose, you have to, you sort of have to about advertise and that's why that 61 cents is in there. It's not even good for the taxpayer. I don't know if this is the current rate. All things being equal, if this rate were to go into effect or when the budget's approved, that you will, that you will be, that is just to inform them that. Then what you're talking about comes later. No, no, no, it's not. What I'm saying is this is a notice of a tax increase and the potential for a tax increase. If I was going to be here, and I'm, this is me urging those of you who are here, that I think it's insane for us to keep it at 61 cents considering the amount that the taxes have gone up. I think that's what we've been talking about for the past two to three years. That it makes sense that we should say, you know, if you're going to have a tax increase, it should be something significantly less than 61 cents and or keep it neutral at 51 cents and advertise that to our constituents. Because why would we telegraph something to our constituents that isn't in line with the tax intent? So what I'm thinking is how do we go about advertising a tax, either no tax increase or a smaller tax increase versus tax increase? If I may. If we advertise this, this is going to cause a public outcry. And there are two ways about it, at least in my district as well. I will not support anything greater than 51 cents, which is rather neutral. I'd like to see 50 cents because I believe that we can get there. So I will not approve or come into consensus with anything greater than 51 cents tonight to get advertised. I'd get the same way. So what do you have to do? And the only thing I'm saying, not to be argumentative, but I'm saying that we can get there. And I fully understand what your point is. But this is something that has to be done by code in order to this piece of it. And it has to be more than 30 days prior to a reassessing hearing. Then later there's a budget hearing that you will still have the point of the process where you kind of lower that. I don't think that's accurate. I think we can set, we can propose whatever tax increase we want to. Do I want it? But this is about 11. We can get that to . This is not about a budget. This is about reassessment. In the past, what the statute says is that without running that ad, the board can't generate more than 101% of the previous year's amount. But the board's not obligated to run that ad. It's not obligated to run the ad showing the current tax rate. It can pick a lower number. And if we pick a lower number, are we bound by that number? You would have to run the ad again if you wanted to increase it. OK. And then again, I'm in favor of 50 cents per hundred. I'd be in favor of 50 cents per hundred to go a little bit below that revenue neutral rate there and advertise it as such. But if we do that, a lot of this could get cut out, could it not? Right? It doesn't even, if you want, if you don't, you wouldn't even have to run an ad for 50 at this stage of the process. If you don't run an ad, you have the latitude to go up to 101%. So there's no need to run an ad if you wanted to do 50. So 101% is 61 times 101? 101% of revenue neutral. Is the 51 cent rate. Right. Yeah. OK. That's what it's saying. And that's what it's saying. And the taxpayers are saying 51 cents is the, would be revenue neutral. And that's, you know, that would alert them to, hey, let me know my supervisor. Let me know my election that I do want it at that revenue neutral rate. But. Sure. Go ahead. Go ahead. OK. So the question is, in order for you to run an ad, you need some consensus from the board in order to run the ad. So if the majority of the board wishes to run an ad, then you need to know what that number looks like. Correct? Correct. So I guess the question is, what is the consent? What's the majority for? Do you run an ad or not run an ad, or run an ad at 61, or run an ad at 51, or some other? I don't know what the legal aspects are, but I'm revenue neutral at this point. So you would run an ad at 51? If we run an ad. You don't have to run an ad if you're going to. You don't have to. But I think there's some of us that would like to. So you should. I mean, I would let people know what you're doing. I'm already getting calls from constituents asking about where, what's the rate, because they're concerned about the large increase. I've been asking ever since last year. I think we owe it to our constituents to run an ad to show them where we are as a board. And I think 51 cents is a great start. The statutory language for the ad captions the ad as notice of real property tax increase. So that wouldn't be an ink. The title would be wrong. But could you, do we have latitude in the language where we can say? I guess you could change it however you wanted it, as long as you're not going to go above it. That's what I would prefer. I agree. Because there's three of us on the sound. OK. I'd like to recess. And we'll take a five minute recess. We're not done yet. So we run an ad. What are we going to do? We're not done yet. Or no ad, I think. And at our time, we are going to do the reassessment to get a revenue mutual. That's not our time. 514. 514. We're going to say the same thing. OK. Thank you. So there was a consensus of four board members that an ad be run at 51 cents. Why staff did not do that, I have not yet gotten an answer. I have an answer from Salmon and County Administration that says they were unclear on what they were supposed to do. But as I listened to the amplified recordings time and time and time again, it was very clear that there was a consensus to run an ad for 51 cents. I'm not quite sure why we're here this evening with a budget that is on the agenda here to be discussed. It's 61 cents per hundred. Certainly, we are deserving of an answer for this. Just so everyone is fully aware and fully clear, there's over $30 million in the county's funds that are undesignated. We can fully fund this year's budget with all of the wants, all of the needs, and not just with capital. How about success? Pi piЕ PIe Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Four comments. Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Ludwig. Thank you, Supervisor Graber, for your comments. I was also on that side of the room, and when the consensus was taken in the form of a vote, going down the line, it was unanimous. It was four to zero, and since there was only seven members of the board, that determined the consensus and the voting stopped. I left the meeting certain that an instruction and consensus to advertise the 51 cent per $100 assessed value tax rate was complete. It was recognized by the chairman. There were no objections or questions raised by supervisors or staff. Since that time, the board decided to change what it was going to advertise. I don't understand that process or how that could happen. I've also spoken to Supervisor McCarthy. He was very upset. He didn't understand either how we could reverse course on a finished consensus that was completed with, again, with no objections raised. With regard to the need to raise taxes, it is true what Supervisor Graber says. We keep certain funds in reserve. As a standard, we keep two months of operating fund in reserve, and we have that. But in addition to that, we have another... $31.3 million, I believe, is the figure in prior collected taxes sitting in a capital fund that are not earmarked for any project. In addition to that, there are other funds that are earmarked for projects. For example, we put aside monies last year against proposed activities such as smart scale road development with VDOT. Some of those funds might also come back to us and not be used. The amount in the capital fund is more than double the difference. We have a lot of money in the capital fund that we can use to fund our projects. We have a lot of money in the capital fund that we can use to fund our projects. So, as Supervisor Graber said, we could fund everything if we deemed it necessary in all the proposed budgets and not even use up half of the capital fund we have already collected in taxpayer dollars. So, I concur with Supervisor Graber, and I hope that we do not raise taxes in a situation of high inflation and economic uncertainty. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Hearing none. Yes. Supervisor Schlatter. Mr. Chairman, this relates to the opioid settlement funds that Frederick County recently received, and I would like for us as a board to consider uses of those funds for preventive education programs, perhaps in our own schools, and also some rehabilitative efforts. I would like to ask the board to consider the use of those funds for those folks who perhaps would need those in relation to the opioid crisis. So I would ask the board to perhaps consider that the use of those funds be designated for those specific purposes. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, thank you. If I may, Ms. Schlatter. Yes, sir. Would you be so kind as to forward any information you might have pertaining to that? That is a very large and growing problem in our community, and I would like to see as much information as we could make a good informed decision. But I think it is a good decision. Thank you. And I think it is a wonderful thought process on where to channel those funds. Thank you. I know that we all recently received the NACO publication, and the national efforts have been going in that direction. And I do think it would be beneficial to our own community to utilize those funds in that productive way. I was hoping maybe we could ask administration maybe to help us sort out how we could allocate and maybe direct those funds with some collaboration. I do not know whether. But I would not be held accountable, even without mentioning I would think they superfluous, if any, space for additional current oversight would be the stability of theThank you. By reducing imposters and materials from too much of a burden to provide, I would argue they could be mailed more reduzible within the course of this as principals speak, and that has been used in-house. So I think it would be useful I repeat, again. przyp. to fill the vacant two-year term on the Shawnee Land Sanitary Advisory Committee. Make that as a motion. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir. I don't know Mr. Galloway. I don't know him personally or for any other reason. However, I am aware that Mr. Galloway is in litigation with Frederick County, and I just find it awfully hard for me to vote for someone to be on a committee in Frederick County who is currently having legal negotiations and discussions with Frederick County. I prefer that he would wait to do that, but I won't be able to vote for him because of that. Mr. Chairman, this discussion, is it not? It is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'd like to put a little background here. As I spoke previously, I'm very concerned about some of the actions of some of our employees, and I'm very concerned about some of our employees. This one is no exception. Mr. Galloway applied for an application a good while back. His application was conveniently lost. Mr. Galloway reapplied a second time, and there were some comments made about Mr. Galloway by some of our staff, and his application was also subsequently lost. We could have had a vote on this application while he was not in legal action against the county. I believe that it is only fair to consider a man on his merits. If you look at what the man brings to the table, his action with folks, up within the community, if you look at his application, some of the very folks who have served recently on that committee are recommending him. I think he is a strong candidate. I think he is a very valid candidate. I would love to see him have an opportunity, and maybe, just maybe, we can keep some of the lawsuits at a minimum from doing things the right way. Thank you. Other comments? Anyone? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes no. We need a majority, so we'll have to move on. Information items. Vacancies on the following boards. Redbud Planning. You're aware. Supervisor Dunn. Board of Billing Code Appeals. There's an unexpired five-year term ending in 7-27. Board of Zoning Appeals. Shawnee. You're aware. Supervisor Ludwig. Conservation Easement Authority. There's a vacant three-year term. Shenandoah Area Agency on Aging. Seniors first. There's an at-large seat that's vacant four-year term. This is informational. Anyone that's interested, welcome to apply. The applications may be submitted online at committeelistingsanddescriptions. Frederick County, fcva.us. And staff is available to help if you need help. May I just make one comment? My existing Mr. R.K. Shirley was my representative in Opec. Okay. He got switched over when we did the redistricting. And I don't know whether he's reached out to you or not, but he did an excellent job for me. And I just throw his name out in case you're looking for someone you might want if you don't have someone. He's a great guy. He did a great job. He's got all the experience and everything. He just ended up being in your district. So just a suggestion. That's all. Just a point of information. Sure. Thank you. Any other comments? Okay. Okay. So public hearing. Um... For physical year budget. I'm assuming we have some folks who filled... Go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. Cheryl and I drew straws. I lost, so I'm up here. Cheryl and I drew straws. I lost. I'm up here. And I know, don't touch the microphone. This is just a brief overview of the budget process. First, all the tax rates remain the same. But as you know, if the tax stays at 61 cents for the real property tax, that will cause a 20% increase in revenues generated by the property tax. Some of the items in the budget that are key. We have three items. We're new positions for sheriff, fire and rescue, public safety center, which would be the two dispatchers, commonwealth attorney, social services, and for building maintenance. Also in there, $6 million for funding for transportation. As you know, we put in over $7 million last year. That's to continue on with our attempts to use in smart scale to leverage our funds to build more roads. There's a cost of living adjustment for employees. We also have some money in there from computer technology. Two items. One, I think we pulled subsequent to this. These were laptops for the sheriff's department. They were doing our refresh, replace all their laptops, and get them new laptops. And the other was for the fire department. But I believe we've pulled those out in subsequent meetings. And we also have money in there for training for our employees. One of our goals moving forward is to do a much better job of training our employees with the thoughts of long term. The best way to be successful is for us to have better skill, better trained employees working with better systems and better processes. And that is one of our long term strategies. And that is one of our long term strategies for controlling costs. These are the school funding requests. Instructional initiatives, professional learning and necessary support. Compensation package that will enable recruitment and retention of high quality staff. Operational funding to address the preservation of assets. And instructional initiative that includes English language teachers, behavioral specialists, behavioral technicians, school counselors, mid-school athletic trainers, special services, eligibility specialists, and other staff. Thank you. On the other hand, capital funding. This is capital funding that we will be working on as we go through this process. Which leads me to the next spreadsheet, which I'm going to delay the discussion on this. This spreadsheet and several discussions. The discussion about how the capital project fund we have. How much is available and how it is to be used. As you know, approximately I think from the last year's audit book there were $73 million in what they call unassigned fund balance. And that is the amount that we're going to be using for the project. And that is the money that we're going to be using. 36.1 approximately is in the capital fund balance, which is generally determined to be used for capital. I think this is much more appropriate to be brought up in a work session, which we have two possible work sessions coming up. And I'd also like to address that that is to provide financial information and forecasting for the board on debt needs as you look at all your different capital projects. The two ways generally the county funds capital is through this capital project funds and generally through borrowing and sometimes through operational funds. So the budget resolution will need to be drafted by staff. The resolution will include tax rates and funding levels. The board has two tentative dates remaining, March 29th, I believe, and April 5th for workshops. I think one we're definitely going to need because we have one presentation, and it's a possibility we'll need both work sessions. And I believe that's the end of the presentation. Any quick questions or comments? Questions of Mr. Boloff? Anyone? Hearing none. Well done. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Ms. Phillips. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. We received no comments via the website on the budget as advertised. We received one email, which was forwarded to the board, and I left a copy at your seats this evening. We have about 24 folks signed up. I will start by calling off Allison Pond to be followed by Faith Power. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Welcome. As you come forward, if you would share your name and magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Absolutely. My name is Allison Pond, and I work with the Lord Fairfax-Sillon Water Conservation District. I know I was just here a couple months ago, but I wanted to come back tonight as part of the budget hearing just to update you all on a few things that are coming up, specifically here in Frederick County, to keep you guys in the loop. Um, so we've been very busy. As you all know, we've got $8.36 million this year. Um, all of that exclusively going to agriculture producers in our jurisdiction, which is our four county area. Um, those projects include over 54,000 linear feet of stream exclusion fencing. Um, we improved grazing management on over 480 acres of pasture, over 4,000 acres of cover crops were planted this year, as well as 95 acres of riparian buffer and 31 acres of that was planted in trees. So we've been doing a lot of stuff this year and we're still only about 40% of a way through our funding. Um, but our year doesn't end until June 30th. And so we're anticipating a lot more, um, approvals, a lot more projects still in the pipeline. So hopefully a lot of that impact will be seen here in Frederick County for your agriculture producers. Uh, since 2015, when the stream exclusion fencing was first introduced, we've been doing a lot of work on the pipeline. Um, and we've been doing a lot of work on the pipeline. So we've been doing a lot of work on the stream exclusion fencing. Um, and we've been doing a lot of work on the pipeline. So we've been doing a lot of work on the pipeline. So we've been doing a lot of work on the pipeline. became 100% cost share eligible. We have invested $2.25 million specifically in Frederick County. And that's just for practices, a handful of practices in that cost share program. Um, there's 70 others that are could be included in that number, but we really wanted to highlight, um, that stream exclusion and those buffers to protect those waterways as the soil water conservation district. Um, so again, that $8.36 million, we're chipping away at it. Um, and we are anticipating spending a majority of it for this year before we get a new pot of money in July. Um, wanted to highlight the Virginia conservation assistance program. So it's our urban cost share program, um, for stormwater management. We are currently coming up with a marketing plan to better, um, market that program and do more outreach that we can get more homeowners sign up for that. I wanted to highlight education. Um, our annual envirothon competition is actually next week. Um, at the Northern Virginia for each center right now, I think James would and Millbrook are participating and I haven't heard back from Sharando yet, but, um, I'm really excited. This is actually the first year I've had James would be there. Um, so they're bringing a full team and I'm excited to see what they do. The Frederick County for each conservation awareness program returns this year. So we'll be presenting at that at Frederick County and R. E. Aylor middle schools. Um, and then we have another education outreach program coming up. What we're calling, all ag where we're inviting all of the agricultural producers that might think they could be eligible for different programming to come to one place and all the different conservation natural resources. All those agencies are gonna be there to present and talk with any landowners in case there are projects that they may want to complete. Yes, which luckily that's the last thing that I was gonna say. So I just wanted to again, um, say that we appreciate you and we thank you for your support. Um, and hopefully I'll be back. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So I'd like you to say a few words to the community that you feel the 1080 percent have of support you're responsible for the development of the project. им Im here today. Im here today to talk to you about the act that Greg Arian gave up inviting cites are really challenging lessons. Think about the shutdown of the community dams. Think about that. And that a lot of them are coming back, get up and say no. And ofc if there's not staff, there's gonna be problem for us to stay out and we fmir by the wait this afternoon. We hve to find out how hard that is. to ask for more support than the $6,000 that we've been receiving from Frederick County. You may recall in 2021, we took a 60% grant cut from the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice. Some of that money was restored in 2022, not all of it. We have once again been notified by the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice to expect a 10% funding cut in FY24. If, in fact, we receive a 10% cut in funding, that would result in a reduction of $112,400 to the Laurel Center. We're struggling to continue to provide services. The demand for services, particularly since COVID, has increased exponentially. In FY22, we took a total of 1,196 calls for services. Of those calls, 456. Of those calls, 456 were from Frederick County residents. Those services encompassed emergency shelter, counseling, licensed therapy services, court advocacy, and safety planning. We did our factor analysis for the services we provided in FY22 to Frederick County. We provided over $200,000 in unfunded services to Frederick County residents. I'm not here this evening to ask for, over $200,000, but I am here to request that you help us mitigate the funding cut that has been reported to us by the Department of Criminal Justice. The amount we are requesting from Frederick County is $28,100. This isn't about adding staff. It's about trying to maintain our current service levels. We have over 40 children on award. We have over 40 children on the waiting list for therapy services. Some of those children have been on that waiting list for two years. So my request tonight is, as you wrestle with your budget, I know that you do have a lot of requests, and here we are standing in line with everybody else, that you consider the services that we do provide to Frederick County. So thank you so much this evening for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Jennifer Locke, followed by Leanne Sweeney. Welcome. Good evening. Hi, my name is Jennifer Locke, and I'm the managing attorney of the Winchester Office of Blue Ridge Legal Services. I know most of you may be familiar with what we do, but for those of you who may not, Blue Ridge Legal Services is a nonprofit that provides free legal assistance in certain civil matters of critical importance. We are a nonprofit that provides free legal assistance to the low-income residents of the northern Shenandoah Valley area. We operate four full-time offices. Our main office is in Harrisonburg, and we also have offices in Lexington, Roanoke, and one right here in Winchester. Our Winchester office serves Frederick County, as well as the city of Winchester, Warren County, Shenandoah County, and Clark County. Many people are not aware that the constitutional right to legal representation, if you're poor, does not extend to civil cases. It only extends to criminal cases where there's a threat of imprisonment. So legal aid is there to fill that gap and provide representation for those who may otherwise go without. It's about giving these individuals access to the civil justice system in order to level the playing field. Between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022, our four offices closed a total of 2,653 offices, 93 of which were from Frederick County. For the Frederick County residents we assisted, we recovered over $13,300 in lump-sum recoveries and over $3,300 in monthly recoveries, and while successfully defending or discharging $353,480 in liabilities for them. In the cases where we provided ongoing representation, we recovered over $3,300 in lump-sum recoveries, and we achieved our client's goals in 93% of those cases. Blue Ridge pursues a long-term funding strategy that's broad-based and balanced. We firmly believe that our mission should be supported by public as well as private funding, government funding on the local, state, and national level, United Way and other individual donations. Blue Ridge generally limits our services to those houses, and we are committed to providing that support to those houses, and we are committed to providing that support to those houses, and we are committed to providing that support to those houses, who income falls below 200% of the current federal poverty guidelines. And according to 2017 census data, there are approximately 4,591 residents of Frederick County who fall below the 200% federal poverty guideline level. And it's our belief that if every locality in our service area would contribute just $1 for every low-income person living in it, working would stop the level of poverty in higher achievement shorter term and even benefits a select group of people living in our economy. So we hope to see those items gradually increase, and that will start over into 2018 when we are actually seeing change this year. We're also hoping that we will seeGirls for development as other Wealth management giddy up as well as local the business manager for the Lord Fairfax Health District, which includes the Winchester Frederick Health Department here on Baker Street. Right now, we have an acting, our third, fourth acting health director, Dr. David Goodfriend. He's actually the health director for Loudoun County. He has stepped in to help cover while we still recruit for our health director. He will be with us at least till the end of June, and then hopefully we'll have a new director by then. Over the last three physical years, local health departments have been providing federal money to provide COVID services, so these funds have been used for supplies and staffing, which are no longer available. As we transition back to day-to-day activities and finances, we have an increase in funding needs. After submitting our FY23 funding request to you, the General Assembly voted on a 5% increase for salaries that was not in the FY23 request. In the current General Assembly, there is a request for 5% to 7% increase in salaries, of which only 5% is budgeted for the FY24 budget. Over the last three years, the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee, as you may know them as JLARC, have adjusted locality percentages across the state. Frederick County was at 44.256% in FY21 and will be at 45% in FY24. We don't expect any further changes in this match rate for many years. Because of the importance of the HP Hood plant, we will have two full-time milk specialists. It is of vital importance to the plant that we are always able to have a milk specialist respond when needed by Hood to avoid any plant shutdown. We also have two vacancies in our environmental health, and of course the Health Director. We have asked for an increase of approximately 164,000 more than FY23. Due to the Health Director vacancy, I do expect we will have some FY23 funding available that can be used to carry forward and use towards the FY24 request. We appreciate the support provided by Frederick County as we continue to provide many services to your clients. Thank you. Thank you. Jimmy Roberts, followed by Kitty Hockman-Nicholas. Welcome, sir. Well, thank you. Good evening, everyone. I'm Jimmy Roberts, Executive Director of Seniors First, the Shenandoah Area Agency on Aging. Thank you for affording me the opportunity to speak briefly on behalf of your seniors here in Frederick County. This year, we are asking for $69,300, which is only a 10% increase, or $6,300 from the previous fiscal year. We have seen level funding of $63,000 for approximately the last seven years, but an increase in number of seniors served, at 28.7%, and an increase in overall services of 38.9%. Our mission is to foster the dignity, independence, and security of older adults, persons with disabilities, and their caregivers by providing a variety of high-quality services and opportunities, promoting their continued contributions to the community while continuing to live at home for as long as safely possible. So where do you turn when you face the many challenges that come with age, whether you're a son or daughter looking for resources for an aging parent, a friend concerned about the older neighbor living alone, or an older adult who wants to age at home? Seniors First is celebrating its 48th year, and we will be here for the seniors of Frederick County. So where do you turn when you realize that being a senior is a great opportunity for you to be able to do more? Well, I'm going to start with the first question. I'm going to ask you a question. The first question is, where do you turn when you realize that being alone isn't healthy, and you need more socialization and recreation? Our senior center in Stevens City reopened in March of 22, enrolled 67 seniors, served 463 meals, and gave 801 rides, all free of charge. Where do you turn when you no longer feel safe driving to your medical appointments? One hundred and sixty-one Frederick County seniors turned to senior service every day for a year and a half. But somebody has to respond to that question and answer the question. Where do you turn when you no longer feel safe driving to your medical appointments? One hundred and sixty-one Frederick County seniors turned to senior service every day for a year and a half. But somebody has to respond to that seniors first, and we provided 1,597 rides. And where do you turn when you realize Medicare has become complicated and confusing, and you're not even sure if you're on the right policy? 143 Frederick County seniors turned to seniors first for help through our Virginia Insurance Counseling Program, free of charge. Where do you turn when you realize you can no longer keep up with the general cleanliness of your home, or you no longer feel safe by yourself while you're in the shower or bathtub? 47 Frederick County seniors turned to seniors first and received 1,539 hours of care. Where do you turn when you realize you are no longer able to provide yourself with adequate nutrition? 132 Frederick County seniors turned to seniors first and received 14,430 home-delivered meals. Where do you turn when you have general questions and you need referrals or services? 339 Frederick County seniors called seniors first and received 3,286 answers or referrals. Other seniors first programs include respite care, both in-home and community, ombudsman care, care management, wellness programs and activities such as matter of balance, bingo, exercise, tai chi, educational, recreational, and social events, nutrition counseling, nutrition education, senior cool care program, a brand new farm fresh market that will be coming soon, and we also now have a therapy dog, and his name is Max. Thank you very much. Kitty Hockman-Nicholas, followed by Marvin Davis. Welcome. I'm Kitty Hockman-Nicholas, Hedgebrook Farm, the Herd's Inn, and elected official, to the Lord Fairfax soil and water conservation. We have over 600 farms in our beloved Frederick County, over 100,000 acres we need to take care of, and we are doing that through the conservation board. Fencing out streams, rotational grazing, water fountains, planting wildflowers, planting trees, riparian buffers, all of these things, Judy, help the environment, as you know, as a farmer. It's a good thing. We do so many wonderful, wonderful things, and I feel privileged to have been on this board, serving our Frederick County. We appreciate you saying yes to our budget request, that we have, listed in the budget, and we look forward to continuing a wonderful, wonderful relationship as Frederick County continues to grow and flourish, and be a wonderful county that protects our environment and our conservation. Because guess what? You breathe air, you drink water, and you walk on land. Right, Mr. Ludwig? So all those things are so important. And thank you all for doing everything that you do, and I know it is not easy. Thank you. Thank you. Marvin Davis, followed by Tim Kistler. Welcome, sir. Good evening. I'm Marvin Davis. I live in the Opecan District, and specifically Lake Frederick. I've been a community leader for over a decade, and I'm a community leader who has worked several of our emergency planning issues with our supervisor, Bob Wells, and the county staff for well over a year now. First, I'd like to thank the board for your ongoing, very detailed assessment of a new capital improvement project for a new fire station in the southeastern quadrant. But secondly, I'm here tonight to advocate for that capital improvement project. I've looked at the data, as you have. I think it's very, very compelling for a new station. Specifically, your own county plan identifies a new station in the growing southeastern quadrant. Our first new station of Stephen City is a great station, but it carries an extremely heavy workload. It's responsible for the second largest geographical area in the county, and it has the largest number of road miles to cover in the county. It also serves the largest population in the county, and its call volume continues to be either number one or number two in the county. The bottom line, as it impacts us residents in Lake Frederick, is the current response times to Lake Frederick do not meet the county's expectations. We have to meet the county's standards. This is occurring while our 911 calls in my community have doubled in just the last two years, and we're only at 60% of our build-out. But I'm encouraged by the planning factors that project this new fire station would reduce our response times by 50%. Plus it would also support the adjoining fire districts, which are currently plagued with equipment depletion challenges. But finally, I think my biggest concern is the feelings of many of my fellow homeowners, particularly those of us who are in the age-restricted portion of our community, because they're frequently wondering, will the ambulance arrive in time if I have a serious emergency? And regrettably, many of them who fear that it won't have reacted in a very, very unsafe way. I know many of specific examples where individuals who are experiencing a heart attack are having their spouses drive them to the ER because they're fearful the ambulance won't get there in time. So I think we really need a new station in our facility, and I encourage the Board to include the station in the capital improvement project in the budget. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tim Kistler, followed by Katie Heritage. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Tim Kistler, not a resident of the county. I am the president of the Lake Frederick HOA and the vice president of the Shenandoah HOA, which is the active adult community that MARV is part of. Here on behalf of both HOAs and obviously the state, I want to thank you for your support of the fire station in the Opecan District. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Katie Heritage, followed by John Wright. Welcome, sir. Good evening. I'm Greg Gutmeier. I'm the CFO at Northwestern Community Services Board. I'm also serving as the interim executive director. I've been with Northwestern for about a year. I'm here today to talk about the 2024 budget and also to give you a little bit of background on what we do at the Northwestern Community Services Board. We are one of 40 in the state of Virginia. We're a quasi-state agency. We were established in 1974, so we've been around for about 50 years. We serve as five counties and the city of Winchester. We serve approximately 7,300 clients per year. We are a mental health provider, so we service patients for mental health, substance use disorders, and intellectual and developmental disabilities. We provide 24-hour crisis services and hospital prescreening, same-day access in four of our clinics throughout the different communities and counties that we serve. We recently opened the Prosperity Clinic here in October of 22, a 10,000-square-foot facility. We have same-day access at our clinics. We rotate those throughout the year. Throughout the service area for here in Winchester and Frederick, the same-day access is on Mondays, I'm sorry, Tuesdays and Wednesdays for adults and Mondays for children. The ones on children's at Braddock, they're on Mondays and they're at Braddock. The primary service that we offer is case management services. We also offer housing support. We have about 100 clients that we support for housing where we get grants and we pay their mortgage or lease and their utilities and such. We do discharge planning assistance for those clients who are discharged from mental health hospitals where we help them find a place to live and also support them with their rent and utilities. CIT, crisis intervention training for law enforcement, and many prevention services. So we're about a $24 million budget. About 45% of that comes from state and federal grants. 42% of that comes from client billing, which is predominantly Medicaid, a little bit of self-pay. And then 7% of our funding comes from the localities. So that's about $150 or $1.5 million. And of that, Frederick County contributes $440,000 of that $1.5 million. And so we're asking for a 5% increase. So about $460,000, $459,000 for 2024. Obviously, inflation, recruiting and retention is the biggest drivers of the increase. We gave a 5% cost of living increase July or August of 2022. We're going to give another 2% in July of 2023. So just the ongoing costs of doing business, as you know, is increasing. But we really appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you, sir. John Wright, 420. Followed by Brandon Thomas. Welcome, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. John Wright, resident of the Redbud District. And proud to represent the men and women here this evening in yellow and also those serving around the county this evening in our fire and rescue stations as the president of the Frederick County Professional Firefighters. All around the country, including here in Frederick County, communities are playing a dangerous game with emergency services. There is difficulty recruiting and retaining a workforce, providing safe staffing levels, and ensuring response times are effective. These items are the most vital and oftentimes mean the difference between life or death. To address these public safety issues, the county administrator and many of you have prioritized a meaningful cost of living adjustment for employees, funding for additional firefighters, and funding to build and equip a new fire and rescue station in the southeastern Lake Frederick area of the county. And we hope all of you will support these priorities. The labor market remains tight with most organizations. Including Frederick County, struggling to recruit and retain talent. Neighboring fire departments are preying upon your firefighters as they open lateral transfers, processes with higher compensation packages. During budget work sessions, the question was asked, what does Frederick County need to do to keep the turnover rates down? And that can be answered partially by offering competitive compensation packages. Last year was once again a record-breaking year with your firefighters responding to nearly 14,000 firefighters. This increased demand for fire and rescue service continues to place strains on response times and service delivery. To address this issue, the board has funded additional firefighter positions in recent budgets and should continue to do so in FY24. In line with the fire and rescue service plan presented to this board last year, the budget requests funding to build and equip a new fire station. This project has been on the county capital improvement plan for nearly two decades, which will help provide a fairer and more efficient fire station for our residents. The fire station will be built to meet the current and future call volume. Additionally, it will provide needed relief to the Stephen City Fire Station, Millwood Station, as well as our mutual aid partners in surrounding localities. It is important to note that a new station has not been added to Frederick County since Millwood Station became a county company 25 years ago. Over that period of time, fire and rescue call volume has grown dramatically. The fire station, which does an outstanding job, currently serves the area where the new station would be located. It has consistently been the busiest station in Frederick County, with over 3,234 responses last year alone. In addition, there are approximately 10,000 more citizens residing in Stephen City's response area than our next largest response area. Response times from the Stephen City Station to the area of the county currently average 11 to 13 minutes, these times fail to meet standards within our own fire and rescue service plan, as well as those set by the NFPA. Based on current response times to this area, survivability for a patient in cardiac arrest is extremely low, as each minute that passes without CPR and defibrillation reduces their chance of survival by 10% each minute. Additionally, fires in modern homes burn faster due to lightweight fire. This leaves shorter escape times for occupants, less time before structural collapse, and an increased risk of fire spreading to neighboring houses. We understand that fire and rescue services will take commitment from all stakeholders, including the taxpayers, as well as you, the Board of Supervisors. We need this commitment to ensure that calls are being handled in a timely manner, and it is essential to protecting public safety. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Brandon Thomas, following up on the call, I would like to ask the board to consider the following. The first is to ensure that fire and rescue services are protected. Brandon Thomas, followed by Bradley Comstock. Welcome, sir. Thanks. I appreciate it. My name is Brandon, and I get the privilege of serving as the CEO, Executive Director of the Winchester Rescue Mission, and I live in the Back Creek District. I had a phone call with Mr. Graber a couple weeks ago, and the first words out of his mouth I'm not picking, just saying, was this is not a county issue, but I want to go into why it's a county issue, and why I addressed this in the Winchester Star just last week. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to address the closing of the camp that happened just a few days ago, or actually last week. I think we need to do something about that now, and then we need to have a conversation ongoing about what we're going to do to address the homeless crisis in our community. This is, in fact, a county issue. Let me give you some statistics. There are 8.8 million individuals in the United States living with severe mental illness. If we use a national statistic, that would be somewhere in the neighborhood of about 2,500. That's a lot. And we have 2,500 individuals in our community that are unmedicated. If we follow all the statistics, and I only have three minutes, so I can't get into all of that. However, I would tell you this. Because of the untreated mental illness, several of those individuals end up homeless. And in the very camp where 12 were run off just last week. I'm not picking on the individuals who ran them off. I'm just saying we had zero plan to address where they were going to go. Because of that, we don't know where they're at or what they're going to get into. I can tell you. A bunch of them came to the mission over the last few days seeking shelter, which we could not provide. Because at the end of this week, we will be the only shelter provider in our community. Period. And we only have 52 beds at this time. And that's turning closets into bed space. Police officers spend 25% of their time and 10% of their budget dealing with individuals with severe mental illness who are untreated. 97% of the psychiatric beds have been lost since 1955. 50% of those beds remaining are forensic beds. All that to say this. The majority of individuals that we see experiencing homelessness are mentally ill. Untreated and mentally ill. We can't just run them off from a location and say you're not welcome here anymore. I'm not saying that they should stay there. That's not their property. I understand that. But what I am saying is we cannot have zero plan and expect it to be okay. We have to do something to address it. I'm not asking money personally for the rescue mission. I should be asking money personally for the rescue mission. I should because that's my job. But give more funding to WOT so they can stay open and not shut down at the end of this week. Give more funding to Northwest Community Services who are completely underfunded to do the things that we're asking them to do. I would obviously as the CEO of the rescue mission say yes. We would be happy to receive money from Frederick County as 27% of our residents right now are Frederick County or came from Frederick County before coming to the rescue mission. We've got to do something. We have to do something to address this as our community continues to grow and the need continues to increase. Thanks for the time tonight. Thank you, sir. Bradley Comstock followed by Holly Sanders. Welcome, sir. Good evening. May I adjust this up or no? You don't need to. Nope, don't need to. Got it. Good evening. Modern technology. Thank you. Good evening, Chairman DeHaven and board members. My name is Bradley Comstock. I'm a resident of the Opecan District and I also serve as vice chair of the Frederick County School Board. I know you've already heard the school division's budget presentation. And that you're asking your questions. I hope that you continue to ask your questions and I also look forward to us being able to get together so that we can make sure there are no questions unanswered. And that you have all the information you're looking for so that you can make these responsible decisions for our county. This entire community trusts you to do exactly that. I do not envy you or the decisions that you're faced with. The ones I have to make are hard enough. But what I would ask is that as you are considering the different tax scenarios and a budget for the school division. And a budget for our entire county. That you would keep in mind a few things. This budget is one of the most important things you do. I know the needs are great. We've heard so many things this evening and they are all desperately needed. I understand at the same time being fiscally conservative and responsible. I understand that our county has people living on fixed incomes barely getting by. What I would ask is that you as a board try to consider and find ways to take care of all of our citizens. Keep in mind the people we employ. Approximately 2200 alone just by the school division. Keep in mind the children. 14,000 of them. As they are the future leaders of this community. Don't make decisions that are strictly for a sampling of our community. Or for one voice. But instead use your role to find ways to meet the needs of all of our citizens. Consider expanding the tax relief program rather than just setting the tax rate low. So low that it doesn't truly address the needs and the growth that is here and has been here for many years. This community is growing rapidly. And yet our services and our schools are growing. Our schools are playing catch up to that growth. The growth we are experiencing should be celebrated. This is a great place to live and work. People are recognizing that. But with that growth it's imperative that we make sure we are appropriately funding all of our public services. Especially the schools. I would ask that you support this budget. And a tax rate that allows us to fund all of the needs reflected within this budget. It was shared earlier this evening that even with a revenue neutral tax rate there are funds to meet this entire budget. All of the wants and all of the needs. I would encourage that each of you vote in that. Meet the wants and needs of this community. The school division and school board as I'm sure each and every department has done. Has spent the better part of the last year of truly evaluating their needs. And putting forth within this budget just the things that are needed. There's no fluff. There's no secret line items. What you have and what you're considering is a well thought out list of items that we truly need to serve this community the way that our residents deserve. The school division's budget is 80% personnel. Not funding our budget. There's no saying that there will be needed positions that we will not be able to fill. And there will be employees that we will not be able to appropriately compensate to attract and retain. And the ultimate result of that means that there will be students. There will be children who don't receive the education and services that they need and that they deserve. Please don't allow that to happen. Especially knowing that as we heard tonight we do have the resources to fund all of our wants and needs. Please vote in support of this budget. Thank you, sir. Holly Sanders followed by Ellen White. Welcome. Hello, thank you. Good evening. My name is Holly Sanders and I reside in the Back Creek District of Winchester. I appear this evening also in support of the Frederick County Public Schools budget as presented to you by our superintendent, Dr. George Hummer. I'm a Frederick County resident and taxpayer. I'm a parent of a student at an overcapacity Frederick County High School and I'm a proud Frederick County educator. To repurpose a current phrase, I would submit to you that teachers are the original cast of everything, everywhere, all at once. Over time, the demands on educational professionals have only increased, whether it be achieving advanced degrees, attending additional training, working extra within peer learning communities, implementing more student-centered projects, and providing more students with the skills and skills needed to achieve their goal, whether that's strategic-based learning or securing work-based opportunities for our learners. And I could go on, but I won't. Excellence in all of those endeavors is expected, as it should be. Dr. Hummer shared with you that Frederick County Public Schools ranks 56th of 132 of the best school districts overall in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Most of our closest neighbors did not even receive a ranking. But excellence is not by accident. It is by careful design. You, as a governing board, must commit to supporting and fully funding this pursuit of excellence. As you are no doubt well aware, this district is competing for an ever-shrinking number of educational professionals, both in retaining current staff and recruiting outstanding new educators. But you have the power to provide the necessary tools to aid in the retention and acquisition of those educators. This board has the opportunity to lead the way, but you cannot lead from the middle. You cannot provide below-average funding and expect outstanding effort and results in return. It just doesn't work that way. I ask that you fully fund the budget request of Frederick County Public Schools. And in keeping with my film references, if you pay them, they will come. But more importantly, if you value the budget, if you support them, they will stay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Brian Hester, followed by Tom Hewlett. Welcome. Chairman DeHaven, members of the board, I am Ellen White from Frederick County School Board. I represent the Redbud District, and I am a member of the Finance Committee. I am not here only as a school board member, but as the mother of a kindergartner and a citizen. I ask that each board member support this scenario and any other supplemental appropriations that provides full funding for the FY23-24 FCPS budget. Our division has presented a budget of necessity. We are a county of haves. We have the ability and the responsibility to invest in the present, and doing so simultaneously invest in our future. Our children should not bear the cost of a reduction in funds. Our taxpayers cannot bear the burden of delays in capital projects. Our children should not bear the burden of delays in capital projects. that exponentially increase with each passing year. I again respectfully ask each board member support a scenario and any other supplemental appropriation that provides full funding to the school district. Thank you. Thank you. Brian Hester. Welcome, sir. Chairman DeHaven, members of the board, good evening. My name is Brian Hester, and I reside in the Stonewall District. I'm also the member at large for the school board and also chairman of the Finance Committee. Tonight, you're being presented with a budget of $1.5 million. I'm also being presented with a budget that we as the school board voted and passed at our meeting last night. We have spent a great deal of time over the last several months going through our process. Not only is fully funding the budget needed for our school system, but it's needed for the future of this community. Every dollar requested is absolutely needed so that our children can have the best education possible. Our community is growing. Our school system is growing. And I ask you to recognize this and help the children, who will one day be sitting in the very seats you're in right now. Over the past year, I personally believe we've made some great progress with communication between the two boards. We've provided what you've asked for, and I look forward to continued talks. We as a school board were elected for one thing and one thing only, and that was to provide the best education possible to the children of Frederick County. I sincerely hope that you want the same thing and fully fund the school board's budget. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tom Hewlett, followed by Brian Nury. Welcome, sir. Good evening. My name's Tom Hewlett. I live in Stevens City, and I want to thank Mr. Ludwick and Mr. Graber for their efforts to push the 51 cent tax rate. It's a band-aid, ladies and gentlemen. It's a band-aid. My house was reassessed 98% of the $28,800. I live in Fredericktown. It's not possible that my property went up 37 and 1 half percent, not the 21% that was on that screen. How is it possible something's wrong in the tax assessor's office? It jumped from $262,000.00. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. It's a band-aid. I asked a real estate friend if she could get that amount of money for my house. She laughed at me. She said it should be closer to $300,000. Something's wrong in the tax assessor's office. Somebody misunderstood an instruction. Somebody moved a decimal point. They did something wrong with data entry, or they misunderstood what the fair market value of a house is. The fair market value of a house has a specific legal definition. It's not a hot real estate market. It's not an overheated real estate agent. Something's wrong. I'd like you to look at it. I did appeal my assessment. It took less than 20 days for them to deny my assessment. I called eight lawyers thinking I might need help at the Board of Equalization. And when I looked at the Board of Equalization's website back in November, it hadn't been updated since January of 2021. I looked. I looked at it tonight at 5 o'clock, and it was updated. It had a January 1, 2023 date. Nonetheless, my property went up 37.5 percent, a three-bedroom, all-brick rancher that's 47 years old in Fredericktown. The land went up to $72,000, a third of an acre, with 15-foot easements on three sides. That means an acre of land in Frederick County is worth $216,000. I don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Brian Nury, followed by Sonia Marfoccia-Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children. I rise tonight in support of the school board's budget that has been presented to you tonight. You stand in front of a whole room of people who used to be kids at one point or another. They were all educated well by their communities. We need to do the same for our future communities, because as Mr. Dunn likes to say that he wants to see the return on the investment, you're looking at the return on the investment. You're looking at people who are successful in their fields, who are successful in their fields, who are successful in their fields, who are firefighters, teachers, lawyers, and regular people just doing their jobs. I won't belabor the point too much. As I like to tell the students I work with, time is a valuable resource. But I do want to remind you of something that was said in reference to the school closures in the 50s in Virginia, that closing schools, reducing their funding, endangers not only the students but also the country itself. According to the NAACP, a people that dedicates itself to the free government cares about the schools as it will care about little else. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Sonia Marfatia-Good followed by Laura Jarrell. Welcome. Hello. My name is Sonia Marfatia-Good and I'm a resident of the Bat Creek District. Last year's budget season was chaotic and we all remember it. We would all, we all would do anything to avoid a repeat of it. So what has changed since last year? Our previous superintendent, Dr. Savine, has left Frederick County and his school district has put a billboard on Valley Avenue to poach our teachers with higher salary and benefits. I don't blame him at all. Mr. McCarthy has stepped down as Gainesboro supervisor and we have a special election scheduled for April 11th. Early voting is underway. Vote Kevin Kenney for Gainesboro supervisor. We have a new superintendent, Dr. Hummer, who has hit the ground running to understand all the needs of the schools and the community. And there seems to be better communication between the school board and board of supervisors. I've even seen Miles Adkins, school board member of Shawnee, speak up in favor of fully funding our schools. What hasn't changed? The fact that our county keeps growing. The choice to use trailers as band aids to deal with this growth. Let's look at the big picture for Frederick County. These homes, these additional families, and these students are here to stay. You've heard about a lack of infrastructure and money to support staff is literally a matter of living. It's literally a matter of life and death for your constituents. This county has the money to fully fund all the county departments, including the school's budget. You can dip into the rainy day fund to fund all of our departments fully, but what about next year? This is not sustainable when there is more growth. Continuing to approve new builds without preparing for that growth in a positive way is not fiscally responsible. Keep our tax rate as is at 61 cents and fully fund our schools. And the rest of you can do it. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to the Board of Supervisors. I will now turn it over to the Board of Supervisors to discuss the plans for the new school. Thank you. Thank you. Laura Jarrell, followed by Shaniqua Williams. Welcome. Thank you. Good evening, Chairman DeHaven and members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Laura Jarrell, and I'm a resident of the Opecan District. Our county is at a critical juncture. We are continuing to grow at a rapid pace, and yet our infrastructure cannot support the rate of our growth. It no longer matters who approved what plans in the past. It's our government that's going to be responsible for what happens next. We have to keep our schools moving forward. We have to keep our schools moving forward. It's our government that's going to be responsible for what happens next. I have a trying heart, but it's a strong heart that has been going through the roof and taking more steps forward. It's our community that's going to be inside the roof, and we have to make sure that they take a życiel timeout between general all of this decision making and our Earl K Estamos BLG Team. Our district misses multiple members of the Board of Supervisors. Our county is at a critical juncture. We are continuing to grow at a rapid pace, and yet our infrastructure cannot support the rate of our growth. It no longer matters who approved what plans in the past. We are coming through in a new go ahead conservcation plan. What matters now, is that we have an obligation to look to the future, and address the needs of our County because the growth continues You heard that thought? attachment to pandemic-stricken conditions. Viner Kids have a right to a public education, and we have an obligation to ensure that they receive the best possible education we can offer. In order to do that, we have to invest. Invest in our teachers and our staff. Invest in our buildings and our buses. I think back to last year's budget season. I think back to efforts to build the new Ayler Middle School and Jordan Springs Elementary School, and the upcoming efforts that will no doubt be necessary to build a fourth high school to relieve the massive overcrowding at our high schools. And my question is, why do we have to fight tooth and nail for money that directly benefits our kids and their futures? Our job is to raise educated, productive members of society, and a good education is the necessary foundation to accomplish that. It should be the desire of every resident to ensure that the education, we provide our kids, is the absolute best. The kids of Frederick County deserve the very best. Fully fund our school board's proposed budget. The future of this county depends on it. Thank you. Thank you. Shaniqua Williams, followed by John Lomano. Welcome. Good evening, Chairman DeHaven and other Board of Supervisors members. My name is Shaniqua Williams. I'm a resident of the Shawnee District. And I serve the educators of Frederick County as the President of Frederick County Education Association. Thank you in advance for your attentiveness to all the various remarks tonight. I'm speaking to you today in support of the budget and the tax rate as mentioned tonight. This proposal is the best option for the employees and staff of Frederick County, including the public schools. There are several reasons why funding public services, like public education, is a good investment in the community. And here are a few. It increases literacy and skills. Investing in public education helps to increase literacy and skills in our community. This leads to a more informed and educated population, which is better equipped to make informed decisions and contribute to the economic and social development of our community. Your support of the school's budget tonight will allow the district to continue to work to improve educational practices that will best serve the students in our community. It fosters innovation. Investing in education helps to foster the innovation and creativity of our students. This is because education provides people with the knowledge and skills that they need to solve problems and create new ideas. Your investment in the county school system will allow great things happening in our classrooms to continue to happen, and for those experiences to grow exponentially. It promotes social mobility. Education promotes social mobility because it provides people with the tools that they need to succeed in life. Your investment in the county schools will allow the schools to meet the individual and unique needs of all of our learners. Your vote on the school board's budget will provide the funding to allow the schools to be competitive with salaries and benefits so that teachers, education support professionals, and administrative staff, and the district will be able to do more. The county students and school staff meet their families needs more efficiently. The county students and school staff need your yes vote on the school's budget. Thank you very much. Thank you. John LaManna, followed by Alan Shaffer. Chairman DeHaven, board members. I'm John LaManna from the Gainesboro District. I want to speak about the budget work promised, and completed by the Frederick County Public School Finance Department, staff directed by Patty Camry. Fiscal year 24 proposed budget document was developed and requested, as requested by members of this board. It was modeled after Stafford County public school budget document as suggested by this board. Previous year budget line items are reported as requested. Detailed line item budget data of expenditures, are reported as requested. A breakdown of projected expenditures is reported by departments and by each school building as requested. The finance department worked long and hard to meet the suggestions and requests from certain board members, while continuing to respond to questions regarding fiscal year 23. With Dr. Hummer providing final review and approval. Fiscal year 24 is a need based budget, and to me singles out two important priorities. Competitive salaries for all staff with a focus on instructional and support staff, recognizing the impact of inflation. Supports the urgent demand for personnel to address the rising acuity of mental health behavioral challenges in our schools. Frederick County Public Schools has not escaped the national mental health crisis of our young people. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. It is critical, it is demanding, desperate, and critical. I want to speak briefly about my term as interim superintendent. It certainly was a rewarding experience, and I'm grateful for that opportunity. Several experiences reinforced my perceptions of Frederick County Public School. We have an extraordinary, dedicated, and competent leadership team, teachers, and support staff. We are indeed fortunate. I also witnessed, and I swear to you on the record, that CRT is not taught in our schools. I learned this after many months of visiting our schools. The letter CRT, interesting enough, are used in certain administrative documents as a shorthand for Crisis Response Team, CRT, which exists in our schools. Perhaps that has been the confusion, but let's not let such confusion interfere with budget deliberations. Finally, I've gotten to know Superintendent Hummer, and I believe Frederick County Public School, our community, is fortunate to have an educational leader of his competence, compassion, and commitment to quality instruction for our young citizens, and to ensure this through parental involvement and collaboration. With your support, through budget approval, and Dr. Hummer's leadership, Frederick County Public Schools will continue to be one of Virginia's best high-quality school divisions. And I might just mind add to my, my prepared speech that, interesting enough, I heard that Supervisor Graber, Mr. Chairman, is willing to fully support our school budget with accumulated reserve funds. That's pleased, pleased to hear that. Thank you, sir. Alan Schaffer. Welcome, sir. Good evening, I'm Alan Schaffer from Shawnee District. I'm gonna take a different tack this year. I would like to see the school fully, fully funded. I believe Mr. Hummer is a great step in the right direction. I would suggest, though, with recent events and activities from last year, that we need to very closely supervise the school. We've had three teachers in as many months now that have had inappropriate relationships with students. Virginia has had to lower the standards for testing scores, several times over the past five years, in order for schools to stay accredited. The only way we can fix that is by funding the school. But it will not happen if the same level of oversight continues. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that is the end of the list that had signed up. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak to the budget? If you could come forward, share your name, Magistral District. If you would. My name is Donald Camara, and I'm from the Redbud District. And I want to talk two items. One is the tax people pay for airplanes, property tax. I have a car and I pay $4.26 per hundred. And someone with an airplane, which is the average price is $90,000, $15,000 to $90,000. And they pay a penny per hundred. It's not fair to taxpayers. Because that's personal property. It has nothing to do with the airport. That is personal property. They should pay the same rate as someone with an automobile. And the other item is the tax rate of Westminster Canterbury. They pay no property tax. They pay a fee. And that's a flat fee every year, no matter what they have. And it's not fair to the taxpayers. And that district, because they're just gobbling up all the property there and not paying their fair share. So that's not much, but it's something. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, board members. I'm Karen Drodski. I'm from the Gainesboro District. And since I don't have Mr. McCarthy, I'm here to speak to all of you instead. I'm gonna be a little bit different than everybody else you've heard up here talking about the school budget this year and about our tax rate. At first, I saw what was listed for the agenda tonight, that the tax rate was supposed to stay the same. And I said, well, I guess that must be because everybody's assessment went up and everything. But I thought that I had heard that at the beginning of the year, that there was discussion about trying to keep everything revenue equal. And so that was surprising. So I was very glad to hear at the beginning of the meeting that there is discussion about that, because I certainly feel for all the folks who especially are on fixed incomes and everything, it's really rough. But hearing Mr. Graber talk about the fact that there is enough funding to fund everyone who asked for something that's in the budget was even more encouraging. And I'm gonna ask you not just to fund our school budget, but I'd like to ask you to fund more than our school budget. Because one of the things that I have a problem with is the fact that we have students that sit on school buses from 6.15 in the morning and they don't get to school until eight o'clock. And that's before dawn. These are middle school kids, high school kids. They spend way too much time on the bus. And when I've brought it up with our school board, part of the problem is we don't have enough bus drivers. And although part of the school budget does ask for an increase in pay for our classified workers, I really would like to see them get a little bit more. And I know that one of our board members asked for that last night and the rest of the board kind of shot it down. But if we could allow our classified workers to have a pay rate of $17 an hour, I think that's very little to ask for people who are taking care of all of our kids. And I would like you to actually fund $5 million more than what the school district is asking for. Because I guarantee you, if you sit and you go through all of the meetings that they have, they're asking you for enough money for six new buses. We need 13 new buses a year. And we definitely need more than one social worker added to the school district. We need more than a couple of behavioral specialists. We need people to help with special ed. We need a lot of things, especially after COVID and what happened with our kids. So I'm gonna ask you to, at the minimum, fund what they've asked for, but I'd like to see you give them more. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. Board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none, we'll move on. Citizen comments on any issue they might like to share with the board. Ms. Phillips. Christy Scarborough. Welcome. Christy Scarborough, Stonewall District. I am here to address you, Chairman DeHaven, at the last board meeting, your conduct towards a woman who came up here to speak. I would like to ask you to respond to a statement that I made earlier today. I would like to ask you to respond to a statement that I made earlier today. It's a statement that I made earlier today, and I would like to ask you to respond to it. The first statement in the statement was in my opinion, way out of line. You interrupted her three minutes, twice, and then, you told her her time was up, when she in fact had about 20 seconds left. I wanted to bring that up because that's not okay. People come up here, they're supposed to be uninterrupted, and you even made some sort of remark about taking it out to the parking lot. Not professional, you know, you are an elected official. I just, I wanted to make you aware of that. You're not a professional, you know, you are an elected official. I wanted to make you aware that that's not okay. I noticed it, and I would encourage you to do better and definitely not to do it again, because I will be up here to address you if that happens again. Thank you. Thank you. Rodney Wine. Welcome, sir. Thank you. My name is Rodney Wine. I live in Shawnee District. Yesterday morning, I sent out an email to the electoral board and the district to ask if they could make a statement. I said, no, I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. And the members of the Board of Supervisors, I don't know if I got your county emails. But my problem is the incorrect appointment of officers of elections for this upcoming special elections on April 11. In January of each year, the Democrats and Republican parties turn in a list of people who are authorized to be officers of elections to represent each party. The electoral board and the registrar are supposed to take and appoint the officers of elections for each precinct as the chief or assistant chief from either party. So the chief is from one party. The assistant chief is from the opposite party. The number of officers of elections, in addition to those, are supposed to be half from the Republican Party, half from the Democrat Party. All are supposed to be from the Republican Party. All are supposed to be from the Republican Party. And the list of officers of elections that are appointed for the election is on those authorized lists. Looking at the list of officers of elections that were appointed for that, of the 12 people who are supposed to be Republicans on those lists, only five of those were on the authorized list. That won't fly. Of the 29 officers altogether, only five were correctly appointed to represent the Republican Party. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. So that's a good thing. There's a list we're turned in promptly in January. I have the copy of the date stamp list here. I will send you the scanned copy of those. And then in addition to that, the unaffiliated, there are several unaffiliated officers of elections. According to 24.2-115, the code states specifically, how to appoint the officers of elections, and no unaffiliated officer of election is supposed to be appointed prior to the exhaustion of the Republican and the Democrat list. But in not one of these six precincts, to include the cap, where between 30% and 50% of the total amount of ballots come in is handled, not one of those precincts has the proper people appointed. So we need to have that. I'm not sure what you can do as Board of Supervisors other than coerce them into doing it correctly. I know under 24.2-600 you can't withhold funds from them, but Supervisor Graber reached out to me. Any of the rest of you who want to contact me, please do that. We'll go through it. I'm a chief officer of election here, and this is not going to work. I will, if necessary, sue the county. I will sue the registrar, and I will sue the electoral board to get it right. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Robert Gallilee. Robert Gallilee, Back Creek District. Thank you, sir. I would offer to be an officer of elections, but I'd get turned down because I have current litigation with the county, I suppose. I'm going to read something from you from a Board of Zoning Appeals. I'm going to read something from you from a Board of Zoning Appeals hearing that happened that should have never happened. It says, County Attorney Rod Williams commented that I, meaning him, am not sure why in 1994 the Board at the time allowed horses. In the minutes it clearly states horses and not livestock. The notice of violation letter states livestock. I've gotten a notice of violation letter that states livestock. In 1994, the property was given the right to livestock when the Board of Zoning Appeals overturned a zoning infraction. Unfortunately, the zoning administrator, along with the county attorney, don't seem to understand that. So, interestingly, I was turned down to be on the SSDAC where I would like to represent the people of the SSDAC because people seem to be too busy to attend things like this. So I figured, well, I can help them out and I can represent them. But I was turned down. I understand why Mr. . . . Well, is what he stated. But what I can tell you is the three people that talked to me about my situation, that understand the situation, they voted yes today. All of you got emails. I made you aware of it. The three people who did not have a conversation with me to learn about the situation, well, they voted no. Another thing I'd just like to address real quick is we're talking about raising taxes because we need improvements for new people coming to the SSDAC. And I think that's a very important thing. We need to make sure that we have a better system for new people in the area. I've learned a lot in reading all about ordinances and code. I've spent a lot of time when I can't be with my family because I needed to do the work to beat this case, which shouldn't even exist in the first place. Clearly, if you'd talk to me about it, you'd understand. Anyway, I've learned about proffers. And so I'd just like to say that maybe the developers, maybe they should proffer to build the firehouse that we need. Maybe they should proffer to do the improvements caused by the developments that they're building, and they can pass that cost on to the new people that are coming, and they can pay to live here instead of all of us having to pay for them to come. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Tim. Mr. Chairman, member Tim for the Bat Creek District. Mr. Chairman, I watched a meeting last week. I'm hoping that you do the right thing to restore the integrity of that chair by apologizing, because I don't think what you said was right. I think you're aware of that. And I just hope that you do do the right. Do I need to go any further? I don't think so. Mr. Grave, I'd like to meet with you after the meeting, because there's a lot of work to be done. I have some things I want to go over before I send my letter to the Attorney General's office. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Izzy Schaffer. Welcome. Isabella Schaffer, Shawnee District. What do you think of when you think of a leader? Maybe someone who's calm, strong-minded, and respectful. Apparently, Supervisor DeHaven is none of these things. I don't know about you, but when I was in elementary, we were always in the same class. We started to worry that I was going at a threshold where there wasn't just one or two different classe tirois. then entrance whatever standing stands outside the hall they might be in now iswie Center back to my audience guaranteede So I said, well, you either sheets how we do, Pa I know I'm pretty confident about right? But now I've found that there's not enough people to go talk about it. Is what I was talking about. And I had a student that I wrongly kilogram date is asae what a簽 Yeah, I would. you'd not want to I would. Michael HM get nothing where I go. I could just say hey, I'm here. This is a commission for boys who are being Former educational ô Our teacher andCheck or he should be unemployed. Thank you. Thank you. Alan Schaffer. Welcome, sir. Alan Schaffer, Shawnee District. To quote Justin William Brennan, a profound national commitment to the principle that debate on public issues should be uninhibited, robust, and wide open, and that it may well include vehement, caustic, and sometimes unpleasantly sharp attacks on government and public officials. Mr. DeHaven, at the last meeting, you walked on 245 years of American tradition and jurisprudence. Justice William Douglas said, restriction of free speech is the most dangerous of all subversions. It is the one un-American act that could most easily defeat us. A candidate running for a seat on this very board was silenced by you, and the people that would vote in this election were deprived of hearing those words. Especially egregious was the comment, y'all can take this out to the parking lot if you want to continue, words commonly used to threaten violence or fighting words that are not protected by the First Amendment. You have forgotten yourself, your oath, and who you serve as a supervisor. Free speech was included in the First Amendment for a while. You have forgotten yourself, your oath, and who you serve as a supervisor. Free speech was included in the First Amendment for a while. You have forgotten yourself, your oath, and who you serve as a supervisor. Without the right to speak freely, there can be no wisdom. To truly develop an idea, one must have the right to hear it and freely speak about it. It is now well established that the Constitution protects the right to receive information and ideas, Justice Thurgood Marshall. You violated the rights of the speaker, you violated the rights of everyone in attendance, watching at home, and my rights. Your actions will continue to violate the rights of everyone that would wish to hear those unspoken words. Mr. Haven, what you did is especially dangerous. Your willingness to violate civil rights has a cooling effect on open debate and discourse and cannot begin to be repaired as long as you have a position on this board or hold any elected position. He that would make his own liberty secure must guard even his enemy from opposition, for if he violates this duty, he establishes a precedent that will reach to himself, Thomas Paine. To mirror the words of Beatrice Hall, we may disapprove of what others say, but I will defend to the death their right to say it. Mr. Haven, Blaine Dunn, as a member of this board, has no greater right to speak than any other person. To the contrary, this board has a code of conduct to which you as the chairman and every member of this board are bound to. If you do not have the power to keep order on this board, then why do we have a chairman? You failed to adhere to your code of conduct, you failed your oath, you failed the electorate, and you have opened yourself and this board to a First Amendment lawsuit. Unfortunately, the damage is done, and nothing will make that right. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Anyone at all on any subject? Seeing no one, we'll close the citizen comment portion. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to address a couple of things that have been brought forward this evening. First, the item relating to proffers. It is a noble idea to pursue proffers. However, just in light of some state activity in past years, we are no longer allowed to. We are not allowed to issue proffers or require proffers on many properties at the present time. So our hands as a board are tied. It would be very nice to have impact fees or have the ability to levy impact fees so that the remainder of the citizens do not bear the brunt of the costs of new folks when they move into our community. That is something Supervisor Dunn has championed, and others have said implementing of such fees would be a good break for the taxpayers. To address another issue, it was discussed this evening that I would desire to fully, fully fund the school systems budget. If anyone was here a couple of meetings ago, you would have seen an interaction between myself and a representative from the school system as it pertained to the renovation of Sherando High School. The Sherando High School renovation is $125 million as proposed. I asked what I would receive for $125 million. I was told there would be additional pavement and parking and turnaround area for buses and a softball field. However, if you saw that exchange, there was not anything else offered. In case you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me at the address on the screen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In case you haven't seen, the Millbrook High School will be receiving some renovations, not extensive, but they include roof repairs or replacement and or HVAC-related items. Those items are going to be completed for $10 million or less. My question is, and those are large-ticket items, what is the rest of that $125 million being spent for for the Sherando High School? My next question arrives to, you were given additional monies for the Aylor School when it was built. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Where did that money go? I've not received an answer to that, nor have I received an opportunity to tour Sherando High School, although I have asked every week since three weeks ago when it was brought up for the CIP. I want to go a little bit further. There was said that there was no CRT taught in public schools. While there may not have been any critical race theory taught in Frederick County Public Schools, it's not. It's not. It's not. It's not. there was something that mirrored it very closely, and I have the book. It's called Deep Equity. I've shared it with many of you who've asked to see it, and it mirrors many of the same exact items of reference that critical race theory does. While you can hide behind some words, and you can choose to do so if you would so desire, our children are still receiving some of the same things. If you have been present to many of our board meetings over the last two years, you will have been subject to hear some of the titles of some of the books that are in our libraries for our sixth, seventh, and eighth grade students. They are reprehensible. If you need a list, I have a list because I foiled one. We have got to get back to the teaching of basic fundamentals of reading, writing, and arithmetic, and take care of our students. We need to get rid of the kitty litter boxes. We finally got rid of the, we finally got rid of the journals that were in the girls' bathrooms. There's got to be a change in how we approach education in this county. If you look at what we are teaching, we're going to be able to get rid of the kiddie litter boxes. We're going to our students as far as the reading, writing, arithmetic, and all the different how we compare, we are on average with the rest of the state. Look at what we are charging or paying for students. This didn't come from me, this came from County Administration because I asked them to do some research and see what our total cost to educate a child is in our present fiscal year, the year we are in right now. Between capital costs and the cost for instruction of a child is $19,480. I can take that $19,480 and send two children to almost any private school in Frederick County where they will receive an education at least as good, if not better, than what they receive in our own public schools. Then I ask, is it really a money issue or is it a management issue? And as I look across the board, I look at last year. Last year the school board asked for positions. For folks with special needs. They wanted raises for those positions and they wanted additional positions. What happened to those positions? They didn't happen. They got the money for those positions, but they weren't funded. Where did that money go? I'm still waiting for a response. I was told that we received answers to all the questions that we've asked. That's been over a year. So I'd like to ask you a question. Is money really the answer? Because I don't believe it is. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you all for coming. Five years ago many of you were probably in the same room. I went back and took a look at the budget proposals five years ago, the budget proposals today, and they're basically the same. Schools have asked for money, the counties have asked for money, people in the community have said don't raise our taxes, and the same tension is there. That was there five years ago. I've had a couple conversations with some school board members, and thank you, Ellen White, we're just trying to resolve differences. We're going to be here next year with the same type of parameters unless something changes. So I thought just some thoughts. How does a county raise money? We raise money from real estate taxes, we raise money from business development. So this year the county has approximately four million dollars more than they had last year if we keep the real estate tax rate at 51 cents as revenue neutral. We're paying about 18 million dollars or so in loan in debt service. If we can have the cost of development borne by those that are developing, every house that goes up is approximately $27,000 cost to the county. $27,000. In Redbed alone there's close to a thousand houses are going to be going up in the next three years. Do the math and that's a lot of money. If the cost of development could be borne by those that are moving into the county, then we don't have to raise real estate taxes because the additional revenue is done by that house pays for the operational expense. So our capital expenses, meaning the cost for schools, the cost for a fire station, etc., we are underfunding. If we go and have right now a neighborhood of 30 plus million dollars in our general fund, I can get rid of that tomorrow morning. I'm saying that facetiously because next year the schools have requests for someplace in the neighborhood of I believe 20 million dollars for the continuation of the refurnishment of the high school. As we have more requests for money, the question I pose is do you take money from the general fund to cover operational expenses or do you take money from the general fund to cover debt expenses that we are authorized to incur? And if we go and take 20 million dollars or so next year for further renovations in the schools, which are necessary, which we all voted on last year, the cost for that runs 5 to 6 percent. If we take that out of the general fund, there's zero cost. So I'm not keen on spending general fund money for operations. My wife and I went down to Richmond to testify at Bayco. I testified before the General Assembly and the Finance Committee. For all of us here, and for those of you in the schools, if we collectively can go down and try to work some things together to change what the law requires, we can do that. We can draw a piece of legislation that affects Frederick County, that puts the burden of the growth on the developers there, that's significant to only Frederick County, which then eliminates the statewide issue. If local developers here, can work with us, we can all win. If you build a house here for $300,000, and you say it's $327,000, you can still sell that house. It may take an extra day or two to sell, but it's doable. So, I'm just going to suggest that collectively, school board, we, sit down and have long-term discussions. It's not going to affect this year's budget, but it's sure it's actually going to affect what we do next year and try to solve that problem. The school's budget this year, if we funded it alone, would require a 20% tax increase. 20%. It's a $50 million budget. We have $4 million. The county has made a request in the neighborhood of $12 million, which Mr. Ballhofer is trying to reduce. So that's what we're looking at. That occurs each year. So, the long-term solution, in my opinion, is trying to work together collectively to have the cost of development borne by those who are causing it, and I think then that helps everybody. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Board comments? Anyone? Anyone at all? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. A few thoughts quickly on the budget, and in response to some of the speakers. I found quite a few comments interesting. Some was new to me, and I'll reach out to some of those individuals. I was a little frustrated by the use again this year of the term needs-based budget. That was the same term used last year. I guess it's supposed to suggest that it's a bare minimum of what's needed, but let's go over what happened real quickly with the needs-based budget we received last year. That budget included $7.2 million for a school that had already been voted to be surplussed and sold off and returned to the county. So I'm just not sure how $7.2 million of taxpayer money fits into a needs-based budget. When we asked if they wanted to retain the school, what they would use it for, the answer was, well, we don't know. We haven't decided yet. So again, that's not needs-based funding. This board did not fund the schools fully, minus that $7.2 million, the request fully. Had they done so, we would have been funding absolutely every item that the school board enumerated they wanted funded. Positions, etc. Instead, this board took the request and only removed $2.1 million from the request. And mind you, it was $7.2 million requested for the school that no longer was in operation. So one speaker said that she would like us to fund the schools $5 million more than requested. Well, as a matter of fact, we did that last year. $5.1 million more requested, as long as you understand the logic that we removed the funds for a property that was no longer to be kept by the school system. So what happened with that $5.1 million? Well, personally, I was against a approving that, whether or not it went to a great use, because we shouldn't be spending taxpayers' money unless there's an enumerated list where we know exactly where it's going to go. What if that money was better needed to provide ambulances, firefighters, by the sheriff's office? We didn't know, because we just went ahead and approved the budget for all the enumerated items, plus an extra $5.1 million. So you say, okay, well, Supervisor Graber, said, we never got an answer. I did go meet with the school board, and I got a kind of answer, and I trust that it went to a good cause within the school system, anyway, it was spent to, to begin the repair of an HVAC system that was not slated and not listed in the needs budget for that year, but was in practice going to be needed in a near future year. So, great, so the money's gone for something that was needed, but that's not the process we should fund. we should follow. But that's not even the disturbing part. The disturbing part is we have provided funds, as I just described, for absolutely everything in the budget, plus $5.1 million. But not everything that the taxpayer was told would be funded was funded. We spoke, Supervisor Graber and myself, for example, although we were deficit hawks in a sense of wanting to look very closely at the budget, we spoke in favor of the extra pay raises for special education teachers. They have a hard job. I just toured the special education wing of a school a couple weeks ago. We were also in favor of some of the other positions that were in the budget, but those positions were not funded and the extra pay raises were not provided. Instead, there was money to this HVAC system and for some increased salaries to administrators. To me, I'm frustrated when people want to tell me it's a needs-based budget and I have to accept that. I'm a representative of the taxpayer and some people who are facing some really high inflation this year, a lot of people on fixed incomes who are seeing their assessments, their home values go up extremely high, jump again for the second assessment cycle in a row. It is our job, whether you like us or not, to be careful with the taxpayer's money and to weigh the use of it. The I want to look at budgets closely. I want them published fully transparent. I'd like a larger budget cycle so we have more time to investigate the proposed budgets. And I don't want to hold tens of millions of dollars of taxpayer money in a fund that we have no earmarks, no immediate plans to use. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Anyone else? Hearing no one. MR. I have a real quick comment. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Supervisor Wilson, you have the floor. MR. I have a real quick comment. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Supervisor Wilson, you have the floor. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Supervisor Wilson, you have the floor. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Supervisor Wilson, you have the floor. Is the money you are talking about, the capital project, is that where the money is that we don't have anything designated for? MR. Yes, I believe I misspoke on the amount. It was actually larger, 36. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. 36. Is that where you are talking? MR. Yes. ADDRESS THE COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR. When I spoke to you a couple of weeks ago, I was told that there was around $19 million of taxpayer money in the capital project that was being spent on the capital project. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Is that what you are talking about? MR. Yes. ADDRESS THE COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR. I'll address the county administrator. When I spoke to you a couple weeks ago, I was told that there was around $19 million of some funds, excuse me, that were designated. $19 million is what's left after the $11 million. The $19 million is left after the $7 million out of the house. The $11 million is designated? Well, it's not designated. It's what's proposed in this year's budget. Okay. Okay. $19 million. Okay. Okay. The only other thing that I would say is we need to be careful. Everybody heard, well, we have this money, so we'll just spend that. It's kind of like taking your 401K and paying off your credit card debt because once you take that out, you don't have any reserve left. So when you do have to buy something, now you're going back to that and you're borrowing money when you don't have any reserve left. So when you do have to buy something, now you're going back to that and you're borrowing money when you don't have any reserve left. So when you do have to buy something, now you're borrowing money when you don't have any reserve left. with interest on top of it. So it wants to be careful. I'm not saying we don't use some of it, but we have to be awfully careful taking the capital funds and using them for fiscal plan expenditures and salaries and so forth and so on. And I know the tax assessment was tough this year. It was tough on everybody. However, if you take the capital money out, and two years from now, and the economy certainly doesn't, if that goes down and your house is not worth what it was assessed to be now, then you've got a situation where you've lowered the tax rate, you don't have tax rate on the assessed value of the houses anymore, that's gone down, and you used up part of your capital fund. So that board, whoever they may be in two years, is going to be looking and saying to you, we need to increase taxes to put back money into the county. Just saying. It's all, it's always you can pay me now or pay me later situation. We have to look at, I agree with Supervisor Ludwig that we certainly need to scrutinize all the money that's spent by the taxpayer money, our money. I'm a taxpayer just like you are. So we need to be very careful that make sure we're doing the right thing and should have all the figures on that. But I just am nervous about taking money and telling everybody we have a pot full of money. We can just live with and not have to do anything at all. Just take that out. We have our savings account. So anyway, that's my two cents. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, I make a motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn is our second. Second. Second discussion. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We thank you all for your time, attention and your input. Thanks so much for your time and we will continue to thank the information from the BOOTDP and all the other draw Employee Elements as well for including this nonprofit foundation officials in dealing with the мои can receive ouraks and cashOOKID and nakalor kareılac' Millennials from of with insurance in America. So everyone know ум censo we have a Rep Statual and I want to welcome to you guys a share here. Just a moment. What do we have here tonight, bilereiente funds and Russia? All of those. So back to the million dollar擊 im the floor. Oh my goodness. We might have to split the bill and get it all right or two down. Yes.
