Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-04-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=281
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you us you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would move that item 8A regarding the discussion of an ordinance to designate the roads in Shenandoah and Lake Frederick HOAs as public roads for the state of Minnesota. And that meeting will be January 2017. And that meeting will be January 2017. And that meeting will be January 2017. And that meeting will be January 2017. And that meeting will be January 2017. I also act we would like to haveいただ staff, especially, for law enforcement purposes, be removed from the agenda because the HOAs have withdrawn their request and we have a letter on file. Mr. Chairman, I would also like to ask that you remove item 13A for the action on the rezoning of 1124, Route 7 Self-Storage, because the applicant has paid the fee and filed a request for postponement until June 11, 2025. Thank you. I think maybe we should have seconded and voted on each of these as we went along. But we're all in for a Matlab this morning. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I believe we're all in concurrence. Anyone object to voting on that? So that's today's agenda with the removal of those two items as stated. Mr. Chair, I do have a question on 13A. Supervisor Dunn, could you cover the rationale for the delay on that, please? Sure. So if you remember, back in March, or February and March, this was initially coming up, and a constituent came and said, I'd like to go and please have an opportunity to discuss the issue. So that was the first delay. Then we had a public hearing. After that public hearing, the applicant said there's some things that need to be addressed that were inaccurate. And I spent a long time with them, so this is going to give us an opportunity to have a public hearing on June 11. Everyone that has interest and involvement in it will be able to speak. Some of the emails that you've seen, pro and con, can be addressed and go from there. That's the purpose for it. Thank you. So we have a doubly amended motion to remove two items. Does anyone want to? Well, first, let's take a second on the doubly amended motion. Is there one? Second. Okay, so. Now we have a motion with those two items. Is there any discussion before we proceed to a vote? Mr. Chairman, I would ask that we take the amendments one at a time, because there's been a lot of discussion, and I've had a lot of reach out from the citizens and Supervisor Dunn's district. They're not pleased with this whole rezoning to begin with, and we've heard that in the public hearings they have spoken. Okay. So I think perhaps we should take that one as a second separately, and whether we wish to continue it on or not. Okay, so. Mr. Chairman, could I ask that one member make the motion then to have the agenda adopted with 8A removed, and then you act on that? Could I get a motion and a second on that? I'll redo that. So moved. Okay. Okay, so we'll vote on that part. I'll redo 8A. 8A. And then John, whatever. Then we'll handle 13 after that. Yeah. Very good. So on the motion to adopt the agenda, well, to amend the agenda. No, no, just to adopt it with 8A removed. I have that as Vice Chair Slaughter's motion with Supervisor Wells second. So once we adopt it, though, we can then amend it again? You can pass that motion, yes, and then you can amend again. Okay. Now I'm confused. Usually we don't do it then. We get all the amendments. Let's vote it on first. I made a motion to take out 8A. Okay. Okay. That was my motion to do that. So that's a motion to adopt the agenda with 8A removed. We need a second on that, and it takes a motion. So we vote on that amendment first. Then other amendments can be presented. Mr. Chairman, I can solve the problem. This thing is up in second. We can have a vote on the second amendment if it succeeds or fails, and then you don't have to do anything. We confused ourselves, but we know how we handle this. Okay. So we vote on the agenda with 8A. We vote on the first amendment first. 8A. With 8A removed. To remove 8A. Okay. And for a vote, I just wanted to clarify, that one has been requested to be removed. It's not clear that it will come back to the board. Very good. So just on the first amendment to remove 8A, Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. Now we can proceed to another amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make a motion that we remove item 13A for action on the rezoning of 1124 Route 7 self-storage because the applicant has paid the fee and filed a request for postponement until June 11, 2025. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second it. So we have a motion and a second to remove, to amend the agenda so far. Additionally, to remove. 13. Let's see. Let me make sure. Yes. To remove 13A. Any discussion of this motion? So I have some discussion or a question. And there are a lot of issues with this proposal, but it seemed to me that after sitting through the Planning Commission and public hearings and sitting all through the. The. The. Hearing the public discussion on it, it seemed like the biggest issue was the size of the building in B3 versus B2 and the silhouette of the building and how large it was and how it could be seen from the neighborhood. The question would be, is that going to be substantially different with presented with a delay? Because to me, that was one of at least to me, that was the biggest issue that there was. So. When we had the public hearing before. We all have seen a lot of issues. And the three issues that were key to me were the water issue, the road issue, and the size of the building. I spent two and a half hours with the applicant walking through items. And then I spent a host of time with Mr. Pearson and his staff. And I think the water issue is resolved. We'll get into that if we have another public hearing. On the road issue, that's a B. Dot issue. And. At least from my perspective. We're okay on that. You can agree to disagree, but that's where I'm at. On the size of the building, that becomes an issue. But a new piece of information, at least to me, was that they were going to screen that building with not only a fence, but with pine trees, double row pine trees, or something similar to what you have at the golf course. And that would then remove the site from any adjacent properties. As we chat right now, if you're on the second or third floor story of a building. And you're looking down. Would you be able to see something? I don't know yet. But the items of showing a line of sight through the trees. Those trees would block that line of sight. In addition, part of this conversation, we talked about a building. And whether that building is a B1 building or a B2 building, there's still going to be four walls and a roof. So the applicant wanted to go through and correct some of the inaccurate information that had been presented earlier. I thought he should have that opportunity. He did a fine. He's filing for that the same way that a constituent earlier had said, I'd like to have the opportunity to lay out a case. So the constituents made a request to lay out a case. Now the applicant has made a request to lay out the case. I think just to be fair, both should have that opportunity. So if I may ask a question. These trees that are screening, is this a new proffer or part of the plan? It was new to me. I was not aware of that when we talked a month ago. I think it was a new proffer. OK. So just for discussion purposes, I'll note that if we have to advertise a new public hearing, which the applicant is paid a fee to do, we cannot do it at our next meeting. So it would have to wait. And we don't hold a meeting at the end of May this year. So it would have to wait all the way until the second week of June. I have also heard from neighbors, some of whom will be out. I don't know. I don't know if it's vacation or what in June. So I have also been contacted by people who say we've gone through the process and we just want to vote on it. So I'm just going to put that out there for you. That's what I'm hearing from the community. So you made a motion. We had a second. Is that correct? Supervisor Jewell seconded. Any other discussion on the motion to postpone 13A for two meetings until the second week of June? Hearing none, we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. No. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The chair votes no, but the ayes have it. So we will postpone that. It will be re-advertised. And there will be a public hearing, so there will be a chance for both the applicant to present any changes. Answer any questions and for the public to address this issue again. All right. So now we have a doubly amended agenda. Are there any other discussion or amendments before we approve the agenda for tonight? Seeing no one. On the two amendments, two items struck, the agenda as it now sits. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair votes aye. We have an agenda for tonight. Citizen comments. Ms. Phillips. Do we have anyone signed up? Yes, we do. Stephanie Jankin. Thank you. You're welcome. Welcome. Start with name and magisterial district, please. Everyone gets three minutes. And this is time to address things on the agenda that are not public hearing. Okay. I thought this was going to happen before you guys voted on the agenda, so then I guess I have nothing to say. Okay. But thank you for all your service. That's all. I can't say anything because you already adopted the agenda then. So. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I believe that she wanted to talk about the rezoning on Route 7, correct? Yes, but you just removed it from the agenda. So the proper time for that then would be at the end of the meeting. Oh, okay. Can you, do you want to wait and speak then? Or would you like to be very quick now? I can't. No, I can, I'll wait if that's proper. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. At the end of the meeting, you can speak on any, anyone can speak on any subject that's relevant to the county. Next. The next person was Stephen Carter. Hi, I'm Stephen Carter of the Redbud District. I'm taking my three minutes to speak how I had planned. Hello, members of the board, and thank you for the diligence you have done to better understand the rezoning application that you just voted off the agenda. It is for replanting the Route 7 property near our neighborhoods and it's being asked to be used for yet another storage facility. I will not rehash every conversation or email that has been exchanged, but I assure the community that the board has done their due diligence despite this delay. I will rehash these points from my recent emails. An approval of this rezoning application will unfairly favor the applicant and prioritize the applicant's rights over the residential property owners by lowering our property values to improve the applicant's rights. And I will not rehash any of the comments that have been made in relation to this. I will not rehash any of the comments that have been made in relation to this. In addition, if part of our proposed plan corresponds to an approval under Rule 8A of the plan, motion 10 2A's affects the functionality of the B2 zoning application, I do not like to take the Stunden maybe as much folders as I did previously. I have had facts and evidence from the residents and the developer, which Ihave not strings to cut off. And I will not refinance the schedule for this block. In addition, the Cumíz peu the expentioned ordinance's consideration of this program is clearly applicable for Very Good prototype Real Agentsziejım negotiations and the us and the law їm the property in discussion. Thank you Mr. Dunn, Mr. Lero, and Ms. Lockridge for coming out to meet with the residents, speak with them yourself, and see the space for yourself. I know Mr. Jewell we had some time planned that couldn't happen I apologize. I know many of you were willing to take my calls and for meeting with me driving by route 7 on your own time. Collectively we've worked hard to in countless hours to debate, dispute, research, educate, and more often than not we've agreed and in some and in fact some of you have said that reviewing the application on paper feels and looks a lot different than in person. A lot of really thoughtful time has been put into this and it's now being delayed another couple of months. Your time and ours being poured into this effort I don't think you've taken it lightly. I believe at this point all of you have made up your decision. I actually believe that you know what the right decision is and for the record not one of you have told me how you would vote but this is my assumption because you have done your homework and gathered the important information. Thank you. thank you. Your work is important and necessary data. You have talked to the constituents even if they're not in your district. The zoning committee a very knowledgeable one at that. We have discussed how this rezoning does not conform to the comprehensive plan and maybe more importantly how this piece of land is not gonna get up and move and it does not meet the regulations for the intent of the B2 zoning. I believe that if Mr. Dunn were to oppose this application it would be an easy and unanimous decision for everyone else. However I think that if he were to approve the application If he were to approve the application, it would make everyone a bit uncomfortable knowing that they are being urged to vote along with something that they feel is not right. I understand that in many cases the district rep is heavily relied on to make a decision because they know that their constituents best. They are the closest to the decision and they put in the most time. However, you all have put in the time to make an educated decision that you can feel comfortable about. You have visited the site, researched the codes, talked to zoning, and done your homework. I plead and urge each of you to follow your own informed decision and to follow the voices of the constituents, even if others do not. Every constituent who has spoken out has opposed this application. You can feel comfortable and confident in holding your vote tonight or on June 11th to oppose the Route 7 rezoning. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's the end of the list. Okay, I was going to ask because I let the gentleman speak even though it's not on the agenda any longer because he did drive down. We just took it off the agenda. Also. He had informed me that he probably cannot attend in June and had wanted to see the vote today. But if there was a long list of people wanting to speak on this topic, I was going to ask them to wait. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Again, for an item on the agenda that's not one of our many public hearing items tonight, seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. Next item is the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion for approval. I'll have the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? These are items. Approval of minutes. Approval of a sheriff's request to use local funds, insurance funds, to replace a damaged vehicle and a return of funds to two entities that didn't know them after review by the sheriff. A The chair votes aye. The consent agenda is offered. That's the consent agenda. is approved. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Nutt. Go ahead Mrs. Lockbridge. Thank you, thank you. Over the past few days I have had a number of phone calls from citizens whose wells are going dry and mostly they're going dry in the Bruce Town rural community center area. There's been a rash of them in just a very short span and as you all know when we took up the Carmoose rezoning, I had asked for us to delay that rezoning until we appropriately did a complete water study and it appears now that the governor has now mandated a water study in the region but that is obviously going to take some time. I would like to see perhaps if we could and we have a consent here this evening if the planning department working with Frederick Water to see if there are any questions. Mr. Chairman, I would like to see if we could address the citizens' lack of water. I mean they absolutely have no water in their homes. They are taking gallons of water into their home from another source to be able to even flush their toilets. And we have water, quarries of water within a stone's throw way of where these residents live. So what I would like to see is us to maybe needs that perhaps we could work with Frederick Water and Frederick County if there's a way that we can address making these people whole with their water systems. I mean, last year we had one shortly after. We're talking 80-year-old people who have to go and redrill another well on a fixed income. And so there's something profoundly wrong when we have this much water so close sitting in a quarry and these people's wells are going dry. So if there could be a consensus, I would like to ask our planning department to see if they could work with Frederick Water to see what resolutions. As I understand it, and I have not had an opportunity in the last few days to go out and look, but it appears that there is water very close to the neighborhoods of where these people reside. And I would like us to look at that. To see if there's a way that we can provide taps for these people to tap into a water source. Yes, sir. I just have a question. The number of people, do you know how many wells there are? I don't know how many wells, only that within just the last couple of days I've had probably five. Folks who have dry wells? Yes. At least five? Yes, at least five. Okay. Thanks. And they're all in close proximity. And I know that Supervisory Board members, Supervisor Jewell had spoken with someone today, I believe. Yes, ma'am. Last night I was notified of one. Okay. So is that six now? I would think that would be six. Okay. Thank you. So Mrs. Slaughter, and Mrs. Slaughter, I'll be glad to help you on that. The question is when we were doing the Carmoose situation, we had discussions on the aquifer underneath, et cetera. So has something, I'm just asking you the question, has something changed? Mr. Supervisor Dunn, I can't tell you. I can't tell you if anything has changed. Okay. Obviously. I mean, there is blasting that goes on every day. And I think we've had various people get up and speak about what blasting potentially could do or reroute an aquifer. And so I don't have the answers. I only know that from hearing from these citizens who have to go out and find a resource for water, that's the issue. And how do we address it when we have this resource so close? I was just asking, but yes. I don't have that answer. I'm glad to be helpful to you on that one. So if, Mr. Pearson, would that be something your department could help guide us with this? Yeah. I'm sure we can certainly help. I think we'll start with trying to gather some data as it relates to the complaints that you've had and figured out if they're existing shallows or well, and maybe they, I know one you had mentioned to me was kind of shallow, so we could figure out exactly what the problem is and then work with Frederick Warren and see if there is anything that we can do to address that. Okay. I think we should talk to Frederick Warren and see if there is a solution or if we're dealing with just a bunch of shallow wells and existing groundwater. We can certainly look into this. Well, I guess the other thing that was, that I had heard in some of the discussions with the citizens who live there is that, you know, these folks have lived in these homes for over 50 years, and they've not had an issue. We all know that we've had droughts and we learned about these droughts over the last hundred years. We've been able to get some results. We've been able to get some results. We've been able to get some results. We've got data in place of sludgeᅠ�** in these homes. Well, and let me están these voices on the microphone in this room. I certainly appreciate it and agree that we should look into it. So you have my assent on this but I do have a question and maybe a suggestion. Is this all potable water that they need or do they, would it help if they got non potable water for other purposes? They are actually, I think they could use the non potable but I don't know how easy it is to get one over the other and maybe there is a health department issue regarding that. They'll need access potable water because there's no way to separate the indoor plumbing for the purposes of operating their toilets and sanitary systems so it would have to be extension of the existing public water system via water mains and laterals to serve them if it were a public system solution but I think we'll start by gathering as much data as we can to figure out the problem and talk through Frederick Water. What the solution could be through Frederick Water. public system or if we have data we'll know a little bit better about what's causing it and then we can loop back. I only ask because when we were in severe drought a year ago that I believe it was the Car Moose company had offered non potable water for free to people and that was for farmers that were in distress or for perhaps other uses so that might alleviate you know at least some of the problem there we should we should probably ask if that's a possibility as well. we can hear you but not very loud better than the last meeting. I think when you were remembering Frederick Water hadn't activated the skin plant the TDS issue with one of their pits there they were offering potable water that or non potable water that could meet the drinking water standards but then that they could provide. But I believe that this would be more of a pipeline exercise, given that there's existing water treatment capacity in that area. But I just want to clarify, like, we don't need to be jumping towards the solution. The problem is, because it could very well just be, given the Brewstown Rural Community Center having a lot of really old homes in it, some really old homes that weren't dug at a depth that could withstand the tolerances that we're dealing with right now. And if that's the solution and investment in a major public infrastructure project, the solution may not be to invest in a major public infrastructure project, but we're going to go down this road and partner with Frederick Water to figure out what the problem is and if there are any solutions to it that we can be involved in. So I'm suspecting we have a consensus. Any other discussion before I go down? Just to see that we have at least four to direct planning to look at this. No discussion. Supervisor Jewell? I'm good. Supervisor Dunn? Supervisor Wells is nodding. I think we're all in agreement. Very good. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Thank you. Thank you. So we were in supervisor comments. Was that your only comment? Yes, sir. Okay. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So first, to all of you, just the other six of you. Mr. Carter. I made some comments here. I'll just echo his comments. When the issue on the rezoning comes up for the self-storage, look at the data. Here's what's said at the public hearing and make your own decision. I'm not going to influence one way or the other. I think that you have seven people here. Seven people are going to look at the data and go from there. So, Mr. Carter, seven people will make their decision based upon the data, not on what I say or don't say. And I think that's the fairest way. I think that's the fairest way to do it. You know, I have my thoughts. You have your thoughts. You get, you present items to a data, to a group of people and see what they say collectively. And that's what's going to come out of this. And we may be on the same side. We may not be on the same side. But this could be a thoughtful discussion. I appreciate all the work you've done on this. I know that we've done lots of work. And so has staff. So, you know, if you're not here on the 11th, your comments have been received here now. I'm well aware of them. And we can go forward on that. Thank you. You're welcome. Second comment. Mr. Cano, I just want to say thank you very much for your service. We appreciate your expertise. We appreciate your time. We appreciate the service you've done to Frederick County. We're sorry to see you go. We've lost one attorney. Now you're number two. But truly, you know, I wish you well in the next endeavor that you get involved in. And thank you very much for the expertise and service you've given to this board. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any other supervisor comments? Supervisor Lockridge. Yes. Just a quick one. I want to thank Mr. Pearson. You gave me an update just recently on Isles Lane. And so that goes for all of us. I think they are withholding their end of the bargain. And it means that we as taxpayers and the board will not have to pave the road. And hopefully it gets into the state system sooner than later. But I appreciate your time. And I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. safety improvements that had been identified along the way. So yeah, that's good news. We did the right thing in the long run it seems. If that's all Board of Supervisor comments, we move to item 8, County Official Business. 8A has been removed from the agenda so we go to 8B, the Director of Elections. Is there a presentation or just a request to us Mr. Baloff? There's just a request but the registrar or registrars here if you have any questions regarding the amount of 50,000. I have a question or two if I can start off with the Board's allowance but I don't know if you need to answer or maybe Mr. Baloff already knows because we talked about this a bit. So is this something we need to decide on tonight or we could take it up two weeks from now. This is the second year in a row we've gotten the request. It had to be urgently decided? Is this a standard procedure where you don't ask for these funds until a primary is declared because it's not in the budget? Right. That is right. I do not budget for a primary because they're not called every year. So once a budget or a primary is called, then I request the funds for that budget. Okay. And at this time, I'm only requesting the funds for the actual poll workers because I believe I do have the funds to pay to cover the rest of the election. So you have the funds to cover the mail, by mail ballots? The postage, correct. Like, for example, the March primary costs about just over $92,000. And the poll workers is the most expensive part. Yesterday, snafu and withdrawal from the Republican lieutenant. Governor is going to change a little bit. So I will have... I have to pay for printing of ballots twice. But I do believe I have enough funds remaining that I'll be able to cover the rest of the expenses. Just the poll workers, I do not have the funds for that. I thought there was a deadline for withdrawing to have your name removed from the ballot. Due to health issues, one of the candidates withdrew. So that canceled the Republican primary. Statewide. Okay. No primary. Any other questions? Yep. Just one. Mr. Kaczorski, seeing as there's no Republican primary, I believe there will be a Democratic lieutenant governor's primary. And some local races. But outside of that... Well, there's the dual... There is the primary for the Board of Supervisors for the Shawnee District and the Stonewall District. Right. All right. And then there's a Democrat... Right. And then there's a Democrat... Democratic primary for the entire county, all precincts, for the lieutenant governor and attorney general. Okay. You've answered my question without... Thank you. Okay. Any further questions? Thank you, sir. Board, how would you like to handle this? So this is a request for a supplemental appropriation for $50,000 to hold that June primary. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion for us to authorize the supplemental... General Fund Supplemental Appropriation for the Director of Elections in the amount of $50,000 for the June 2025 primary elections. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? On the motion, Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the funds are appropriated. Thank you. Item nine, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. We only have one tonight. This is an appointment of a slate of people representing the schools, top of Virginia, our own planning commission, and the Board of Supervisors, as well as Mr. Ballhoffer as the county staff representative. It's a minor model update year. They're just looking at the new data, inflation. And other factors, as opposed to last year where there was apparently a lot of work involved. And you've all had the slate in front of you. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the slate that is presented on our agenda this evening. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the appointments are made. We don't have anything under Item 10. Item 11, public hearings. So we have a proposed granting, 11A, proposed granting of an easement from the County of Frederick. Do we have a presentation on this item? Yes, Mr. Chairman. This is a request that staff had received from an adjoining property owner, Terrania LLC. They're requesting an easement across property owned by Frederick County at 252 Costello Drive, which is the main property. The property is located in the Millwood Station Events Center. What they are proposing to do is construct a sidewalk to connect the parking lot at the Events Center to the property lot of the building adjacent to it. They have entered into a contract with Valley Health to put a medical clinic in the upstairs of that building that has been currently vacant. Valley Health has entered into an agreement, a shared parking agreement with the Events Center for their employees because there's a tenant on the first floor of the building, and then with them occupying the second, they're going to have to put a medical clinic in the upstairs of that building. They're going to have to put a medical clinic in the upstairs of that building. There's not, they felt if the employees parked there, there wouldn't be adequate patient parking. So the property owner asked that the county would be willing to consider an easement where they would construct a sidewalk so their folks could go straight from the parking lot into their building versus walking down the driveway at the Events Center and then in front of Costello Drive and into the facility. The total cost of that sidewalk would be borne by Terrania LLC and or Valley Health. And there's a public hearing tonight on this. The proposed easement and Ms. Vicki Lord with Valley Health is here if the board has any specific questions. Thank you. One question. Will there be signs telling the employees where to park, and is there a written agreement on what's been set aside? They will have to enter into a shared parking agreement with the Events Center, and I believe our planning department has that template because it's a common thing that we do. So then Valley Health will let their employees know this is where you park for your employees. It won't necessarily be signed, but they do have a designated parking. So they can park their parking spaces in the Events Center parking lot. Okay. And my only concern was that we not interfere with the fire station operations. I spoke to volunteer Chief Miller, and he told me as long as they're parking in the banquet lot and not in the lot up front where the station is, then it wouldn't interfere. And he believes they'll be given the first row to your left after you've gone up the hill. That's what I'm understanding. There's like the retaining wall, and then there's a row on top of the retaining wall, those would be the spaces that would be allotted to Valley Health. I think it's like 10 or 12 spaces that they would be renting from the Events Center. Okay. So I just wanted to let the board know that the chief is fine with it. That parking will not interfere with any of their operations. So is that the only presentation? That is, unless you have questions for Ms. Lord with Valley Health. Any questions for Valley Health? I have a question for Mr. Tibbs, if I may. Mr. Tibbs, I'm guessing that our, our legal team has reviewed this easement granting, and this is the most appropriate way to facilitate the sidewalk. It is. We had that conversation this morning. As a matter of fact, we were discussing whether it should be an easement or a license agreement, but legal felt that an easement was, given what they were doing, and that it would be a more permanent structure, that an easement was much more appropriate than the license agreement, since they were actually, investing money in constructing a sidewalk. Okay. I guess I'm wondering, are there any utilities that go into the county facilities that would create an issue with this, with the sidewalk? No, we had a plat in your packet, and that there was a, there is a, I think a water sewer connection beyond where they were proposing to locate the sidewalk, but there are no utilities. I think there's a water sewer connection underneath where they're proposing. So it's no, there will be no issues then for Frederick County as far as granting the, this, and continuing doing business as we currently do. All right. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? Hearing none, then this is a public hearing item. Ms. Phillips, has anyone signed up? No one. So this only involves people in a small area. It doesn't surprise me, but is there anyone who would like to speak about this sidewalk that's going to go into the, the Millwood Fire Station from the adjacent property? Seeing no one, I'll call, close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I make the motion that we approve. We have a motion. Do we have a second? I'll second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion? Then we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Lee. Aye. Aye. The Chair votes aye, and the easement is granted. Moving to item 12, we're all still in public hearings. Well, you come up here before I could say anything, so I'll let you take it from there. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a public hearing for rezoning 0-225 for the Stevenson Depot commercial project, and this is a rezoning request on two parcels totaling 5.78 acres that are presently zoned B-2 General Business and M-1 Light Industrial, and the applicant is seeking to rezone those parcels to B-2 with proffers. The subject property is located at the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District, and there were previous proffers associated with this parcel. Most recently, it's 2009. Of course, you all are well aware of the parcels, and there's been no development activities since 2009. This is your countywide locator map showing the general location of the subject parcels, and Northeast Frederick County in the Stonewall Magisterial District. The properties are outlined in red, and this is your zoning and location map showing a more detailed overview of that intersection. The subject parcels are outlined in purple there at the corner of Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road on the northeast side of the intersection, and the existing orange coloration that you see on one of the parcels is the existing B-2 zoning, and the blue colorization is the existing M-1 parcel. All right. Your comprehensive plan and your northeast land use plan speak to the future use of these parcels. They identify the subject properties with a business land use designation and within the limits of the county's urbanized development area, or UDA, and the sewer and water service area, or SWASA. Further, the northeast land use plan speaks to the specific use of these properties at this intersection, noting that properties west of the rail corridor may be well-suited to meet community needs for anchor retail, and staff would note that the proposed rezoning, partially implements plan policy specific to the land uses, and I'll speak a little bit to that in additional slides. This is your future adopted long-range land use plan showing the subject properties outlined or identified with the orange colorization, which represents business designation. You can see the area is north of Old Charlestown Road, and on either side of Martinsburg Pike, going to the north are also all planned for future business uses. In addition to those land use policies, there are plan policies specific to the future use plan. The proposed plan will be implemented in the future transportation in the vicinity of the subject properties. Both Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road are identified as improved collector roadways, and there is on our plans an identified roundabout at the intersection of those two roadways that's planned for future development. Design work on that project is underway, and it will be coming to fruition in the near future. The proposal is fully consistent with plan policy as it pertains to your transportation policies, and site access to the properties is limited to one, full-mass, and multi-hours. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. Gerstenmaier Juan Gall Angel, small number of employees physically andる reacted to the project proposal. Gerstenmaier Juan Gall Angel, small number of employees physically and really excited to see the individuality and the standards in which it is 베 ro sinl as this project is судed in her last statement. Another option on the project plan, is a system of public funding or building funds as opposed to the construction of the commercial based land basedquè Also, not only are not design parts . There is requires additional investment to the material Russia investment Generalized Development Plan, or GDP. Proffer B provides a number of land use restrictions. The applicant has proffered to limit weekday traffic to 4,798 trips. They've also provided a principal land use permitted list, which includes a number of uses that would be allowed on property. Anything outside of this list that would otherwise be allowed in B2 would be prohibited on these properties. There was one change today, which is outlined in red on the screen, where the applicant has removed gas station with convenience as a standalone use, and they have further specified that fuel sales or gas would be permitted incidental to principal retail trade and or principal food sale uses. So that was a minor change, speaking to some of the concerns raised by the Planning Commission about anchor retail, and they've agreed to provide gas only where it would be accessory to other permitted uses on their list, and they would not provide a standalone gas convenience that you all are quite familiar with around the county. They've also agreed to limit the development of self-service. So that would be the storage to where it was expressly delineated on the generalized development plan, which I'll show on another slide. So again, that self-storage would not be the primary use on the corner. It would be limited to the rear of one of the parcels, which I'll show later in the presentation. Proffer C speaks to their transportation enhancements. They've agreed to limit site access to two points. As I noted earlier, that would be a full commercial entrance from Old Charlestown Road and a limit to a right in right out on Route 11. They've agreed to provide turn lanes where those would be. warranted by the Virginia Department of Transportation. They've provided the multi- they will be providing the multi-use trail that's envisioned in our comprehensive plan along Martinsburg Pike and sidewalks along Old Charlestown Road, ensuring that there's pedestrian access to their parcels. They've agreed to provide a $50,000 monetary contribution for transportation improvements along Martinsburg Pike. Those would be to use at the county's discretion, and they've agreed to provide the right of way reservations for the future improvements along. Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road, including that future roundabout at the intersection, which is under development. Proffer D speaks to site design controls. They've agreed to provide a historic preservation interpretation plaza at the intersection with an historic information kiosk. They've agreed to limit the maximum building height to 30 feet. This is a reduction from what would otherwise be allowed in B-2, which is 35 feet. They've made a commitment to high-quality construction materials, including stone and brick materials, as the primary use. As a construction بعد, they've agreed the limit is 50 feet with a啤m and Cettex, which is a limited height to 30 feet. This is a reduction from what would otherwise be allowed in B-2, which is 35 feet. They've made a commitment to high-quality construction materials, including stone and brick materials as the primary use. the primary facade treatment on those buildings. They've agreed to some additional screening of rooftop mechanical equipment. They've agreed to limit the maximum size of signage under what would otherwise be allowed on those roadways to 75 square feet. And they've provided for enhanced buffering and screening, not only along the road, but adjoining properties as well. That is above and beyond what would otherwise be required by the zoning ordinance. And finally, proffer E speaks to monetary contributions to offset their development impact. They're providing the 10 cents per gross square foot of buildings to county fire and rescue services, which is a proffer you typically see with commercial rezonings. This is the applicant's generalized development plan, which outlines those proffer and improvements, which I covered in earlier slides. And for your orientation, this is Old Charlestown Road running north to south on the screen. And then this is Martinsburg Pike at the bottom. You can see the area included in the hatch, just where they intend to develop self-storage. That is at the rear of the property from Old Charlestown Road. And then this is the area included in the hatch, just where they intend to develop self-storage. That is at the rear of the property from Old Charlestown Road. They've also identified where they're going to do their historic plaza, which kind of doesn't show up. And then again at the corner with the signage. And then the generalized development plan also shows those potential entrance locations. Again, that full commercial entrance on Old Charlestown Road in a limited right in, right out on Route 11. Staff would note that those are conceptual locations for those entrances. They're, of course, subject to VDOT approval and depending on the use and what VDOT would call for. And then again, those are conceptual locations for those entrances. They're, of course, subject to VDOT approval and depending on the use and what VDOT would call for at the time of actual development. So while they're shown on the GDP for purposes of planning, they are subject to a final approval from VDOT and they may otherwise shift or be removed depending on what is ultimately allowed on the site. So in summary, this is a request to rezone two parcels totaling 5.78 acres from the B2 and M1 zoning district to the B2 zoning district with proffers to enable commercial development. As is customary with our staff report, we've included positives and concerns. Again, we had a late change today, so the concern has been otherwise resolved. But the positives is that the application fully implements plan policy specific to the plan transportation improvements. They have proffered a permitted use list which seeks to implement plan policy specific to that anchor retail that's envisioned in your Northeast land use plan. They've included a number of site design controls that limit self-storage and proffered and speak to the nature of the high quality architecture and site design that they intend to implement on the site. And they have made that monetary contribution to fire rescue services. Again, that one concern about gas convenience that was raised in the staff report has been otherwise resolved by those amended proffers that were provided late in the day today and have been provided to you all this evening. So the Planning Commission held a public hearing on April 2nd and they did recommend approval of the rezoning. There were some proffer modifications that were discussed at the Planning Commission that have been included in what has been provided to you all. So the Planning Commission's comments have been addressed and this item is presented tonight as a public hearing item. Following this public hearing, staff would be seeking a decision by the Board on this proposed rezoning. Chris Moen is here this evening. He's representing Croatan Capital and I believe he has some remarks for you all as well. And I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Yes, I have a question or two. Go ahead. Could you go back to the previous slide? So summary, this request to rezone 5.78 acres from B2 General Business. So that's what it is now. It is. And the M1, they want to do it. They want to join those two together under. So you're only rezoning the M1 back into. You're technically rezoning both. The B2 property that exists has some current proffers on it and they are. Are you changing the proffers? Yes, sir. You would be changing the proffers. I got you. The biggest change being that they have proffered to a permitted use list which restricts the use of the property to about eight uses which speaks to that anchor retail opportunity. So they've greatly limited the number of B2 uses down from what is normally about 39 or 40 uses down to eight. So you've got. Thank you. Any other questions? Just one comment. I think another positive that you found in your board packet was the materials that they would be using to construct and keeping with the historic nature of the area. And so I really appreciated seeing that in there as well. I have two questions if I may. So that map is perfect. It's what I was going to ask you to put up. So all the supervisors might not have seen it. I don't think anyone spoke. I don't think anyone spoke against this at the Planning Commission as I recall. But in any case, we all received an e-comment, I think it was today, from a gentleman. And I believe it's the home immediately to the left. Yep, right there. And so I see a little road which might be his driveway, a little dark path there. So he had two concerns. One was whether he would be able to safely enter and exit his home given where that right in, right out is showing. You said that's only conceptual at this point. It might not be there. What guarantees does he have? What will VDOT do to assure or do we need to tonight see if we can get some stipulations to make sure that driveway is protected? Absolutely. They have an existing residential entrance permit on their property which guarantees their right to access the property from Route 11. In VDOT's review of this rezoning, they discussed the spacing. So the spacing of that requested entrance from Route 11 and there are spacing requirements that are required by VDOT and our ordinance that speak to its separation from other existing entrances including residential driveways. It's shown on here as a conceptual. They are not guaranteed a right in, right out. They've proffered to that that that would be the minimum or the maximum kind of standard that they could get. But depending on what the final use is, what the actual traffic is at the time that they're seeking the rezoning, what the status is of that roundabout, what the actual traffic is at the time that they're seeking the rezoning, what the status is of that roundabout, they may be given a lesser standard. They may be given only a right in or no entrance depending on what the use is. So VDOT would make that determination at that time. Again, they've proffered themselves to the opportunity to have two uses. But if VDOT doesn't approve it, we wouldn't approve the site plan and they wouldn't be able to get that entrance there. But if VDOT doesn't approve it, we wouldn't approve the site plan and they wouldn't be able to get that entrance there. Well, I believe that VDOT would not let them block someone's driveway. Well, I believe that VDOT would not let them block someone's driveway. Absolutely. But the question is whether there would be a lot of heavy traffic there and it would become less safe. That was the concern, I think. There certainly is the concern for that. Obviously they will need to make any necessary improvements to ensure lines of sight, tapers for acceleration in and out, or rather out of their property. Some of those maybe required to be done off site. Some of those maybe required to be done off site. So they'd have to negotiate with that adjoining property owner to make sure that they had the proper easement of things recorded at that time. So there's still work to be done at that. But certainly that concern was raised with VDOT and that's shown that that location, for that reason, taken into account the separation from the old Charlestown Road, that is, the old west end road, that is, the old west end road, that is, the old west end road, that is, the old west end road, that is, the old west end road, road intersection and with the residential driveways to the north. So that it would be by right once we rezone, correct? Yes, sir. Well, it's currently B2 right now. There's a lot that they could build, so it wouldn't come back to us. We wouldn't have a role here to assure, we would have to trust VDOT and- It would be an administrative process with the planning department. We do review the site plan and we seek a VDOT approval on all of our plans before the zoning administrator signs off on them. I would just note again that that existing corner is already B2 and it's not limited to what uses are there. So someone could come in right now and develop B2 and have an entrance and they'd be given an entrance on Route 11 right now. They've proffered down their use list and also agreed to provide an entrance on Old Charlestown Road. So there may be some access from there that provides circulation to that front piece as well. Okay, thank you. My second question was on screening. I noticed that section D here. I know it lists screening of the view to the road. Does it screen the neighbors like this one? It would certainly. That's a zoning- It's a zoning requirement that we require that adjoining residential property, there's a requirement for at least a category C type buffer, which is about 50 feet in distance plus the landscaping and fence element. They've proffered again that enhanced screening, which is shown in the highlight green along the Old Charlestown Road, which is to screen from the adjoining historic property south of Old Charlestown Road. Thank you very much. Any other questions? And did you say there was another- Mr. Moan is here this evening. I believe he has a few remarks for you all as well. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. For the record, I am Chris Moan with Greenway Engineering, representing Crote and Capital 2 LLC, who is the applicant with this rezoning. I really don't have anything substantive to add to what Mr. Klein has presented. And I was prepared to address some of the issues that Mr. McDonald had raised regarding his property. I would like to thank the board for their support of the planning of this project. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And similarly, the buffering and screening aspect, the buffer type around that property will include the distance buffer as well as required screening to include a six-foot fence as well if that remains a residential use. The only other comment I would like to make is that we are very pleased with where we've gotten to with the permitted use list. I think there's been a lot of really great engagement with the Planning Commission and staff, other stakeholders, and board members. So I think we do have a rezoning here that sets a precedent for how subsequent rezonings in this area can occur. And I think will certainly contribute to realization of the comp plan vision for this property. So with that said, certainly ask for your approval this evening, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have as well. Any questions for Mr. Moan? Is that right? Correct. Supervisor Dunn. Just one question on the gas station. So. I saw the revised proper. You're familiar with the gas station at the corner of Greenwood and Route 7. It's a small two-pump, three-pump item. Across from it is a retail strip mall operation. Is that the type of incorporation that you're talking about, or is it more expensive than that? I think it's a little bit more limited than that. I think a better example would be the Martins on Route 7 that has the gas station. So if you're talking about a gas station, you're talking about a gas station that has gas pumps that are associated with that. That's considered more of an ancillary or accessory gas station in that situation. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other questions? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you all. This is a public hearing. Ms. Phillips, has anyone signed up? Todd and Tina Bragg. . Thank you all. . Thank you. . Thank you. Thank you. . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Tina Bragg, a 40-year resident of the Samal district. I know growth is coming our way. There's nothing I can do about that. I mean, Snowden Bridge is an absolute nightmare. This is mainly going to serve the people of Snowden Bridge. When we came into town this evening at 545, there were 18 vehicles stopped at the traffic light at the corner of Old Charlestown and Route 11. In between that traffic light and Weber's Nursery, we passed another 32 cars en route to that intersection. To put entrances from this onto Route 11 and Old Charlestown Road, I don't know if any of you have driven out there and seen this. I know Judy knows what I'm talking about. But if you haven't driven out there, I ask that you do and see how much traffic there is in this area now. I know VDOT's going to put in a roundabout. That causes concerns because there's a lot of traffic. There are two elementary schools in the area that have to go through this. And I know, you know, that's VDOT's decision. There's nothing we can do about that. But there is, you know, bus traffic for the two elementary schools. When 81 is closed, traffic from 81 uses Route 11 as a bypass. I have been speaking with Albert Bowden at VDOT. There are, you can look online and you can find the traffic studies. And. I looked at 2022 and 2023. If I was looking at the right column and he was directing me where to look, between in the period of one year, there was an increase of 7,700 cars going through that intersection. Now I asked him for clarification of that today and he had gotten back to me by the time I left my office. The $50,000 proffer they are offering for future road work, $50,000 is nothing when it comes to road work. And we all know that. For them to say they can limit the traffic to $4,700 or 4,700 cars a day. How? How can you say that's all that's going to use that every day? To get onto Old Charlestown Road right now, the turning lane is very short at that intersection. To use that turning lane and then to have to turn into where this development wants to go. I don't see how that's going to work. Traffic coming out of Snowy. Snowden Bridge is already jumping in front of traffic going straight on Old Charlestown. In the space of two weeks, last November, my husband and I, we don't travel through there. We use Route 11 because we live down across from the fairgrounds, you know, behind Karmus Mountain. But there were two accidents in a two-week period. People from Snowden Bridge pulling out in front of the people on Old Charlestown Road. Who's to say that's not going to happen down here? And I know none of us can guarantee that. But I know that's going to happen. And I guarantee that it will or that it won't. You know, those are just my concerns. You know, the amount of traffic, which is already bad. Thank you. Thank you. Todd Bragg. No, he's waving off, I believe. That's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else here who'd like to speak about this rezoning? No, that's the end of the list. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you. Thank you. We have a question from Todd Bragg. Todd Bragg, who is the executive director of the Texas Railway Commission. He says that he is going to work on building a new railroad system for the overdue transit transportation. He says, he's going to have to do this in June. That's the end of the list. Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. This is in Stonewall. Yes sir, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to make one comment regarding the traffic issue and I know, I can't remember what month we had it, but we had Snowden Bridge who had asked for some modifications to their original rezoning and one of the stipulations that I felt was very important was the connection of Snowden Bridge Boulevard within that community so there isn't just the one way out from Old Charlestown Road and I do believe that once that connection is made that a lot of people will go up to the traffic light at Rutherford Crossing. So I'm hopeful that maybe that will help alleviate some of the traffic that is mainly using Old Charlestown Road but I obviously I haven't done the the TIA study to know where we are right now. Yeah absolutely, that is a teenager of my態 I have been providing laid-down vehicles of my days. So iets like Lyft's empathetic viewers and whole motifs has been done over the last year. Yeah, The transit line works as well, as because in the idea of a like the fact thatstudentOf the had experienced driving liked the service a lot more there's a there's conditions that they would say things that couldn't be done in general. with regard to the retail anchors. We have a motion. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I would also note that in this rezoning request, we already know that the portion of this is already zoned, as Mr. Wells noted in some of the earlier discussion of B2. So there is a portion already B2, and what the Croatian capital has proffered out, and proffered out, as Mr. Klein pointed out, they could have used 39 uses. We've got that number down substantially. So it's very specific in nature. And I believe that they've worked really hard with our planning commissioners to make sure that they've addressed a number of those issues. So I appreciate all the work that has gone into this. At all levels, staff and planning commission, and certainly appreciate the applicants' willingness to work with us. Any other comments from the board? I'll just say I sympathize with everyone who's frustrated with how fast the county is growing. Growth is good, but we only want it to come a little at a time. And this county is one of the fastest growing in Virginia. It makes things very difficult. I do appreciate prior work of this board and of the planning department. And I appreciate the effort that you've made in the past year and a half in fashioning our ordinances over the years. You might note in the presentation that we have screening requirements for businesses. And we do the best we can to make sure that every single thing that comes to the county is as little impact as possible. This board is also investing in roads and doing other things. I mean, Route 11 is famously one of the worst, one of the most difficult corridors. And the money we invested in it is a lot. Thank you. And it is about to see a number of improvements in that area. So, that's all I can say. I mean, I've experienced it at my own home as well. I've seen a major trucking establishment built that's about to open an entire mountainside with trees blasted down and homes built next to me. And they're about to connect some more roads, which will increase traffic in my area. It's something we're all wrestling with here. I just note that they already have the right to do all that. to build and the question is whether this as proffered is better than than what had been approved in prior years in the zoning I think that's probably what's gonna drive everybody's vote today that's my comment so we can proceed to a vote we have a motion to approve supervisor Leero hi supervisor Lockridge I vice chair I supervisor well supervisor done my supervisor jewel I chair votes aye and 11 a is approved sorry 12 a the next item 12 B is also a public hearing conditional use permit 0 1 25 thank you mr. chairman this conditional use permit is a public hearing conditional use permit 0 1 25 application is for Val Clues Holdings for a 44 acre property zoned our a rural areas for a special event facility to public restaurants in a campground resort in the Bat Creek Magisterial District this application may look familiar it was approved last year under different under a different proposal and this seeks to expand that proposal on this map the property is indicated by the red box it's located south of the town of Steven City and roughly three quarters of a mile west of route 11 along Val Clues Road the property here is outlined in purple and the entrance on Val Clues Spring Lane is directly south off of Alcluse Road the applicant proposes a special event facility with up to 40 events per year each with a maximum of 160 guests they propose amplified outdoor music and outdoor events to conclude by 11 p.m. they proposed two restaurants out of the park are open to visitors and guests and the open to the public in existing structures. The campground resort would include 12 new cabins in addition to the existing structures utilized as guest rooms. The proposal includes approximately 124 new parking spaces to accommodate the guests and anticipates around 45 employees being necessary on rotating shifts. Other uses such as the spa and art gallery are considered to be accessory uses. This is a schematic design for the project for your orientation. Valclus Road is on the left side of the map where you can see the main entrance. The applicant plans to keep all of the historic structures currently on the property, put additions onto four of the structures, and add parking and new structures spread out amongst the property. This table compares what was approved under the CUP 11-23 versus what is being approved under the CUP 11-23. The second figure we'll visit would be a presentation data先 mismo. How obviously, this items is being explained at an individual level, but slot rates need to make it소 was very clear that this was a case in question by the Brussels Commission. Switzerland, públic du Massé, France . And a short time ago, we were on this side oflicting to capsizing into theечно fur Miles to x.07 disease by 13.Coars, upstairs toezer to each of thebês we went up and looking there, the Wars was at 32,center to 60 with böyleum mono and concrete sector in the sub end plus 16こちら couture was held at a astronomic area and eure x2 cyclones, lifting upwards 1 9ァ was implemented to last 24 hours each region and the conditions were followed. When requesting the transferring models under the 20 year plan, an attempt had been made that guests maximum. The number of rooms on the property was going to be just the 15 existing guest rooms for the previous CUP whereas this proposal includes adding 12 additional cabins to the property. The restaurants the previous CUP included one restaurant with 64 seats at maximum capacity. This conditional use permit proposal includes that restaurant and another one with a 44 seats at maximum capacity. The amplified outdoor music was conditioned to be cut off at 9 o'clock p.m. in the previous CUP. This proposal originally proposed 11 p.m. however upon recommendation from the Planning Commission the applicant has agreed to move that to down to 10 p.m. from 11 p.m. and that has been added as a condition as well. In terms of the comprehensive plan this property is designated to remain rural. The property is designated to remain rural. The property is designated to remain rural. The proposed use is generally in conformance with the comprehensive plan. For example the rural areas chapter includes a goal to promote the county's preferred uses for the rural areas including supportive uses for agriculture, historic preservation, tourism and strengthening land conservation initiatives. Furthermore the business development chapter includes a goal to ensure that business owners are supported in their efforts to bring tourism activities to the local consumer market. Should the Board of Trustees request any support from the CUP to the proposed use plans? Move the motion. Motion agreed. Should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission would recommend the following conditions. Number one, all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Number two, an engineered site plan meeting all requirements of the zoning ordinance, including the additional regulations for special event facilities and campgrounds, must be approved by Frederick County prior to establishment of the uses. Number three, tractor, truck, trailer deliveries to the property are prohibited except during construction and renovations. Number four, special events may not exceed 160 guests. Number five, a maximum of 40 special events may be held per year. Both restaurants may be open to the public on the same day for a maximum of four days per week. However, both restaurants may be open to guests that are staying on the property. That would be for seven days. That would be for seven days a week. Amplified outdoor music shall conclude by 10 o'clock p.m. Approval of this conditional use permit would void and replace previously approved CUP 1123. And finally, any expansions or changes of use would require a new CUP. This item is presented for public hearing this evening. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 19th and April 2nd and recommended approval of the application. Tonight, staff are seeking a decision by the Board. On this CUP request, that concludes my presentation. I'm happy to address any questions. And the property owner and their representative, Marissa Whitaker with Greenway Engineering, is present as well to address any questions. Thank you. Do they have a presentation or are they just here to answer questions? They're just here to answer questions. Very good. So any questions for the presenter or for the applicant? Supervisor Dunn? So I have a couple questions. One, what's the definition? Of an event? So for example, is an event a Saturday, Sunday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday? Or is an event just a one-day time frame? I do have the definition. I just need one moment to find it. Sorry. So a special event facility is defined as events that are typically conducted on a single day, but which may be conducted for up to three consecutive days, for which attendance is permitted only by, invitation or reservation. Special events include, but are not limited to, meetings, conferences, banquets, dinners, weddings, and private parties. So then we're talking about something between 40 days and 120 days of events, correct? Correct. They're proposing a maximum of 40 events per year. Okay. Second question. I remember when this was done in 2023 or so. Mm-hmm. At the time. Yeah. So I'm not sure. At that time, we had a discussion on noise. They've now wanted to move from 9 to 10. So my first question is, what was the thought process behind moving from 9 to 10? Initially 11, and they've come back. We had this discussion. It's a rural area. So what's the purpose for 9 to 10? And the adjoining question is, is that just for events or on the four days that the restaurants are open to the public? Can they have amplified music there during that time as well? I would defer that question to the applicant on why they wanted, because I wanted to move the cutoff time from 9 p.m. to 11 and then scale back to 10. In terms of whether or not that applies to the events or a regular day, I believe the way the condition reads, it could be any day is when amplified outdoor music could be used. Okay. Thank you. Mm-hmm. Any other questions? Mr. Chairman, one other. In that area, I know some of you are more familiar with this than I am. But how close are adjacent property owners, residential property owners? I'm not talking about commercial, but how close are residential property owners to this property? There is a, the closest residence is behind, up behind this property. I'm not sure off the top of my head how many feet it is. They share a private access easement, so it would probably be 211 Valcluse Spring Lane. They have spoken out before. They have spoken out before at public hearings that they don't have any problems with the proposal. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Wells. So, we're talking about, and I'm very familiar with Valcluse from the day Mr. Cholmondeley was there as the artist. So, I know that when it was taken over and turned into a bed and breakfast type situation, cabins, log cabins were moved there. Mm-hmm. When we're talking about the construction of the building, we're talking about the construction of the building. We're talking about campgrounds and cabins. I'm also 52 years in the Boy Scouts. I know what a campground is to Boy Scouts. I don't think that's what we're talking about. I'd like some assurance that that's not a campground, people tenting and so forth and so on. So, campground is going to be with structured cabins? Yes. The campground would not include any tent camping or RV parking or anything of that nature. Okay. So, it's the way the ordinance is written, it's what would fall, what would the 12 cabins would fall under a campground and have to meet those regulations? They would look traditionally, am I assuming they would look like the cabins are, they're really not, they're cabins, but they're really places to stay overnight, if you will. Correct. Yeah. And they're very nice on the outside. Okay. Okay. Second question. And the noise. The noise is a big problem. And the noise is a big problem. And the noise is a big problem. I think the reason for two restaurants, I'm asking whoever, why do we need two restaurants? I would defer to the applicant on that one. Sure. So, to the mic. Hello, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Thank you for having us here. I'm a chef. So, I've been in the fine dining world. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I'm a chef. I've been in the fine dining world my whole life. And after the first public hearing and buying the property and everything and finding out the history of all this and meeting the neighbors, and I was, one of the questions and one of my things was, well, I want to be there for the neighbors too and for the community. So, opening up the house where John Chumley lived before, keeping the interior, the low cabin woods and stuff, but making it smaller. And I'm happy to say, I think that's what's happening. I think that's what's happening. And I'm not saying that it's not happening. I think that the hotel is a smaller community restaurant there. It's more approachable than fine dining, that the people from the area can come and have a nice burger. But as well, hotel guests can have a second meal on property without having to spend too much money. So, that's kind of why we were doing this. And the space was there. We are keeping the rooms. I mean, this wasn't in for many years before. So, I think that's it. It's all in there. It's all in there. It's all in there. Yeah. The reason why I wanted to do this, to give back to the community. My question was two restaurants. I'm assuming two buildings. Yeah. One is in the manor house, the beautiful manor house that was built in 1785. It's in that house? The restaurant is going to be in the house, yeah. And then the second restaurant will be in the first building on the property where Mr. Chumley lived before. So you're using the buildings that are currently there. Yes. As the restaurant. And as well to open up because even the grandchildren of the Chumley family reached out and they're so happy to come and visit and stuff. That's good. I'm glad Bonnie and Jeff and all of them came to see you. Yeah. He called me last time too and he wanted to come but I was... So, but that clears up a lot. So campground isn't campground as some might think and restaurants are being used in the space you currently have. Yes. And the only thing with the manor house is because of the size we are adding a kitchen basically. But it's done by great architects and it's really nicely done. It's not just an addition block next to a beautiful historic building. It's... Those are the only questions I had, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Jan, while you're up there, thank you for the tour and your time the other day. Can you also explain about the events, what you told me you were envisioning that day? Yeah. So, I'm going to go to the next slide. Okay. So, I'm a chef again and my passion is cooking for people and making people happy. This is a big investment too for us so we had to find ways to bring in some money. I do not want to be called an event venue. That's definitely not. I... Everything that's kind of hurts me too when I see the language but for me it's more like the... When we have a regular guest coming on property and he's been coming for many years. I worked at Goodstone and Middleburg before. We have people coming back every year for 60, 70 years and their grandmother, the funeral was being given there but then the grandchildren, you know, like their part has been given there. I think that's more why going up from more events for me too was what is considered an event, you know, like having a public... I call it business meetings and stuff for 12 people is considered an event too. So, for me it was more like... I had a... I... Sorry for my language but they can go to the county next to us if they want to do 90 or 100 events, you know. For me it's more like we're doing vegetable gardens and stuff where we're definitely don't want to just be an event venue, you know. And I think what I was going to say too... Yeah, the smaller... The events, sorry. Sorry, I'm a little nervous but... But... But yeah, the events for me is what is an event. So, I wanted to make sure that we are... From 9 to 10 as well, we do weddings and sometimes it's kind of stopping at 9. I don't know how that got into the language last time that I was at 9 but we went to 11 for kind of, you know, it's, you know, a wedding but I... Because I do not want to be an event venue only. I didn't mind to go back to a 10 o'clock to get this approved. 9, I believe that it's a little like early to stop an event but, you know, the noise at least, sorry. So, I remember you being here a couple of years ago and I appreciate the work you've done. I have two questions. One on the kitchen. You're going to add a new structure to the main manor house. The main manor house. If I'm looking at the main manor house, you're building that structure on the back or the side? It's... There was like you had the main manor house and then there was a summer kitchen built next to it that was connected to each other by the renovation in 1995. That's becoming our pastry and bakery now and then we're just adding in that corner between... It's kind of a little strange structure right now. You have the manor house in full and then the kitchen next to it so we're adding a kind of... We're gluing it together with a more fishbowl kitchen with windows that people can look inside the kitchen and looking over the terraces. Okay. So, second question and I asked staff, I'll ask you as well. I'm sensitive to the noise issue. I'm just telling you that. I am sensitive to the noise issue. Yeah. But if the people that are adjacent to you are not, then I'm not. So... I had a phone call this morning from Jason and this morning he was my neighbor. He said, do you need me tonight? I can be there if you have issues. And I said, I think we will be fine. And my back neighbor, he was... Like he started, he bought and he renovated in 1995 and he's very proud of what we're doing right now. Okay. So, they're very excited what we're doing. Thank you. They really want to be a good neighbor and a good part of this community too. So, yeah. Thank you. Appreciate it. You're welcome. Thank you. Any other questions? I'll just go ahead. Okay. In the comments from VDOT on the transportation, can someone speak to the transportation network that serves this facility? Hi. Marissa Whitaker with Green Bay Engineering. Yeah. So, we worked with VDOT. We received comments from them. They were concerned that we were going to have too many trips per day. We provided information for them that showed that we were significantly less than what they were estimating, but they still without the hard evidence because the ITE is very, is very general and not very specific. Like, the use for this property is going to be way more limited than what ITE presented. So, that was their reasoning for not being able to provide the support, but we provided the conditions that we felt would help ease some of VDOT's concerns. Supervisor Lockridge? Yes. Do you have enough parking for, to answer your question? Yes. I just wanted to increase it to the 160 guests. Do you have enough parking on site? And the reason I ask that, we just, I think all of us probably received just recently, there is maybe a neighbor who is just concerned about how, where the cars are parking, but also that the roads, so back to the traffic, he sat and count, he did a count and said the roads are kind of already at max, according to him. But of course VDOT would be more specific. So, two questions there was, are there enough spaces for your, to increase it to 160? For the special events, the idea is that if it's going to be a big event, is that they are kind of grouped together and caravaned in. Okay. And the main people that would be staying on the property would be the ones that would be using the parking. Yes. Okay. So we're trying to keep a reduction for events down. I worked in many wedding events in Loudoun County and we like at Goodstone and Middleburg, the bigger events, they always had black limousine buses picking up the guests in different hotels because those events are bigger events that people stay in the local other hotels like. And that's when the buses are being paid by the guests, they're driving people over from that. So there's definitely, it's not going to be 160 cars on property. And do you currently have that option? I mean, do guests currently take advantage of that or will that just be a recommendation? Because that would be less traffic on the road essentially. Yeah. If you're going to be using buses to. For us, it's definitely a recommendation to the guests. It is, currently we're not open, so. Okay. Yeah, there's nothing, but there were weddings before we started as well. So, and again, the 160 person events is not going to be 40 events of 160. It's just like up to 160 people. Okay. So you're, I'm a little confused. So your previous conditional use, you've not actually been open and running that? No. He had decided to go ahead and move forward with a second conditional use. Okay. So he's going to be open for a second conditional use before we do the site plan. So we have everything done at one time rather than doing two site plans. Okay. So neighbors wouldn't even know, but some of the cabins and stuff have been utilized or no? No. Nothing. Okay. Then. Yes. Before we purchase. Yes, yes, yes. For, it's been an instance, 1995 with 15 rooms on property. And we are, another thing is that we're not going to, this is a plan for many years to come. So we're not going to, we're not going to, we're not going to, we're not going to have a plan for the next 15 years. Okay. So we're not going to have a plan for the next 15 years. Okay. We're not going to start with 25 rooms in the beginning where I think currently have 11 to start with, just that we don't have to come back every year. Yes. You know. And redo conditions. And redo everything. Yes. So this is going to be a lot. We, we maximize all the numbers for Vita too, on the maximum of 25 rooms per year. 12 cabins and 15 rooms. And we still come out a lot less than what they have. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you for the clarification. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. So this is a public hearing. And Mr. Chair, just to let you know, we're going to switch to a manual timer. Our automatic timer has been messing with our speakers, so you'll be hearing Jake say time. Okay. The only speaker we have signed up is Andy Wright. My name is Andy Wright. I'm a Back Creek district. I live on Bacluse Road. My house is about 1,800 feet as a crow flies from Bacluse Inn. I've lived there for about 25 years. I'd like to start by saying that I'm a big believer in landowner rights and that folks that own land have the right to do with it what they want. And from that perspective, I support the project. However, there is a problem with this one, and it's Bacluse Road. On February 6, VDOT, and I quote, as presented, we cannot support the CUP. There's a reason for that. They state that there's 80 cars a day normally. I completely disagree with that. Last Saturday, I sat in my driveway. I counted 36 and a half an hour. I expect most are going to the convenience site on Route 11. As Bacluse Road is a shortcut to that, so people don't have to go through Stephen City or go down to Middletown. 80 cars may be on a Wednesday when the dump's closed and it's raining. But other than that, no way it's 80 cars a day. Some other problems. When you turn off Route 11 on Bacluse Road, right before there's a one-lane bridge and there's a turnoff, and then there's about 100 yards where only one car can travel. You have to turn off to let the other one by. So, I mean, that's an issue. On the other end of Bacluse Road, there's two hairpin turns. There's turnoffs there, too. Having lived there for 25 years, I can tell you a school bus cannot pass a car on that section of the road because I've had to back up many times to let a school bus through. On weekends, cars are often parked on the road in front of Shanahan's junkyard because he has no parking because the front yard's full of junk cars. So, it's a one-lane road there, too. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. There are five businesses or industrial developments on that one-mile stretch of dirt road called Bacluse Road. You have Shanahan's junkyard. You have the solar farm, which I don't know how it was presented, but there's a lot of traffic associated with the solar farm. A lot. I can see it from my front porch. There's an entrance to a large electrical substation that was just upgraded that sees service trucks from the power company on a very regular basis. And then there's Trumpet Vine Farm. It's not mentioned here. If you go to their website, picture right on the front, I looked at it today. I counted like 230 people at that one. So, we're talking about doing this with all the other businesses, one-on-one-mile stretch of road. The application only speaks to the traffic and the expansion. On a typical Saturday evening, I can see us having 150 cars going to Trumpet Vine, another 150 going to the inn, four or five cars parked in the middle of the road. Okay. And then you've got the road at Shanahan's, a few large power company trucks, and then you've got us people that live there and need to find a way home. And that's going to be a problem, a big problem on that road. Tonight, I ask you if I vote no just simply because of the road. I do support the venue. If you don't, you know, take my word for it, then vote to delay it. Maybe you could take the time on a Saturday to go take a ride through Volcluse Road and see yourself. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak about this item? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this. This is in Back Creek, I believe. It is, Mr. Chairman. And I'd like to make the motion to approve CUP 0125 Volcluse Holdings, Inc. Okay. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I love the whole integrity of the property, but I'm just concerned about that road because I was under the understanding that they were already in business, but they haven't even added any traffic to it. So, I mean, MVDOT, I don't know. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I'm a little bit weary. I don't know what that's going to put onto that road, but I have not driven out there. So, Mr. Jewell, do you want to comment on? I'm very familiar with the road. I mean, I live right down the road from there. And the gentleman's right. There are people that will take Volcluse to go to the trash. They also will take Heights Road to go to the trash. So, it's, you know, it's a road that VDOT could actually look at and actually do some improvements on, but it's not. I don't think we should be holding one person on that road. We're responsible for fixing that road. No, I agree. And I have a problem with VDOT's comments. I really do. With that fact. I mean, I talked to Mr. Bishop about that. So, you know, I'm sorry. I don't agree with VDOT on this. Okay. I really don't. And I apologize that I have not been out there to assess it myself. Thank you. Any other comments? Supervisor Dunn? Same question on the road. This is either you, Mr. Jewell, or Mr. Wells. Could you bring it on? Yeah. Yeah. road or to staff. The gentleman made the comment that there were cars, or my impression was there were cars literally in the road or cars that were prohibiting the through back and forth. So my first question is, not that I believe the gentleman, but is that something that can be fixed by VDOT, which then alleviates that issue? Or is that not an issue? Or did I misunderstand, you know, the gentleman's comments? Turn the mic on, John. We'll try this one again. How's that? Forgive me. Specific to the traffic that is parking in front of the junkyard, frankly, that's an enforcement issue, which I would look for a combination of VDOT and the Sheriff's Office to deal with. That specific issue was first brought to staff as at the same time it was for you that hadn't come up in the previous deliberations. We hadn't heard from Mr. Wright earlier in the process. He's he's welcome to come whenever he I'm not denigrating him in any way by saying that I'm just saying this first brought to our attention. But in terms of this applicant and that issue for us at staff level, it's a bit of a separate enforcement issue. Second question is hundred yard stretch. He talks about where you have to either go forward, back, et cetera. I've been on roads like that. Um if it's a nice day, it's easier to drive. If a nice day, it's easier to drive. DO THAT IT'S A COLD RAINY DAY OR SOMETHING OF THAT NATURE. IS THIS SOMETHING THAT THE COUNTY CAN CONSIDER ADDRESSING WITH 100 YARDS WHERE THE COUNTY CAN EITHER WIDEN THAT ROAD, IT MIGHT COST SOME MONEY TO DO SO, OR I UNDERSTAND IT'S A DIRT ROAD, CAN WE JUST PUT ANOTHER 12 FEET OR SO OF DIRT ROAD ON THAT SO YOU DON'T HAVE THAT TYPE OF ISSUE? CAN THAT BE ADDRESSED? I BELIEVE THAT EVEN AS A DIRT ROAD, THAT'S SOMETHING WE CAN PROD COORDINATE WITH VDOT TO TRY AND MAKE SOME IMPROVEMENTS THROUGH THERE EVEN AS A DIRT ROAD. YOU RATHER THE TRANSITATION COMMITTEE AND SUBSEQUENTLY THE BOARD IS COMING UP ON YOUR NEXT ROUND OF APPROVING POTENTIAL ROADS FOR ADDING TO THE PAVING SYSTEM. NOW THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT WOULD START OUT AT THE TOP OF THE LIST BUT I COULD BRING THIS TO THE COMMITTEE AS A CONSIDERATION FOR THAT. DOESN'T MEAN IT WOULD START OUT AT THE TOP OF THE LIST. RIGHT? BUT THAT WOULD BE THE SHIPMENT FOR THEIR JOB. DOESN'T MEAN IT WOULD STAND UP FOR IT WHATEVER THE NEXT JOB IS DONE. THANKS. THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT WOULD BE DONE TOMORROW BUT THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER WAY TO POTENTIALLY ADDRESS THAT AS WELL. FINALLY, TO EITHER YOU OR MR. PEARSON OR MR. JEWELL, IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE HERE THAT IF THIS IS APPROVED AND I'M INCLINED TO SUPPORT IT, SOMETHING I DON'T THINK ONE ROAD SHOULD STOP THIS, BUT IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE THAT COULD BE ADDRESSED THAT COULD TRY TO ADDRESS THE ISSUES RAISED specific to their entrance. That'll be something that VDOT is a little more able to require specific improvements at the entrance. As we went through this process, there wasn't just one round with VDOT. There was multiple back and forth because there was a bit of a discrepancy with their comments on the previous CUP were fine. They had no issue with it. And I think we had a different reviewer this time. I'm not saying one reviewer is right and the other is wrong, but we have a different reviewer this time who looked at it in a different way, but also didn't look at it from the incremental additional load that was being added as opposed. They were looking at the whole thing. I understand the concern about the average annual daily trips of 80. I understand there's a disagreement with that. That is based on actual counts and averaged out, which is why it's not going to add up to the same as a typical Saturday, which is likely to be a heavier use day for a convenience site or an event center or that sort of thing. So that's why that might sound low to folks. It doesn't necessarily mean it's wrong, but it certainly doesn't mean that what Mr. Wright has witnessed is wrong either. It's just, it's averaged. So that does pull those high numbers down. So we went through this issue a year and a half ago. Certainly. It was 130. And again, there was no VDOT issue. And now it's 160. So 30 car, 30 person increase, but we're going to have to do it again. So that's why we're going to have to do it again. We're getting a different answer from VDOT, correct? That's correct. Thank you. And there was a second restaurant added. So VDOT did add it. I just mean they looked at it as if the whole thing was brand new and that was a little hard for staff. And frankly, given that this is a CUP, given that's an event center, it would have been a very new precedent for us to try and expect that this single applicant would improve the road all the way out to 11. We've never seen that before at the CUP. I mean, I don't know if we've ever been to a CUP level for something like this. So we didn't really feel comfortable going that far. And if you want to knock me on the hand for that one, I'll take that. Thank you. The board leads. But that's why we didn't go there. And then Mr. Jewell and Mr. Wells, who both of you have been on that road. Do you have any additional questions? We'd love to hear them, if appropriate. I have been up and down Valcose and Cut-Across and Heights Chapel and all those. It kind of reminds me of a lot of the things that we've done in the past. It reminds me of Laurel Grove Road, if anyone's familiar with Laurel Grove Road. It stayed a very tight road for a long time. Houses kept being built. School buses had to move over when you go by. You have to go slow. It was a dirt road for a long time. Just recently got paved. Thank goodness. So I certainly understand the strong feelings about traffic on the road. I'm not there every day, so I don't know. But when I do go by there, usually I go by in the middle of the day or evening or whatever. And it's usually just me. But I did get stuck on 81 Strasburg last week at a wreck. And I was doing my backtracking of 60 years through Frederick County, trying to beat everybody. And there must have been 20 cars on Valcose Road. And I thought, where did they come from? And being the age I am, I finally figured out everybody turned on their Waze on their phone. And they were being told how to go. So anyway, but I think it's something that one person can't control. I would like to see VDOT get more involved in that. I'm sorry they made some of those comments. The other part is, when you do travel that road, you get a good view of the solar complex that's there. And if anybody wants to know how I feel about it, just ask me outside the room. I won't have any bad language. And so anyway, it's massive. So I'm hoping some of that traffic will stop once they get those up and completed. The power station is there to supply the solar panel. And those trucks, I know they're coming and going all the time. And I see it over on the other side in Stevens City, Squirrel Run Lane, over in that area. Same thing. Solar panels are just all over the place. And that's where I see it as far as the road. It is a tight road. You have to go slow. And that's why I'm here. And that's why I'm here. And that's one good thing about it. You don't see a lot of speeders on the road because it's bumpy and you have to take your time. And I have a truck, but it's very uncomfortable to drive on. I agree. I mean, perfect. I think you'd hit it right on the hip with Largo Road being a comparison. So it is. And again, the day I was out there, I was the only car that went in and I was the only car that went out. So I agree with the gentleman. There are going to be days. There are going to be days where you're going to have a lot of traffic. And, you know, there's a lot of activity going over the solar panels. And there is a lot of work being done on a substation. So there is a lot of work. But that's Shenandoah Valley Electric or Rappahannock or whoever, the electric company and the solar company, too. So I just don't think that, you know, I think VDOT missed this one. I remembered the first CUP and I remember the comments of the first CUP. It really bothered me seeing the second comments, the way they came in like that. So I have to say. I have a disagreement with VDOT. So. Any other comments? So let's see. It's been a while. We had a motion and a second, right? Correct. To approve. If there are no other comments, we will go to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Aye. The Chair votes aye and this one is approved. The next item is 12C, Conditional Use Permit 0325. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. This is a request for a conditional use permit for an off-premise farm market. The 45-acre property is zoned RA and is located in the Back Creek Magisterial District. The property currently has a conditional use permit for a bed and breakfast, a conditional use permit for a telecommunications tower, and a short-term lodging approval. This is a modified request. The applicant has modified the original proposal heard by the Planning Commission on April 2nd. The slaughterhouse and the event venue have been removed from the proposal. The request has been reduced to an off-premise farm market only. Thank you. The property is located south of Winchester and southwest of Route 37 on Shady Elm Road. The property is outlined in purple. It is located directly west of the Valley Innovation Park. It borders the Hedgebrook Hills residential community to the south, a small residential community to the northwest on Soldiers Rest Lane, and LifeGate Baptist Church is located on the corner of Soldiers Rest Lane. This is the proposal and ук中國 Miss, and Shady Elm Road. The extension belongs to Suel andлин fighter, bulk of which are vulnerable in the area of theårs США. Pushback from Uno is expected by October 1st. Supplemental budget poco, which is $35 million from Esposa Stadium, lace, and服裙 and the Association for Nursing andtałti bAHAO 저희 вытора trudgers residen στα mark set on陸 Nana Salonулat Blessed was proposed as a gjort by Girl's Dayああ and itрь sal. The thousand dollar package comes with $449. The starting and end date has needs unsure. Follow. Creation Capacity T��요Dr. Few in requests are still pending. As lastnut mobides along the road, mouthwear grow greater with labour gathered. corporate represents local maybe adjusting to change a commitment. The ground remove the target 것이 The applicant has provided a sketch of the proposed operations. This is the initial sketch provided with the application and has since changed. The illustrative sketch plan will be required to be modified to reflect only the market and the associated parking if the conditional use is approved. The farm market is defined in the ordinance as a retail sale of fresh fruits and vegetables or other food related items on a daily basis. An off-premise farm market is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit and the ordinance will address the parking requirements at the illustrative sketch stage. Should the Board of Supervisors find this used to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. An illustrative sketch plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The farm market is limited to two employees, not residing on the premises. The hours of operation for the farm market are limited from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday with a maximum of sixty customers daily. Public access for the CUP is restricted to Shady Elm Road only. Use of soldiers reg. Rhys Lane is prohibited. Any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. The item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission held the public hearing on April 2nd and recommended denial. As stated earlier, the applicant has met with staff and revised the conditional use permit to only include the farm market. Staff is seeking a direction from the Board of Supervisors on this CUP and I'm available to answer any questions and Mr. and Mrs. Yousafi are also here in attendance to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions about the presentation or from the applicants? I do, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Leero? On our hard copy agenda here, I'm reading this off. Conditional use permit, skipping for a farm market and an event center. So that event center should not be on there. Is that correct? Yes, sir. So the applicant has met with and revised the application to remove all items except for the farm market. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other questions? My question would be on the farm market, I'm visualizing some of the current farm markets in our area. Question for the person who owns it. Are we talking about size-wise, not a humongous building, but I don't know how to say it. Maybe they could give me a description of what they're thinking about. I'll let the applicant address that. Yes, sure. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you for your time. The farm market is only 800 square foot. Okay. And we're not going to have huge facilities there. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? Supervisor Dunn? And then one other question. I know that you removed the slaughterhouse portion. Are there items that you're going to be growing on your property that you're going to sell? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. And would you like to sell in your store? Well, we will send it to some other facility, to Butcher and then we might be able to sell it in our facility. Okay. But non-meat? I mean grains and apples. Are you going to grow those, too, and sell those? At the time, yes. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Again regarding the transportation side and VDOT's comments regarding the entrance, regarding the entrance. I guess all of those things would be addressed before the CUP is issued with regard to entrances and that sort of thing. And the second question I had is prohibiting, what was it, Soldiers Lane from using that. How would that, how would we be able to prohibit that? We do not have any entrance from Soldiers. And the only entrance we have is from Shady Elm Road. And that's the only interest we're gonna have. Thank you. Mrs. McCance-Slaughter, Amy, when she found out that they were pulling out the special event portion of it, followed up with VDOT to confirm what the new entrance requirement would be for a lesser use and that is included in the conditions. So the entrance will need to be provided and they'll need to get an entrance permit through VDOT in order to conduct the use. So what's in the board packet as far as the specifications and such related to it regarding the it included the event center? Yeah, Amy, does the the new VDOT requirement for an entrance match what was in the packet originally? I know you're okay. Yeah. Yes. Thank you. Any other questions? We just asked when it went to the Planning Commission and they voted, they recommended denial. How many of these ideas were presented to them that they were voting on? It was clearly more than the farm market. It included the Event Center. Did it include the Slaughterhouse as well when it came to them? Yeah. If I may. The Slaughterhouse got pulled out after the Planning Commission meeting and then the Special Event Center got pulled out earlier this week. But I'll let the applicant add anything. If I may. After the first meeting, when I and my family, we talked about it and we heard everybody, all of our neighbors, farm is place of peace and community. We do not want to have fight with our neighbors. We want to welcome everybody to our farm. So we moved everything that it was trouble for our neighbors. The only thing we left is the farm market that I'm asking you guys if it's possible to remove. Is that okay? Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Supervisor Lockeridge. Are you currently farming this land? Not yet. We haven't started yet. But we will start very soon after approval. Right, right, right. Okay. So like animals that you will haul off premise to butcher and then selling them in the market. Why is it considered an off premise? That definition all day I was very confused with that. Yeah. I'll answer the question. Most of the farm markets the board's familiar with were done by right as on premise farm markets and the majority of the goods that are sold in there are produced on site. They're growing apples on site, selling them in the farm market. When we discussed that concept with the Yusefis, they made it clear that they're going to produce very little on site that's going to be sold in the market itself. They're going to be importing a lot of the things that they're selling. Okay. And in turn, it was concluded that they would need the conditional use permit. That was also at the same time where they needed a CUP. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good survey. So if you wanted to ask your question, that would probably go directly to something of when you're adding solid 받고, chef that purposely didn't offer that product altogether with the purchase. Let's do some check I just have a question for you that I actually wanted to know if we can step in with that question really, just to be clear aboutplay. Are you mostlyhã We had one à LA, into place. Assurance Manager смотрите the hating on our product production as it is an important that. Okay any more comments or questions? Thank you very much sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Miss Phillips do we have anyone signed up? Dan Searberry? Scarberry? I'm sorry. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here tonight who'd like to speak about this? Thank you. As everyone else please start with your name and magisterial district. Hi Darrell Habren, Back Creek District. I'm at Hockman Court and I'm opposed to this not because I'm against farmers market but because I just don't know what to make of things at the moment and we're a little concerned. We wonder what happens if there's the potential for some litigation because these offices are building up rods of land withiß which leads to a lot of confusion about the legal issues. One of the things Maine EP'sоне read that toward you today here today that rather I think it really reads that they are� row wanting to そして美拓舕. They say the agreement always comes down to one. Apparently the percent a lot ofRedwood q. rate of rebellions that there are, the trade os in these places on each one of for any one thing you want like a concert. In your opinion, lots more money all of a sudden may it be possible for other cities to steal some It's interesting. We've thought about some of the armed delegations glove and and programs now that we're buildingط and a subcontract Caval fire LifeGate Free Will Baptist Church has a right of first refusal. And when I spoke with the pastor, he says he did not recall ever receiving notification of that. This right of first refusal was drafted and put on record September 26, 2016, six and a half years before the deed. So we just have concerns. What would happen with the cup if they ended up in litigation? I don't we don't know whether or not they received notification of that, had that opportunity. If they did, great. If they didn't, probably best that they seek legal advice. But but we're concerned about what would happen in that event. We're also concerned about representations that have been made in the deed of trust, which is from April. Twenty eight. Two thousand twenty three. It reads that the grantor will occupy, establish and use the property as the grantor's principal residence after the execution of the deed. The grantor is Family Ventures and is the Yousefi's. Then on the application, the Yousefi's filled that out and admitted that Kitty Hockman and Robin Eddy lived at 690 Shady Elm Road and that they lived in Frederick, Maryland. Mr. Brandon on the Planning Commission asked about it, and they said yes, that their son was traveling back and forth. The concern we have is that then shortly thereafter, I confirmed with Mr. Pearson today that planning staff, Miss Feltner, was told by Miss Hockman Nicholas that she was surprised that her name appeared on the application because she doesn't live in Frederick, Maryland. She's a resident of Frederick, Maryland, and she doesn't live at the house. And the problem we're having is as neighbors, we see her black vehicle there all the time. We've we just have a hard time wondering how two people who are in a deal that is owner financed, who are basically partners, wouldn't know where they were. And so we're just concerned that maybe we don't even know what to make of it. Let's just put it that way. We don't know what to make of it. Mr. Chairman. And because of that, we have to make a decision. And because of that, we have to make a decision. Mr. Chairman. We would ask that we please limit any cup. If the one's approved, please limit the duration. Let's see where this goes. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing portion of this item. Board, how would you like to handle this? Can we ask a question of planning? At this point or not? We're not supposed to, but go ahead. No, I don't want to. I don't want to make the rules. Well, if we can make something clear, please do. I'm just trying to figure out what this gentleman, do you have any idea what we're talking about there? That's a whole new thing just came flying up. Yeah. No, Mr. Haberman came in today and showed us some of the deed language he's referring to. From our perspective, to the best of our knowledge, the Yousefis are the legal owners of the property. And speculation regarding whether that could be undermined, is it related to how the contracts were established? And first right of refusals that may or may not have been honored is civil potential civil issues between parties that aren't present or saying that there's a problem. So there may be a valid concern there. But as far as the land use applications considered, we know them to currently be the legal owners of the property and they can apply for a conditional use. If that were to change, then the conditional use permit would likely be void because they didn't have the right to ask for it to begin with. So that's probably the worst case scenario that could happen out of that. I'll be correct in saying at this point, they have a free and clear deed that they've purchased this property. I mean, I haven't done a legal review of it, but they are recognized by Frederick County in the GIS records as being the owners of the property currently. There was a somewhat complicated contract of sale that involved a residency allowance for the previous owner and some other stipulations that we saw as part of that. But they have the ability to act on behalf of the property as it relates to requesting land use actions from the board, to the best of our knowledge. Okay. Thank you. Well, let's see if we have a motion and then we can proceed to discussion in the vote. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion to approve CUP 0325 with two conditions. I'd like for a full. Screen buffer shall be provided along the South property line, Hockman court and the West property line soldiers rest lane for the parcels containing residential structures. This would give the residents peace of having the screening. And I'd also like to put on condition and Mr. Pearson, I need you to help me with this one. Time of life of the CUP. That would be. Yeah, no, it's valid. I think the board used to do it. Very often in previous years and it's written in the ordinance. So I think you could frame it as a. What is the reenactment that they do for legislative action at the state level? It's it's not a sunset clause, but it would come back to the board within a year's time for basically you to reenact to the conditional use permit. And you'd go through this, this same process to affirm continuation of the give the residents a little bit of peace on this one. The concerns. I'd like to include that some sunset clause for this to be reviewed in a year by the board. So you're making that as a motion. I'm making that as a motion. So Mr. Chairman, just to clarify, those were additional conditions on top of the six that were in the staff report. That's correct. There are. So I'll ask if there's a second and then I have a concern. Is there a second on the motion as it's made? Second. So we have a motion in a second. Second. So has the applicant. Okay. Okay. So has the applicant paid funds to bring the CUP to this point? Yeah, there's an application fee paid for it. And they've also made other related investments on the property. Yes. So my only concern is that we're not asking the applicant whether any additional conditions we want to put on them are acceptable. For example, if a screen makes the entire enterprise unprofitable, then it could pass, but he's not going to be able to pay for it. Has theiting also nenhum pir Moy. No. So when we asked the solicitor whether he's getting something on the property. We don't think he's asking for an extra dollar or something. We don't here it as a feeling of a, you're not saying it's beneficial or a benefit, or something, but we do think that he has to clarify it. So, this isunderstanding? This is, the investigation on the property side. Mr. Chairman, incorrectly remembering how the board has handled these situations in the past and it's certainly the board's prerogative if you wanted to take have a conversation with the applicant about the conditions being imposed and how they might affect their business plan well as chair i can change the rules and make that happen anyway but let me ask mr ball offer am i right we normally when we have concerns we usually get their feedback on whether that's acceptable they may prefer about they may prefer to lose unchanged than to maybe win with the conditions we want to put on normally it's not done but it has been done in the past where i know i've seen it a couple times they brought the applicant up and they've asked are you okay with these additional conditions that's correct so i'd like to do that um sir so the the proposal is like there's two the first one i think i can restate i'll speak to it but i just want to know what the screening is as well mr yusefi the residents are concerned about being able to to see your area from from their house so they want to put one screening put in to buffer you from from the residents from those homes we looked at the other day and the second condition is that if the gentleman brought up this condition about your deed and everything that that's your business but what i would like to see is just do we do a review of scup in a year's time just to give the residents a peace of mind and to give you a peace of mind too this is for both yes no problem so a a sunset cup that would not cost him in a year's time when we do a review i think i think we could take board direction that the we the fee would be waived as it comes back for an enactment okay because we've done that in the past okay i don't want to impose things that he doesn't you know he doesn't realize he's being imposed on them and then for the screening you want to see if i can get the money back you know for the screening if you want to see if i can get the money back you know if you want to see if i can get the money back you know you want to see if that as well so what are we talking about is screening trees or evergreen trees is what they'd like for in there and you can work with the planning staff on that yeah i think if i heard mr jules motion correctly he referenced the definition or the full screen which is defined in our ordinance and we can work with mr yusefi there's a couple options for meeting the full screen requirement one of them is a double rule of evergreen trees and we can work with them based on how the lay of the land is and what might be what might work best that would be no problem if our neighbor wanted to block him up with the trees why not we'll do that i just want to make sure you're okay with what we're doing here so mr mr okay okay let me interject on the conversation the question is mr jewell if this goes through does he then go and build a building because right now you you do you have a building on this site he does okay so you have a building that you can move in so there's not a cost to you if in a year the board reverses its position you're not putting capital into this at this point in time is that correct we planning to move in the farm but in the time but right now we don't have any plan to build anything so there's no capital outlay to you no if this is approved and then if in a year for whatever reason the board reverses itself you're not left with nothing is that correct well if he's reversed itself then we're going to lose all the money that we spend for this project but no for the farm market yeah for the farm market the farm market but you're not you don't have a capital cost okay yeah thank you and then since you've been out there so there's a building there that he will move into and sell whatever he's going to sell but he doesn't have a capital cost building a building bringing up the code um etc that he would be inflicted if the board reversed itself in a year he's going he has a building he has an existing building that he will be um renovating some work for it to be a farm market but it is an existing building you walk in you know i i've seen it firsthand yes yes just one one thing i just want to mention here when we bought this farm this farm was a landfill we took over 50 big trash bins out of this farm we spent a lot of money to clean it up i think our neighbors should be happy that this farm is as clean as it is right now it was a mess okay thank you um it's a very good point and i think the next one is so we're sort of breaking new ground in our procedure today but uh thank you very much thank you and so you've made a motion do we have a second yeah i have a i have a comment or a question as well so we're in discussion now yes we said that they're they're going to be open from 10 to 6. well on the days that they're open 10 a.m to 6 p.m is that correct okay and they're going to have two employees and we're going to have a maximum of 60 uh shoppers per day is that correct 60 to 60 to 80 i believe okay i thought i thought it was 40 to 60. 46 yeah i think but yeah it's 60. so my question is are we expecting a businessman here if i have a work shift of 10 to 10 to uh six that i'm going to work my eight hours 10 to 6. i'm expecting on my way to work then i'm going to work from 10 to 6. are we expecting this employer to shut his business down at three o'clock in the afternoon and send his employee home because he's got to 60 people so much i understand the traffic and concerns and things like that but and the other the other question would be how do we enforce that that's 60. i mean is it realistic to expect expect that they're going to shut down early and after they get to their 60th person and who did that 60 people include if i have husband, wife, and two kids walk in, does that count for four or is that one? If you're looking at me, I'm not going to give you that answer. I'll answer this. The first part of it was more of a policy question, Mr. Leroux, so I won't answer that. That's discussion for the board as it relates to whether you think the condition's appropriate. But as far as enforcement's concerned, we've had to do that in the past. It becomes particularly challenging in uses like this where there's this blending of the conditional use permit use and then typical agritourism use. I'll use West Oaks as an example. They have a conditional use for a special event center and a restaurant, but you go out there on any day and there can be hundreds of people there for the pick-your-own that are not necessarily associated with the restaurant or the conditional use permit for the special event center. In this case, we have a structure in the off-premise farm market, and if we received a complaint where we thought they were violating the conditions, we'd likely have to go on site and count people going in and out of the structure in order to determine whether there was compliance. Not ideal by a long shot, but that's how we'd probably have to handle it. Thank you. Yep. Mr. Chairman, one of the questions is probably to staff. If you're running a business and you have 60 people, each person spends, you know, $50, you're talking about $3,000 a day or whatever. What's the reason they cut it at 60? If you're running a store to sell food, why a number versus a set of hours? If I go to Martin's, it's about if they sell so much, it's store hours from A to B. So what's the reason for that? And then second, the question relates to that is the economics. You know, 60 times $10 is $600, times 5 is $3,000. But can you run a business, you know, with that type of situation? Yeah, and keep in mind that this application, has evolved from when it was originally filed. I believe the 60-person limitation was set based on the intentions of how they wanted to operate. So they indicated they didn't intend to have more than 60 customers frequent the off-premise farm market. That was also at a time when there was a slaughterhouse component and a special event center. So from our perspective, having a condition that limited the amount of traffic when you would also have the competing uses of those other items, as well as the short-term lodging and bed and breakfasts, that already exist on the site, seemed prudent. Now that the use has been skinnyed down to what's left, certainly a conversation to be had, maybe with the USEFIs about their intentions and whether that's going to fit their business model still, given that they've had to give up the other uses on the property. Thank you. So I'm nervous when we get so far down the road with conditions and whether they make sense, whether they're ham streaming. So Mr. Chairman, ham stringing people too much that they can't be successful. Also, I'm concerned about revisiting it in one year. So if the farm market has barely begun operation in that time, because it took him some time to get to that point, here we're dragging him in, we're having another, and what are we going to do, kick the can down the road another year? Because we really haven't seen how busy it's going to get yet. Maybe two years is a more reasonable period of time. So the neighbors as well. So all of us can see what this... what this farm market's going to become. I'm fine with changing it to two years, but I do think we need to do something both for the residents and for the USEFIs. Well, that's why we're not making it a primary. I think it's a protection, so I'm fine with changing it two years. Okay. And I'll make that motion to amend then for the one year to two. But before I do, does the board also want me to amend the limit on how many people can come to the market? Mr. Chairman? To remove it altogether, or a different number? Oh, well, I'd like to hear what Mr. USEFI has to say. Or I mean... Well, he wants to be successful, but he also wants to tell us that he's not going to have too much disturbance there. So it's tough for him, but you can ask him, I suppose, if you like. So Mr. USEFI? So you're running a business, and I won't tell you how to run your business, but you're just going to have a quick... Well, at this point, everybody does. Mr. Chairman? Are you just going to leave Rudy this? Mr. Giuseppe, I apologize. From our neighbors and you guys and counties. So let's shoot. I apologize. That's okay. Well, when we initially started this process, we said 60 people at the time in the farm. So now it changed to 60 people per day. But 60 people per day is not going to cut me any profit. Right. I think we should have a period of time and cap our people to normal business. When you have a business for McDonald's, do you guys go there and say 60 people? No. I think this is going to be business. If it's going to be successful, it's got to have limit to run the business. So 60 people at the time, we said, okay, for market, 60 people. For wedding venue, 200 people. For this, that many people. That did not work. We changed it. So if I can have a little bit more limit on the people at the time, maybe 25 people at the time in the farm, any minute of business time, that would be something that we can run the business. And you guys want to, county want to collect the tax. How I'm going to sell without the customer? So the truth is, Yes. I'm just going to ask you a simple question. My question to you is a simple one. If you simply had a business, which was open from 10 to 6, and there was no limit on the number of people that came, as long as you're running a business, if I want to come in at 5 or 6 to buy something or 9 o'clock in the morning, would that be acceptable to you? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. So I'll go ahead and make a motion to amend. And if you don't like it, that's fine. I will amend the original motion to remove the limit, which is to make the CUP good for two years until that point, and then come back for our review. And I'd like to waive the review fees to him. Which also includes the screening, correct, Mr. Chairman? Yes. He has accepted and I accept. The other, we've already got it on the table. I'm not changing what Supervisor Jewell has already put on the table, except for those two items. So that's my motion. Do I have a second? Second. Second. Okay. Any discussion? Or if you don't like it, amend it. Well, we'll have to vote on this one and then you can. No, I just want to comment that I appreciate the whole purpose of a conditional use. We've got to remember what the purpose of the conditional use is to keep rural land open. And if we put so many conditions, and like I said, I've got some in my district, they don't have a conditional use permit. So it's a super gray area. And originally I didn't like the proposal, because there was a lot. I don't like the idea of everything, but it's been slimmed down so much that I'm sitting here off quite honestly wondering why they're even here for conditional use permit when they are doing a farm market. So they're here, they're going along with the process, but we can't make it so strict that they're not going to be able to stay in business. So I appreciate that. I understand wanting to work with the neighbors and I think they've done a great job of maybe preserving that land. It sounds like they've cleaned it up. I've not seen it. But I would hate for at the whim of the board in a year for us to say, nope, we don't want that anymore. And I don't think that's fair from a business standpoint either. So I think two years is reasonable. I like that you said waive the fee. I think we're in a much better place. Thank you. Any other discussion before we vote? This wouldn't be the final vote. It'd be a vote on my amendment. You could still have a time to introduce some other thought or. Oh, no, I'm good. I mean, we've spent a tremendous amount of time. Okay. On this, both with the UCEP fees and with the neighbors. This is something that's been discussed. I mean, the hours have been put in and I got to thank the staff because they put a phenomenal amount of time in here. So all I want to make sure is that the UCEP fees are it's fair for them and it's fair for the neighbors. Very good. So we'll vote on my amendment to your motion. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chair votes aye. So now we have a motion on the table. As amended. As amended. Any discussion? Everybody's clear on all the changes, right? Very good, I think. Then we'll move to a vote on final approval. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The chair votes aye. The CUP is approved. Item 13. Other planning business rezoning number 1124. Rezoning. No. 13B. 13B. Sir. Oh, that's the one we put off. Excuse me. 13B. Is this one a. Public hearing before. No, this is just an action, sir. Very good. Maybe I'm going the wrong way. . Bear with me here, Mr. Chairman. Are you in the whole package for today? There we go, sir. Thank you. Thank you. There you go. Thank you. Yeah. I just, for, for the recommend, Mr. Chairman, this is a request for residential pump at hall for a property located three a 40, paar sturdy grow road in the Gainesville magisterial district. The, a properties approximately a 0.39 word parcel. It contains a one bedroom single family dwelling. It was built in 1950., the property, um, actually frontitor Grove road, turn your attention to map or left. Of course, this is where you're. A district office of the school is going to have it. I have. I got you. All right. We'll demonstrate that right now. I'll do my best chances next time I go. What I would like to do is share an screen there where I kind of show the question I'm leaving the role. district map is. It's just outside the Albans, right at the crossroads of Albans and 522. This is the property. It's outlined right here in purple. Shows you where the property is. And again, the front, Cedar Grove Road. The property has a failed drain field system. French County Code 165-201.5 provides guidance and evaluation in a request for a permanent pump and haul system. And after evaluation of the property, and it received a written statement from the health department, and has met the criteria of the French County Code, has been satisfied. The applicant is requesting a permanent pump and haul system that must be approved by the Board of Supervisors. And Mr. Chairman is well aware of, or he might not, some of our newer members, we haven't had a pump and haul conversation. We haven't had a pump and haul conversation. We haven't had a pump and haul conversation. We haven't had a pump and haul conversation. We haven't had a pump and haul conversation. We haven't had a pump and haul conversation. I think 2023 was the last one. What had happened was in Frederick County, just to give you a little quick background before we move on. Why we're in front of you for this action is that the board, working with the health department, we had changed the county code to have more of a control where we were putting these pump and hauls for businesses or residential, and they had to meet certain criteria. This applicant has met that criteria, and I'll show you the next slide. Working with the health department, they have met the requirement for board consideration. They have met the requirement for board consideration. They have met the Consideration to be appropriate this a pump at all system is only available option brings property compliance with the requirements of the Frederick County Code and Health Department in your packet that was sent to you They have gotten contracts together for a pump at all service. They also met all the requirements the Health Department They were evaluated by a sole evaluator and they cannot get a drain field Also the applicant will requirements we were this required in your code is the applicant reach out to adjoining property owners You may be well aware of that in Frederick County. We do allow for Drain field easements and drain field put on their other Properties the suggestions they work with that property this applicant actually has approached those folks that surrounds her sent a letter There was no reply. So then they move forward to work with the staff and the Health Department So we're looking for looking for a applicant. I should say excuse me. He's looking for a board action on this crest for his pump at all System to be Required as I pointed out earlier in your packs The applicant has reached out to a company has contracts ready to go once we get a board approval We can help the applicant get back in their house just for record the applicants here She could answer any questions you may have this has to do with insurance issue that they have the applicant has been out of her Dwelling for I think about a year About a year so she's for her insurance company pay off her to build a building permit She has to get a permit through Frederick County Part of the permit process is that we have we mean Frederick County sent stuff over the Health Department do walk over and this is Why we had found out and why the applicants here. So I'll answer any questions. Mr. Chairman regarding this Request for a pump at all. It is a board action. And of course the applicant standing right behind me if you need to ask any questions Thank you. Thank you any questions from the board? Good We have no questions with the applicant like to say anything. We don't have any questions for you, I guess Yeah, I'm no longer sure what you mean five bedroom Am I agreed before basically All right, thank you Very good. This is in Gainesboro, how would you like to handle it? Yes, I'd like to go ahead and approve The pump in Hall number zero 125 here and Cynthia Myers. Let's go ahead and prove that please We have a motion to second any discussion Kurt supervisor well supervisor done supervisor jewel chair votes aye this is approved we move on to 13 C this is for information and discussion purchase of developmental development rights so we've seen transfer of development rights in this county so what are we doing with the purchase mr. Bishop yes sir and there are subtle distinctions which are are important thank you mr. chairman members of the board and I guess allow me to frame if I may the purpose of the discussion and why this has been a recommended tool to add to your belt if you will by this by the conservation easement authority so current by light by right develop residential development in your RA or rural areas zoning is one unit per five acres now that matters because you have in terms of you have in terms of parcels 10 acres or greater in our a zoning over a hundred and seventy six thousand acres of property the reason I did that very rough poll of 10 acres or more is because you do have quite a few already existing not all developed five acre lots so I just wanted to gather ones that could potentially do additional development now there's other reasons that's a rather rough number such as the fact is that you have approximately eleven thousand acres in conservation easement but while that one hundred and seventy six thousand acres equates to potential in a in a somewhat apocalyptic scenario of thirty five thousand plus additional units that CEA number of 11,000 only takes 2,200 off the top of that now as I said that's still a rough number because it was not an in-depth study we haven't taken away for wetlands or steep slopes or anything like that it's just meant to paint a picture of potential and we're going to do it in a couple of weeks I will have to wait and see if we can get a response to that one okay so I'm just going to go ahead and go ahead and do that one more time and then we'll talk to you in a couple of minutes. but that's the only reason that we're going to be doing this discussion with you and I'm going to go ahead and do that one more time and then we'll talk to you in a couple of minutes. paint a picture of potential now in particularly in early 2000s there were numerous whether it be rural preservation much like the Hockman farm or straight out five acre lot subdivisions done in the rural areas that was a very popular tool at that time leading up to the end of the housing boom things changed after that in terms of lending practices and and that sort of thing that made it harder to utilize that tool you you, strictly a staff concern at this point something we've discussed somewhat internally is that as costs rise to develop within the UDA due to things like increasing tap fees increasing transportation costs all the things that we're all getting hit with it's going to become more economical even at those now escalating costs in the county because you have that buy right element and it's going to start making the rural areas more attractive again. for residential development. here with me sorry paper guy that's important to note that buyer buy right acreage amounts do vary by county five acres was adopted by our county frankly well before my time I don't know exactly what it was adopted it's different in other counties there have been over the years discussions of perhaps changing it in Frederick County that's not what I'm. I'm proposing that something you have the power to do when this has come up before there's been a fairly strong public outcry that basically quieted that some changes were done we did the rural area study I know miss McCance Lauder of existing board members participated in that I'm one of the few staff members that still around that was when that when that took place but there was a large public outcry and why because frankly if I'm a farmer I'm a farmer that land is my retirement that land the value of that land is what I have for my heirs and there's a direct correlation to that land value to how many residential units you can pay on it you can put on it not because maybe the farmer intends to do so but that's where the values derived from that's what they can borrow on etcetera etcetera etcetera so that was important. Now there are rural conservation tools that help preserve property owner rights and land values without necessarily some sort of unilateral unilateral action that takes them away some of these we are already using conservation easements already referenced earlier we have approximately eleven thousand acres in conservation easements right now that those can be purchased by private or semi private agencies they can be donated there can they can be funded through grants this is something that has been done in the past. The kind of thing that's most Hugan Day is in the last a pound So far there is a hundred thousand acres was developedinding? Sam properties will 371 public property under are 16,749 properties Quando seềnho Sunday returned 700 families to quelle and N Torres Chief natural service and health center Iracema Police Company in seven let's get the to bunch should count If I'm a hospital relocate it, you wouldn't have that issue that you have with TDRs where, yeah, it's moving into the urban development area, and yeah, that's kind of where we want it, but oh darn, they're not offsetting their impacts via proffers as a rezoning would. So, and frankly, there's an additional benefit, and many people don't know, I grew up agricultural myself, we didn't own a farm, but my parents had many jobs over the years, and one of those was as farm workers, and one of the biggest barriers and concerns about farming into the future is, frankly, the ability to get into farming if you weren't born into farming because of the value of the land and the equipment and everything else that goes into it, and one thing that, whether it be TDR or purchase development rights helps do is, yes, you've sold that development right, and that has now lowered the current value of your property, but that's not going to be the same as the value of your property, and that's not going to be the same as the value of your property, and that's not going to be the same as the value of your property, and that's not going to be the same as the value of your property, and that's not value that's either been just taken from you because the board chose to change the rules from under your feet or something like that, that's value you've actually taken the cash for and, you know, preserved your family or whatever you're going to do with it, but it's also made when that property eventually sells, because maybe your kids don't want to farm, it's able to be sold at maybe a value, since it can't be sold for residential development, that someone could potentially break into farming that way, becomes a more realistic option. that someone could potentially break into farming that way, becomes a more realistic option. In addition to that, all of these programs do help us to preserve rural land and keep residential development within the urban development area where services are most concentrated. In addition to that, all of these programs do help us to preserve rural land and keep residential development within the urban development area where services are most concentrated. One of the challenges we face as these rural subdivisions develop is it's much less efficient, whether it be to maintain the roads if they're built as public streets, which many of them have been, whether it be to provide public safety, whether that be sheriff, ambulance, fire, all this sort of things. whether that be sheriff, ambulance, fire, all this sort of things. It's one thing to focus, be able to focus most of those needs within the UDA, as opposed to pockets of development that you have to try to serve across 400 plus square acres, so that's important as well. It's one thing to focus, be able to focus most of those needs within the UDA, as opposed to pockets of development that you have to try to serve across 400 plus square acres, so that's important as well. And I've already referenced some of the negative attention that TDR has received because you do sort of miss out on those proffers, but even that program still does offer those benefits by allowing it the unit of the city. the unit of the city. So you only have toك if it's a 3.8 block of units to be moved into the areas where you can most efficiently serve them. So in terms of establishing a program, the first thing you have to do is update your ordinance. So in terms of establishing a program, the first thing you have to do is update your ordinance. And that's what we're talking about tonight, that's what the Conservation Easement Authority has recommended. And that's what we're talking about tonight, that's what the Conservation Easement Authority has recommended. It doesn't necessarily start buying development rights, but it puts the tool in your tool bag and gets you to where, should you choose to start funding those options or were successful with grant calendar. or were successful with grant calendar. In getting those options, you can actually start getting involved because that's step two, that funding piece. Potential sources are various. Of course, county funds is one of those. Very careful about recommending what the board does with county dollars, but some items that we've looked at as having potential would be rollback taxes. It's a source of funds, which obviously currently you're using in other ways, but has sort of a direct correlation to this type of activity because a rollback tax is paid when a property has been in land use and has now moved into development. They do pay that rollback tax at the higher residential rate for the previous five years. So maybe that's potentially a source. Another one we've discussed a little bit somewhat internally is perhaps the licensing fees related to solar. Solar farms, because some of the language and discussion around that also sort of focused a bit on preservation of rural lands. But once again, those are board decisions. These are just things we've sort of thought about. There are grants, both through semi-private organizations as well as government grants such as USDA and even at the state level. There are grants whereby you're getting like an 80-20 type opportunity. Different ones have different. There are percentages, but you can stretch your dollar a little further, not unlike I'm more used to doing with transportation dollars. And finally, step three is just going out and doing the work, willing buyer, willing seller, having the transactions. So basically, at this time, staff is seeking the Board of Supervisors' direction on whether to go ahead and take this item through DRC to craft the ordinance that would be needed to get you in the game, so to speak. And then you have to go through the process of looking at the So you're just looking for consensus from the Board, whether we want you to proceed and work on this? I believe we actually had even included a resolution. There should have been a resolution, so it would act more of a formal action. Not unlike any other time you're telling us to move on an ordinance. I believe we actually had even included a resolution, so it would act more of a formal action. Not unlike any other time you're telling us to move on an ordinance. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. Yes, sir. So, let's just take a single thing, one farm, and I have 100 acres, whatever. Yes, sir. And Frederick County is going to buy that property through a development right? Yeah, we're not buying the property. We'd be buying away the fact that you have, assuming you have a house, you still have 19 residential rights you could sell to the county. Right. We're going to buy it. Right. We're going to buy it. We can't do that. Or whomever, frankly, but yes. So, we're using taxpayer money to save rural land? Yes, sir. Okay. What do we get for that in the end? What's the payback? I know how the TDRs work, believe me, but how does the development right work for Frederick County? In terms of once you get back, at least in that location, I'm not going to pretend that you have the ability to control growth, but it does help you control growth in your rural areas. And where the payoff of that is... It's not direct payoff. It doesn't mean that you're going to buy that this year and the county is going to be better off next year, although they will incrementally be better off. But some of these issues I spoke to earlier, of course, you have the upfront capital impact model cost of a new residential unit. Everybody's very familiar with that. But there are many other costs that continue to hit the county over time. As I've referenced earlier, the cost of now serving rural areas, but at a greater rate than currently with 5%. So that's not the point of the TDRs. It's about the cost of now serving rural areas, but at a greater rate than currently with 5%. So that's not the point of the TDRs. So that's not the point of the TDRs. So that's not the point of the TDRs. The bottom line is it's taxpayer dollar buying agricultural land to keep it agricultural land. Yes, sir. And I know about not having schools and ambulances. We're not taking title on the land. We're literally only buying the development rights. That remains that farmer's land. We're paying a value. Agreed. Okay. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop. What about the, so with the TDR program, it's a negotiation between the developer and the farmer on the value of that TDR. Yes, sir. So we would have to do the same thing. Yes, sir. The difference is that developer is going to take that unit and intentionally land it in the UDA and soon in most cases. And the county or the county and partners or the county and grant dollars is going to take that unit and extinguish it. And that doesn't mean that some developers not going to come along and still try and develop that because the market's the market, right? And still not try and develop that unit in your UDA. But it changes the game in terms of whereas with the TDR, they're moving it into the UDA and not having to pay you any proffers to offset the impacts with PDR. They're trying to get that unit where they can. You have an approval authority. There's proffers, et cetera, et cetera. Now, this program would have to be done. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And the program would have to be amazingly robust to not have them shift to maybe another rural unit because you're not buying them all next year, right? Right. This is something you do over time. Right. But, yeah, that's the point. Will you, when this goes to DRC, one of the things that I think is going to be discussed is the value. I mean, what is the value? Truly, what is the value? Because when you're talking about putting a program together, I mean, if it's $20,000 TDR, you could be spending. I mean, you could be spending several million dollars here. Easily. Right? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. So, Mr. Bishop. Yes, sir. You talked about rollback taxes. So, take Mr. Wells' farm of 100 acres. What are we talking about on the differential? Because you only mentioned for five years rollback. So, he has an agricultural rate and then he has a commercial rate. So, what's that differential either percentage-wise or dollar-wise on his 100-acre farm? Question number one. Question number two. When federal taxes, does that change that federal tax issue as well? And I apologize. That example is math I've not done. But there is definitely a significant difference in that land use taxation on 100 acres that's undeveloped versus on 100 acres that have 20 residential units. And the follow-up question. Take his 100 acres, which he can put 20 houses on just for. He owns the whole. A field. A field. If he doesn't roll back taxes, do the new taxes constitute half of the total impact? So, the total impact fee according to your staff is about 37,000. And that can be adjusted depending upon, you know, what comes out. Last year it was like 27,000. Is it closer to that figure? Or is it just half of that? Or do you not know? I mean, I'm just not putting you on the spot. I'm just trying to get a feel. I'm sorry. I feel like you might need to ask me that question again. My question is. If you had 100 acres of land. If you had 100 acres of land. If you had 100 acres of land. Yes, sir. And you're paying the full taxes of that, not at an agricultural rate, but as a. Right. Developed rate. Does that cost, do those taxes cover the cost of the 20 houses that you could put on there, like for the capital costs? Or if not, does it cover 50%, 75%, 25%? I don't know. I'm sorry. I'll come back. That's fine. I'll come back to you on that one. I'll come back to staff on that. Go ahead. Any other questions? I don't know if I have a comment on this. I don't know. You would be, staff would be doing work. It would put a tool in our tool bag, as you say. I don't know if we would ever use it. So. Exactly. And forgive my colloquialism sometimes in my language, but that's just how I kind of think about it. It's, you're enabling yourself to conduct this, but you're not necessarily going forward at this moment to conduct it, but you're giving yourself the ability to should this board or a future board decide to start putting money into this area. Obviously there are many pulls on not enough county dollars, so that's frankly a future decision for you folks to make. Mr. Chairman, so I had a conversation with Mr. Pearson earlier, Mr. Bishop, and one of the, when we get into a discussion point, I don't want to say yes, let's do it, and they put in a whole lot of work. I'm going to say yes to this, and then they come back and we say no. So when we get into this discussion stage, I'm going to have some questions. So just recognize that that's part of this issue. I understand. Any other questions for Mr. Bishop? No questions, just a comment. Yes, ma'am. Please. You know, I've represented your conservation easement on the Conservation Authority for probably since I've been sitting on this board. And frankly, there are no tools in the toolbox right now for the Conservation Easement Authority to try to preserve our rural agricultural lands as far as PDRs. Now there are a lot of conservancies and such that are out there that, as Mr. Bishop pointed out, that people can preserve their properties with conservation easements and such. But it is another tool, as Mr. Bishop refers to. Mm-hmm. And I think that's what our neighbors to the east use very well to preserve agricultural land. And we have identified this agricultural land in our comprehensive plan, and we say we want everything to the west of 37 to be preserved as agricultural land. Or is this a way to pass on properties and rural land to future generations so they have the ability to preserve? But it is something that is key if the Federal diminishing authority that has just § Dactor 11 and Section 24 of the demi conम are gone to rest landlord or confederate 어� Opt on the con on land, or the state will alone to extractu equation rather than dividing it between regional and state Division d techniques and HA OIs. And again, with your final comment there need to be a report out to the task force for understanding this, and we know that most about现在 dish out use ofapi offence is limited to five things. So think of it as aйahm artesan. We were having the discussion last year, so I'm quite curious. at this time. And they've had great success in doing this and they've also received some grant money so it's not all coming out of our citizens' tax revenue as such. They regularly receive even private donations as well. Yes. So I think we should at least be open-minded and look at it and it's really hard to set on an authority, a conservation easement authority that Frederick County created and we don't have the tools to try to facilitate what we say we want to do. So I appreciate, Mr. Bishop, all the work you have done to get us this far because we've been talking about this for quite a long time and I think it would behoove the Board to at least go through the process and evaluate it on its behalf. So I'll defer to your expertise on that Board if we want to spend the time to look at that tool. I guess I have one question. I don't know how we would use it. So if we offer to a particular landowner to buy his development rights, is there somebody else who's going to come forward and say, well, I would have sold mine to you or maybe at a lesser rate. Do we have to enter a market and put an offer out there and anyone could respond? Yeah. Do we have to respond to it at the best rate or would we actually be picking land that we want to preserve for some reason in a particular area? Yeah. And part of scoping some of this, and I'll just answer that question and cover some other background conversations we've had as staff about developing this concept, but we looked at Stafford who does an active PDR program as well as some other communities and talked with Clark. Most of the other communities who run one basically do like a, they open an application. They have a certain amount of money and everybody can apply to then have their rights purchased from the county. They have a set of criteria for ranking the properties because there might be a situation where one has more preservation value than the other. You know, the side of Shawnee land or the North mountain or somewhere there might be less likely to be developed and in turn might not be a threat of development and might not have preservation value. So you've established criteria and then you rank the applications and choose as many as you can before you expend the funds that you have allocated in that given year. And that also allows you to determine, as Mr. Jewell mentioned, what the market price is for those TDRs as part of that. If you're working with a grant entity, they may require you to do an assessment or have an assessor involved to establish what that market price is in order for them to provide their 50% match. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's just some of the preliminary information we have on it. John provided a great overview of this. One of the reasons that I was kind of interested in this initially is because of a frustration I have about the TDR program currently where it feels like the rural landowners looking to generate TDRs are getting a pretty raw deal on the cost of those TDRs. We've seen them sell for $9,000 per right and even less than that. And if you think about what a five acre lot could go for right now, it's a little bit of a difference. That's the direct answer to that. Right. Yeah. for right now, we've seen them listed for upwards of $200,000. So the people participating are the people who have a heart for rural preservation in this community, and they're not reaping the benefits that I think they deserve out of it. So if we ran a PDR program, one material benefit I see that could come out of it is to introduce another market player, and that would be Frederick County, who has the option to buy TDRs, because right now they're at the whim of developers, likely, to set that price for what they could go for. But if we're running a PDR program alongside of it, and they're negotiating with developers, they can articulate like, hey, I'll just wait till the next application cycle opens and try to sell my TDRs to the county, or you can buy them from me for this price kind of thing. So that was another background conversation we had for why we thought this might be a good idea. But did I answer your question, Mr. Ludwig, about how we would work? I think so. I was just wondering how it would work. And so the current market of PDRs is that they're going to be selling TDRs to the county, and they're going to be selling them to the county. So do we see it before someone purchases a right? Are we monitoring the TDR market? Yeah, I can answer that. I deal with it more intimately than I think anybody else in my office right now. But the transaction occurs between sellers, and we see it on the deed of recordation for the severance and assignment, but it is a pure real estate transaction between those individuals. We affirm that the sending property is approved to create TDRs, and that the place they want to land them are per-property. So we're not going to be selling TDRs to the county around the state, but we have the right to trade them out to the actually that we want more juvenileolo. With respect to that, we do have an external case study that we're working on. We're just Vanderbilt right now,宮 lee, you used that term. Of course. As it relates to our ordinance and our comprehensive plan, but we're not involved in pricing or any here that. Sometimes we can tell, I don't know, that just because of how the real estate transaction occurs, what they paid per right, but we're not privy to those conversations. Do any counties who operate this, do they have a right of first refusal in the TDR market, where if they see someone selling cheap, they could jump in and say, well, then we'll buy it? Yeah frankly, nobody in Virginia has as robust a program as us that I have found. But in other states, they run what are called TDR banks. So you actually have to deal through the county to purchase the rights. When our program was set up, it was made clear and written into the ordinance that this would be our private market. And we would just set the regulatory framework around it, but that it would be individuals transacting these rights. But it's done a lot of different ways. It's really big on the West Coast and other states as well. Any other questions? Mr. Chairman. So let me just follow up your comment to staff. The conversation we had earlier, Mr. Pearson, one of your comments was, if this goes through, your staff is going to spend a lot of time laying this out. We've talked about money. We've talked about roads. So if this goes through and you do the work you need to do, which might take six months or nine months or whatever, a year, then the board comes back and says, no, we're not going to fund it. Just having the vehicle. There does that help for going down the road, which addresses Mrs. Slaughter's concern, or then we wasted a year of your time. The reason I'm asking the question is we then have a dollars that we're going to put in. So Mr. Bishop talked about grants, which is fine. We haven't seen numbers on the words grant, but we're talking about, you know, thousand dollars. We're talking about a million dollars. We haven't seen numbers on what happens if you buy a hundred acres, Mr. Wells, we buy a thousand acres. So that not knowing the economics of scale, not knowing the dollars involved, et cetera, conceptually. I'm fine, but I have real questions on the dollars and use, especially county dollars. So if you can respond, is this worth it for your staff and you to go through this process? If it runs into a roadblock down the road? Yeah, I guess I'll answer that two different ways. It's always good to make a step in a direction that offers future opportunity to this board or future board as it relates to conservation. So getting the ordinance adopted is a positive thing, regardless of whether you intend to fund it. That being said, I'm happy to answer that question. I'm happy to answer that question. I'm happy to answer that question. I'm happy to answer that question. John and I are not hurting for things to do. And if there's no appetite to fund this program other than through donations, I don't think that I would establish it very high in my priority for our limited staff time right now. So I think take that for what it is. If there's really not an appetite to get behind this, then maybe the time isn't right to do the ordinance work either. Then the question is on dollars, whether it's rollback dollars. Or grants. Do you have an idea either approximately how much of that would actually be part of this funding versus Frederick County tax dollars? Yeah, I mean, if you consider the solar siting agreements, you've got I think like $1.2 million in solar siting agreements that are recorded for the projects that are going towards being active. And probably two years ago, I asked the commissioner of revenue what the average rollback tax amount was. And is that an average number of dollars? And it's not an average number, you know, we're talking about like what's the average number of dollars that's actually beCRAP or what's the average number of dollars that's actually beCRAP or what's the average number of dollars that's actually beCRAP. I'm not sure that's an average number. So you're saying that, you know, it would be actually be a really good number of dollars to be able to do that on an annual basis. And, you know, it would not be anywhere even comparable to that on an annual basis. So we'd probably do one round if we used the solar siting agreement to kick off the program and then go five years of accruing rollback taxes in order to open up another round to where we felt like we had a substantial amount to where we could actually get more than one or two rights. Does that make sense? Does that answer what you were going for? So then you're looking for us to vote and approve the resolution? Yes, sir. Okay. Should you see fit? I'm certainly willing to defer to the board and staff if you want to do this. I don't think it's necessarily your highest priority item, but that's my opinion. Just want to put that out there. I could be wrong. I'm not as familiar with these markets as some. I think it would be a great thing to go in and move down the road and move it towards DRC. I agree. We represent agriculture, and if it's an opportunity to save agriculture, then let's do it. See what we can do. See where it goes. So, Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion that we approve the resolution directing the Planning Commission to hold a public hearing regarding Chapter 165. Is that all you need in that motion? Okay. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Just one comment, Mr. Chairman. If we go through this process, as you go through the process, I'd like to see the DRC and others take a look at how to keep this program clean and honest. And I'm using those words loosely, so here's my concerns. On the TDR program, you have Farmer Jones. He says, I'm never going to sell my land, but he sells TDRs. So he's selling something he's never going to develop anyway. You also have Farmer Jones, who says, I'm not going to sell my land, but he's going to buy Farmer Smith's land, and then he gets TDRs, and the receiving area is in an area like Redbud. Now I have capital costs for those 100 acres that are being developed, or 500 acres that are being developed. So I'll go forward with this, but I just want to make sure there's not abuse of the system, and that's my concern. Any other discussion? Very good. Then we'll vote on approving the resolution. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Nay. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the resolution is adopted. That's 13C14, Board Liaison Reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. The Planning Commission last week, on April 16th, took up rezoning 0325 for Royal King Truck Trailer Parking, submitted to rezone 4.35 acres from B2 General Business Zoning to B3 Industrial Transition Zoning, with proffers to develop tractor-truck and tractor-truck trailer parking in the Stonewall Magisterial District. That was recommended denial by the Planning Commission. That will come to the House. That will come to the Board of Supervisors on May the 14th. Second one was Conditional Use Permit 0425 for Royal Truck Trailer Parking, submitted to develop tractor-trailer parking on three parcels totaling 13.64 acres. That also was recommended denial by the Planning Commission. Will come to the Board of Supervisors on May 14th. Last one was Ordinance Amendment to Frederick County Code. This is a reference to the Ordinance Amendment to Frederick County Code. Additions to define chicken coops and provide additional regulations for backyard chickens and chicken coops in the RP, residential performance districts, R4 residential planned communities, and R5 residential recreation community zoning districts. There was a number of amendments on that by the Planning Commission. The original motion, they voted yes to approve. There were a number of amendments. I'm going to briefly. touch on those. One was to delay implementation for six months after whatever the Board of Supervisors would approve to allow homeowners associations to make rules regarding chickens in their area. That was approved. Permit process. Basically, the bottom line was so that the county would know where people are, where their locations are. Something. Came up like a disease outbreak or something like that. There would be a permitting process. They voted yes on that. And they voted to not allow chickens in the RP area. Two amendments that failed was to limit the size of or limit, give a minimum size limit to 70.75 acres or larger. That failed. And then limit to three acres or larger. That failed. That's all I have. Thank you. Are there any other board liaison reports? Mr. Chairman. So fire rescue. The Frederick County with city of Winchester Fire Department had their basic EMS and basic fire Academy graduation last week at Millbrook High School with 24 graduating this on Wednesday, April 30th. And then we had a fire rescue. And then we had a fire rescue. And then we had a fire rescue. Again at Millbrook High School there will be seven graduating from Frederick County. Fire and it will be basic fire. And then in May we have 16 coming in for the next recruit class. So that's a report for fire and rescue. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Seeing none, I have two quick ones. One is the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission met and there were two things that jump out of that that I thought were important. Two things that jump out of that that I thought were important. One is the connection fee. So there's a big broadband project trying to bring Internet to areas of our county where there's no access yet. They've decided to have the connection fee. So if you thought about doing it and you didn't want to pay $199 to connect when they come by, it will be $99 now. So maybe there's somebody out there who should look up their website or contact us. So you can consider applying for that. The other thing they're undertaking is the state has directed that the different regions of Virginia do a regional water study. It's a four to five year project, but it's something I haven't seen the details, but I'm very interested from what I heard. This is my first time hearing about it. They're looking at the ultimate amount of resources that we have in water and what uses, what growth, they project coming, not just in our county, but counties in our area. I think it's important. We heard today about wells going dry. We know we're in a drought. We know this area is developing. We only have so many tools. This is exactly what we've discussed before is pooling our resources with other counties near us and getting something done that maybe can tell us what our water limits are so that we don't violate that and create a terrible problem down the road. So I'm very interested in when I get the details, I'd be happy to pass it to the board. When this study kicks off. The other item I want to mention is at our last work session before our final budget vote, it was suggested that the schools Frederick County school system would bring to us a proposal to buy metal detectors or more advanced equipment imaging devices to place at the schools. Their proposal was to bring it through finance and let the county consider it. We were very interested overall as a board in hearing that proposal. However, they weren't ready to come to the finance committee. That's why it didn't happen when the finance chair and I promised we would take this up. We certainly will as soon as it comes. I also want to take it to public safety so that we think about that in terms of what they call multi layer security. It doesn't make any sense to spend $1,000,000 armoring your front door if you leave your back door open, you know, at night all the time. So what is the security of our schools really look like? And I would like to ask people more knowledgeable than I like the SROs. If you had it's not quite $1,000,000, but it's on that order. If you had $1,000,000 to spend, is this what you need? Is this what you would spend it on? Or would you rather have more school buses? Maybe a fire truck would save more lives. The SROs are under, you know, the public safety umbrella. So I put that on the agenda. We have a meeting in the morning. It's just to start the discussion there because we don't have a proposal yet for what the school system wants to do. But just want the public to know and the rest of the board that we have not forgotten that and we're waiting for the school system to come to us with a proposal. And that's my liaison report. Citizen comments. Do we have anyone signed up? Yes, sir. Willie Duce. Welcome, sir. Chairman, members of the board, I reside in the Opecan District. I wanted to speak to the data center resolution that was passed last meeting. I only found out about it after it was passed. So I know these comments are late, but I know you all are beginning the process of moving down the road as far as data centers are concerned. So I want to offer just a couple of things to keep in mind as you keep considering them. So first of all, the issue of setbacks from residential and school sites. The resolution has a 200-foot setback. And honestly, that is very close to residential and school sites. It's about the length of a decent-sized house. And so when you look through the Ashburn-Dulles corridor, they've got a lot of data centers right up against houses. Right now, there's a whole fight in Brentsville-Bristow area of Prince William County about this, where they're basically butting right up to an elementary school, coming right up on some subdivisions. So in that area, the delegate there has a bill where they're pushing for a 1,300-foot setback from residential and school sites. And so I would just encourage that that setback is taken very seriously. But that ties into the next issue, which is noise that are generated. Very often when it comes to data centers, you have a lot of them clustered together. It works for the energy efficiency. They consume a lot of power. You need substations. You need power lines. So it makes sense to put them close together. That compounds the noise situation. And really, all that can be done about the noise is your buffers and your setbacks up front. And so I was a little bit concerned where you guys have testing three, five years out on the noise situation. It really doesn't put confidence that you've solved the noise situation up front. Because if you run into noise issues three, five years out, there's not much you can do about it. You're not going to tell a data center, go turn yourself off. So the work really is to do that. The work really needs to be done up front when it comes to buffers and setbacks and what level of clustering there's going to be of data centers to make sure that that noise issue is solved for on the front end and that you have a very high level of confidence. And there's a lot of places in Prince William and Loudon nearby that can be studied on those fronts as far as what works best. The last thing is the issue of zoning. And I know that the zoning that was marked is just a way to start limiting. But there's got to be some additional considerations for where is the best place to put them if you're going to have them. Because on the one hand, you don't want them to take up our rural area. On the other hand, you don't want them right up against housing subdivisions. And you also need them in a place where you've got the power substations and the heavy-duty power lines coming in. So I think setting up the zonings is probably a good first step. But you probably have to look, where do we really want these sited in the county if we're going to do it? And then you've got to kind of have a lot. And you've got to be like, we're not letting you out of here. And that's a whole different discussion. But I think there's got to be real consideration on what works best for them besides zoning. Thank you all very much. Thank you. James Mulder. Yeah, James Mulder, Back Creek District. First of all, I'd like to start off with Supervisor Lierre. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. While a lot of us are struggling to pay our bills, and our taxes, last month you voted to give Deanna Lierre, your wife, a pay increase. Don't you think that was a conflict of interest? I think it's about time that maybe we FOIA the wife's salary to see how much money she has made extra since she's been a supervisor. Also, March 25th, your Facebook post said that you were for cutting some of the school board money. That you couldn't do it line item by line item because they had over 100 unfilled staff vacancies last year. And they were wanting 40 new positions. When the chairman brought up cutting the school board, $2 million, I believe it was, made a motion during the budget session. All of a sudden, some trickery was going to be started because the motion was brought up at the last minute. Last year, we had a motion. Last year, we had a motion. Last year, we had a motion. Last year, we had a motion. Last year, we had a motion. Last year's budget meeting, I believe there were cuts made at the last minute before it was approved. I don't know about years prior to that because I didn't pay attention to the county business prior to that. So my wonder, you know, on Facebook, you were willing to cut, but you can't do a line item cut. But you give the whole kit and caboodle of money to the school. You can't control where it's spent, but everybody's afraid to cut the budget of the school board. Because then we don't care about the kids. Then we don't care about the teachers. And we're not getting our money for what we're paying for. The rates for the kids reading and writing still hasn't came up. But over the last two years, I've paid a tax. And we've increased their budget 20, 30 million. And our reading proficiency is still the same. Thank you. Todd Lumpkin. Todd Lumpkin, Back Creek District. I'm here tonight to submit a petition regarding the proposed EMS tower at the Rattle 11 scales. We appreciated the opportunity to meet with Mr. Lumpkin. We are very grateful to have Mr. Tibbs last week. And we do not object to the need for the tower. We object to the site. This will affect at least 50 families in our historic area. An 1800s property on Ridings Mill Road. A property on the National Registry on Ridings Chapel. And the home where I grew up, Christman Springs. Or better known to many as the Old Powers Farm. This is the oldest house in Frederick County. 1751. Our families are very grateful. We are very grateful. We are very grateful. Our family has worked hard to maintain the integrity of this property. As a property. Maintain the integrity of the property. As a priority when repairs were needed. We are asking for more time so that other sites can be considered. That wouldn't affect the historic footprint of our area so greatly. Thank you. Stephanie, did you want to go again now? Salut, jesu. Hello. Hello. Stephanie Jan skincare redbud. So I was going to say stoping different until I heard Supervisor Dunn's reasoning for postponing the vote this evening. It doesn't sound like that you heard anything that I said last time I was here or read the emails that I sent because you are still only focusing on Stevens' house, or the 2023 issue. There's an emphasis on questions there from the chat congregation. And itpolled the question, connect 2016-2018 award to the fact, should NOT be any alternative. So please make your decisions about whether we stand by for LOCAL who we would agree on a the landowners are only focusing on Stephen's house. Again, we look down on this property. We're going to see the top of the building, okay? And 100%, it will lower our property value. There's a bunch of us on the fringe that are on a hill, and we'll look down, okay? He can't plant trees in the sky. It's not going to cover the top of the building unless he, you know, does something to cover this building out of our sight. There's nothing he can do to protect us from this monstrosity that he's going to build, okay? When you say we've worked really hard on this, I don't feel like you're talking about the collective we here on the Diaz. I don't feel like you're talking about the collective we in Redbug, your constituents. I feel like you're talking about we and the people who aren't here right now, the developer and the landowner. And I don't understand that, because I voted for you all the time. You know, I'm in your district. I have been for 10 years. I don't understand that. That's kind of upsetting. But I answered the landowner's, whatever, answers to the inaccurate statements that Stephen made in his emails. I rebutted them, and I sent them to everybody, because just because he said that what Stephen said was inaccurate doesn't make that true, okay? And I put my personal experience in there, some of which I shared last time, and I put rebuttals to, some of the nonsense that he put in there. Not everything, because not everything was inaccurate, but some things were. And I'll say that his stuff was inaccurate, right? But just because he said so doesn't make that true. So that's all. So if y'all are going to look at all the data before June 11th, when we do this again, and again, and again, hopefully not, um, please look at all the data. Mine, too. Mine that I sent you, too. Please. Okay. Um, I know y'all will, but please. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Is there anyone else here tonight who'd like to speak on any matter involving the county? Mr. Chair, from the Back Creek District, you had corrected it, because last, the last meeting I had heard a woman stand here and claim that you thought that children's lives were only worth around $800,000.00. Okay. And I'm not, parents didn't hear the other end of it, which was you were looking into systems. May cost more, and that was okay, but we want to get the systems that are going to work correctly. What happened in the schools, not going to stop. It's going to continue. It's that simple. Can't have one, you know, one kid brings a gun to school. Next year, it might be two or three. You need to look into these systems. I do not, I've, I've dealt with them for 25 years. I do not want to disclose faults in the system. You want to talk to me about it? I'll be more than happy to talk to you about it, but you need to get a better system than what they have. And that's, that's all. I just wanted to make sure people understood that you didn't think kids' lives were worth $800,000.00. Kids' lives are worth, there is no money you can put on a kid's life. So I'm not sure if she worked for an insurance company, because they're very good at doing stuff like that. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Hello, Steven Carter, Redbud District. Just responding, Mr. Dunn, to some of the comments that you had earlier. I understand there are seven people who make up this vote, and oftentimes when an experienced supervisor like yourself in a district is leading the efforts to understand what's happening in that district, many of the other members will strongly value that opinion. And so do I. And I do believe that if you were to vote in opposition, you would have a unanimous vote. And so, you know, you can tell me that I might be wrong. But I do believe that you would have a unanimous vote, and it may not be the same. So you do have poll, whether you want to admit it or not. You do have sway, because they often look at you. They expect that you know the constituents best. They expect that you know your district best. So it's often referred to you. So you stated earlier that you were researching your concerns, and two of them were water and traffic. Neither of those really within the purview or the decisions from the Board of Supervisors. It's more up to Frederick Water, VDOT, and so on. And so I just wanted to say, I think it's important that you think about the other things that you're looking at. I think that's important. And that's the reason why I'm going to go ahead and address some of the environmental agencies that might round that out. The third was the size of the building. I received very clear and concise answers from the zoning department about the size of the building. It's simple. B-1, the maximum size is 31,102 square feet, and some buildings are even capped at 10,000 square feet. So the applicant is proposing a 40,000 square foot facility, a nearly 30% increase in the size. And the building is nearly 10,000 square feet larger than what B-1 allows. So I don't know what questions are left on the size of the building. You've gone through all of the right motions. You did, in fact, offer a delay and motion it for my behalf on the very first day that we met. We had never met before. I was naive to the process. You granted that, made that motion, and everybody approved it. It was a two-week delay. And thank you for it. It gave us a chance to really understand the process better. You also came out and met with the residents for two hours. You met with the applicant. You received a petition with over 65 signatures, of which are the constituents within the Redbud District. Every single constituent who has voiced an opinion has opposed the application. You have taken all the right steps. You have the full data set, including from Stephanie and the other advantage points that have not been addressed. Yet your actions are indecisive and confusing. You have now motioned twice to delay the vote in favor of the applicant. Last time for seven weeks and now another seven weeks. And if the board is to be fair to the property owners, then their rights should be fair to all property owners, including the residents. And the only way to stay fair on this motion is to oppose the application and leave the land as owned now. I'll say again that unless the property gets up and moves, it does not comply with the B2 code nor the comprehensive plan. I've pointed that out several times, line item by line item. And it has yet to be responded to or refuted, other than by the applicant, who she correctly pointed out were false and misleading statements. As your constituent, can you please provide the feedback on those issues which are within the purview of the Board of Supervisors and requested by the constituents? And for those who haven't already visited, seven weeks is plenty of time for you to come out and see the property from all of our vantage points. Mr. Chairman. You are all invited and it would be a great opportunity to also listen to the other constituents. Thank you very much. Was there a statement there? No, your time was up, by the way. Oh, okay. And thank you, Zoni. You all have done a great job. Thank you. Anyone else? Then I'll close the citizen comment period. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. Well, it is sensitive to the fact that it's 1014 p.m., okay, and it's been a long meeting, but I really feel like I won't be able to do anything. I want to talk about school division salaries for just a couple of minutes. First of all, and I'm talking specifically to Frederick County because 31 of my 37 years in education were in Frederick County Public Schools. Can you hear me okay? Typically, the only salary in the entire school division, there's about 2,500 employees in the school division, typically the only salary that is negotiated with the school board is the superintendent's position. Okay? So Dr. Hummer has been here for a couple of years. I like Dr. Hummer. I hope he stays for a long time. But when he leaves, the school board will have, that's one of their principal jobs is to hire a superintendent. Okay? Typically, what will happen is they will do an interim superintendent, then they'll hire a firm to evaluate superintendent candidates. They'll do interviews, and they'll make the hiring decision. Okay? The bottom line is at that point, they will enter into a negotiation with the superintendent. Okay? If Dr. Hummer is here 20 or 25 years, he's going to be making a pretty high salary by the time he leaves. That doesn't mean that a brand new superintendent coming in is going to make that salary. That's going to be negotiated. Okay? So that's how the superintendent salary works. Every other salary in the school division, every other salary in the school division, every other salary in the school division of those 2,500 people is on a pay scale. You can look it up in Frederick County Public Schools. There's an assistant superintendent's pay scale. There's a director's pay scale. There's an assistant director's pay scale. There's a principal's pay scale. There's an assistant principal's pay scale. There's a teacher pay scale. There's a bus driver pay scale. There's a nurse pay scale. There's an aid pay scale. There's a cafeteria worker pay scale. And I'm sure I've forgotten some. There's coaches, stipends, et cetera. They're all on a pay scale. Okay? It's basically a chart that says this is your job. This is how many years you've been in that position. If you have a master's degree, you're going to get paid a little bit more than if you have a bachelor's degree. If you have a doctorate, you're going to get paid a little bit more than if you have a master's degree and so on. There's no negotiation that really occurs when you're moving from division to division. You go on that pay scale. For an example, if I'm a 10-year teacher here in Frederick County and I see an assistant principal job open up in Prince William County, I can go apply for that position. Okay? If I go to apply for that position and I'm selected for it, yes, my salary is going to bump up. The only negotiation that's going to basically take place is where they put me on the payroll. Okay? We need to see or how you approach the budget and what the limit of old age treatment is for these jobs. That's the negotiation. You're not going to negotiate with a teacher every year. Once you are on that scale, you are on that scale. Let me talk a little bit about the timeline that we proved the budget. Two weeks ago on April 9th, this board approved attorney budget. And closed within that budget was the school board budget. We proved that budget on a five to two vote. Some teachers come to this campus and say, hello, how are you and your congratulations. How are you doing? When you hold up that Okay. Within that budget was a school budget and a proposed salary increase for teachers for next year over and above what they're being paid this year that they're on that scale for. Okay. Last night on the 22nd, the school board met and they had to take the budget that we approved and they had to modify because they got $1.2 million less than they thought they were going to get from us. They also got $1.3 million, I believe it was, less from the state than they thought they were going to get. So they had to make some decisions last night. The bottom line to what I'm telling you is the school board. Set salaries, not this board, not this board of supervisors. Last night, if you watch the school board meeting, one of the things Dr. Hummer said was we have to figure out how to cut money from this budget. We have to make up this shortfall. They could have. And Dr. Hummer said this. They could have cut the salary increases. I've been around for a long time. I've gotten good salary increases when I was in Frederick County schools, five or six percent. In 1990, 91, I think I got a 0.5% raise. Okay. And I know a lot of you in the public sector have, or private sector have years where you didn't get a big raise. Bottom line was last night, the school board could have cut that raise to anything they wanted to. They could have gone down to 0% raise if they wanted to. They could have gone to a 1% raise. They could have gone to a 2%. Raise. Dr. Hummer, go back and look at the video. Dr. Hummer could have done that. He said, no, salaries are my priority. Okay. I want to keep the salary increase. Okay. Let me go back to something that was said about the beginning of the budget cycle. Okay. How many of you remember going to Kmart with a blue light special? Anybody? I'm dating myself. I'm looking around the room and I know some of you know the blue light special. Okay. All right. At the beginning of day one of the budget process that went on for three months here in Frederick County, day one, day one of the budget process that went on in this county, there was a blue light special blinking in my head when I looked at the budget. There were two things that I look at in that school budget, all right, that are big dollar items. One is the CIP. We ended up cutting their CIP. We ended up cutting their CIP way down from, I might be wrong, 10 million to 4 million, something like that. The other big item that I saw was, as one of our speakers had mentioned, was I started asking questions of our 2,500 people that we have in the school system, how many positions are unfilled right now? This was back in January. The answer was 115. And I looked at the budget and I said, why do we need 40 new positions? And I said, why do we need 40 new positions? Next year, if we got 115 that we can't fill. Okay. So there's a little bit of discussion about that. That was back in the beginning of the budget sessions, okay? I don't have line item veto authority, none of us do up here on this board, to cut those 40 positions. I was the first one to suggest it. If someone finds somebody that suggested that before I did, please point that out. But I was the first one to suggest that I thought. 40 positions were excessive when I looked at 150 new students for next year. Okay. That was what their projection was in January, that there's going to be 150 new students for next year. Okay. So I started looking at those new positions and said, we need to cut those. Guess what happened? Last night at the school board meeting, they decided to cut 32 of those 40 positions. They decided to do it. They're bored. Okay. I wonder where they heard that suggestion first. Okay. It may have been back in January when I suggested that those 40 positions may have been a little bit excessive. Okay. So the bottom line on salaries, we don't have line item veto authority on the budget, on the school board budget. Okay. They could have cut the salaries last night to any level that they wanted to. They could have cut it down to 0%. Okay. So they're going to cut the salaries. They chose not to do that. I think Dr. Hummer was very wise in choosing not to do that because we're under big competition to keep our teachers. We're trying to keep our teachers in the building. Do I support having teachers getting a good raise so that they can stay here in Frederick County? Yes, I do. We were able to give 6.6% last year. I don't know what the number is this year, 5%, something like that. Okay. The bottom line is the board. The board of supervisors does not determine salaries for Frederick County employees. We determine the amount of money that the Frederick County public schools are going to get from the board of supervisors to operate the school system. The school board then goes back and decides what that budget is going to be, what the raise is going to be, if any raise for employees. Okay. By the way, the school budget is still not complete because they've got some things on the governor's desk that could adjust. They might come back and make some supplemental requests of us for security things that we've talked about tonight. Bottom line is we don't determine salaries for school division people here at the board of supervisors. That's the school board. If you feel like the teachers are being paid too much money, you need to go to the school board and make that case. Go ahead and get your data together. Make the case that they're being paid too much money. Okay. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? It's apple blossom. Mr. Chairman, happy gloom. Happy gloom to everybody. It's great thing for Frederick County and the city of Winchester. Go celebrate. It's a wonderful, wonderful time. Spend lots of money. Have a good time. Eat cotton candy. Do whatever. God bless you all. Thank you. Anyone else want to top that? I don't know. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to let Mr. Wells repeat his comments at the end because it's most appropriate for the end. I'll just take. And Mr. Jewell. I just want to make a couple quick comments. One on amendments to our budget. I have offered amendments to budgets. I've said to board members, here's what I want to propose and why. So people have seen it up front. And I think that's a better way to do it than just having any board member say, here's the thing unannounced. So we have had amendments to budgets. But at least from my perspective, we've always let them know up front what's coming so they can think about it, et cetera. Number two, we have about $36 million in our capital fund. That's going to be a solid number at the end of August. And I'm going to make some proposals on how we use that money as we go through a budget process, whether it's for roads or capital projects, et cetera. But that's not until the end of August. So just recognize that. Number three, I don't know anybody in this board that has any authority at all to. Make a decision on not hiring people. That's our administrator. But we have no decisions on salaries for anybody. And as Mr. Lero said, we give the schools a dollar amount. That's it. There's nothing attached to that. Having said that, Mr. Wells or Mr. Ludwig, you're welcome to. I'm good. Very good. Vice chair. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. We are adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
