Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-11-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=110
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. At the option of the agenda, I know that I know that there are a number of changes. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion that we adopt the agenda with the following changes, that 11A, it's CUP 1021, be postponed for 90 days. The second would be that 11B, which is CUP 11-21, would be postponed until the second meeting in January. And the third item, I would like to add 8C to have discussion and a presentation regarding a friendly boundary line adjustment for the town of Middletown. Second. Second. Could I offer an amendment to your motion, including your motion and the removal of the Board of Zoning, a Board of Equalization under 8A, removing that one. Something changed after the agenda went out. I second that. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We adopt the amended agenda. Motion and a second. Second. Motion if you need one. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended. Sentencing comments for agenda items that are not subject to public hearing, just for information. If you came to speak to the tower conditional use permit, that will not be heard this evening. If you wanted to make comments this evening, you could do those at the citizen comment period at the end of the meeting. Also, 11B, the conditional use permit to Bartonsville, has been removed from our agenda. We will not be holding a public hearing or receiving comments on that one this evening. So if that was the main reason that you're with us this evening, you're certainly welcome to spend that time at home with family or to stay with us. I think that is all the announcements that I had. Citizen comments on issues not subject to public hearing, I don't think there are any. Yes, sir. We have several signed up. Yes. David Judd. Welcome, sir. Come on. If we could have your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. My name is David Judd, and I'm Back Creek District. And I was watching the broadcast last Wednesday, and we're a resident on Family Drive. And we were trying to get clarity on that statement that it was a family drive. And I said it's a private road. And I understand it's a public road. So is it both? And if it is, where does it start and stop being a private road? We'll get you an answer to that question. I can't answer it this evening. Mr. Bishop over here in the glasses and beard is our transportation planner. He could, I think, answer any of your questions concerning that. Okay. Okay. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Even though you're already on Zoom, business professionals always requiring communication between businesses, and I think they are in very good position to speak to that. Yeah. And then it was brought up that they wanted to use family drive or family lane for excess escape emergency route. And another thing that was brought up, it was a private road. It needs to be clarified. I've lived there 69 years, and it says an unnumbered public road going back so far, and then it goes private. So my clarification was that we need to get this straightened out on this road condition here and what's going to happen there about these solar panels, which I didn't know anything about. That has been removed from our agenda this evening. But again, Mr. Bishop, I think, can help answer the transportation and status of the road questions. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Robert Clark. Good evening. Welcome, sir. Welcome. Thank you, sir. Hi, my name is Bob Clark. I'm a resident of Frederick County, residing in Opec 1 District. I'm a veteran and retired police chief. I'm here today. I own Thorndale Farm. It's a farm on the north end of Buckton Road in that district, just up from Reliance Road. I'm here today to talk about the annexation of the east side. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to stop you and ask you to bring those comments under the citizen comment at the end of the meeting. It would be an inappropriate comment at this point in time. Okay. I was instructed to sign up for this session. Understood. But it's referring now to the next comment period, and I apologize, but it's at the end of the meeting. No, it's okay. That's okay. Thank you. Thank you. Point of order. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry? Just for a point of order. Since it was added to the agenda, wouldn't it be appropriate for him to speak on the matter as it is on the agenda for this evening? At the public comment at the end in the public comment section of our agenda. Mr. Chairman, point of order. We'll have adjudicated this to a certain extent before we get to that point, so then the citizens wouldn't have an opportunity to discuss it with us before we decide to do so. Mr. Chairman, point of order. We'll have adjudicated this to a certain extent before we decide how we would want to move forward with that. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Williams has shook his head, so we are okay. Take the point of order. And sir, if you want to come back up. Thank you, sir. And we apologize for the confusion. Oh, it's quite all right. I've spent many a time in a ... ... rearranged a great deal in the last hour. I've spent many a time in council meetings, believe me. So I'm here today representing the board of trustees. I'm here to do a couple of things. I want to make sure that I'm in line with the board of trustees. I want to make sure that I'm in line with the board of trustees. I want to make sure that I'm in line with the board of trustees. I'm representing a coalition that we developed in opposition of this particular annexation or friendly boundary line adjustment as it's being called by Middletown. I stand before you representing the Exit 302 Smart Development Coalition. We are a coalition of Middletown, Frederick County and even some Warren County residents. Combined, we make up a unique rural community situated on the east side of Exit 302 on and on and around North and South Buckton Roads, Kendall Mills, Reliance Road, and all points around those locations. The coalition, this band of neighbors, love, value, and seek to preserve and protect our existing rural landscape, our culture and heritage, history and archeological record, environment and overall quality of life in Frederick County through the smart development and use of undeveloped commercial zones, commercially zoned lands east of 81, exit 302. Some of our concerns real quick is we live in the county right now. We are part of the county. It's a very unique situation that will occur if those 20 acres that we're talking about annexation on that east side get annexed. The homes to the north of that. To the north of that. To the north of that spot that's going to be annexed will suffer the impact of the sheets that's going to be put in there. Middletown's getting $600,000 to help build their sewer system. There's a lot going into that and you guys will talk about that later. When that sheet goes in, if that becomes town of Middletown, we lose our voice. By construct, because of the division of 81. You've taken Middletown and put in a chunk of it over the east side. Now we don't have any redress of grievance, any voice for redress of grievance. We've become muted because that neighborhood's grown. Since I've been here since 2012, that neighborhood has grown exponentially. There are five acre lots, half plus million dollar homes up there. We're concerned about the operational impacts. We're concerned about the cost. We're concerned about the cost. We've got to look at the benefits of a truck stop in that location. Public safety, environmental quality issues, air quality issues, those types of things. Who do we turn to? Do we lose any standing? We can't go to Middletown and say, well, we're concerned about this. They'll say, well, you don't live in the county. Well, you don't live in the city. Vice versa, if we come before this board you're going to say, well, I'm sorry. That's Middletown's jurisdiction. »» Thank you very much. Thank you. Let's talk about public, public safety's another one, that's a big one on my list. Is Middletown prepared to provide? Go ahead and conclude. Thank you. Anyway, we are, the citizens in that area are opposed to the annexation of that 20 acres. And another thing is that 20 acres is core battlefield. I don't know if you're historic resources people said that. I get it, it's zone B2, you could build a mall on it if you wanted to. But it is core battlefield and it is the last vestige of battlefield on the east side of 81 that even indicates the Battle of Cedar Creek took over, was over there, aside from my farm, which is on the National Registry of Historic Places, Virginia Landmark Registry, and is a tourist destination. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Denise Barb. Sorry, Ms. Phillips again. Denise Bard. Thank you. Ms. Phillips. Charlie Bard. Welcome, sir. Thank you, and thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak before any decision would have been made. I want to echo everything that Robert said, he's my next door neighbor, more or less. This was news. to us was very sort of sprung upon us because I guess we don't follow the county maybe as well as we should but I did some quick research that every 10 miles there's a truck stop starting in Tom's Brook and ending right before the I guess the line for West Virginia also in that area we already have to get one truck stop and one gas station on each corner of Reliance Road so I think it be sort of overkill to put another truck stop in there and maybe I can understand why they would want to put a truck stop there's right before the weigh station that allows trucks to stop prior to going through the weigh station where they might run into some sort of timing or driving issue unfortunately you know that that has a great impact is in the state has done great things with 81 as far as issues with the on ramps and off ramps of the weigh station we know there's particularly dangerous and have added some roads or added some footage to allow us to get in and out of there but whether the money is allotted to the sewer and water to go across 81 or whether the Sheets Corporation is going to go ahead and do their own internal water and sewer as another potential impact for us because I think we're all on the same water table thank you very much thank you sir Micah James better repeat Micah Jacob has passed Samantha McDonald I think she planned to pass as well those are all that we have signed up all right did anyone else want to speak to this issue seeing no one we'll move on consent agenda Mr. Chairman I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented second second is there any discussion all those in favor let's do roll call that would be Supervisor Graver aye Supervisor Dunn aye Supervisor Wells aye Supervisor Slaughter aye Supervisor McCarthy aye Supervisor Stegmaier aye Chair votes aye and the motion carries all right Board of Supervisors comments are there any Mr. Chairman yes Supervisor Graver thank you Mr. Chairman I'd like to address a couple of the items that have been brought forth this evening by folks in the community the first is I've done a little research on the proposed plans for Family Drive and the solar farms to my knowledge and understanding of the most recent plans that there will be no use of Family Drive in any format as regards to those solar farms if it were to ever be approved for the second phase so the fine folks on Family Drive would not have any impact including an emergency access at this point so to answer those questions that is where we stand as of yesterday when I asked a few questions to address the sheet of the plan I would like to address the following questions I would like to address the sheets issue sheets has not proposed to put a truck stop in they've proposed to put in a gas station slash convenience store I'm not sure where the truck stop comments have come from but it has not been from the sheets corporation from the comments and the paperwork that I have seen above and beyond we have two options with them we can either work with them to try to mitigate problems from the starting point now or we can let them come in and put in a gas station or a convenience store we can either work with them to try to mitigate problems from the starting point now or we can let them come in and put in a gas station or a convenience store a large septic system in on their own and not really have a lot of abilities to regulate some of the trucks to the abilities that Middletown has Middletown has some pretty stringent rules and the ability to enforce them and I see a lot of benefits for having that conversation but that will be for another time but I'm just not certain where the sheets truck stop has originated from because I've not seen any documentation at all from sheets that they desire to put a truck stop in a one bay high flow it's two bay it's one on one island with two pumps does not constitute a truck stop and if you would like to look at a similar type of facility which they are proposing you can go to Thornburg, Virginia and it is virtually identical from what I've seen of what is proposed and it is by far not a truck stop it would be something much more appropriate for our farmers and people in the regions to fill up their gooseneck trucks and trailers for their agricultural equipment and things of that nature not saying that trucks will never fuel up there but what I am saying is is it does not have the truck stop plans that I have seen thank you Mr. Chairman other board comments anyone seeing none we'll move on committee appointments economic development authority Mr. Chairman I would move for the reappointment of Brian Fairbanks to the economic development authority second motion and a second is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no so moved Mr. Chairman could this man Mr. Chairman Mr. Chairman Mrs. Chairman Mr. Chairman prepare for speedy thank Alan Morrison for the work that he's done on the commission he's been an independent voice looking out for the citizens of Frederick County and I sincerely appreciate all the work that he's done up to this point yes sir I would agree mr. chairman yes sir I would just like to say I concur with mr. supervisor McCarthy's comments I'd also like to thank John Jewell for his fantastic service to the residents of back Creek in the time that he has served he has been a phenomenal voice and a heart extremely hard worker and we appreciate his service yeah okay Northwestern Community Service yes sir I'm sorry so voting for mr. Jewell all those in favor aye opposed no we will appoint him as the at-large thank you sir Northwestern Community Service three-year terms Sandra Dunkel and Gus Morrison chairman I would move for the reappointment of Sandra Dunkel and Gus Morrison motion in a second is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no mr. is don't call and mr. Morrison will be reappointed Board of Equalization will be removed from tonight's and come back at a future date the Board of Zoning Appeals five-year term of Ron Madigan Mr. Chairman I would move for the reappointment of Sandra Dunkel and Gus Morrison chairman I would move that mr. Madigan be reappointed he's willing to serve he's done a wonderful job great motion and a second serene discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no mr. Madigan will be reappointed just for informational sake we have three vacancies on the Hanley Regional Library Board anyone who would be interested you can go online and fill out an application for committee and board of trustees if you have any questions or concerns you can contact us at the board.com. appointment in the administrative section of the website be much appreciated we have a vacancy with the historic resources Advisory Board as well same process and there is a vacancy on the Social Services Board red bud mr. Dunn I'll work on that yes sir thank you all right county officials the proposed levels legislative agenda initiatives that'll be me mr. chairman sir and I have a we have the Virginia General Assembly legislative agenda before you tonight when we dispose of that item I have another item that's a pseudo legislative item and I would like to bring to the board's attention and just give you an update on that particular issue as well Thank you. So what you have before you this evening Mr. Chairman and members of the board is the county's draft legislative program for the upcoming 2022 General Assembly session. If you've reviewed the program you'll notice that a lot of the items on there have been items that we've carried over from years past. This year we have highlighted new items in yellow. You'll notice that we added some new initiatives. The first would be funding for transportation improvements. Daniel Davies with Delegate LaRock's office approached us and sought our support for Delegate LaRock's proposal to amend Virginia Code section 58.1-3221-3 to expand the number of localities enabled under state code to assess additional commercial and industrial property tax for transportation. This proposal would provide some additional support for the federal government to implement the proposed legislation. The second would be funding for the federal government to provide localities with an additional tool to fund needed transportation improvements and rather than naming those localities by name in the proposed legislation he's identifying planning districts and so our particular planning district would be one of those potentially enabled if this legislation were to pass. That doesn't mean the tax is immediately implemented but it would be a tool that the board could consider in funding future transportation improvements. In addition under our priority items we did add an item pertaining to mental health. Specifically the reopening of the state-run hospitals which are currently closed to receiving new patients. This lack of available bids is a financial and personnel burden for the county not just at the regional jail that is impacted but particularly our Sheriff's Department. I believe our sheriff has to allocate at least two deputies if they have a mental health patient at Winchester Medical Center to watch that individual till they can find a bid if a bid opens up and then they also have to have a two deputies to transport that individual somewhere around the state if and if a bed opens up to serve that individual. So there is an overtime and personnel component cost of the locality there. We also added an item relative to an issue we encountered during this year's redistricting that would propose an amendment to Virginia Code section 24.2-305 to remove the prohibition on the use of subdivision boundaries as a quote-unquote clearly observable boundary for purposes of defining the composition of the building. This is a very important item that we have to consider as we move forward with the proposed amendments. So there is thatjobs floor developed within staff representation yourぜ that draw on first this morning was going to拉 back into our module Piech awe Moore necessarily in order or 행 Jenny of make clean boundary lines for the different magisterial districts. I would note that we did remove an item that has been on the board's legislative agenda for several years, which was the broadband initiative. We've proposed removal of this item in light of the application with All Points Broadband and the Regional Commission to try to do the fiber to the home option. That's not to say that if the board wishes we can include it this year, but we felt like with the amount of money on the table for broadband, and this is probably the furthest that we've gotten to address countywide broadband initiatives, we proposed removal of it for this year. You'll also notice that we've added, under other positions, several other various issues, regulation of home-based businesses to oppose any legislation that would restrict local authority to regulate home-based businesses, reversion of funds. Funding. Funding for state-mandated positions. And one that I would point out is that may not be familiar to everybody is the Virginia Alcohol Safety Action Program fee. As you might know, there's a program out in Smithfield Avenue called the ASAP program that deals with offenders, DUI offenders, drug possession, marijuana. That is a fee-based program, and the fee for that program is typically $400 per offender. So if you get admitted to that program, you're assigned. You're assessed a fee of $400. That fee has not seen an increase since 1986. So in addition to the fees being insufficient, with the legalization of possession of marijuana for the 10 grams or less for personal consumption, with the advent of Uber and Lyft, on the plus side, we've seen a decrease in DUI arrests and drunk driving convictions. That is impacting that program. That is a state program. And the revenue is derived from user fees. But at some point, potentially, that could become a cost to the locality if there is not enough user fee to keep the program going. So there's a variety of other issues that we have added as well. In addition, you'll note at your table tonight, many of you had received an email from Supervisor Dunn with some other proposed initiatives. So I've taken an opportunity to try to format those into a couple-sentence summary for inclusion. So if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me. So if the board would like to include any or all of those items, staff is prepared to include those into the final version, which will be transmitted to our legislators. So, Mr. Chairman, that's a brief overview of our legislative agenda. Staff would be seeking board endorsement of this this evening, and then we will transmit it to our legislative folks. And I would be happy to answer any questions that you or the board members might have. Thank you, sir. Questions or comments for Mr. Tibbs? Mr. Chairman Welch. Mr. Chairman Welch. In review of... Supervisor Dunn's comments. I think they're great and should be added. Those are my public comments, anyway. I'd like to see those added to the list that we send down. I certainly agree with just about every one of them. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I concur with Supervisor Welch. I think the addition of Supervisor Dunn's suggestions would help with the package. Thank you. Yes, sir. Other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I like them so much, I'd like to move that we approve the legislative agenda with the addition of Supervisor Dunn's proposed additions. Thank you, sir. Second. I heard the motion. Sir, second. I think I heard. Discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We have consensus. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Tibbs. The other item is more of an information item, just to kind of get it on the board's radar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I'm sure that many of you have heard over the last couple weeks, the OSHA standard pertaining to mandatory vaccines or testing for employers over 100 employees, OSHA has issued an emergency temporary standard, which is about 490 pages long. Staff has been in the process of reviewing that standard. We are currently in a 30-day comment period to offer comments relative to that standard, and staff is... We are currently in a 30-day comment period to offer comments relative to that standard, and staff is... Prepared and working on a comment to be submitted expressing our concern with the proposed emergency temporary standard that OSHA is offering. We just wanted to bring that to the board's attention and also let you know that in the next couple days, you'll probably be seeing some memos and emails from staff sort of outlining what is within that temporary standard, what expectations are being set, and potential impacts to our organization. Questions of Mr. Tibbs? on that? We look forward to hearing from you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Is that all? Thank you, sir. Yes. It's a comment because we're talking about legislative items, and that would be, if possible, I'd like to see if we can, as a board, get together with our local delegation to go through some of these items just to help encourage them on the process of making this into law. Thank you, sir. All right. That'll bring us to 8C, discussion of Middletown. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Have some photos that we'll display on the screen here in just a moment. I'd like to give a little background on how we got here and just to have some general information and discussion. If you might recall, at the last board meeting, I stated that there had been some business owners and other folks who had come to me and asked that we consider a friendly boundary line adjustment with the town of Middletown. My first inclination was I have no clue what the town of Middletown is going to be. I think that we ought to first start with seeing what their desires are before we move forward. So last Thursday evening, the town of Middletown called a work session to discuss the possibility of a friendly boundary line adjustment, and Supervisor Wells and I were invited to attend to hear the conversation and to give input, which we did. What you see on the screen before you is the property that was originally proposed to be included into the town of Middletown via a friendly boundary line adjustment. On the top of the screen, you'll see the green line outlined includes the Lord Fairfax Community College, the Middletown Elementary School, and 400 acres to the very northern part of the property, which is known as the Hester property. There's already sewer there for the schools that Middletown is actually handling, the disposal of that. There are other things there that the town, has provided services for, whether that be some law enforcement or other avenues where they've worked with the county. They've been providing some services to these areas and not gotten any revenue from it. The concern from the town is that the additional traffic that could be imposed from the development of these areas would cause or could cause significant traffic issues in the town of Middletown, possibly even becoming another Stephen City. And what do I mean by that? Stephen City is so congested. If you go through there in the afternoon, it is difficult to get through due to all the buildup and not a lot of increases in road improvements. So what the town has asked is if we would consider working with them to do a friendly boundary line adjustment before all of this construction and before all of the buildout has begun. So as you look across the interstate there to the second outlined area of green, it would be another area of some areas proposed B2, I believe even some B3, ECA, and green here in Zachary County and the proposed sheets that's coming in, to my understanding is they are coming in whether they are a part of the town or not. And the concern is, is the traffic that may be a part of that, may really cause issues with the entrance and egress to the interstate bridge. The thoughts and the hopes are to get some money serious and there's already been some money, I guess, kind of thrown about by some of these organizations of impact fees to mitigate The hope is to negotiate with these organizations to get these fees ahead of time, let the town manage the growth as the increased traffic will obviously affect the lifestyle of the residents of town and cause significant traffic issues for the town should these areas get developed in the county and should there not be adequate traffic impact fees and adequate traffic improvements performed. What my proposal is is to give the town a seat at the table and to give the town kind of the charge of their own destiny. If we allow the town to have a friendly boundary line adjustment to include these into the town, it does provide for the water and sewer for those entities and it provides a good proper disposal of them instead of doing a modified septic system as has been proposed. I'm told by Sheets that they are coming here regardless of whether this. Friendly boundary line occurs or not. But it allows for the town to recoup some of their costs should they be required or should there be a hard push for septic services, sanitary services for the Sheets convenience store and or other stores that may desire to come in and utilize their service. One item that is not listed here on this map is directly south of town is another business called Schaefer's Barbecue that has been there for quite a while. The owner of that business has called me and said, I'm going to be a part of the town for many years, and I would like to be included in this friendly boundary line adjustment as well. Many of the landowners have contacted me and asked if we could work towards moving forward on a friendly boundary line adjustment. At the Thursday night meeting, the Middletown Town Council agreed unanimously to ask that I bring this before the board this evening to see if their staff and our staff could begin the discussion of the project. I'm going to be a part of the town for many years, and I would like to be included in this friendly boundary line adjustment. And what exactly that would look like. And what I am asking for this evening is. Some discussion amongst us as board members on if our staff if we feel it's appropriate for our staff to begin conversations with the town of Middletown. To look at what about the front of our boundary line adjustment looks like how it would affect both parties and what that discussion could entail. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman. Supervisor Graber, are you making a motion that we simply. Enter into a official discussion with the town in order to identify what this would look like. Yes, sir. Mr. Supervisor McCarthy. All I'm asking is for consensus tonight. I'll make a motion to that if you would so desire that we ask staff to get in contact with the staff from the town of Middletown to see what this looks like. There would have to be public hearings on the matter. They would have to agree to it. We would have to agree to it by vote. There's a long process involved. All I would simply like is is for there to be some discussion on. On the matter. And I'm going to ask that we. We. Discuss this. On what that looks like to bring back to both bodies so that we can have an informed conversation on what this looks like. I'll second your motion. What an emotion. It was a concern that you you want to make a motion? I will. Yeah. Okay. I thought I made, but maybe I did. So I just will simply make a motion that we. Seek consent of the staff to begin discussion with the town of Middletown. To see what a friendly boundary line adjustment. Looks like. In the areas outlined on the screen. Second. Motion is second. We okay, Mr. Williams? Thank you, sir. All right. Discussion. Anyone? I met with Supervisor Graver at Middletown, and I think it's a an opportunity and I'd certainly like to see discovery and find out where we go from there. Supervisor Dunn. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Tonight we heard some people making some comments opposed to this. My knowledge on this is little at this point in time. I'm willing to listen to the pros and cons. But if I vote yes on this, meaning except Mr. Graver, that does not mean that I'm necessarily going to support it. I don't mind any discussion. But some other legitimate comments have been made. So I'm going to go through a thought process for here are the pros. Here is the cons. Upside and downside. The people that are an opposition can come out, the people in favor can come out. I'm open to that, but I don't want this to be seen as a negative. this to be seen as a done deal, et cetera, going forward. And Mr. Chairman, one other item. We had a boundary discussion a year ago. And again, the board changed the boundaries to meet specific items. I'm not keen necessarily on the idea of changing boundaries just to meet specific items. So we'll stay on the merits and go from there. Further discussion, anyone? I don't object to a discussion that identifies what people think. But I think there's a real can of worms potentially here. So any further discussion? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion. Carries. And we will begin that, go down that path. That will bring us to Finance Committee Report. Supervisor? Mr. Chairman, the Finance Committee met on October 20th at 8 a.m. Items 1 through 7, 10, and 12 were approved on the committee's consent agenda, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number eight, the Economic Development Authority Director request an EDA fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $10,000. This amount represents grant funds awarded to Shenandoah County on behalf of the Shenandoah Valley Talent, two big agents that responsible for developing a new energy, power population and costs for thente and the West Bank see Ministries of refused direct capital introduction payment hastily the end of the 2038 financial crisis had else exists even more than $7. By Keynes County, Langsley County, andécole, College of Care nyt Panniers and S incarceration. Court members tips. Scrap. Nine, the purchasing manager requests a county purchasing policy update to bring county policy in line with the Virginia Public Procurement Act. In addition, it is requested that future changes to the VPPA automatically be incorporated in county policy. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion is second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will conclude my report as item number 11 will be taken up under 10A. Thank you, ma'am. All right, that will bring us to public hearing. Non-planning issues, ordinance to Virginia Code Section 15.2. Who is that? Thank you. That's me. So I included a memo with this ordinance, but if it's appropriate, I would like just to give an overview of if it's enacted, what it means. So this ordinance, if it's enacted, will allow a one-time $3,000 bonus to full-time employees. The state-supported sworn officers of the Sheriff's Department and jail will be funded with state ARPA funds, and will cover approximately 191 employees at a cost of state ARPA funds of $573,000. The state has instructed that these state bonuses must be implemented by November the 30th. That's why it's here. The remaining 620 full-time employees would be funded with county ARPA funds, with an estimated cost of $1.8 million. Providing premium pay for essential workers up to $25,000 is an eligible use of ARPA funds. Not all, but most of our employees are essential. Those employees that are not identified as essential, they will be funded in the loss of revenue, and they will be funded in the loss of revenue sector with the ARPA funds. Does that make it clear? Questions? Anyone? Currently so, yes. Thank you very much. All right. How would the board like to handle this? Public hearing. Mr. Chairman, it's a public hearing. Yes, thank you. And I would comment that you did receive one electronic comment on this via the website. Which we did receive. Which I did send you earlier. Yes, thank you. All right, this is a public hearing. Would anyone like to... I would like to comment concerning this proposed payment of employees. Anyone? Anyone at all? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, the Finance Committee at our meeting on October, our October meeting, recommended... Mr. Chairman? ...approval of the ordinance, and I would so move. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do have some concerns about how this is being presented. I've spoken with several supervisors about, you know, positions on this. First, I'm very concerned that this is a very undisciplined way to go about determining compensation for the county's employees. This is not coming to us because it has been determined that staff needs a bonus, deserves a bonus, or is requesting a bonus. And I want to be clear, I'm not saying the staff doesn't need or deserve or want a bonus. What I'm saying is that we have not followed any disciplined metric to determine whether a bonus is warranted or not warranted. Likewise, even if we had followed some rational disciplined process to determine whether a bonus is appropriate, which we haven't, we have not followed any disciplined process to determine whether $3,000 is an appropriate amount to pay as a bonus. This item is coming before us this evening because the Virginia Compensation Board requested a one-time bonus for sworn sheriff's deputies and regional jail officers. This bonus was voted on by the General Assembly and, more importantly, is being funded by the General Assembly with earmarked funds for that purpose. I've heard three arguments so far as to why this board should fund bonuses for all county staff. One argument is that it's not fair for certain county employees to receive bonuses and not others. The argument, which took place in the early days of the pandemic, is that the Board of Governors has been making a lot of decisions about how to fund bonuses for all county staff. The first argument, which to me is an irrational one, is that if some county employees get a bonus, then all county employees should get some kind of bonus. This is illogical, it's irrational, and it's an emotional response. First of all, the county is not paying the Comp Board bonuses in the first place. So how is it unfair if the county doesn't pay some employees and decides not to pay the other employees? If we're not paying anybody, that sounds pretty fair. It seems that fairness would dictate that if the county is not paying anyone, then everyone is getting the same input from the county. Second of all. If the discipline method was used to determine whether a bonus should be paid to an employee and one was warranted, how is it fair that the county should pay all employees the exact same bonus amount? We don't compensate all employees exactly the same. We don't expect all county employees to perform the same tasks. We don't expect all county employees to take on the same risks. So how is it fair, then, to pay all county employees the same bonus? Third. It's been said that the Comp Board giving its eligible employees a bonus is not fair to the other employees. And how is that? First, was there some agreement between the county and the non-Comp Board staff that indicated that those employees, that despite the fact that they neither applied for nor are overseen by the Comp Board nor are expected to do the work of the employees overseen by the Comp Board, that these non-Comp Board employees were guaranteed to be treated exactly the same as the Comp Board employees? Well, of course not. Fourth, the Comp Board didn't even see fit to give all constitutional offices staff a bonus, which indicates that the Comp Board and General Assembly was choosing to reward a particular type of employee, i.e. the sheriff's deputies and correctional officers. So how is it fair that the county and the non-Comp Board employees are not getting the same bonus amount? Well, the Comp Board has the power to provide funding to counties for all employees if they choose, but they chose to reward one subset of employees and not the rest. That was their specific intention. And that is the result. If some see this as unfair, then take it up with the state legislators who voted on it. The county has not done anything unfair. Fifth. It's unfair. Okay, perhaps it is unfair. But even if it is unfair, which I contend it is not, how does giving every employee regardless of pay grade, regardless of performance, regardless of risk exposure, regardless of shifts worked, regardless of how long they've been employed by the county, the exact same amount of bonus, how does that make it fair? This simply exacerbates the unfairness. Now the county is giving a $3,000 bonus to an employee who may have only worked two months for the county, while the employee who has worked here for years gets the same amount. How is that fair? Now the sheriff's deputy who has put his life on the line and worked the night shift and weekends is getting $3,000. But so is the backroom staffer who came to work Monday through Friday, 9 to 5, with no discernible increase in risk. How is that fair? And what about the taxpayers who don't work for the county? How is it fair that their hard-earned tax dollars are spent to give bonuses to staff when we, the elected officials, have not used any reasonable, disciplined metric to determine if it's actually a good use of taxpayer funds? As far as I'm aware, no county employee was laid off or fired because of the pandemic. No county employee took a pay cut because of the pandemic. No county employee lost their health insurance because of the pandemic. No county employee lost their retirement because of the pandemic. But guess what? Thousands of private business owners and employees in our neighborhoods lost their livelihood during this pandemic. Millions of individuals have had a reduction in pay, lost their benefits, lost their retirement, while government workers generally were insulated from these types of critical losses. So how is it fair for us as the government to give $1.8 million of these taxpayers' hard-earned money for bonuses to the only group of Americans who have worked for the county for a long time? And how can we make sure that we're insulated from the losses that the rest of us risk every day? Now, let me reiterate. I'm not saying that county staff do not need, deserve, or desire a bonus. I'm saying that this government body has not even attempted to find out whether a bonus is warranted. This body is being asked to act on an emotion, a sense of unfairness, rather than information and good judgment. The second argument that I've heard in favor of this bonus is that the county's government has not even attempted to find out whether a bonus is warranted. It's only been given a bonus once or twice that it's not a bonus. I don't agree with that. It's only been given a bonus once or twice that it's not a bonus. I think the argument is that the county currently has 90 open positions that remain unfilled. That is probably true. But are those positions unfilled because we haven't given a bonus to the current employees? Giving a bonus to current employees is not going to fill those positions. But then maybe the argument is made that if we don't pay the bonuses, then we'll lose more employees. Really? There's no data, no indication that this is true. That's a red herring if ever there was one. We are not discussing this topic this evening because we recently found out that we are going to lose a bunch of employees if we don't give them a bonus. employees if we don't give bonuses we're debating this only because the comp board is giving some raise some people are raised and that is perceived as unfair each of us has been provided data on what our neighboring localities are doing in response this matter and the data provided clearly shows that there is no other neighboring locality that is giving all of their staff a bonus that matches the amount given to the comp board employees we're the only locality amongst our neighbors that are suggesting such an illogical one-size-fits-all scenario the third argument made in favor of this proposal is that the money is not coming out of the general fund I take issue with this line of thinking as good stewards of the taxpayer of money we should have at least a fundamental understanding that all every dollar we spend comes out of the pocket of some taxpayer either already paid or yet to be paid but it will be paid one way or another by a taxpayer the fact that this money is not currently in our joint in our general fund is another red herring and not intellectually accurate we know that this county has many needs that are yet unfunded and these and the funding of those needs will at one point or another be born by our tax-paying constituents so the truth is if this money is used for this proposal it will no longer be available to potentially pay for a county need that will end up coming out of the general fund there is no such thing as free money or government money it's all taxpayer money and we owe it to the taxpayers of this county and to all the future taxpayers our children and our grandchildren that we ensure that every taxpayer is able to pay the tax payers and to all the future taxpayers our children and our grandchildren that we ensure that every dollar of that money is necessary and well spent to do otherwise based on political pressure or based on emotions is a misuse of our offices we will soon have the results of our salary study to determine whether adjustments need to be made to the salaries of our staff the study is based on data derived hopefully from a rational and disciplined review of facts we will have the opportunity very soon to determine what staff need is what what staff needs there are for adjustments in compensation reviewing the data the facts and then determining the appropriate adjustments for our county employees is the rational and disciplined approach that is expected of us as public servants I hope this board will vote against this measure and take up the truly fair task of determining who deserves a salary adjustment and what that adjustment should be based on the data and not on emotions and political pressure Thank You mr. chairman further comments anyone mr. chairman yes sir we've not had a discussion amongst us on the ARPA money so I'd rather have a discussion I mean mr. McCarthy's comments I think I associate with I think we just need to have a discussion on what we're doing this ARPA money it could be used for the radio system among others that's a you know fifteen to twenty million dollar potential item and I just concur with mr. McCarthy's comments on a taxpayer money on the radio study on the compensation study so I concur with them but I think that we as a group need to figure out what to do with this fourteen fifty million dollars and best use for it because that will affect everybody in the county not just as specified to you Thank You mr. chairman thank you sir anyone else so I have to suggest that we have to do agree to disagree at times I think what the state did was blatantly unfair to localities they did make it possible for us to use ARPA funds yes if we use it here it won't be used elsewhere I think all of our staff has rallied we stayed open through the entire pandemic I'm not suggesting that they were exposed in the same way that our first responders were but I do think that our employees deserve to be treated the same as the rest of our staff which the state singled out to be given a bonus we will definitely be looking very hard and in a very calculated way at the current time and we're young as they've moved in forever now that might be fortified could put us much worse but once again I do agree with the state numbers both in our Sid al of them having a Technically they must act sorry can just contribute to the desegregation area Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You and I would not agree further, could not agree further, that we need to treat our staff equally. I don't think that that is even a question for discussion. I think the larger discussion is we had many staff that dealt with many folks who could have been carriers of the virus and, as you have previously stated, came to work day in, day out, exposed themselves, and did the work that needed to be done in a county. And for that, I thank every county employee. But by singling these folks out, especially without having a conversation of where these money should be spent, as Supervisor Dunn stated, along with the facts that were parlayed there with Supervisor McCarthy, I think that it is very foolish to just plow forward with the disbursement of this amount of the money on this item, singling out a specific set of employees while not taking into consideration the same efforts and risks that other employees took on. So for that, I cannot support it. Thank you. All right. Anyone else? Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Graber? No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to 10B. Thank you. Mr. Williams?錯 außerа Breaking points Good evening, Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board of Supervisors. Is this the last item for the board to share? No. This is only the first item that we have collected.嚼 month, thank you, we presented the background on the redistricting and then an initial version of the maps. Just for a quick refresher, the Constitution of Virginia says that localities shall redistrict their, when they have districts, they shall redistrict in response to the decennial census in the year ending in one. So therefore I read that as that means the board's supposed to do this by December 31st. Obviously this past year has been a much different situation because the census data, the delivery of the census data to the states and the localities was delayed by some months. In normal years we would have gotten that information in probably late winter, early spring, been able to complete this process. So I think that's a good thing. So the state had the same struggle in the initial case as far as the state legislative districts and then on top of that we have the overlay that the new redistricting commission failed in its mission to come up with maps. So the state legislative maps are currently going to be drawn by the Supreme Court of Virginia per the constitutional amendment to that effect. What I will do here is go through three sets of maps this evening. The one that was advertised which was what the board authorized staff to proceed with at the meeting last month. At the time we did that no elections had taken place. I won't give you the underlying numbers to calculate it but one of the struggles was a lot of the numbers that were in the map. In the era of the ganze Apa engineer when with a project of some scale was was extremely hard for them to take a with their own curbs . Well, there were multiple struggles in terms of the practical constraints of the process using the cumbersome census blocks which are these smallest units for which we have data. So we can not divide matters further than the census blocks even if it looks like we should. because we don't know what the numbers are to divide them. And then there were ninete nhe others rules that the state law imposes as far as what the district was tasked with an unenviable task of drawing the line, so we asked them to just do it without more, and they didn't look at anything else other than those population numbers. And they practically speaking couldn't, because this is that mathematical number I was going to get to. At the time they commenced that task, we had board and school board elections in three magisterial districts. There were, and I'll be glad to explain it to anybody afterwards, there were two hundred and eighty-eight possible outcomes to the election. As a result, it would have been impossible, and likely would have been inappropriate at the time, to try to draw the lines based on the candidates and where they lived in the districts. So what we ended up with is the map. And then after the election took place, we didn't do too bad. We had two misses though, so that needed to be fixed. So I'm going to go through again what was presented last month originally, and now I'll go through the results. and two alternatives that work on addressing that situation. So I think it's easiest if we start with the Opecan District, and we'll just work our way around counterclockwise. And to note, too, and again, this was noted last month, we had very unequal population growth in Frederick County in the last 10 years. The Opecan District and the Stonewall District had by far much greater growth. And as well, I note that one of the requirements is that there be as little deviation as possible in the population between the districts. The hard number that we really had to follow was not more than 10% deviation. There's some suggestion in state case law about trying to keep it to 5%. So staff was tasked with keeping it under 5% so that it gave us some flex to work with if we had to address concerns. Again, Opecan and Stonewall grew the most, so that meant by population, which meant then they had to shrink. So this was the proposed Opecan, and the area that ended up shrinking is the area on the north part there, south of, this is Tasker Road, this is White Oak Road, and this is Aylor Road. Right now, this whole area under the, current districts is part of Opecan. That's a very densely populated area. It's all residential subdivisions. So under the draft, that was moved to Shawnee. That was the major change in Opecan. Moving to Shawnee, so Shawnee picks up that area, and Shawnee, because of how things had then to move from Stonewall, Shawnee had to pick up that area, and then they had to move to Opecan. So Shawnee had to pick up that area, and then they had to move to Stonewall. So Shawnee had to pick up that area, and then they had to move to Stonewall. So I'm going to pick some things up from Redbud, which happened over here. And that, I should note that that, along with this down here, did some very awkward splits of neighborhoods. None of us were happy about it, but the numbers worked. And that was ultimately the first task that we had to confront. So that was the draft Shawnee. The draft Redbud, again, change over here, and then to balance things out, because of some of the changes that were happening in Stonewall, this area actually got shifted to Stonewall to balance things out for what was happening elsewhere in Stonewall. At least this area ended up with major roads. Stonewall. Stonewall had the biggest growth and has ended up with a dramatic change. The current Stonewall district extends all the way out to Apple Pie Ridge Road. Under this draft, this whole area west of 81 and north of 37 shifts from Stonewall to Gainesboro. I'm omitting to the precinct item because I want to spend more time on that when I go through the alternatives, but Stonewall also would end up with three new precincts because of the population growth. One would basically serve the Snowden Bridge area. One would serve this area and here. And then, which I creatively named Fort Collier. And then the Sunnyside area. Moving on to Gainesboro, not too much major change there other than what I already discussed. This area, which two rounds ago was in Back Creek, for the last 10 years has been in Gainesboro. Under this map, flips back from Gainesboro. To Back Creek and then finally moving back to Back Creek. Other than the area I discussed, not too much change there. Again, though, the problem that presented itself was of those 288 election outcomes. This set of maps excluded two candidates who won election last week. So we looked at ways to address that. So we then have a revision one. And a revision two. And procedurally here, I'll interject. What you just saw has been advertised for a public hearing. And obviously, when I'm done and if you have questions for me, we can, I'll take those up. But then it's time for the public hearing. Hear what the public has to say. But if it is the board's desire then to proceed potentially with one of these two revisions, staff would just look for direction on which one or any changes to one of the two. And then we would be in a position to advertise it and send it to public hearing at your December meeting. So we do this same presentation but hopefully just with one set of maps. So it should take me less than a third of the time. For next month, again, we'd have a new public hearing just to confirm it if that works for everybody. And then the board would be in a position to adopt it. The only further twist to that is state law does allow some subsequent adjustment to a law. But it's not a law that's going to be passed. So we don't have any further adjustments. So we're going to have to make that adjustment to align with the state legislative districts. We don't know for sure when that process will be complete with the Supreme Court. I would ask for your leave to, and the court rules for the redistricting process contemplate receiving comments. So I would ask for the board's support in sending appropriate comment to the court that the court attempt to follow what our likely map looks like. And so we don't have to make any changes. And so we don't have to make too many adjustments to it. Which I think is doable because as you're going to see on these next two sets, they follow almost perfectly nice, neat lines. So here's revision one. Again, press the right button. Starting with Opecan, instead what's happened here is this whole area that's south of the area that was already shifted to Shawnee would have gone, or would go to Shawnee. Otherwise, I think that's pretty much the same as what you saw in the advertised version. This is Shawnee. We have solved the neat, well I should note too, the neat thing here is it uses nice major roads. This whole block then is bound by Warrior Drive, Fairfax Pike, White Oak Road, and Tasker Road. Not dividing subdivisions. Not dividing subdivisions. Same thing up here. This is going to look very familiar because that is actually all encompassed in Shawnee now. So it would stay there. Which then gets us, but here's what's going to get interesting is this area. That area is all Shawnee right now. In order to balance this out, here's Redbud as proposed. Again, and you'll note we've restored in this proposal this area to Redbud. And the current Redbud district actually is that. But this area south of Sulphur Springs Road, and this is the portion of Airport Road that is east of the airport, east of the end of the runway, would shift to Redbud. Redbud actually in this proposal probably gains almost double the land area, although this is obviously not as densely populated an area. There's not a lot at all here because, of course, a lot of this is the land thing. But it's still a lot of work to do. Moving on, Stonewall. What we've done is, again, this was taken back into Redbud to balance things out. But we were able to add this area back into Stonewall. Impossible, practically speaking, to add much more to Stonewall. It is still a significant cut from Stonewall because, again, there's Apple Pie Ridge Road. But Stonewall had huge growth. That's Snowden Bridge. And that was a huge growth area in Stonewall. And then, you know, likewise in Opec and we had Lake Frederick. We had Old Dominion Greens. A couple other developments that really pushed things there. Gainesboro. The two changes here obviously are, again, this area shifts back to Stonewall like it is now. And then this area stays in Gainesboro. And then Back Creek. Other than the change up here, really not too much change. So then, so we did this. The problem we encountered was, and I'm going to go back, Opec. This drawing of Opec would have excluded the current school board member representing the Opec district. So we looked at an alternative, which is going to be revision two. That solved, theoretically, all the problems of having people be in the wrong districts. So there's your county-wide map. And I'm actually going to address precincts on this one. We'll start again with Opec. So what this does with Opec is it keeps, it brings all of this area, this Warrior, Tasker, White Oak, Fairfax Pike area. It brings all of that within Opec. And then Opec solves our problem. The rest of it is all intact from before. The only thing we ended up having to do here is there's a little bit of a neighborhood split. It's the Auburn Village area. But we used, and when I, by the way, when I say we, I had nothing to do with the machinations of this. It was the GIS staff, and all the credit goes to them for a lot and lot of hard work. This is Westmoreland Drive. This is Westmoreland Drive, which actually cuts all the way through from, virtually from Warrior Drive to Eller Road. So it was, it's the one identifiable cut through that area. So it's a very logical cut if you have to cut through that area. And then there were two streets over here. I think it was Fredericktown and Caroline. And the neat thing, and I have a blowup of this at the end I can show you. The neat thing, too, with using Caroline is, you know, I think it's a little bit of a different story. But I think it's a little bit of a different story. But I think it's a little bit of a different story. But I think it's a little bit of a different story. And the other thing that I want to point out with Caroline is, if you're familiar with that particular area, it's bounded on one side by an undeveloped area that actually is property owned by the county adjacent to Bass Hoover Elementary School. So that was, that solved everything for Opecan. And I should note, too, I don't have the population numbers up there, but I'll give you the numbers. I don't know if I brought them with me, actually. That's okay. But all three proposed areas, I think, were owned by the county. And I think that's the only thing that's missing. But all three proposals came in at less than 5% population variance. There is, trying to change it further does get a little sticky because a couple of the districts that would logically receive people if we tried to change it further were the ones that were largest. So inevitably, that automatically increases that variance. So moving on from Opecan, Shawnee, again, the two major changes are these areas here. And then, again, the other thing that I want to point out is that the county has a lot of population variance. So these areas here balanced out. And, of course, well, I already discussed this area here. And the area up north of Route 50, south of Cincinnati Road stayed consistent to keep that all intact. Redbud, I don't think there was a further change in Redbud between Version 1 and Version, or Revision 1 and Revision 2. Stonewall, I think that was pretty much the same thing as Stonewall. Revision 1 and Revision 2 were the same. And then there was the fact that the county had a little bit more of a gap between the two. So that's a little bit of a difference. But I think that's the only thing that's missing. And then, again, the other thing that I want to point out is that the county had a lot of population variance. So the county had a little bit more population variance. And then, again, the county had a little bit more population variance. And then, again, the county had a lot of population variance. Cruz, I have nothing to add on that one. I know that's a little bit of a challenge. I would also, like, I think getting into things here, I think, hopefully, people don't see that I discard the Procinct for the Name of capable goods. Because in some cases, it's one that's previously been around the town center for example. But mouthful of mine is the County of North京sburg. And I think that just leads back to the community in general. It's aletter landscape. I mean, the generationons, that includes some here. So the town is certainly in good shape. However, that said, based upon what's been done. And I would, most likely, consider the city as a community for that. And we will bring that up later. So that's the list. Precincts, Beck Creek, one change that we made in recognizing a precinct is to avoid the split precincts issue, which is where people in the same precinct have different ballots because they're voting for different offices. And with all of the elections in November now, we have the issue of the town of Stephen City and the town of Middletown. So they are established as separate precincts. But precincts can share a polling place. So somebody gets their voter card and it says what precinct and where they vote. But at least when they identify what precinct they're in or when the people who check you in identify what precinct you're in, they don't have to take it a step further and go, okay, do you get ballot A or ballot B? They get the ballot for such and such a precinct. So in Beck Creek, other than the town of Middletown, all of the precincts are the existing precincts. At the work session last month, we talked about the Gore precinct. That is important. It's a ridiculously large area. We don't have a practical way of dividing it given the constraints of state law. And that, as a matter of fact, was one of the items on the legislative agenda because it sure seems like it would make a lot of sense to cut that precinct in half between Shawnee Land and Mountain Falls. But we don't have any road that we're allowed to use to do it. So we're stuck with that. These would all vote at their current locations. The new Beck Creek district that is the town of Middletown could vote. Okay. At Middletown Elementary School, it's within a mile of the town, which is the rule. It has to be within a mile of the precinct. I'm going backwards. I have to remember I'm going backwards. Gainesboro, again, well, four of those precincts are the existing precincts. Essentially, the Whitehall precinct moves. What's left of it in this that moves from Stonewall to Gainesboro, that precinct moves to Gainesboro. Stonewall. Stonewall picks up. Three new precincts because it lost one and then it has two truly new ones. And the names, by the way, the name of the new Middletown precinct, I just used some working names when we did the draft. We called it Middletown. For Stonewall, the new precincts, the purple is Snowden Bridge, called it Snowden Bridge. This is an existing precinct. This is an existing precinct. This one was what I referred to before as Fort Collier, and this one, Sunnyside. We've identified at least possible, and the precinct location, or the polling place locations are subject to possible change depending upon further discussions with the voter registrar, possibly the schools. Voting location for the new Snowden Bridge precinct would be Jordan Springs Elementary School. Obviously, it wasn't in existence 10 years ago. This precinct, Fort Collier. This precinct. Fort Collier could vote at an existing precinct at Dal J because it's right over there. And the other one here could vote at Apple Pie Ridge Elementary School. Redbud. Redbud has one new precinct, which is. I said one. Yeah. Well, that's new because it comes over. It comes over. But basically, we have this precinct votes at Dal J. I'm sorry. This one's Dal J. This is Millbrook. This is Greenwood Mill. And the new precinct would be eligible to vote at Cincinnati Road School. That's an existing precinct. It's within a mile. This area, by the way, was very difficult to find. It would be very difficult to find a voting location for. Cincinnati Road School works. Because there are. The only publicly owned facility in that area is the landfill. And the landfill does not have a suitable location for a voting precinct. And I don't think anybody wants to have their ballots cast at a landfill. Yeah. Bad idea. Shawnee. Existing four precincts. I guess just three now under this draft because one moves over. Pretty straightforward. And Opecan gets one. Actually, this picks up a. It picks up a. It actually picks up two. We have this area, which would likely go to the new Eller Elementary School. The town of Stephen City proper used to vote at the old Eller Middle School. I'm sorry. I said Eller. I should have said Eller Middle School. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. The town itself used to vote at the old Eller Middle School. It could vote at Bass Hoover. The green area is Bass Hoover. These two are tentatively set for Sharando High School. That's the draft. And again, revision two, which really, I think, addresses all concerns. The variance is less than 5% in population. It's probably the one that does everything that needs to be done. It needs to be done and accomplished. I can take any questions. And like I said, it is then a public hearing. The public hearing is technically on the original advertisement. But obviously, you know, people are obviously in a position to comment on the other two versions. Questions for Mr. Williams. Supervisor Dunn. So if you have a voting place in which you have people voting in two magisterial districts, and I'll just give you an example, Cincinnati School. Okay. So Cincinnati School right now is for Shawnee. And if you put this in here, it's also then for Redbud. When a person comes in and says, hey, I'm here to vote, how do you address the issue so they vote in the right place? They have to give their name. I'd have to defer how exactly the process works in those precincts if they have a computer that can look people up for whichever precinct or not. But they can, that presumably could be done. People do have their voter card that says what precinct they are. And, you know, a map could be available in the location. And really, regardless, well, that same issue can happen with the legislative districts too. And we may try to find a way to avoid it. I'll make a suggestion that if a person walks in, using that as the example, if you're in Redbud, go to the right. If you're in Shawnee, go to the left. So it would be very clear to the voter coming in where he's meant to go. I have to know which one they're in to begin with. Mr. Chairman, if I could answer Don's question. Currently in my voting precinct, there are two precincts, the James Wood High School. And as you go in, there's a sign that designates one precinct on this side of the cafeteria, one precinct on the other side. So there is a, you're not coming into, you're coming into one building, but there is signage to designate which polling place is which. Maybe a map helps. I'm not going to do that. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. Other questions? Mr. Williams? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Williams, I just have a procedural question. So we're having a public hearing tonight on the original proposed districts. This board doesn't have to necessarily vote in favor of that proposal. So do we have to have another public hearing, or can we vote for an amended version of that ordinance? My recommendation would be to go ahead and advertise for another public hearing because the public has not, these maps, the new, the version, the new one or version two, still make some reasonably significant changes. I think if the board decides to instruct staff to go forward with a version, one of the alternative versions, I'm thinking that's probably because that's something that will make most people more pleased, and the process next month will be probably a lot quicker. We do have to run two more ads, but the newspaper gives, a decent little discount for multiple ads, and they actually, despite being full page ads, were not, not anywhere near as expensive as some of the other ads they charge us for. Any comments, anyone? Public hearing item. So let's do the public hearing. So this is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment on any of the three different approaches? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Anyone at all? David Sparkman. David Sparkman, Redbud District. I'm pleased to see the changes that are being proposed. I wish they'd been published so I could have studied them in advance, but again, I'd like to remind people that the words, the words of Lincoln were a government of the people, by the people, and for the people, and these changes to reflect the outcomes of the election are, I think, very, very important to having that kind of government of the people, by the people, and for the people, because we have elected people whom we trust to be our leaders, to make the decisions for us. Now, we may throw the bums out in four years, but, you know, for right now, we need to recognize that this is what the people of our county want to have. We want to see what can be done with these people, and I saw the first one as really kind of gerrymandering, and we don't do that kind of thing. We're trying to make sure that our representatives are people whom we know, and people who know us, so they know what we are concerned about, and I'm glad that these revisions basically have acknowledged that, and I hope we can continue with that. Of course, you know, what they say, it's one of the scariest words in the world, are, we're from the government, and we're here to help. So, we don't really know what the Supreme Court's going to do, and really mess things up even further, but thank you very much for acknowledging the outcomes of these elections. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Dodie Stottlemyre. Welcome. Dodie Stottlemyre from the Shawnee District, and I'm speaking to you this evening regarding the redistricting, and I'm very glad to see that there's been some revisions looked at in light of the elections last week, because it would certainly seem odd, indeed, if you changed the map after there's such a resounding voice from the public on who they want serving them. So, I appreciate you guys doing that. It seems like the obvious choice for the board to make would be to vote no on Map 1A, and to bring the public hearing revision two seems to be the most fair, equitable districting choice, so I would certainly encourage everyone to vote no. I would encourage everyone to do that. Kay Dawson. Hold the microphone down, Ms. Dawson. I will. Thank you. Kay Dawson, Redbud District. Josh Ludwig asked me to attend a meeting with county employees to review recommendations to adjust magisterial districts. Attending were Rod Williams, Wyatt Pearson, Jay Tibbs, Candace Perkins, and three GIS persons, one was on the phone, and Josh Ludwig. They discussed various alternative plans that could or would not adversely affect supervisors and school board members. There was no hint of any political leanings. They were all doing their job as fairly as possible. One plan would take Josh out of Shawnee, an area where he has extensively campaigned and is very familiar with many of the voters. It is hoped that this version is not chosen by the board of supervisors, as it could be viewed, just politically biased. Thank you. Thank you. Gail Ferreira. Good evening, Gail Ferreira, Shawnee District. I understand there's a proposal to redistrict Josh Ludwig out of our district, but I feel this is very disrespectful to us, the voters. He won by a vote. He won by a wide margin, and he knows us very well there. We want to keep him. Therefore, we the people would like you to vote for the new proposal fix, I believe it's revision number two that we saw tonight, that will not move Josh out of our district. This is in alignment with our original intent. Thank you very much. Thank you. Christine Scarborough. Welcome. Hello. My name is Christine Scarborough. And I just wanted to come up here because I agree with whatever the other people had said. It's concerning that, like Josh Ludwig, for instance, could potentially be put into another district. When I did help him campaign, and he was very extensive, and the people in that community, really, they voted for him because they trusted him. They knew that he was going to be a good candidate for the district. So I'm very excited for him to be here. And I think that's the reason why I'm here today, because I want to be able to help him. And I think that's the reason why I'm here today, because I think that's the reason why I'm here today, because I think that's the reason why I'm here today, because I'm here today, because I really think he would be able to tell me what plans I needed to follow when I was here and help him. So I have some priority. I can't really tell you how far I have come today. But I think what I've always thought, even though he's a pretty smart-thinking, tough- pakai guy who is every now and then an actual 간 and every time, and like I said, he's a great person to really help me, and it's already easily appreciated in policy. TRACY ARMSTRONG DUNN. Thank you. Yeah. It was an honor to work with him. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Brian Nury,erman of Christopher veddd בל consumeune podrio Corona virus in Deewik pandemic. Size Good evening everyone. My name is Brian Nuring, the president of the Opecan District, and that's actually what I come here to speak about are the precincts. Now the first suggestion or recommendation that we had, I was not privy to the second one because I guess it's brand new, has some rather confusing terminology in it. For one, the people who are going to be voting in the new Stevens City precinct will be going to Newtown, but then the people who are voting around Bass Hoover will be going to vote in Stevens City. As an elections officer, I know that some people don't remember where they were supposed to vote, but if you have them crossing paths, having the Newtown people or people vote in Newtown when they live in Stevens City is going to be pretty confusing. So I would recommend that whatever the decision is that we make sure that the precincts align with the districts. Then also another piece of new business concerning the expansion of the Opecan District, which is the new Stevens City precinct, which is the new Stevens City precinct. So if we have the expansion of the town of Middletown out into the county across 81, that would cause yet another situation where the precinct lines won't align with the new district, making basically an island northeast of 66. So I think before we start considering expanding Middletown into what looks like the Opecan District, that we need to make sure that both GIS and the board are coordinating on the impact that that would have on voting districts. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Linda Martin. Good evening. I'm from the Shawnee District, and I want to say that I'm sorry. I've heard so much Shawnee people. Thank you. I'm from the Stonewall District. And I would like to say that the Proposal B seems to be adequate for everyone involved, and I appreciate all the time that everyone has put into this. Thank you. Thank you. Lisa Callahan. Lisa Callahan. Callahan and Shawnee District. Callahan and Shawnee District. Callahan and Shawnee District. Callahan and Shawnee District. Callahan and Shawnee District. Callahan and Shawnee District. Much work. Callahan and Shawnee District. Much work and money- If you could move the microphone. Much work and money was spent by candidates and volunteers, and many citizens took the time to vote for who they wanted to represent them on the board of supervisors and the school board in Frederick County. If the proposed redistricting option one occurs, two of those candidates in Shawnee and Stonewall districts would have to run over again, which is an injustice to me to the candidates, to the campaign volunteers, and to the voters. Callahan Police Committee C9p ID 620-20. Callahan Police Committee C9p. End of slide readableся gerade. This a case in the by-law system, but if-if it breaks a part, to figure out this is not the case, and to the voters whose votes would in essence be made null and void please don't make our currently recently elected candidates run again a year from now in a different district and I hope that we will go with option two thank you yeah Kevin Callahan Linda will take you to Shawnee anytime so gentleman and lady of the board I'm gonna read this because I'm getting old and forgetful so my name is Kevin count and I live in the Shawnee district first let me congratulate the members of the board who were just reelected congratulations mr. mr. Dunn congratulates miss slaughter I know you worked really hard to be reelected in 2017 as some of you might remember I ran to join you and serving our community as a supervisor and I lost and that really stung but it was the voice of the people that spoke you and I heard and I respected it in 2021 the people spoke again and they clearly stated that they wanted increased transparency and accountability in our county and specifically in our school system that's the voice I heard among the candidates the people chose were mr. Josh Ludwig who will be joining you as a member of the Board of Supervisors Josh won with over 2,700 votes in the Shawnee district while defeating two other candidates and license miss Linda Martin who ran to fill an open seat of our school board Linda won overcoming three other candidates and garnering almost 2,200 votes now as voters we're hearing about the actions by this board to redistrict our county and I know this redistricting is required it's not something you just chose to do it's something we just have to deal with I also know that one of the options under consideration the original option would have a negative impact on on only two of our 14 elected officials, and that is, of course, Mr. Ludwig and Ms. Martin. And the first option or the original that you looked at, once again, two of only 14 are impacted, the two new people who just got elected. Those two just happen to be Josh and Linda, who have committed to push increased transparency and accountability to our schools. This redistricting action that will only impact two individuals and no one else, it just sort of smells wrong. Josh and Linda will lose their seats in less than one year if this moves forward and have to run for another race in a community they might not be as well known. Each of you ran, was elected, and have been able to serve your county and our community, and we thank you for that. You have been afforded the opportunity to serve your full term. I ask that you choose either the second option or the third option that allows Linda and Josh to do the very same thing. The voters spoke. 5,000 people supported those two individuals. We need to respect those voices and honor that requirement. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Josh Ludwig. Welcome, everyone. I'm Josh Ludwig, Shawnee District. I guess it's not worth it trying to leave it as a mystery which version I support. I support revision two. But other than the obvious reasons, I did get to meet with the staff who informed me of the methodologies used, and I learned quite a bit about the hard work they put in, which I do appreciate. And I wanted to point out a few things that I picked up in looking at the work they'd done. The first version that was published and is on the table today, it does some unfortunate things. The way they used the methodology, they started in the south. That's why they presented Opecan first and did a rotation around. What it means is districts floated along. So Shawnee, for example, which needed to give up voters because it had grown, actually also gained voters somewhere else. The reason that methodology is not a good idea in the end, it turns out, isn't just that it doesn't match with the election results and causes some problems, but also it sort of optimized the number of voters who are not candidates. But regular voters, all of us, it moves more people from one district to another than is needed. Revision two does much less of that. And that makes revision two much superior. What I mean by that is, forget the fact that I and Linda get moved outside of districts, but many voters get moved away from the people they just voted for or against. And that's not right. That's pushing key. That means that quite a few people, if you do the math, would be in districts where they didn't get to vote this time around. So I think the first option is poor for, or at least inferior to revision two for quite a few reasons. So please pick revision two. Let's avoid additional divisiveness in the county, but also unnecessary special elections that would need to be held at more cost to us. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Corinna Lewis. Hello. I'm Corinna Lewis, and I'm from the Shawnee district. And I am highly opposed to the current proposed redistricting that you've got on the table. I'm happy to see that there are some revisions. I'm happy to see that there are revisions now. The Shawnee district made their voices heard loud and clear, not only at the primary, but also on November 3 when we voted for Josh Ludwig as our representative. The original proposed redistricting would void that decision and silence us all, essentially. So I just am happy to see this. And I would ask you all to please consider voting for revision two so that the people you represent, will be honored, and that the choices we already made will stand. So thank you for your time. Thank you. Rob DeHaven. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Raise it up to where it's comfortable for you. There you go. The proposals, there was a lot of work put into those. And I mean, I want to commend, first off, the fact that the district has made a commitment to make sure that we have a fair and fair distribution of the state budget for the state. And I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. And I think that's a great thing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First off, all the hard work that was done. Just a matter of procedure, though, these are the maps that I downloaded off of the current website. This came, this one is the revision that no one really likes. But if you look at them, there's not a consistency with the colors being used. And it does make it confusing, just as the general public looks at it, to try to figure out what's being changed. So I would at least. I would at least. I would like to see that happen in the future. As for the proposals, I definitely like revision two better. It seems to take into account the issues that have been addressed with the current election results. And even though, even with that revision two, I will no longer be in the Stonewall district. I will be in the Gainsborough district. I still think that it's still a good option. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Molly Brannon. Molly Brannon. My name is Molly Brannon. I'm from the Back Creek District. Oh, thank you. It's more comfortable for you. There you go. Thank you. I had a big long spiel, but there's no point repeating a lot said. But I'd like to add, the first revision map doesn't only affect Josh and Linda. It affects Blaine Dunn as well. That original map. Mm-hmm. It's going to move two Board of Supervisors in the Redbud district, and then leave Shawnee without representation on what they voted for. The people of Redbud voted for Blaine. The people of Shawnee voted for Josh. So he should stay at the Shawnee district. These two men were looking forward to working together to better our community, and we should not pit them against each other in a year's time. They've done their campaigning. They've done their work. Let them get to work. I'm opposed to the revision, one, because from what the gentleman said, it's moving the Peckham person. Everyone elected should stay in the district that they ran in, that people voted for, that want them to represent them. Now, if they don't like them, they can vote them out later. But they should not be a line drawn. Virginia voted in 2020. It's a great thing. It's a great thing. I think it's great. It's a great thing. And we should have a vote in 2020 to set up an advisory board rather than have the legislatures lay out the districts so that people can have a voice. And we don't have these crazy gerrymandering. But this inadvertently disenfranchised the vote November 2. So I hope that we have common sense and vote no to the map tonight and put the revision 2 up for public opinion. We've got to get so что we have to vote to fight it. So I hundred percent Adobe, I think, we'll come back with the resolution Monday. So, we<|nn|> We have, in our office, we've got a vote in. And I'd like to address this from maybe a different perspective. As I'm sure many of you know, I have transited most of the areas on this map. And when I first saw the original solution, having been at the intersection of North Pifer Road and Route 55, Mountain Falls, and Parrishville Road and Route 50, it's absolutely insane that they would have put that in the same precinct. And it makes me wonder if the GIS people ever leave their computer screens and go out and drive around the county. Now, I understand, if I understood the lawyer correctly, that we have certain restraints based upon what the state has dictated. However, the original solution put 5,300 voters, in the yellow section, that precinct in Back Creek, and Gore Precinct, which exceeds the state guidelines. And yet, down in the bottom, in the dark green, they only had 1,300, which is significantly less than state guidelines. So, by no way does the first solution conform to state guidelines. Aside from the fact that... you could make the point that the original Gore... proposed Gore Precinct disenfranchises the folks at the extreme end of Route 50, which, oh, by the way, is on the other side of the Appalachian Mountains. And so, I have no idea where you'd put a voting place that was convenient for them to get to. Obviously, while it's taken a bit of gymnastics, mental gymnastics, I think your solution, too, is a much better solution. But I think you still have a lot of work to do on these precincts in order to get them geographically configured in such a way that they're convenient for the voters. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right, we'll close the public hearing. Comments from the board? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Go ahead. I was just going to make a motion to... turn this down and move forward with public... a public hearing on... number two. Second. Second. Offer, did you want to include authority to Mr. Williams to comment to the Supreme Court when it goes there? Absolutely. Yes. And second? Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Further comments, anyone? Supervisor Dunn? We need to... We need to vote on this, I believe. What... Okay. We're in discussion at the moment. Okay. All right. Well, the other thing I'd like to say is, it's an unbelievable amount of work that the GIS folks have done and with just extreme commitment. They gave us some... a very good solution and we appreciate it. There's no further discussions. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us... That will bring us to 10B, which is one we just finished. Thank you. We'll bring us to 11C. Ms. Perkins, when she's ready. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Before you tonight at the public hearing for the draft updates to the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan, the Code of Virginia does require localities to update their plans. Every five years, our current plan that's on the books is the 2035 plan, which was adopted back in January 2017. So we're coming upon the deadline of that five years to adopt a new plan or updated plan. Now, the plan consists of three separate pieces. There's the plan and then two appendix. Your main document, which is the plan, contains your chapters. It talks about urban areas, rural areas, residential business, public facilities, transportation, natural resources, and land use and other resources. Your Appendix 1, that contains all of your small area and joint area land use plans. And then Appendix 2 is background data. I'm not going to go through each piece of it. Within your plan, you're going to see a lot of just really edits, text updates. There's fundamentally not a lot of changes. The only really pieces you're going to see, there's a few expanded areas within your rural areas for your land conservation tools. Thanks. Thank you. A little bit, transportation, there's some text about new funding, public facilities, addition of broadband telecommunications, natural resources, there's a short area about inundation zones. We did relocate your agricultural district text from your natural resources chapter to the rural chapter, and then in your business development section there's some text with agribusiness and solar. Then with Appendix 1 you're really just going to see a lot of text updates, data updates reflecting current conditions such as transportation infrastructure, like water and sewer. There's some boundary changes to your sewer water service area consistent with past comprehensive plan amendments, as well as some land use changes also with your plan amendments. Then Appendix 2 is the primary document that you did see a lot of changes just because it is all background data statistics, so all of that was updated to current conditions. All of the chapters that are in your update were reviewed by a number of county state agencies, Frederick County Public Schools, Parks and Rec, Fire and Rescue Airport, the EDA, Frederick Water, as well as the Transportation Committee to go through their sections and endorse their text. It went to the Comprehensive Plan and Program Committee at a number of meetings. They ultimately endorsed it back at their August meeting. Planning Commission held a public hearing on October 20th and they did recommend approval. So tonight we're seeking a decision from the board on the adoption of the updates to the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan. I'd be glad to answer any questions. Very condensed version. Good. Questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? No, just a comment. I just want to thank you for all of the work that you've put into this. It's a tremendous job going through this and I know we're going to be looking at some of the land use plans going forward, the smaller land use plans. So greatly appreciate the update and your time and effort. Mr. Wells. I'd just like to point out. For the people that are here, Comprehensive Plan is not easy to do. But when you look at the Magisterial Districts and you see how or the growth is taking place, the Comprehensive Plan is working. It really is working very well. So congratulations. That was a good study. You don't often get to see that, but you see your growth opportunities in areas where we have designated growth opportunities and those areas we're trying to keep rural or stay in that way. And so kind of as a scorecard that says, hey, look, we're doing this the right way. Trying to anyway. Following the right plan. So. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn. Your bedtime reading was anything but enjoyable. It was extensive. But I do want everyone here to realize that on that plan we have, for example, roads. We have an expected population increase between 30 and 40,000 people in the next 20 years. In that situation we have Route 37. We have a lot of people. We have a lot of people that are in the east that's laid out. And I'm just going to encourage this board to either make a decision in the next couple years to implement Route 37 in some form, to have some type of road go through there, or to take it off the books. But that's been on the books for almost 40 years. So let's either execute or not execute. If we don't execute, we have to deal with internal roads. If we do execute, it provides a different item. But as we talked about this before, I think we need to address that. It's on this Comprehensive Plan, so let's try to address it. But your work is well done. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you, ma'am. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning the proposed updates to the Comp Plan? Robert Clark. I just had a point of clarification. These are just text updates, correct? In the Reliance Road Area Land Use Plan, there's just text and that type of update. There's no... There's no movement of anything as far as infrastructure. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. Ms. Logan Thompson. Good evening. My name is Logan Thompson. I'll be speaking on behalf of CARMUSE in the Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman and members of the Board of Trustees, please be seated. Mr. Chairman and members of the board appreciate the opportunity to speak briefly about the county's 2035 comprehensive plan. As some of you know, Carmiuse Lime and Stone is a leading manufacturer of lime and limestone products. The things that we make touch just about every industry from steel, agriculture, glass and water treatment, all the way down to classic stuff like roads and bridges and traffic infrastructure like we all use to get here tonight. We mine high calcium limestone. It's no secret. And our local economy and local infrastructure are both fortunate in that we possess some of the richest quality of that right here in Frederick County. Carmiuse is the largest landowner in the Northeast Corridor. We own approximately 1,200 acres. At the Clearbrook operation, we have 93 full-time employees. Salaried folks make, on average, more than $72,000 a year and hourly employees more than $25 an hour, both of which are above the medians for this. The respective medians for our area. Personally, I take a lot of pride in being raised in Frederick County, educated in Frederick County, graduated from Shrando and now proud to work in Frederick County. Over the last several years, the Clearbrook plant has donated tens of thousands of tons of aggregate to a lot of worthy organizations and projects here, thousands of dollars in monetary donations and hundreds of volunteer hours. This in addition to more than $800,000 annually in taxes contributed directly to the county. So I'd like to take tonight's opportunity to suggest to the board some potential modifications to the future land use designations offered in the updated maps on pages 3, 9, and 12 of the 2035 plan. While your purpose here tonight is more general in nature, we hope that as part of this comp plan update, this board will advance a more detailed review of the Northeast land use plan, which was last updated in 2015. I also provided these comments at the opportunity. The plan was first presented in October planning commission public hearing, and the planning commission noted in its discussions that an update of the knee loop would be appropriate in early 2022. I'll also share with you tonight that it is our intention, car Muses intention to bring before this body and application in the spring of 2022 to rezone lands north of Bruce Town Road in areas that are currently designated as heavy industrial industrial and warehousing for the purposes of extractive mining and industrial. We'd additionally like to offer for your consideration appropriate amendments to the text portion of the knee loop to include language that before any future rezoning of these parcels to extractive mining is to be granted that certain performance standards and impact modifications be accomplished by classical proffered conditions. Thus, this language would ultimately create a conditionally planned area only for future extractive mining, ensuring both for you and our neighbors that certain impacts are addressed as part of the traditional plan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As the county continues to grow in population, like you've said tonight, especially in the Northeast corridor, we have every intention to expand our partnership with Frederick water. This change would simply be consistent with other certain parcels presently owned by car Muse that have already been designated as future water resource areas. And so tonight in closing, I would say that we greatly appreciate every opportunity to meet with you, you folks planning staff planning commissioners. And of course, our neighbors to discuss these suggested. The revisions to the knee lip in greater detail at the appropriate time. We'd also welcome the chance to be part of a larger discussion on the future growth and development, both within the Northeast corridor, as well as Frederick County as a whole. So our commitment and my commitment, car Musa's commitment to this board and this community is one of transparency and partnership as we enter this process. And I look forward to discussing how we can work toward what is right for the county, its residents and its businesses for many years to come. And I appreciate the opportunity to speak with you this evening. Thank you. Yes, sir. That's all. Okay. Did anyone else care to? Yes, sir. You have permission to speak, sir. To the podium. Welcome, Mr. Light. It's been a long time. You know, Mr. Chairman, I'm probably late and I didn't get on your on your sign up list. But I would like to take the opportunity to address the potential a potential study and recognition of a Northeast land use study plan. Hopefully that you will undertake in 2022. Naturally, the main purpose of a land use plan is to get on the books, your transportation improvements for the coming years and the land use identification of the land bay areas. So that you so that the landowners and the businesses. Know where they have to step forward in their upcoming events. There's numerous numerous tracks of land down there. Where ownership is is interested in developing. With development comes traffic and traffic needs to be on the books and detailed thoroughly many years prior to the existence of new development. In my case, I own a piece of land there. This potential use is strictly for. Warehousing. In the comprehensive plan, the sewer and water service area in that land use plan. I'd like to see if we could do away with that designation so that there can be multiple types of M1 use. If land is going to develop. There ought to be a. A high value tax paying business. If if it ends up being developed. I don't know whether any of you. Have ever taken the opportunity to ask the question. What are the top five or what are the top ten taxpayers in Frederick County? But I think if you were to study that. And look closely, it would designate what types of business you could ask or try to get. Even the economic development commission. To. To try and land in Frederick County. As a way to really. Try and save transportation and save. A lot of development of other land. If you had this high taxation uses. If, for instance. We could entertain. The ability to get data transmission centers in here. It would. It's tens of millions of dollars worth of tax revenue in one building in one place. With no transportation efforts. No real. Employment except. Ten people five to ten people for security. It is a high water usage high electric usage. But the value of those types of businesses. Would far exceed. Many uses of warehousing. So my proposal is that one day. Everybody's land is going to get developed in the northeast land use. I just hope you will look forward to that. And I hope that we can move forward. Farther ahead and try to plan for better use as possible. Thank you. Thank you sir. Anyone else. All right. We appreciate it. We'll close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this one. Chairman I would move that we. Accept the comprehensive plan as presented this evening. Okay. Second discussion anyone. Any other comments. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. I think some of the comments. Made are appropriate the last gentleman to speak I think made some very. Apropos comments. We're going to have a county is going to continue to grow. We need to have revenue to cover that growth. Residential real estate does not do that so. I just think some of the comments have been made here need to be incorporated. I agree with Mr. Wells doesn't not change it but just recognize that as we go forward. Those be included. Thank you sir. Further comments. Anyone discussion. I just have one that Mr. Dunn brought up earlier and that was regarding transportation. I think given the opportunities that we may have coming forward with changes in our delegation and the General Assembly. And also the infrastructure. Tax bill or that's that's coming forward. Or the resources that we hope that perhaps we need to engage our representatives. It might be a great. A great opportunity to talk about ways that we could address some of these high dollar transportation. And so I think that should be an upcoming conversation particularly maybe coming to the Transportation Committee with a recommendation back and or a board discussion that that we might be able to see some opportunities here. I certainly wouldn't want to be sitting here not trying for those dollars if we have that opportunity. Thank you. Anyone else. Hearing none. Supervisor Stegmaier. I am. Supervisor McCarthy. I am. Supervisor Slaughter. I am. Supervisor Wells. I am. Supervisor Dunn. I am. Supervisor Graber. I am. Chair votes. I am. The motion carries. Bring us to 11 D. Mr. Chairman thank you sir. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Members of the board. This request before you tonight is for. I thank you and I do apologize I extend my sincere acknowledgment of the wait 10 of the one on. Currently, Frederick County has nine agricultural and forestry districts, and there are some advantages to that, to being in an agricultural forestry district, and those advantages include a land use taxation, preserving land for open space. It promotes agribusiness and long range agricultural planning, and as we were pointing out prior to your comp plan, we've added that also, these districts in our rural areas. And it also provides a density bonus for the county's transfer of development rights, is one density right to equal two dwelling units. And if I turn your attention to the map to the left, it outlines where the five parcels of this new ag and forestry district is being presented to you tonight. The Ag and Forestry Advisory District, or ADAC, met on September 21st, 2021, and recommended approval of this ag and forestry district. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on October 20th, 2021, and also recommended approval of this ag and forestry district. Staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this creation of the new Hayfield Agricultural and Forestry District, Mr. Chairman. I'll be happy to answer any questions that you or the supervisor have on this new ag and forestry district. Thank you. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. So this is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? Mr. Chairman, no one signed up, but I will remind you, you received a number of electronic comments on this item as well. Which we have received. Yes, sir. Hello. My name is Bo Bassler, and I have worked with Planning and Zoning to file this petition to create this district. and I want to thank Candace Perkins and Mark Sharon for their help and answering my questions. I'm asking the board to approve this petition to create this agricultural and forestal district. I've been working on this project for some time, including consulting with Nick Livesay of the Lord Fairfax Water and Soil Conservation District. He's been out there. He's helped me with it. He's given me recommendations. I have recently cleared approximately 50 acres, and he gave me a lot of advice on what to grow to start out, to build the soil, to stabilize the soil, and I appreciate his help. Also, Mark Sutphin with the Virginia Tech Extension. He's been very helpful to me, too. I'm learning a lot as I go along, and I did bring some photographs to show members of the board, if that's appropriate, on parcels that I have cleared and working towards this project, if I may pass them. We'll pass them for you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I am here to answer any questions that the board has about this project, why I'm doing it, and I'll point out I was born in Winchester, lived in Frederick County, went to Jameswood. I've been here my whole life. I live in the Back Creek District. This is the property where I live, and I'm planning to be here for a long time. I'm planning to, you know, I'm clearing the fields to be able to use them for agricultural purposes. I've been managing the timber for about 12 years. I have done cuts. I have done forestry projects, and I feel that it fits the code and also the ordinance. Thank you, sir. Anyone else like to comment? Anyone at all? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. So the ag and forestal districts are no-brainers, in my opinion, so we're always happy to see them. Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes, sir. It is in my district. I would like a motion that we establish the new Hayfield Agricultural and Forestry District as proposed. Second. Motion in a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Supervisor Slotter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. That brings us to... 12A, Capital Impact Model, Annual Based Data Update. Ms. Perkins, thank you. Again, before you tonight, this is the proposed 2021 data update for our capital impacts model. As you may remember, this model was created back in 2019, 2018-2019, by Tischler, Weiss, an economic consultant. It was approved for use by the Board of Supervisors in 2019. Now, this model is utilized to analyze capital costs generated by new developments. In olhocapital.com, we run the model every five issues of the free county budget, and we release 100に. So we need to update certain inputs. Those are the data from the May budget model each year. Food,olickeys, variables in school enrollment, population, gifted enrollment, jobs data, up to 8. That's up to you, Mr. Short. Next question, Mr. Long. I'm in the county. Now, with the model each year, we do need to update certain inputs. Those are your. So the kind of example that's in your agenda is one snapshot of a certain area. So if we were to run the model, it would depend on the location. So the base year data, so like I said, you have your elementary schools, your middle school, high school, your totals, jobs. And then all of that kind of populates through all of the Excel spreadsheets and the overall model to give us our outputs. So a lot of data on one page, but this, like I said, is an example of a snapshot of a model run. It's consistent with what's been reviewed and updated with the 2019-2021 and now the 2021 update. So this particular run just showed Evendale, Admiral Byrd, Middlebrook, Middlebrook Fire and Rescue Station within an urban setting with 100 single-family dwelling units and 20,000 square feet of retail. And when you look at the 2021 data update and the 2021, there is a slight increase. It goes from about 17 up to 19,000. So it's not a great increase, but there is a minimal increase in that. So what we're seeking tonight from the board is authorization to utilize the updated data within our impact model for when we do analyze new development. I'd be glad to send you questions. Thank you. Questions of Ms. Perkins, anyone? Thank you. So Ms. Perkins. This is just to put something here on the record. In 2019 or thereabouts, the General Assembly changed the law so that if a school had a capacity and two more houses were built and it met that capacity, the capital impact of that would not be met. But if developer two came in and he built two more houses above capacity, he would have to build to bear that capital cost, correct? Original legislation in 2016 for the proffers, which dealt with the capital cost, the unreasonable impact or proffers. So that was the catalyst for this model. And then subsequently within that state code reference is that you have to analyze a development based on what is currently in excess capacity, that snapshot. You can't look at what you have already in the hopper for excess capacity. So prior to that, the cost would have been borne among all of the stakeholders. So for simplicity's sake, if 100 homes were built and that required a new school, then 1%, 1 out of 100, would be borne among everybody. And that was changed, correct? Correct. The model that we had placed previously was a lump sum across the board based on housing types. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir, anyone else? Thank you very much. How would the board like to deal with this one? I would make a motion that we accept the updated capital impacts model. Please read That dis viene ad pres hoop je. So I can live with this, but I think that going forward, a more fair way to do this is to have the capital costs borne by all those that are participating and causing that capital cost to rise. Sure. Anyone else? All right. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slott? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. And we will adopt the new data. Board liaison reports, are there any? Yes, sir. Fire and Rescue is right now undergoing a revision where they hope to come to us and say, here are what our needs are for the next two, three, four, five, ten years. So we as a board can get a feeling where that's coming. I hope that will occur sometime in December before we go into our budget situation. They have a lot of work to do. They have a lot of work to do. They may not be totally complete, but at least it will give us an idea of where we need to go, what will be needed this year, what will be needed in years five and ten, et cetera. So I'm just letting the board know that. Liaison reports, anyone else? All right. Citizen comments, this is a portion of the meeting where we're happy to accept comments from the citizens on any subject they might like to bring to our attention. Does anyone have anything? Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Four, name, Magisterial District. Limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. Correct. Thank you, Jacobs. Back Creek District. I want to tell the Frederick County Council our county treasurer is doing a great job of selling property in Frederick County where they're grossly behind on their taxes. The guidance on when the property goes up for auction is around $10,000. The cost of advertising and running the auction can put a damper on how often this can occur. The goal is to get consistent year-to-year revenue to help Frederick County services. I'd like the council to look into the policies for tax auctions, specifically not allowing Frederick County landowners who owe back taxes on their current properties in Frederick County to bid on new land. Doing so, helps them continue not paying their back taxes. The goal of tax auctions is to get yearly revenue from sales. If the bidder is allowed to owe back taxes and bid on new property, the likelihood of them not paying taxes on the new property is very high. We have a tax sale come up on December 1st. I'm sure you cannot act on it before then. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Kerry Kimball. I'm a resident of Frederick County of the Shawnee District. I've been a resident of Shawnee for 30 years. I wanted to let people know when I was working on election day for Richard Kennedy, I was distributing literature outside one of the polling stations. At about 4.30 in the afternoon, one of my colleagues got a phone call that she was feeling threatened by Sean Graber. I said I would report to the polling station, which was at Cincinnati Elementary, to try to lower the temperature. When I got there, there was a sheriff's deputy who was talking to some of the volunteers. Mr. Graber was in the background. I'm going to stop you right there. Okay. This is not the proper venue for your comments. This is a matter of a ... There has been a report filed with the sheriff's department. It's a matter of public record. It is. It's an incident report that's been filed by the sheriff's department. Anybody who would like to receive it. My comment is simply, I am asking that everybody please act respectfully. I've worked the polls for nearly 20 years. This is the most disrespectful election that I've ever had. This is the most disrespectful election that I've been a part of. I'm sorry to see it happen in Frederick County. It's been disappointing. I'm very sorry to see that the sheriff's department had to be called out for this. I'll step aside. I wanted to bring this to the board's attention. I think it's a chronic matter. I think it's getting worse. From my point of view, I've been ... I had asked you to stop, sir. Okay. Thank you. Next. Good evening, everyone. My name is Brian Neri, resident of the Opecan district. Back in March, Mr. Graber made a comment saying that he would not give one more dime to the school board until this program, Deke-Bapu equity, had been removed. He claimed to have a roster of students and a doc ... and the book that this course has come from ... came from a book that was in the library. He said, I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. It doesn't look like it's from ... it comes from ... came from Deep Equity. Last month, I mentioned the fact that under title 22.1, under the education laws of the State of Virginia, the limitation of the access to records, there is no way that he could have had a FOIA request done. Also, under the Federal government standards, under a weirdly named law called FERPA, restricts and makes private all school records of any events inside or outside the schools. Paul Makes private all school records of any events inside or outside the schools. I know this because we just had a discussion last night. declared forwalks. Vet units. Faculty units.omp mayoría y Salinas. in our local public speaking tournament events about how we're gonna be able to handle national tournament this year. Under FERPA, we would not be allowed to retain and disclose those student lists. So I'd like to ask Mr. Graber again to supply the FOIA request. I'd like to know the date of the request and also the scope in which it was made. And I would like to see that request in paper. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Hi. Just adjust that. Yes, sir. There you go. My name's Katie Vance. I am a resident of Shawnee. I know that you've asked us not to speak about this issue tonight, so I'd like to request what is the process for us to go through to hold Mr. Graber accountable for the behavior that occurred that day? My only suggestion would be for you to speak with him. Oh, okay, so there's nothing that the Board of Supervisors will do to also hold him accountable? No, no, duly elected. Sure, absolutely, but I ask that this is a reflection of the entire board and that behavior that day was abusive and aggressive, and I think it's really problematic that the board will not hold anyone accountable. Duly elected. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir. Hi there. I think most of you know me, Richard Kennedy from the Shawnee District. And stop me if I'm gonna be out of line here or not, but again, it's something that had to do on Election Day. And it is a piece of civility that I think we are lacking when we go through the voting process at this point. I had to get involved in an incident that I was very distraught in getting involved with it, and what happened was our, we had an individual 18-year-old that was slightly mentally handicapped, was out there. was out there helping to give out a Democrat ballot, sample ballots, to people that came up to this, and it was at the Bowman Library. And he offered a sample ballot to everybody that comes up because he didn't know who was going to be it, Democrat or Republican. And so he went up to one individual who then started throwing profanities at him. And it wouldn't stop until I came up and moved him back, moved our individual back. This person then went in to vote, and then when he came back out, he back-accosted this 18-year-old individual again with profanities. And I just feel like, where is our civility? I call on both sides, on all three sides, actually, the independents. The Democrats and Republicans, to let's start being more civil to everyone as we go through this process. And also I'd like to say that this individual is an 18-year-old. He just turned 18, and this was his very first election. What is that going to do to what he's going to think about elections in the future? Just think about that. What is he going to think about the next time he votes? Is he going to really be successful? Is he going to really be scared to vote? Because the people who want him, I say, is going to be scared to help out doing this thing. So I really want to do that. And I call upon my opponents, Mr. Ludwig and Mr. Gosnell, and anybody else associated with the political process, let's start being civil to one another. That's all I really have to say here and there. So thank you. MR. Thank you. Thank you for that. Thank you so much. popularity and it is critical that people hold back their aspirations. I've asked for too much of that. They can't smile. I just sent you a specification that they areTwo minutes don't Pope. That is why this was highlight. It's a caveat. It's all oral. It's just not part of our agenda. It's not the� harbinger of one meeting. It's not part of the agenda. It doesn't represent the members of a jue stark unless the following committee join us and the press is there. Another episode will masses areந получается, configure aacia, rate and read, what them RDонMart기에 and which on that and because they're trying to find information for me they're being very helpful by the way I'd like that I appreciate that for for the county also on November 7th I had a meeting in my barn with our coalition and the City Council for Middletown or the Town Council and the mayor showed up and it was a very cordial meeting but I did a PowerPoint on the this issue for our coalition and one of the things that I indicated in the PowerPoint that this was going to be a truck stop and there was no rebuttal from the Town Council or the mayor on that subject so I guess you're gonna have to look towards the their messaging because as a citizen I don't know what else we're supposed to believe anyways thank you very much thank you sir sir anyone else thank you just ma'am I'll be Brandon from Back Creek District I worked at Cincinnati school in the polling and I worked at Evendale I don't want y'all to have an impression that it was complete chaos and there was no civil discourse I don't know what they're referring to I wasn't there but where I was working we all got along very well I was handing out the Republican ballots and asking people would you like a simple ballot I have the Republicans the Democrats are right here so don't get the impression our County is out of control it's not thank you well done thank you anyone else yes sir Josh Ludwig Shawnee district I was at the Bowman library quite a bit on Election Day and I did witness the the young 18 year old I did not see the incident in mention had I been there I would have certainly counseled people to be respectful and civil to each other it's really hard now with elections being so important and so so the government in you know imposes so many mandates and things on our lives people are very passionate and involved I don't want to excuse uncivil behavior at all I will say that the young man so there were a bunch of people who came who really were angry at all of us they didn't want to be handed more ballots maybe they got in one too many mailers in Shawnee would go the other way to Texas they wanted to remain as Lincoln in the party so they got more than any other district you have no idea and they're always voters that come and they really don't want to be bothered and some of them are very grim about it you know they're very angry if you approach them and offered them anything I can only imagine that that was a situation this young man maybe because of his evidence you know disability that he was very awkward he ran and jumped in people's faces a lot and I don't know I didn't witness it but I didn't see the incident, but the polls were not out of control. The people are who they are, and the people who are working elections are passionate like they always will be. And I do agree with the calls for more civility, but I just wanted to put it in perspective. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Then we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Tomorrow is Veterans Day, and I'd just like to say it's day off. Find a vet. Say thank you. Join me out at Ump's Funeral Home for Veterans Day memorial that we're having out there. They're all over town. Take the time. Without those vets, we don't have a country. So, God bless all. All of them who serve. All of them who are still serving. And please, please, please, thank a veteran tomorrow. Take your time. Find one. They're all around you. And some of you have children and parents and yourselves. So, if you're a veteran, thank you for your service. And God bless America. Thank you, sir. Senator Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start out by saying I believe that free and fair elections are, are constitutional rights, and I am so thankful that that is a constitutional right. In regards to some of the comments that have been made today, I'd like to agree with Mr. Kennedy that what was done to that 18-year-old boy was wrong. I wasn't at Bowman Library at all that day. I didn't see it happen. I don't know what happened, and I can only hope, as you do, that he does not have a poor taste in his mouth, and I have no way of knowing what that situation was. I do know that at the polling district that I was at, that the, the chief election officer there was of utmost respectful to me and to others, and I appreciate the registrar getting competent and good people at most of the polling booths that I saw. To expand on some other comments that were here tonight, there was an illegal ballot handed out by the Democrat Party on Election Day. It was white in color, and sample ballot was hard to find. Code of Virginia 24.2 is very clear on what a sample ballot is supposed to look like. Very first thing that it says, if you read the second chapter, is it shall not be white in color. All I'm gonna say is, is I actually have a copy of the sample ballot, and it is white in color. When you're searching for where is the sample ballot on there, it's quite hard to find. State law says it's supposed to be 24-fought. If it's 12-fought, we're saying something, but I don't think it's that. I made a call to the registrar, and I asked that he correct me, and he said he had a problem that I had seen at four different precincts that day, of illegal ballots being, unlawful ballots being handed out. I commend the registrar for asking some of the folks who were manning those booths to go out and look at those ballots. He, indeed, according to his conversation with me on Wednesday, validated that there were illegal ballots found at other voting precincts, which there were, and that he had obtained several of those. In the process, process of seeing the illegal ballots being handed out. I simply made a gesture that the ballots that were being distributed were not legal ballots. And after some unkind and unpleasant words were directed my direction, I started taking pictures to capture the evidence of an unlawful act that was being committed. When I began taking those photos, there were some very upset people, but I was documenting the fact that unlawful acts were occurring. As I took those pictures to document those unlawful acts, there was a call made to the sheriff's office by the very people who were breaking the law. They were handing out ballots that were in direct violation of Virginia Code. It is very unfortunate that some members of our community would stoop to that level. I can't understand why they would. I don't understand why they would do it. I can't speak for them. But I can say that I tried to ensure the integrity of an election. Sample ballots that mimic real ballots being the same color are not unlawful. And it's hard to distinguish if it's a sample ballot or not. It's a real disservice to our citizens, especially if they're young citizens and this is the first time that they're voting. I believe that fair, equitable elections are the only way that we can have an election that anyone can have any integrity in. And it saddens me to hear the comments that some of them have made tonight. I would like to just reiterate what Mr. Wells said, the reason I wore the tie this evening. I was going to make a comment about our veterans. Thank you so much to all those men and women. Thank you to everyone who has given so much so that we might enjoy the opportunity to even have an election. God bless you. Thank you. Anyone else? Dave, would you pass me that microphone, please? Supervisor's microphone. Supervisor Sloan. We've been talking about the comprehensive plan tonight and there's so much that we've learned about the latest implementation of what we started in misery squared. It's going to be asking our parents to do what they have to do to support and connected things with our youth. And I believe that that's going to be something that they'll be able to watch. This was also mentioned while we're in the survey about the Longhi and therese meiner and the Whitehall. The силler is a graduate of Professor Geoff designer, удар Smith. Brandon oxenberg and such as planned future land use, zoning, transportation needs, and infrastructure. The committee will be tasked with reviewing the current Northeast Land Use Plan and identifying potential changes. It is planned that the committee will be meeting during the months of December and January, and if anyone is interested who is a resident of the Stonewall District and serving on this committee, please reach out to me. Certainly would like to hear from you. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Stegmaier. After the comments of Supervisor Wells, I regret having to say the following. Tonight we have considered and passed Supervisor Dunn's list of worthy proposals for inclusion in our legislative package. Two of the proposals have to do with election reform, and I would like to add a third election reform proposal for the members' consideration. On Election Day, November 2nd, supporters of one of my opponents for the Shawnee District School Board distributed to Shawnee District residents as they came to vote, a sheet that was called the Republican Sample Ballot, which identified my opponent, Miles Adkins, as the Republican candidate, despite the fact that the laws of Virginia currently require that school board candidates be listed on ballots as nonpartisan. The sheets that were distributed to voters were not the sample ballots, but the sample ballots that were authorized and paid for by the Frederick County Republican Committee. Those sample ballots had been discarded and replaced by sample ballots that were authorized and paid for by the campaign organization of candidate Josh Ludwig. Unfortunately, I understand that some voters of the Stonewall Magisterial District were subjected to a lot of pressure. I would like to add that the Republican Party has been subjected to similar deception as well. Similarly, during the 45-day period of early voting that took place at the Frederick County office building on Kent Street, a small sheet of paper entitled Conservative School Board Candidates was passed out to voters. Under the apparent auspices of the Frederick County Republican Committee, without the authorization, the undersea muse for ticks would not be able to vote. However, some 멋enựckes with no support or investigation made anißed The President of Virginia Ameria in December 2009 and proposed that will be signed by a large environmental authority that would be dependent on a Republican to choose between the TY silicone ballot and a Republican crawling ballot. Apparently, he had no victory. To this day, it has not happened. There has been notey of gate кто butose representa that it is impossible to use rooks. As a result, it gives another weighted out to a bill that will take early registration, the actions of the Frederick County Republican Committee do a terrible disservice to the approximately 100 members of our committee and to all county residents who consider themselves Republicans. We Americans, Republicans, Democrats, and independents need to have trust in the fairness of our elections process, and where unfairness is discovered, it needs to be corrected. In order to end these deceptive practices here in Frederick County and wherever in our Commonwealth they exist, rules and standards need to be put in place, and it is my intention to draft language before our next meeting that would be added to our board's legislative package in hopes that it would be acted upon by Frederick County's representatives and the federal government. I would like to recognize our participants and their colleagues at the upcoming session of the Virginia General Assembly. If Supervisor Dunn's proposal to allow for the placement of political party designations next to the names of candidates for local offices, including the school board, is not adopted by the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this opportunity. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? Ms. Caron, we're going to do over here. Thank you. So we'll do something very pleasurable. Mary Beth? Mary Beth? So I'm reading from a letter that the board has drafted thanking Mary Beth Price for her exceptional duty. The Board of Supervisors extends its most sincere appreciation for your service to the board as interim county administrator following the retirement of Chris Tierney. Your leadership during this period has been reliable and steadfast. The board has appreciated your depth of experience as an administrator and your staff has benefited from your guidance during this time of transition. Please accept our heartfelt thanks for your willingness to step into the interim role for Frederick County. And as we look forward, we wish you to know that your service to Frederick County has been truly valued. We are grateful for your outstanding effort and a job well done. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure. It's a pleasure. It's a pleasure. It's a pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. We'll stand adjourned. We thank you all for your patience, your participation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
