Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=271
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I hereby call to order the February 26th meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. Excuse the public for being a minute late. We had a work session that went until just a couple of moments ago. We are pleased today to begin our meeting with an invocation from Associate Pastor David Whitaker of Open Door Baptist Church. Pastor. Let's pray. Lord, I come to the one that created the universe. And in the name of the one that loves unconditionally, the one that has the strength to save you from the name of the one that delivers, the name of the one that heals, the name of the one that will set you free, the only name on earth and in heaven that can save you from sin. That is our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Lord, I just pray tonight for this meeting to be just like Jesus taught while he was on here on earth, about the love that we're supposed to share to our brothers and sisters, Father. So may everyone that's in this room tonight, as they speak, may they speak, speak with that in mind, Father, that this is to be a meeting of love for one another, to accomplish the things that need to be accomplished tonight, Father. And Father, everything that's going on in the world, Father, let us come down to this meeting tonight to discuss what is supposed to be discussed, Lord. And we know that the spiritual guidance that we can only get from you, Father, I want that to just develop in this room and develop in all of us, Father. So as we hear from what the board people are saying and what every person that gets up here, and speaks, Father, may give them spiritual wisdom beyond their years, Father. May they speak things accordingly to the way that you want them to speak, Father. May it always be done in love, Lord. And so tonight, as this meeting continues to go on, Father, we're going to keep that one thing in mind, is the love of Jesus that you've instilled in all of us, Father, that it will come out tonight and this meeting will go. And so many things will be done from this meeting because of that, Father, because of the way that people conduct ourselves here, Lord, to honor you. May this meeting tonight, when it's all said and done, may you be glorified in it, Father. In the holy name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Oh, excuse me. Thank you very much, Pastor. Before we go to the Pledge of Allegiance, I've been contacted by parents of a child who has passed away, who is at the Northwest Regional Education Program. And I didn't get time because of our late work session to bring it up with the pastor so he could include it in his prayers. So I'll ask for a few seconds of silence. In the memory of and with our county's condolences, the memory of Faith Johnson and our condolences to her parents and sister. Thank you all very much. Vice Chair? Yes, let us stand please and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the Father, the Son, and to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. On our agenda, we moved to item four, adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle this agenda today? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve and adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the agenda? Hearing no one. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Item five, citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Mr. Chairman, I do not have the sheet yet. Maybe we can have someone check in the hallway. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Leslie Spencer. Hi, please begin with your name and magisterial district if you would. Leslie Spencer, Gainesboro District. I would like to talk about the item on the agenda about a law that states that the government affordable housing. I looked over the plans and I have some thoughts. I would like you to pause or carefully consider before approving the current housing resolution. I think that we should begin talking about this as a community and think about where it would be best to locate them. But I also love the idea of walkability and really close to me is community gardens. I would love for people to have access to self-sufficiency and being more independent. I understand that everybody wants to grow food, but it may just be one generation and I think that would be a good time to do that. With food prices fluctuating and more interest, it could grow. Having access to the ability to grow food is important. Big shade trees, lots of nature on the property would be important to me as well. Little kids having a mud garden, places to play. This could help gardens grow lots of things, beautiful birds, lightning bugs, lots of family and childhood memories. Thank you very much. Thank you. Christiana Marr, Back Creek District. I'm here to talk about the ordinance to amend the backyard chickens. So I live on three-quarters of an acre in Shawnee land and currently as it stands, we are zoned where we're not allowed to have chickens whatsoever. And I'd like to see that changed. Thank you. I read through the draft and I would like to see that changed. I think that's a good I really like it and I support it. I plan, if we are able to have chickens, to use them to create compost, and this would help to reduce our garbage usage as well. They take kitchen scraps and weeds and turn it into compost, which we can then put on our plants. This actually also increases the fertility and health of our soils, which increases permeability rates and recharge of our aquifer. I know on the, I want to say it was the February 12th meeting, there was talk about how our aquifer is currently in stages of drought, and so allowing our soils, which are clay-rich, to be re-nourished would allow for higher recharge rates. Chickens also would reduce the need for chemical fertilizers because, again, they're producing organic fertilizers. They'd also reduce the need for chemical pesticides as they're natural foragers and there was a study that found chickens can eat, each chicken can eat about 50 to 80 ticks per day, which, as we know, carry Lyme's disease. They also are the top two predators for lanternflies, which my husband and I are dealing with. We had to take three of our 60-year-old trees down, so that was heartbreaking for us. But yes, they're in the top two predators, right behind praying mantises. And what else do I have? They encourage routine and allow us to connect with outdoors, which, studies have shown, is great for our mental health and great for our children. They also provide us with self-sustainability and the ability to not rely on grocery stores, which I went to two different grocery stores about a month ago and I could not find a single carton of eggs. The only place that was carrying them was Tom's Market. And, of course, they provide healthy, nutrient-dense eggs. So all this, I'm very much so in favor of the amendment and whatever we have to do, to compromise so that way both sides, the pros and the cons, can come together and just allow for everyone to, again, just find a happy medium, I would be very much in favor of. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? At this time, it should be something that's on the agenda. Seeing no one, I'll close citizen comments. And we move to the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion to second. Any discussion of the consent agenda? Very good. I believe this requires a roll call vote this time. Supervisor Leero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. The consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisors? Aye. vote. I ask the parliamentarian for clarification on this. Mr. Parliamentarian. Thank you. Our rules don't exactly address the renewal of votes however Robert's Rules of Order, if an item is voted down any member can bring that item back to a vote on a pretty much an ongoing basis. Our rules do specify that for a reconsideration it should be at the same meeting, for rescission it can be within 30 days after that meeting. So generally by requesting is what you would be putting on the agenda just as on the agenda the motion or the request to to approve the item once again. If you wanted to do something as such with a public hearing that would be probably a separate vote or part of that same motion but the public hearing I believe was already held on that and would not be necessary but optional. Mr. Chairman, so the reasons that I'm making this proposal is that when we voted with some information that I was unaware of. One is the historic homes and buildings near and adjacent to the comp plan area was not even discussed. They may have been discussed by the Planning Commission but we need to have informed information on this prior to a vote. As discussed in a previous situation there had been a commercial endeavor in the area which was going to have resulted in more than 600 tractor trailers a trip a day on the Valley Pike and the reasons for that was one of the reasons why it was rejected. We need to have a discussion to show the impact of that type of commercial, which I do not think is good. I would have liked to have had the applicant make his proposal, staff then to comment on that proposal, the public near the site to comment on the proposed comp plan change, and this was not clear at all at our last meeting. I would like to have heard in the presentation that the change would result in an age-restricted housing of less than 350 units, more likely closer to 300 units. This was not done at our last meeting. That has a lower impact than residential homes and is user-friendly to the adjacent historical area. I know we had a presentation, but getting additional information after the vote is not helpful in making an informed decision. I have been an advocate for impact fees. However, in this particular case, lessening the impact on an historical area, in my view, outweighs the potential impact of commercial development. The proposed change to the comp plan achieved that. So those are the reasons why. The area that we are talking about is an area called Bartonsville. It was settled in the 1730s when all of us were subject to the King of England, not the United States. So there are homes there in the 1730s, the 1740s, the early 1800s, and that has a significant impact. I think that we as a Board need to do that. So therefore, I am just asking that it be put on the agenda, that there be a public hearing. Those people that are interested, to come and make their comments pro or con, and then go forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Bolhofer. So on the decision on a public hearing, we don't have to decide today about putting it on the agenda. The request is to add it next meeting. But doing a public hearing twice is a little unusual. Yes. By renewal, any member, whichever way they voted, could ask for renewal. To do a public hearing would require the vote. Yes. It would require the vote of a Board to have a public hearing because that would be different than just voting on the item again. So by requesting to put it on the agenda, it would go on the agenda. If this Board wanted a public hearing for that, this Board would have to vote as a body for a public hearing. And is there time to advertise and hold a public hearing by next meeting? Not by the next meeting. Is a renewal also followed the 30-day rule for bringing up, as you said, for one of the other categories of? No, it does not. Okay. So Supervisor Dunn, if you want a public hearing, it can't be next meeting. So Mrs. Soelves, what is the time? I thought it was only a seven-day timeframe to advertise. I'm going to defer to Mr. Pearson, but I believe we normally do such public hearings with two weeks. We advertise twice two weeks before. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If we got up to an event over three weeks, May 13th, what's the most assumable time? I knew you would speak about that. I had thought when I purchased this in 2012, it was around that time, but when you did an Czech and then, Kristen Graf, when you landed back, we had some regular Roundư Hope Report Informations that it said that homemade for such a small product, and then you got uh, There were almost ten companies that sent us some ideas of if we could bring children together on a national highway there, that be anffic운�ation so that we could see our India biting All chili, Sto sentences that a couple of the industrialized zeroing principles have most likely been agreed with and, uh, today's 不答应 be agreed with on Robert Thank you Richie. 23rd which will be a longer meeting I believe, correct? So yes March 23rd and for the press that are covering this I would say to them you will be able to speak at the beginning of the meeting on this topic. There will not be a public hearing but you'll be able to speak to provide input. So yes I'd go for March 12th as long as people have the ability to come and speak prior to us having a discussion and vote. Okay thank you. I have one comment but I'll wait till my turn. Are there any other supervisor comments? Mr. Pearson. Since it is a comprehensive plan amendment I would strongly encourage the board to hold another public hearing on the topic if there is going to be a chance that it gets changed. As last time we held a public hearing anybody in attendance would have seen a denial vote and then for you to then you know renew the motion at a future meeting and there may be a violation of the Virginia Code statute for it to be properly noticed before there's a motion. I think that's a decision by the board so Mr. Cano and I were just talking about that. We're not I think positive about the legalities of it but the safest position would be to have another public hearing on this prior to having another vote on the comprehensive plan amendment. So therefore Mr. Pearson you'd prefer the second meeting in March? I'll put that then on the table that may be a long evening but let me then pause. So Mr. Pope, I don't know the opinion of the other board members. This was an issue we had already voted on. Do we need to take up a vote whether the board wants to revisit the issue or is this something that can that we don't have to debate at this point? It might take a little bit more research because based on Robert's rules a person can bring back the vote. Wherein lies the problem? if indeed the second vote requires you to follow state statutes, then it would require this board to make a vote to have a public hearing. So it may be that... So we'll capture it in that motion. You would have to have a motion, yes, for the public hearing to move forward. So, Supervisor Dunn, I think you have to make a motion to hold a public hearing on this issue in the second meeting in March. Okay. I'll make a motion to hold a public hearing in the second meeting in March to hear... A renewal for this. A renewal on the Appleland proposal as presented by staff. I'll second it. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I actually had several constituents reach out and they were really bothered by this because they were under... Their impression was exactly what it was, a discussion of the comprehensive plan. We really had... We weren't getting down to actually talking about the rezoning. Okay. Had they known we were going the way we did because they followed the work session, they would have been out here. And I think that we need to give the constituents of Back Creek an opportunity and Opecum, because it's right there on the line, an opportunity to speak on this subject. Thank you. Any other discussion of this motion? Just a question. We will take up a comp plan amendment, not a rezoning. Correct. Okay. Just want clarity. Correct. Any other discussion from board members? Yeah. One other question. Seeing as we're not going to have a vote, and I talked to Mr. Ballhopper earlier and I was not expecting to have to have a vote based upon what he said. I thought this was a done deal. I would just ask all of you, hear the public hearing. Have a public hearing. I think the last meeting that we had on this was extremely confusing. It was unclear. As I sat here at the dais, I wanted to have conversations with Mr. Pearson, the applicant. So I'd like to hear the applicant come forward and say, this is what I want. I want to hear staff come forward and say, this is what we think. I'd like to have the public come forward and say what they had there. You all know that I'm in favor of impact fees, but I think that the historical nature here is significant when outweighing that. And we're talking about homes, there's a cluster of homes, five, six homes, plus a mill from the late 1700s and early 1800s. That is significant. That is rare. And so for that reason, you know, have another public hearing, and then you can make your decision based upon the evidence. The reason I'm talking about this is, I did not know any of this prior to the vote. And Mrs. Slaughter, when you made your comment about housing at the last meeting, I'm empathetic to that, as you know. But this has changed my thought process. And when we hear about 600 trucks that were coming down that were rejected, and this is adjacent to this area, some of this is adjacent to and some of it's between 300 and 400 yards of historical area, I'd like to at least have that discussion to preserve that before we have a commercial development or anything other than this. So this is a comp plan amendment only, yes, Mrs. Slaughter. Thank you. Okay, I have a comment in response. And that is, I did waive some rules last time so we could have the developer and staff go back and forth trying to get to a decision we didn't have to revisit. Evidently, all of us weren't able to get that clear to everyone. However, I do need to clarify one item. Supervisor Jewell said something which I believe was incorrect during that discussion last time, and Supervisor Dunn has said that several times as well. And that is that the developer of the land deserves to have this done because he had been rejected on a business proposal on the land. And I don't believe, I researched it with Mr. Pearson, this board has not rejected any business proposal for that land. It might have gone to the Planning Commission and never come to a final decision through the process, but we have not rejected a business proposal there. Yeah, Mr. Chairman, for the record, you're correct in that I'm just saying this was laid out there, so I'm not saying that we have to have a vote because something was rejected. I know that's a significant issue, so we're good. Supervisor Jewell, you might have been on Planning Commission then and it went through you, but we didn't vote on a decision at the time. That's correct. Just wanted to clarify. That's correct. It actually went through the Planning Commission, I believe, was actually a unanimous vote, but it came to the Board of Supervisors and the current Supervisor at that time did not want to bring it forward. So, you're right. I think we did discuss it and there was a motion to delay and then the applicant drew their business proposal. That's right. So, we never got to make a final decision. You got it. That's correct. It was presented, but then it was withdrawn. And I was just going to say, in going back to the minutes, it did go to the Planning Commission and I think Supervisor Jewell, you actually second the motion to have a 60-day postponement. So, the Planning Commission never voted on a complete rezoning application. To my knowledge. At least that's the minutes that I was able to go back and research. Yeah, I didn't do a thorough follow behind the October meeting that I think you're referring to, but the last evidence that I saw of it on a Planning Commission agenda when you asked me to look into it was the 60-day postponement and then the applicant notified staff member who's no longer with us that they wanted to indefinitely postpone consideration of their application. Okay. And then we forced them to withdraw it last calendar year due to inactivity. I'm not positive about that, but I think that that's the history. The only reason I brought it up was to make it clear, but also we're certainly sympathetic if someone in the county owns land and they want to make use of it and develop it, we don't want to continually turn them down. They have a right ultimately to develop their land. We agree. And I do not want to suggest that we've been doing that. So, we have a motion on the table that's properly seconded. Okay. So, we have a motion on the table that's properly seconded to renew discussion of this item at our, with the public hearing at the second meeting in March. And we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. So, we don't have a long meeting, however, we're still in supervisor comments. Are there any others? Not that I'm saying, not that I'm saying. I'm not saying. Okay. Okay. Thank you. I'm discouraging you. Any other supervisor comments? Okay. We can close item seven, supervisor comments. Item eight, county officials. It is the pleasure of this board to make a presentation of our, to pass a resolution. I believe we have to vote on this. Or did we already vote? We've already voted. We already voted last time. To make a presentation to the class four, all in favor? In favor? Carnival. KIM Alinedash. CLASS FOUR, ALL-STATE CHAMPION JAMES WOOD HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS VOLLEYBALL TEAM. I believe they have won the state championship three years running. Bravo. Three. My football team couldn't three-peat, but you did. So, congratulations. You've done something amazing. We want to make a presentation to you. And give you the opportunity to take a picture or two. Yes. And this is their third regional win, third straight regional and state win. Fantastic.pl I'm a former colonel. So, congratulations. Rinfaro. I'm very proud of you guys. If you guys want to, with Coach Adrian, if you guys want to, I'll let you take over. Is it on? I didn't bring the paper with me. Ms. Phillips, can you read? On the aptitude, would you like the team to join you there? Please, come on up and give the audience a chance to get a good picture and the people at home to see you. Congratulations again. Fantastic accomplishment. The resolution reads, whereas James Wood High School opened its doors in 1950, and whereas during the ensuing years, its athletic teams brought recognition to the school through a variety of championships, and whereas the James Wood High School girls volleyball team achieved another pinnacle of greatness by completing a 23-3 season and winning the 2024 Virginia High School League Class 4 All-State Championship. for the third year in a row. And whereas not only did the James Wood High School girls volleyball team capture their third state title, but also the Colonels won their third straight region title, along with the district title this year. And whereas Coach Adrian Patrick, a fifth-year head coach of the Colonels, recently was named VHSL Class 4 Volleyball Coach of the Year for the third year in a row. And two of her team players were also recognized for their outstanding achievements, Kennedy Spade, Player of the Year, along with Brenna Corbin on the Class 4 First Team. Whereas James Wood High School girls volleyball team represented this community with distinction and honor during the 2024 volleyball season, and whereas this team achieved this honor through a combination of hard work, drive, and determination to be the best they could be every time they took the court, and true sportsmanship, which has brought favorable recognition upon themselves, their school, and the community. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Trustees, Board of Trustees, and the College of Education, and the Board of Supervisors, offers recognition and congratulations to the coaches and players of the 2024 James Wood High School girls volleyball team for a job well done. Be it further resolved that a true copy of this resolution be presented to the coaches and the team adopted this 13th day of February 2025. So, again, congratulations. Not only for the Board of Supervisors, but for the whole public. And we have to walk back, but thank you all very much. And if you have another minute, if you want to pose holding that yourselves, you feel welcome to do so. Who would like to receive it? All right. Thank you. And I'd also like to thank Supervisor Lockridge who made sure this, to shepherd this resolution through and make sure you get recognized. Concluding item eight, we move to item nine, appointments to the school board. We have to make sure that the school board is recognized to boards, committees, and commissions. We have first up item nine A, an appointment to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. That would be Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion to approve the appointment of Kenneth Baker to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to a vote to appoint. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. And Mr. Baker is appointed. 9B, the Gainsborough District Representative to the Planning Commission. Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a motion to approve Mr. Vaughn Whittaker to the Gainsborough seat on our Planning Commission. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? We'll move to a vote. We'll move to a vote on the appointment. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the appointment is made. There are other opportunities always cropping up for the public to serve. Ms. Phillips, would you like to read for information the ones people may apply to? Certainly. The Economic Development Authority has advised of a vacant term ending October 26, 2026. And the economic development authority has advised of a vacant term ending October 26, 2026. Historically, EDA Board members have been experienced professionals representing various sectors of the county's economy. And there's an information on the agenda on how to link to that. We also learned late today that the Red Bud seat on the Social Services Board is now vacant or will be soon vacant. So that is an opportunity as well. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. For the EDA, so they're looking for experienced professionals representing various sectors. Do you know? I'm putting you on the spot. I didn't ask you before. Was there a particular sector they feel they're lacking in? No, I believe the EDA has advanced an application of someone they feel who is, and I think Mrs. Slaughter could speak to that as well. Okay. We do have an application from a tenured employee of HP Hood, which would give us the sector of agribusiness. So that would definitely be a positive. And we currently have members on that authority from various different sectors. For instance, tracks from the inland port and also agriculture as well. It sounds like we're in good shape then. Great. I guess technically it is open until next Wednesday, and then we'll take it up at the next meeting. So there's still time to apply if you also want to be considered to any of these. But we would need to hear from you by next Wednesday noon. So by next Tuesday at the latest. For any other questions. Thank you. Thank you. Now APPAP starts office at nine. And before we move on here, we want anyone from the idle public this afternoon to come in and share their thoughts on the table just so we know who's sitting on what we're starting this session for. We have an opportunity to advertise some하기 for an week and then have a below barrels of information, or PM ready. That would be perfect, there would be a стоит. Happy Friday to everybody. Thank you. Let's see what would make this run. OK. We have medo here. I'm. approve this supplemental appropriation. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? No. This was to pay off the sanitary district. Lake Holiday had a sanitary district set up in order to redo their dam and this we have paid it off actually earlier than was anticipated so that's what that fund that amount represents. Thank you. So that's why there's no local funds required. This is money raised by the community there to do their project and we're just moving appropriating the funds so it can be paid up properly documented that it's paid off. They get assessed at an additional sanitary fee in addition to their normal taxes. The residents of Lake Holiday. Perfect. Thank you very much. Then we move to a vote for this. We need a roll call vote for this item? I guess so. We're moving funds even though it's not ours. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the item is approved. A short one from the Finance Committee this this week. Items 11, 12 are none so we move to item 13 and we have a few items in a 13. 13A Capital Improvements Plan. Mr. Pearson. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you, all. Mr. Chair, does this formally support your next agenda meeting from the Trade and laser octane and ID unfortunate sometime to further remove the WCAG community.а one or two of the pages that have summary dollars. So the table is up front. There we go. Maybe it's not going to help. It's going to be too small to see anyway. So the CIP represents a plan for capital investments in the county. It does not mean that we have the funds or that we will be building all these. These are items brought forward to us from the different county departments and the schools. My only comment is, so it's a five-year plan starting with our next fiscal year, the budget we're deciding on this spring, and how many, so what's the total off the top of your head of projects that are not already funded out of the capital fund and that are not already decided on for the three school projects? My only point is we have some, I believe, a lot of projects that are not already funded out of the capital fund and that are not already decided on for the three school projects. My only point is we have some, I believe, a few millions of dollars of projects in the FY 26 document. I know this CIP, people had to start working on it many months ago, so it's not an objection. It's just an observation that I don't think the way we're going right now that we're likely to have funds to undertake any additional projects beyond those. That's my opinion at this point in FY 26. So I just want to note to the public, because it's on here, it's not a guarantee that the project's going to be able to get started this year. Do you know roughly what the total is? So the schools we've already committed ourselves to, the station, the fire station we are going to build, that's the land's been bought, it's been taken out of capital, it's going to be paid for out of the capital fund. There are one or two more there that are definite, but there's a few that require us to find money for yet in FY 26. Sure, you know, backing out the fourth high school at a roughly a hundred and fifty million and the other two school projects your old Charlestown Road Park development and then the fire station, which you also have funds on. It's about seven and a half million. I think you're in the hundred and fifty million ballpark range. So with the number you were looking for, and that's out of a total of three hundred and thirty million, which is the total plan with the amounts that are already funded out of previous years. What number did you give for the schools? 150 plus. But see that's not in one year. I was just thinking in FY 26. So what is on here that we're probably not going to, that we may well not get to? So you're looking for FY 26? Yes. So it'd be 74 million less, 2.5 million, less 38 million, less 7 million, less 6. And if I was better at math I would have been an engineer, not a planner, Mr. Chairman. So I did it in my head and then forgot the numbers. I was able to do it, you have to trust me. But so, really the only point is that there's some millions of dollars in projects that this board probably will not be able to start in FY 26. So that's gonna trickle down in the CIP next year as things get deferred. That was my comment. Other questions or comments from the board before we take up the CIP? There is no requirement legally to vote on it today, but it's ready if we want to approve it. Mr. Chairman, my only comment is that each of the departments has said this is what we need, have as a need. I had a conversation with the administrator saying you have competing interests, how do we solve that? His comment to me was basically we'll take the highest priorities first coming down. We as a board, well can determine what those highest priorities are. So I think it's fine for departments to state this is our need and this is why, and then we can prioritize that as we fund. So I'll just leave it as it is. I agree. Any other comments? And how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion we approve it. We have a motion, do we have a second? I'll second it. Any discussion of the motion itself? Very good, then we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and the CIP is adopted. For once you don't have to work with it all the way to May. You've got it done early in the year. And that's partly a compliment to the format. It's now posted to the county website. You can see the information on the website. The information is available on the website. The information is available on the website. The information is available on the website. The information is available on the website. If you want to look at it. It's much easier to format read. You don't have to download a PDF. You can scroll through. It's much easier. It's also less extravagant. In the past it had been a very large document and clearly went beyond anything the county could achieve. And now it's much more true to the purpose of the CIP. So my compliments to you, Mr. Pearson, and your staff. I think it's been a great job. Thank you. And all the department heads who did all the work to refine those projects and to get them to the point where they're now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we're done with this item. Are you staying for 13B? Yes, sir. Very good. 13B, Klein Manor Revitalization Resolution and Tax Abatement. Absolutely. And I'd like to begin by clarifying, while you're used to seeing myself or my staff read the CIP or land use actions, this is neither. It's not a land use action. The property is already zoned. It can be developed by right. But more specifically, the applicant has requested that the CIP be zoned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. different areas of the county and that this project could not be provided absent subsidy and still make economic sense for somebody to build. So these are locked in rents. The person typically could not go and build an apartment building there, lock it in at those rents and make money on the project absent the LIHTC program providing grant subsidies for it. So that's the second qualifier. We think that applies to this situation as well. So moving on to the tax abatement ordinance. Sorry, the revitalization ordinance is important to the applicant as it helps them score grant points for the LIHTC application. The same applies for the tax abatement ordinance. Separate Virginia Code section. In this case, to break down what the applicant's asking for as far as an abatement, it really is a nominal amount. So currently the property is assessed at about $1,000 a year. So that's a nominal amount. So currently the property is assessed at about $1,000 a year. So currently the property is assessed at about $1,000 a year. So currently the property is assessed at about $1,500. They're paying, you know, $2.5 or $2,500 roughly in taxes on an annual basis. The applicant estimates they're going to invest upwards of $10 million into the property and in turn the property is going to be assessed similarly after that and they'll be paying about $51,000 a year after their project is complete. They're only asking for $2,000 and I think that's over the initial three-year period. After that, the abatement's over and they're paying their full freight and taxes. It's a nominal amount. So that's a nominal amount. It's important from their perspective to have this ordinance because it helps them score additional points in their grant application. But generally it is a rather nominal amount to ask as far as an abatement to support their project. I'm sure for those of you who have been in business before, $2,000 is very unlikely to make or break a $10 million investment. So it's just worth noting. One question. Yes, sir. What's on the property now? I believe there are three or two or three structures that are being used as single family residences. Thank you. Yes, sir. Some staff comments. The request does generally conform with the comprehensive plan for this area. It calls for neighborhood village, in particular in the Kernstown neighborhood village, which calls for, in general in the comprehensive plan, you're looking to achieve housing affordability through different options. And this is one of those. The property is in a location that is very likely to be potentially served by city transit services. And it's very likely to be served by city transit services. And it's very likely to be served by city transit services. If they're extended into the county in the future, we've been exploring concepts like that with the city. As of right now, there is not transit specifically serving this portion of the county. We support the mixed income approach. For those of you who are familiar with the Preston Place project in Frederick County, the vast majority of Preston Place is run at the 30% level. We think having a mixed income approach is a far better, both planning best practice, as well as offering a range of affordability. As of right now, there is not transit specifically serving this portion of the county. We think having a mixed income approach is a far better, both planning best practice, as well as offering a range of affordability. For the community to choose from instead of going for just one lower category or one higher category. For the community to choose from instead of going for just one lower category or one higher category. Does it also mean a person who qualifies at one level and then starts earning more money, they can stay in the complex without having to switch apartments? Yeah, I believe that could be accounted for if there's a unit available for them to step up to the next level. In that category? Yes. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. Right. Thank you. And the property right now could be constructed with a very similar apartment building without any board review or approval. It would just have to be offered as a market rate product. Mr. Chairman, these items are presented for action. Virginia code did not stipulate public hearing requirements in these. We are seeking separate actions on the revitalization resolution and the tax abatement ordinance. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. And then Jen's service. She's a server representing server development. It's also here and present to answer any questions you might have of the applicant. Does Jen have a presentation or she's just here to answer questions? She doesn't have a presentation. Do you have anything you want to fill in that I might have missed about the application? Just here to answer questions, just so they hear that. Okay. So questions from the board. I know I want to clarify a thing or two. So this is not a public hearing because the deadline is not set for the public hearing. I have a building, but it's not a public advocacy building. This is a public advisory. Is the Все darkest Skillet living with condominium or is it entirely me? I guess I say that we are school schools and connections among public school schools. But this is one of the ultimate friendships then. Oh, we're so grateful you guys are here and I'm really glad to see you. I say to our colleagues today, you can vote powerfully. One of the things, you know, two programs have a process and if many companies provide private housing, one has a<|br|> Tages it has a public address. You dont want it to signed. So it's not a public housing. Okay. You can do all kinds of things in one place. Absolutely. Our residents will be able to live there taking advantage of grant funds at a lower cost than would be provided if they built and Had to charge market rates for these apartments, right? Yes, sir Okay, so I didn't get any emails unless I missed one from the public and this isn't a public hearing So my one concern is did people who live in the area did they all get notified? With mailers or anything else? No, sir The county policy has been unless there's a stipulation in state code to advertise things in accordance with the public notice Requirements and that that we don't go above and beyond to maintain consistency and considering these items So I just like to put out there for the board people might be Against or even for in the neighboring area and be unaware of this plan development Against they still could go ahead and build am I correct? That's good. That's true Okay, those were my only questions for you, I'm sorry I should have let the board go first perhaps but I wanted that clarified anyone have questions supervisor done. So mr. Pearson This is if this bill this is for rental not ownership of the people that move in correct rental Yes, second question is this may be for the applicant as well a person who moves in they fit the low income and Housing situation they get lucky they win the lottery. They have a rich uncle that dies. It leaves from ten million dollars, etc How is that a situation addressed reason I ask the question is That if this is being done for low income and the person becomes then wealthy or above that I prefer that the spot be available for low income not for the person who says fine I now won the lottery, but this is a great housing opportunity for me. So despite the fact I have ten million dollars I'm not moving out. So how's that issue addressed? Yeah, and Jen just so the folks at home can hear you if you don't mind coming up and answer questions into the microphone State your name with your state your name and with whom you are so that everyone has that as well. Yes, sir My name is Jen server and I'm representing server development and consulting. Thank you The answer to your question is annual recertification So the person would have to come through and say here's my income Here's my balance sheet assets and liabilities because it is the lie tech property every year Every applicant has to go through an annual recertification process So I'm asking you in that annual street certification process all additional income would have to be exposed as well as inherited money as well support As well as anything they own. Yes, sir. Okay The reason I make the comment is for example you can qualify for Obama's health care But but based upon income not on assets. So that's why I was asking questions. It is based on income assets and inherited wealth Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. I saw another question But if I could tag on to that first So if you have an elderly person who moves in and they're living off the Social Security Social Security accounts as well It does. Thank you supervisor Leo. I think you were gonna ask a question. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pearson, can you show your slide where you had? One, two, three and four was salaries and so on Yeah, that slide right there. I just like to point out that You know, I've got boys that are 22 and 19 years old. This I'm familiar with children or that age the What their living situations are and things like that I want to point out for the one person there at 59 6360 that's more than a beginning teacher in Frederick County and the other thing I'd like to point out is they have 2,500 employees in the Frederick County Public Schools. They have 116 positions that are currently not filled. And I know that there are other companies in the area, Trex and others, that have positions that are not filled. And I just think this is a good project to give beginning employees and middle-range employees an opportunity to have some affordable housing. So I'm really in favor of this proposal. Thank you. Any other questions? We'll get to comments when we get to the motion. No other questions for either of the presenters? All right. Thank you both very much. This is not a public hearing, so it goes directly to the board. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, it's in the Back Creek District. Mr. President. Mr. Pearson, we wanted two separate motions, right? The first motion is to approve the revitalization area piece of the project. He had put the abatement, the tax break first. That would be the second. I don't think it matters which order, right? So you want to make a motion on the resolution itself? I was just looking at what... Yep, that's fine. Sure. So you're making a motion to approve the resolution? Yes. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Yes. Supervisor Dunn? My understanding was we needed two resolutions. We can't have one. Yes, so then we'll make a second. You're just doing the first one. Just want to make that clear. Okay, thank you. Any other comments on the motion? My only concern is whether neighbors are fully aware of this, but that's it for my commentary. And if there's no other comments, we can proceed to a vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. So we have the resolution accomplished. The next motion would be on the tax abatement. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion for approval of the tax abatement request as presented. We have a motion. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Any discussion? I just want to... Supervisor Liero, we've talked about this several times, and I want to point out, not only is it for the teachers, but Sheriff's Department, Fire and Rescue, you know, even if you're starting off at Valley Health, the nurses, I mean, this is, you know, everybody, we have people always asking about, can we get some affordable housing? This is a great opportunity for that, so. I believe we have a motion and a second. I had a question I didn't think to ask, but that's fine. Maybe a board member knows. I think we have a motion and a second. I think we have a motion and a second. I think we have a motion and a second. And that is if we have more people who want to live there than there are apartments available, I guess they do some kind of decision-making or lottery among the applicants. Then we would know there's increased demand, and we would want to know that. So if the developer could tell us if this project goes very well and it's very popular, we certainly want to hear about it. With that comment, if there are no others, we can proceed to a vote on the tax abatement. Very good. Supervisor? Supervisor? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. So this is approved. 13C, a discussion on an ordinance amendment regarding backyard chickens. This has been taken up several times over the past several years. Yes, three times over the past eight years, I believe. Thank you. So this proposal is to amend Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance to allow backyard chickens in the RP, R4, and R5 zoning districts, and also add some additional regulations for backyard chickens and chicken coops, and just define the term chicken coop. This amendment was initiated at the request of a member of the Board of Supervisors. So the current standard backyard chickens. are not permitted in any of the suburban residential zoning districts in the county. They are permitted in the RA Rural Areas Zoning District as a by right use, and that's just kind of lumped in under the General Agricultural Use listed in the permitted uses list. And those in RA are not set subjected to any additional regulations. The Proposed and the proposed ordinance amendment would allow backyard chickens and coops in R4 to live in a minimum of 8 per century area. These actual nano loft hikes over 1.5 street floor and be Nhongavok ganzau R4. are wig tra일 cam walk through Rapid City prior toioool,說 actually the teacher reads. R5 and RP and they would be subject to the following requirements. Roosters and other species of fowl would be prohibited. Chickens shall be permitted accessory to single family detached residences only. A maximum of six chickens, hens only, would be permitted with one single family residence. Chicken coops and pens must meet the setbacks for accessory structures for the RP zoning district and that's essentially just five feet from the side and the rear property lines and the front setback still applies which is typically 35 feet. Chickens would not be permitted to run at large. I would just note that Chapter 48 of the County Code already addresses this. They have a section stating that animals and fowls, running at large, shall not be permitted and that is enforced by the Sheriff's Department. Finally, chicken waste will be stored in an enclosed container and properly disposed of and chicken feed must be stored in an enclosed vermin-proof container. The ordinance amendment would also define chicken coop and that definition would be a fully enclosed and covered structure, permanent or transportable, that provides a safe and safe environment for the chicken to live in. The ordinance would also define a fully enclosed and covered structure, permanent or transportable, that provides a safe and safe environment for the chicken to live in. The ordinance would also define a fully enclosed and covered structure, permanent or transportable, that provides a living area for chickens with adequate protection from the elements and predators. Chicken coops may include an outdoor running space known as a pen. So some staff notes on this. We would like to just clarify that HOA regulations would still apply if this ordinance amendment were to go through and we have done some code comparison research on other jurisdictions in Virginia to see what they allow and how it's been covered. And I'm just going to talk area one of the 2 myths and tactics More details on that research were in the agenda packet Sí acaben Now that heavy lifting of the necessity to look at saga all made a difference. low participation moving forward technically taking some defined that do require a permit to work with Say it comes with some items it does require prohibited several units and all these issues users can also Get a more sophisticated idea of what a dynamic program would look like. chickens. Some of them have the sliding scale of maximum number based on lot size, which I believe has been discussed in previous iterations, and some just have a straight minimum of two acres. Many of the jurisdictions prohibit free ranging or free roaming, and almost all of them prohibit roosters and other species of fowl as well. So the board has discussed and ultimately denied chicken ordinance amendments in 2018, 2020, and 2022. The board discussed this item on September 25th, 2024, and directed staff to draft an ordinance for review and further consideration. So tonight this draft is presented as an information and discussion item, but staff is seeking a decision by the board to direct this ordinance amendment to the board. So the board has discussed and ultimately denied chicken ordinance amendments to the development review and regulations committee, the DRRC, for discussion, and then subsequently authorized the planning commission and board of supervisors to hold public hearings on this amendment. That concludes the presentation, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much. Any questions? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Lear. And I'm going off of memory because I read this about a week ago or so, but in the comparison of some of the other jurisdictions, I'm going to say that the board has discussed and ultimately denied chicken ordinance amendments in 2018, 2019, and this is a very important issue. I'm going to say that the board has discussed and ultimately denied chicken ordinance amendments in 2018, 2019, and this is a very important issue. Were there some that allowed more than six hens, depending on a size? So I guess I'm asking what went into the decision to cap that at six? Or is that what we've done? Have we capped it at six, regardless of size of the lot type thing? Yeah, so some of the other jurisdictions do allow more than six, depending on the lot size. For example, Warren County would allow six for less than half an acre, 12 for a half acre, and so on. Okay. Okay. Okay. acres and 24 for more than two acres but no more than 24 so our in terms of how we got to the number six i think that's been a pretty common one that's been considered in the past and instead of getting kind of bogged down in the lot size and sliding scale we just figured we would start with six and of course the board can increase or decrease that or add any kind of sliding scale based upon the lot size thank you any other questions supervisor done so just for the record for clarification can you please define for us RP r4 r5 and what are the differences three so I make the comment is in the in the presentation there's no mention at all on size a lot so I think would be helpful if we understand exactly what we're talking about that yeah I apologize in the memo it's it's lays it out so RP is the residential performance district r4 is the residential planned community and right now Snowdin Bridge is the only r4 community that exists r5 is the residential recreational community and that consists of Lake Holiday Lake Frederick Shawnee land and wild acres those are all zoned r5 so in those rp r4 and r5 for example in rp there are some houses that are on a quarter of an acre so single family dash on r4 and r5 you have some areas that I believe are three four almost approaching five acres is that correct yeah that is correct the lot size is very widely I've seen some rp lots more than five acres it just depends rp yeah okay thank you any other questions hearing none thank you very much thank you any final comment coming throughout right now any comment on the naming away we have roll call for the minns done that's good yep is everyone okay so welcome we've got it is itbs in the building if you want to look into that you know one by one could be Turn Name and Hmmm I Shield the sign up Indicator andholes in the hero and Score commenting with the R investigators from America Public why don't we just bypass to Mr Jones please if you would on board the board would not después de ta. Sieb Zanb shop stones to find any information to support populations and to move this further right that's right sir and to authorize the Planning commission to hold a public hearing so you know a motion to direct the item to the DRC and authorize a public hearing okay so that's the process thank you any discussion supervisor tool Mr Chairman I had discussion. Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate you. Let me bring this up, the request to bring this back along with Supervisor Lockridge. Sean, I've had a lot of constituents in Bat Creek. I know that you have with Gainsborough as well who've asked this to be brought back up. And I think that during looking at what we're seeing now with the economy and everything, I think it's appropriate for us to move this forward to DRC and let it ride its course to see if it will come through this time. I think that staff's done an excellent job with the way it's written. And so that's my two cents on this. If you want a motion, I'll make the motion. Okay. We'll have to discuss any motion. You're welcome to. I'd like to make the motion to send this to the RRC for review and then for a public hearing. Is that what you want? We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion to second. Now, any further discussion? Discussion of the motion in particular? You don't have to. Anyone have comments? I'm sorry. Just on item E, where we talk about the additional regulations, if this is moving forward, I would like some clarification on the, if it does pass, the chicken waste disposal. It says, and properly disposed of. And I'm not saying that it's a. I'm not saying that it's a. I'm just saying that, you know, it's, it's a different, it's a different ordinance. It's not like, there needs to be some guidelines for that. So I think that's really important. And I also think it's important to note, and we asked for RP, R4, and R5, Mrs. Peloquin did a great job telling us that the HOA, whatever the HOA says would take precedence over this ordinance. But it is also important to know that in the RA, this is allowed currently without any ordinances and the SOA is not to be taken into account. So I would like to have a motion for approval. Okay. moving forward. So just those are my comments. Thank you. Supervisor Lackridge? No, I had similar comments that the HOA would still be ultimately where the power lies. So we wouldn't be giving rights to, for instance, Snowden Bridge. I don't know, but that they allow chickens, but this would not allow that. And the other thing is, I went in to ask the number six, and I know you had done the research with other surrounding counties, but I feel like six is reasonable. You can have a movable coop, but does that just make it easier so when a neighbor complains that it's not, I mean, most people don't have any idea of what a lot size is. So does it just consistency? You guys don't want it to be a bigger lot would allow more chickens, or am I correct in stating that? Yeah, I mean, we picked a number that we were certain our zoning administrator could count to. No, I'm just kidding. But honestly, six was the most common figure that we found in our code comparison research. In my experience in having them, they're flock animals. There's a reason Tractor Supply sells them in batches of four. Having them alone is not ideal for an environment for them to live in. And that seemed to be probably like the bottom threshold for everybody, and everybody went up from there as far as other counties. So we're not going to be able to get that number down. We're going to have to figure out how to get it down. So that's how we arrived at that conclusion. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chairman, I also want to point out, I'm looking at Heather because every year at the fair, all you got to do is go to the fair and you watch those kids showing their chickens. And so it's a great opportunity for FFA and for 4-Hers and kids that couldn't have that opportunity, they would be able to have that opportunity. Thank you. Any other comments? We've been through this three times before. I represent Redbud. Redbud is a RP area. There are small homes there. I've had nobody asking me to have chickens. I've had a lot of people say I don't want them for fear of rodents, for fear I don't want to have six chickens on one side, six chickens on another, on a quarter acre lot. So the way this is defined, I think you've done a great job, but I'm not in support of the item going forward. Thank you. Any other comments? I'm in favor. I was the last time this came up. I grew up, we raised 20 chickens. I don't know if you're allowed. So in some of these areas, would you be allowed to have compost or not? Does it tend to overlap? Yeah. I mean, right now there's nothing against that in the ordinance, but I think that's kind of what we might need to dig into as it relates to Mrs. McCann-Slaughter's comments regarding disposal of the chicken waste. So we'll work on that as we continue through the process. Right. Many people who have chickens. Many people. They take up composting as well. Chicken litter right now. Yes, sir. Yeah. And my experience growing up, we had 20 in a suburban area and quarter acre lots. And not only did we never get any complaints, people love the eggs so much, they started building chicken coops. So I really think there are some people who have moved to this county from big cities and they don't understand it. This is a rural county. I think it very much fits in. We would still be probably one of the more restrictive counties. Six. I'd love to see bigger numbers, especially on bigger property, but this is a great start. And then we'll get feedback from members of the community to see if there are any problems. We could always grow it in the future, but I'm fine with it where you're starting out. Just the compost thing and the disposal. I agree with the vice chair on that comment. So those are my comments. I guess we need a vote or is the consensus good enough? We might as well do it by vote. I think that's a good thing. To pass this on for further work, supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. Supervisor Dunn, you broke. We were unanimous for the first time that I can recall in every vote, but. I'm representing the people in Redbud to the best of my ability. Alright. So it was almost a perfect meeting in that respect so far. Alright. So that was our last item on the agenda. Vote board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. Planning Commission met last Wednesday, February 19th, took up several public hearings rezoning 1124 of route seven self storage in the Redbud Magisterial District. That was approved. That will come to the board of supervisors on March the 12th. Also rezoning 0125 of NEF property commercial in the. Okay. In the. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. The OPEC and Magisterial District that was approved that will also come to the board, Supervisors March the 12th. There was an ordinance amendment to the Frederick County code. To a man. Make additions and revisions to define and regulate data centers, including additional regulations, height and nuisances and define and regulate power generating facilities that was also approved will also come to the Board of Supervisors on March, the 12th. There's a couple other items that were delayed or postponed, rezoning 0924 Middletown LLC. And correct me, Mr. Pearson, was that at the request of the developer? Yes, sir. That's a postponement. So they can work further on their application. And also waiver 0125 of Lake Frederick in the Opecan Magisterial District, they were asked for a postponement on that. Thank you. And then also Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission met last Thursday, the 20th. We got an update from Jimmy Carr, All Points Broadband, and Brandon Davis on the fiber deployment initiative briefing. That's continuing to go slow. It's pushed off to the right again. I think the end date now is like June 30th of 2026. So we're looking at a year and a half roughly out. They just... They just described in fairly much detail the logistical problems that they had with the poles and how they found a lot of the poles were not sufficient for them to put the hardware on and how they had to dig, put some underground and that type of thing. So there is work going on in the southern part of the NSVRC region, Augusta County and Rockingham. And it seems like we're probably... I don't want to make a prediction. But we might be one of the last ones on the list for them to get to us. But that's the update. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chair, the Hanley Library met last Tuesday. And I brought it up before, but a request was made to the Friends of Hanley Regional Library System allowing for the purchase of a pop-up mobile library. They placed the order. It should be completed mid-2026. And the library will be able to go to different locations. They actually had one years ago that they used before Bowman Library was built. They actually would set up a mobile library there. So this is a great thing. Frederick County is the biggest user of the library system. And an annual audit was completed with no deficiencies found at all. So they're in good financial state. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Seeing none, I'll comment on the Frederick Water. Had a recent meeting, and there's a lot of developments there. For people who don't know, they have withdrawn the extra fee that had been levied on people in Lake Frederick. But now there's a number of new items. One is that... Grants have... A number of grants have been large... A lot... A large number of grants have been frozen by the federal government currently, by the new administration. There is one grant that they had in place that they were hoping to win in March that would help them defray the costs of the new inter-county service area pipeline. So they're going to have to adjust to that if that grant is delayed or denied. There was a... There was a... There was a... There was a telephone tower that came to this board a year or two ago that was going to be put up in a congested area with a lot of homes. We had a lot of people come speak and were against it. They worked with us on this board in trying to find another location. This is in Shawnee District. And we managed to find a place that is on Frederick Water land. The lease for that was signed two weeks ago. So we'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We'll be seeing a CUP move through the process. We've been in a groundwater drought, as people with wells know. Finally, with all the rain and snow, there's a little bit of recharge being recorded. Let's hope that continues. We're certainly not out of a drought situation yet with regard to groundwater. A flyer has been put together by Frederick Water that describes the 30-year history of them drawing from wells. I know there are people concerned that the county drawing water industrially from underground could do damage to the aquifers or to people's wells. And so they've got that flyer that's available on their website for people who want to read about that. And the last thing I'll highlight is the Saloinski plant. So they have invested in a new plant to produce water out of a quarry. But that plant has not been able to be opened. They have now sent out an RFP and selected a contractor to help them come up with a design to solve their problems there. They'll be spending out of their funds $1.6 million for the evaluation phase. They think that a final solution that is engineering and equipment they'll have to undertake may add another $36 to $38 million. And the fund is set to provide the line of work to the total project already invested in the Saloinski plant. So although that's not county taxpayer money, that is Frederick Water, our utility money. And if they have to spend a lot to provide water, one would expect that the rates are going to go up down the road due to these problems. So I thought it was important to address the board and point that out. And then one other item I'd like to say. Well, I'll save that for supervisor comments because it's not technical. likely a liaison report. So then we can close that and move to final citizen comments, item 15. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone? Scarlett Meadows. Thank you. You have three minutes. Please start with your name and magisterial district. My name is Scarlett Meadows and I live in Clearbrook, like the area, so I'm not really sure what district that is. But I wanted to speak to you today because as a parent, I'm really worried about the state of our schools right now. There are many people who have already gone to the school board and the school board just pushes us aside and they don't listen to us. And as a former student of James Wood High School, I have also experienced this. Nothing is ever done until it's too late. So I just wanted to ask what is our plan of action moving forward? I would suggest that we Ms. Phillips, do you have a comment? I would say that we bring a social worker within the schools to allow the children to actually have somebody who cares, who will actually listen to them when they speak out. Because as a student and as I have been through a lot in the James Wood High School district, I mean, I've been to multiple schools within the Frederick County system and every single time I spoke out, nothing was done. Nothing was ever done. I'll just give one example. I was sexually assaulted in high school and I brought it forward and it was completely disregarded. And not only was it completely disregarded, but the child who had my peer who had sexually assaulted me got rewarded and he was promoted in FFA. He became, I'm not sure what position, but he was promoted in FFA. And nothing was done about it because his mother worked with the school board. And so I think that's a good example of what we can do. I think that's a good example of what we can do. So it saddens me to hear about all the things that are going on, faith, things that students that were victims of Mr. Parada and Mr. Brian Patrick Sullivan, because when I was a student, we had come forward about Brian Patrick Sullivan. We had. There were pictures of Mr. Sullivan erect in class going around the school and nothing was done about it. We brought it to the principal. Nothing was done about it. We brought it to the principal. Nothing was done about it until just now. So I want to know as a mother of potential future students, what can we do to actually help these kids moving forward? Thank you. Thank you. We're not allowed to dialogue at this point, but we'll be making some supervisor comments probably about that in just a moment. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on a matter of county interest? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. There's the board name and Magisterial District. James Mulder, Back Creek District. As we've been watching on the news the last month or so, what Dodge has done and our federal government, let's not fool ourselves to think that there's not waste in our state government and our federal government. The county, every year, every department in the county comes back at budget time, and they want raises. They want more money. Have you ever had a department or a local government come forward and say, here's my or the school board or anybody ever come back the next year and say, you know, we didn't use it all last year. I know we're not going to lose it, but we don't need as much next year. No, we don't. That's bureaucracy. Our schools can't protect our children from pedophiles, drunks. Our schools can't protect their kid from having her feeding tube yanked out that eventually she succumbed from. But yet, we continue to give them the money year after year without knowing where the money's going. Every school board meeting I normally go to, they're always recognizing people being promoted to not teacher jobs, to administrative jobs. I believe our school system has too many administrative and too big of a bureaucracy, and they're not concentrating on the kids. They're not protecting the kids. They're not educating the kids. You guys have the power of the purse coming up. When they bring their budget back, I think last meeting I saw where they were wanting $10 million more next year. Maybe my numbers are off. I thought that they were going to try and help pay for some of the new schools also to work within their budget. That doesn't look that way. All this comes back on the taxpayer dollar, and we can't even have safe, safe kids at school. Something needs to be done and looked at. And every department, every year, every department should need more money. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Vaughn Whitaker, the Gainesboro District. First of all, I'd like to thank all the board members for having faith in me to serve on the Planning Commission representing the Gainesboro District. Second, I'd like to make a comment about the school spending. If you don't have access to the accounting books in order to verify the comings and goings of the money, you're not in control. We need to see what happens to the money actually once they get their hands on it. Where the checks have gone, we need a complete audit of this. And another thing, I'd like to thank our Gainesboro representative, Heather Lockridge, for nominating me and to let you know that the people of Gainesboro are so proud of what you do and want you to keep up your hard work. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Seeing no one, I will close Citizen Comments. Board of Supervisors, your attention please. supervisor comments? Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So there's two things. First of all, during this last week I attended two awards dinners for both Greensboro and Gainesboro and during the Gainesboro awards dinner literally the ship that was there had to go out for two emergency calls. So I just want to say thank you to them. They do a great job. We don't appreciate what they do until we make that 911 call. So for both of those organizations, thank you. Another one of the question to you Mr. Chairman. If you remember a year ago we had a discussion on salaries in the closed session room and the tape wasn't working so you were kind enough to record that. If I could have a copy of that or give it to the administrator, I'd appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Any other board comments? None to my right. Anyone to my left? Supervisor Lockridge. Yes, I just want to say to Scarlett, thank you for having the courage to stand up. I know that students hopefully will fall into a domino effect and be able to have the courage that you just showed us tonight. I agree that we need to hold them accountable, hold our school system accountable. There's wonderful teachers out there and there's also ones that people have reported and things are not happening and that's an issue. It's something that I'm highly concerned about and again I appreciate your courage. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! courage to speak up. In regards to the school budget, I just want to put out there that I have reached out to the vice chair. She had asked for me to have a meeting in regards to things that could be cut, and at that point I hadn't seen the full line item budget. So I did respond to her, and my biggest concerns, and I know you guys have heard me say this, but my children go to Frederick County Middle. Their principal was taken away in October. Transparency, there isn't any. I don't know what happened to him. However, he is working at, his position has been changed, and that's great. That's a personnel issue. However, Frederick County is still paying. So if he didn't have an issue, then he should still be my principal at Frederick County Middle. But I just want Frederick County taxpayers to know that we are paying his salary still until his contract is completed. So I just want to let you know that we are paying his salary still, and that's great. But I just want to let you know that we are paying his salary still, and that's great. But I just want to let you know that we are paying his salary still, but we also are paying the salary of the new principal. So I have asked the vice chair, and she said, oh, well, that comes from unfilled positions. But that's something that our board, how many of those, how often is that happening? Where we are double paying, essentially. I don't know what happened to our principal. I don't know if he's right or wrong or indifferent. But my principal is still paying his salary. So I just want to let you know that we are paying his salary. We're also paying another principal. So it's time that we keep Dr. Hummer, the superintendent, accountable. I've asked these questions, and it's always a personnel issue. But I'm very disappointed in the news that has come out just recently. And when we have students speaking up, I know teachers are doing their job, and I just hope they continue to do a good job. There are great teachers out there. I know there are great teachers out there. I know there are great, great, great, great teachers. But hopefully our superintendent can follow suit and just be transparent. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments? I've got two to make. One is on the schools. Please come forward if you have any concerns or suggestions on things that need to be fixed. This board is listening. I want to hear it. So this board doesn't have the authority to tell the school what to do. I'm going to ask Dr. Hummer to come forward. I'm going to ask Dr. Hummer to come forward. I want to ask Dr. Hummer to come forward. I'm going to ask Dr. It would be the right Elliotполice is to finish this and move the presentation to the next session of the policies they set. The curriculum they choose, basically to alright. Podcast conclusion, Alec & butter Benjamin, AMC panelists, silence, an objective action to make recommendations in our ideas for the next session of the discussion. 나는i Donaldson, a member of the disciplinary commission, and all other faculty. project management students in our decide how much money they get from year to year. Now once we give them their budget we can't tell them how to spend their money so they could fund something that one or more of us don't want funded instead of something we did think the dollars would go to. It's a very tough job for this board to make a decision for example to cut when we can't direct exactly what we want fixed but nonetheless I would encourage this board to really think about it. There's been so much in the news and so many problems. I encourage all of us to engage with people who come to us and make the tough decision if it's needed to require fixes. I have asked the schools to to revalidate how many of the students in our school system really live in the county. They do not validate very often. We could potentially have a hundred or more each hundred students is about a million dollars of your money going to the schools for people who could benefit from that. And so I want to encourage the board to really think about it. And I'm happy to have a second session with the board. We're going to use this one in a couple of minutes. Next slide please. could be living somewhere else. That's just one example of the things I've been asking the schools to do that I see no sign of action on. That's the kind of thing that our board can and should ask because it's your taxpayer dollars. My second item is on tax rates. I'm surprised nobody beat me to this. We had a work session and not all of you would have followed that. So every year in the spring, we have to advertise the tax rates that we're considering. Nothing is final yet, but we did decide to advertise a certain set of tax rates. The tax rate that we set, we did not set it. The tax rate that you will see in the newspaper next week for real property, your home tax, does not fully offset the 20% average increase in your home values that assessments generated this year. So what you'll see in the paper would mean a higher tax bill for you on your homes. What we have done is set a rate that is lower than last year's rate, the 51 cents. By law, we can go even lower during the spring as we continue to work on the budget. Once it's advertised, we cannot go up. So this board has committed to lower your real property tax rate. But if we cannot find enough savings elsewhere, we may not ultimately be able to lower it enough to completely offset the fact that we're working on it. the fact that your homes, it's a beautiful county and your homes all became much more valuable. So we're doing what we can. Look for those ads in the paper next week and please keep in mind none of these rates are final. They are our working cap. We cannot go up but we can go down from what we're advertising and I know this board wanted that to be made very clear and so I'm trying to get that word out there. Thank you all for attending today. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We are adjourned. Thank you.
