Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-09-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=103
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Mr. Emerald. Mr. Emerald, please face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right, that will bring us to adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda with the removal of item number 10 on the Finance Committee agenda. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to amend the motion to recommend that it be sent back to committee for further investigation. Thank you, sir. Second. Second. All right, any discussion? All right, we're voting now on the amended motion that it be sent back through Finance, removed from tonight's agenda. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. No. We'll go back to our original motion to adopt as amended. So moved. And a second. And any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as amended. Thank you very much. Citizen comments on agenda items. Did anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips. Yes, sir. Evan Wyatt. Mr. Wyatt, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I'm Evan Wyatt with Greenway Engineering. I'm here tonight to address the board on CPPA 01-21, which is identified as item 6F on your consent agenda for denial. As you know, the CPPA was discussed during the joint work session last week, and a few days before the joint work session, Greenway had received an email from the planning department. Finally, we received a particular, very short mail quick came in from Kevin Frederick, advising that the applicant would not be offered an opportunity to present the application during the work session. However, neither the property owners or Greenway had received any notice from the County that the CPPA would be on tonight's agenda, and we discovered this by chance by reviewing the agenda online. The application body who gave my request for this meeting, was Dean Dabb. kindly approved. The application motion should be significantlyлюдed as outlined in the report. It is of the Historic Rights Reg習 Rule and apart from the grant letter that has been offered to the Board on the Providing Appropriations of Work, we do not determine that the application has。 We don't choose an application to be the cases of informed镜or to be correct, themas. Artemic . Item 6F includes a brief memo specific to the CPPA or the CPPC meeting and the joint work session. However, the memo doesn't note the following. At the CPPC meeting, there's four members of the planning commission that were at that meeting. Two members felt the application was worthy for consideration of further study, and two were not in favor of further study. Additionally, the memo states that there were concerns of impacts on public facilities. However, the memo makes no mention of the Frederick Water comment stating that they could support further study of the CPPA, and the reason for this is those properties provide an opportunity to implement a key element of Frederick Water's 2017 sewer master plan for the county. The county process for a CPPA application includes a $3,000 application fee, and it requires properties. The property owners to spend money to hire consultants to prepare information required for the submittal of the application. To date, the property owners have not been provided an opportunity to formally present their application to the full planning commission or the full board of supervisors to provide further context on how these impacts could be addressed and to answer questions from both bodies. Therefore, we would respectfully request that item 6F be removed from your consent agenda this evening, and that the property owners receive an opportunity to present their application to both bodies before a final decision is made regarding this matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Tim Bonds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and the board. Hello, Judy. I just want to step up here and say real quick, I live in a Clearbrook area, Stonewall. We have no internet. I would love to have internet at this time. I have a hotspot. All right. And I get my internet through a cell tower until it gets overloaded. And then once it gets overloaded, my conference calls, everything just gets dropped. I approached Comcast a couple years ago. I'm 22 houses away from getting a line ran to my house. It would cost me $44,000 to get a line run to my house. Which is really, really a lot of money. But if you could get internet run out there to the Jolene Street in Stonewall District, Clearbrook, I would really appreciate it. Everybody back there would appreciate it. And it's been really difficult since the kids have had to stay home over the last year and a half doing school. Everybody was just working off at cell phone towers. And it was just, you know, hit and miss. But I want to say thank you, everybody, for your time and listening. And thank you. Thank you for your comments, sir. Theo Theologis. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Theo Theologis, and I live in the Stonewall District. I would like to briefly comment on the regional broadband effort. In the Stonewall District, there are hundreds of residents that do not have internet access. I had the opportunity to speak with many of them recently. Many of these residents don't even have cell phone reception, which makes broadband even more important. These residents feel that the county has neglected them. Broadband is a utility, not a luxury. Broadband is necessary, not optional. We have a unique opportunity to finally provide broadband service to the county's unserved rural population. I strongly encourage you. We have a unique opportunity to pursue this opportunity aggressively, to commit to allocate the matching funds required so that the county is considered for this grant. Thank you for the opportunity to comment. Thank you, sir. That is all. Okay. All right. That will bring us to the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda. As presented. For the motion, is there a second? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would like to amend that motion to remove 6F from the consent agenda to allow for presentation by the folks at Russell Smith Properties. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, aye. Opposed, no. We'll move 6F from the consent agenda to, let's say, 8D. So now we'll go back to the amended motion, which was to adopt the agenda as amended. We had a motion to end. Second. Second. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I think we need a roll call on that one. So my apologies. So Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegma. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. All right. All right. Any other comments? Are there any? Hearing none, we'll move on. County officials, Conservation Easement Authority, three-year terms of Elaine Kane, Lowell Henderson, and Charles Triplett, expiring August 24th, 21. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of Elaine Kane, Lowell Henderson, and Charles Triplett for the terms on the Conservation Easement Authority. Second. Motion and second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Those folks will be appointed. Winchester-Frederick County Tourism Board. Two applications endorsed by the board. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion for the approval to the Tourism, Winchester-Frederick County Tourism Board of Ms. Ashley Sontag and Dr. Joey Gorizak. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. They'll be appointed. Northern Channel Valley Regional Commission three-year terms. Members J. Tibbs, Eric Lawrence with Wyatt Pearson as alternate. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Yes. I'll make a motion that all three gentlemen, Mr. Tibbs, Mr. Lawrence, and Mr. Pearson be appointed. Sir, I've heard the motion. is there a second? And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor aye. Aye. Opposed no. Those three folks will be appointed. We appreciate their service there. 8B's a regional broadband initiative in consideration of phase 2 presentation. Welcome sir. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, thank you for the opportunity to return before you tonight. My name is Jimmy Carter. I'm the board's executive director for the CORE. I'm the chief executive officer of all points broadband. Thank you for the opportunity to be here tonight. As you know about a month and a half ago the county elected to participate in the first phase of a very exciting and ambitious agenda to finally bridge the digital divide in the county. And so today I'm here to give you an update on the status of that initiative. I'm going to provide an overview of our company, the approach we take, and the regional approach we're taking here, and then discuss in a little bit more detail our strategy that we have put together with the other counties who are participating in this initiative and the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission who will be submitting the regional application on behalf of the project. First just an overview of all points broadband. So we are a Virginia-based rural focused regional project. We are a state-wide broadband provider. What do I mean by that? Most internet service providers start in the pocket of density and go out and they look to, we call it cherry pick, find little additional incremental pockets of density. They're focused on the doughnut hole. Our business is about getting service to the doughnut and not just any service. We believe what is happening today in broadband is the same thing that happened eighty to one hundred years ago in rural electrification. It's not an exaggeration. This is a utility you have to have. Our approach to solving this problem is to do it once, to do it right, and to make sure everyone is included. And that is the approach we take here and I think you'll see. In each of the last four years our company was named to Inc. Magazine's list of America's 5,000 fastest growing companies. Year to date in 2021 we have received more than 51 million dollars in state and federal grants and electric utility co-investment for projects in our partner communities. Every single one of those projects was a universal fiber to the home project that would result, will result in fiber to the home broadband to every single person in the participating county who did not have it before we got started. Again do it once, do it right and make sure everyone's included. In the last, I'm going to talk a lot tonight about the A.D.I. or V.A.D.I. depends on where you're from if you think the A is long or short. But this is the state's primary grant making program to support broadband deployment. Usually it's about a 50 million dollar program. That's a very large program. This year not only is there the 50 million dollars in the second year of state general funds in the second year of the biennium, the General Assembly and the governor agreed by overwhelming majorities to take 700 million dollars of the federal grant making program to support broadband deployment. And they have spent the last couple months telling anyone who will listen and jurisdictions like Frederick County to think big because this is the once in a generation opportunity to do it right. In the last cycle for this program, so we're applying now in the 2022 cycle, last year all points used the very same approach that we're proposing to use here. We partnered with Dominion Energy Virginia and the electric cooperative serving another region of Virginia, the Northern Neck Electric Cooperative. We started with four counties there are now five participating counties and we put together a plan to deliver universal fiber to the home broadband to those five jurisdictions. That application is the single most successful application in the history of the VEDI program because it was thinking big and doing it once and doing it right and including everyone. The program that we use it's called the utility leverage statute with Dominion. Last year it was a pilot program, but we think in large part because of this project that we did with Dominion, the General Assembly voted in January by overwhelming and overwhelmingly bipartisan majorities to take what was a three-year pilot program and to make it a permanent program. And so the proposal that we have put together here is based on the successful formula we used on the Northern Neck last year, same formula. Regional Commission is the coordinating the project on behalf of many localities. One of the things that we learned in the last couple of years that's that we're going to be implementing the localities every single electric utility who serves any customer within the region is participating in the project and it's fiber them another very important point about all points our lead equity sponsor is a firm called searchlight capital partners searchlight capital has invested one and a quarter billion with a B dollars in fiber to the home infrastructure in the United States in the last 24 months that makes them the number one investor in the country in US fiber infrastructure and through all points and their other portfolio companies today searchlight capital is the number four builder of fiber to the home passings if you think about it we're building in rural areas so you have to do a lot more building to pass quite as many homes so as you know Frederick elected to participate in the first phase of this initiative to develop and execute a strategy to achieve you Fürth responsibility should be implemented and Seoul senior community for 30 years now they we're doing this at an early UN nom활 standard number one sponsor hopefully we're doing a great job especially through searchlight capital companies that are maybe aiming at mortgaging companies that are trying to run eh is here from the RAC. He's the head of their utility fiber and broadband programs. Together with these partners, we have developed a high-level design for a universal fiber-to-the-home network that will serve the 7,200 locations in Frederick County that we have identified through field verification as being unserved by broadband and eligible for this program. I said it a couple of times, and you'll probably get tired of me saying it. We have submitted the most successful application in the history of this program. Every single thing we have done to design this regional initiative to put together these partners in this plan is designed, quite frankly, to run up the score. We understand these programs. We've designed this project from the beginning to do that, and I'll touch on this a number of times, but we have designed this program to win VATI and also to be an eligible use of your ARPA funds. So if you're interested in that, please go ahead and visit our website, and we'll see you there. Thank you. So if you look at the Treasury guidance on that program, there are two main components. One is that you are partnering with electric cooperatives. Both of yours are sitting behind me. And the other is that you are developing future-proof infrastructure. What does that mean? The Treasury guidance says it's got to be 100 megabits per second down and 100 megabits per second up. That's what it has to be capable of. We're going to blow that out of the water, and I'll get to that in a second. I'm here today to ask your approval. So I'll get to that in a second. I'm here today to ask your approval. So if you look at the Treasury guidance, you'll see that the Treasury guidance says that you're going to blow that out of the water, and you're going to blow that out of the water, and you're going to blow that out of the water, and you're going to blow that out of the water, and you're going to blow that out of the water, that we are putting together that will be submitted by the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission next week. And as part of that, you would be endorsing the local match component for this county that we are recommending. What we are doing is different, and that's a really important point. So before you look over at this fancy video I'm about to show, and I've said that in this room before, but it bears repeating. Everybody who is in telecom works with electric utilities. They own a lot of poles, and if you want to get on them, you have to sign an agreement. Okay, so everybody works with electric utilities. What we are doing is very different. So in Virginia a couple of years ago, and this is the program I mentioned that used to be a pilot and is now permanent, the legislature recognized, hey, electric utilities have lots of devices, lots of devices on their electric grid, lots of stuff that is smart and communicates, like switches and reclosers. And in the process of hardening and modernizing their grids, and in making their grids more efficient, electric utilities are going through the process of deploying fiber from the operation center or the central nervous system of their electric utility and getting it out to touch all of those other devices. Because they can manage their grid more efficiently if they're communicating literally at the speed of light with those devices, right? So tree falls on the line. If you can get to the recloser over here before the problem makes it worse, instead of having 100 customers who are out of power for 24 hours, you have 10 who are out of power for an hour or two. And so our approach, our strategy, and this is something that has made Virginia a national leader, is to recognize the fact that these people behind me are going to be investing in fiber to upgrade their grids anyway. So we work with them, and we say, hey, y'all are going to put 96 strands of fiber in that cable on those poles. How about we upsize that to 144? I'll help you pay for it because the cost of going from 96 to 144 is not linear. It's pretty, you're just adding a couple extra strands of fiber. It's not a big deal. But that way, there's all that fiber that I can use to get people the Internet. It's a fairly dramatic oversimplification, but that's all you need to understand. We are working together so that we can leverage investments each other would have already made, but to target them and do it more efficiently. The video I'm going to show you now is, though, this is the Dominion video, and it's a little specific to Dominion, but it's the best thing I've had, and I've been trying for a while to very succinctly explain to you again the point that I just made. So while this applies to Dominion, it's a very, very similar process to what we're doing with SVEC and REC. Welcome to the overview. of Dominion Energy's Rural Broadband Program. At Dominion Energy, we know that actions speak louder. Across every part of our company, we're transforming the way we do business to build a more sustainable future for Virginia and support the communities we serve. But the harsh reality is many Virginians live without easy access to broadband Internet. Dominion Energy can help. We're in a unique position to bridge the broadband gap in rural areas as we move forward with efforts to transform our communities. We're in a unique position to transform our electric grid and connect renewable energy resources. We know that home Internet access is vital for today's society. School coursework, remote education, access to health care, telemedicine, job searching, and working from home are just a few activities that are powered by access to broadband Internet. Dominion Energy proposes to provide middle-mile fiber optic cable infrastructure to bridge the gap to rural locations. Local Internet services are a key part of our work. We're working with local Internet service providers to connect customers interested in broadband Internet by building the last-mile infrastructure to serve these customers. Our partnerships are making it easier for local Internet service providers to reach rural communities unserved by broadband. While Dominion Energy has the ability to install fiber optic cable to better serve our electric utility customers, we need to form additional partnerships with property owners to be able to use our infrastructure to help serve those without sufficient access to broadband Internet. If a supplier is unable to provide broadband Internet, we need to provide a new infrastructure for them. We need to provide a new infrastructure for them. We need to provide a new infrastructure for them. If a supplemental communication agreement is necessary for your property, a Dominion Energy representative will contact you. Dominion Energy has partnered with All Points Broadband and is planning to build over 200 miles of middle-mile fiber optic cable in the northern neck. All Points Broadband plans to extend the last mile further into each county to ensure universal access for all unserved residents. We're working together to overcome the challenges that are too great for one entity to tackle alone. This project crosses... It's we can这样. and it's a reality that affects the health of our community, but the food safety conversation from here is would remainations of vision for the next 7 years when the world's finished building. So in every city in the United States, puerta de claves has been facing a need is what we call a social-erryacy for want of a better year. Starting this year, bees have started out in things like an emergency food shortage, likesedreams, lef原 damage, faver of the human job, andошac fi**or the 2008 flood Arenas will move towards closer collaboration with we are building a home new nonprofits, which includes this year's unhited homestay project. Manycono were going to core Ten blas планet forecourt, that's pre-agent The city owners signing the Supplemental Communications Agreement are helping to move this project forward for the entire community. We thank you for your support. Looking forward, Dominion Energy is actively working to create additional partnerships with Internet service providers to reach localities without access to broadband Internet within our electric service territory. Thank you for taking the time to learn about this important project. To learn more about this initiative and how it affects your area, please visit our website at dominionenergy.com slash rural broadband. So let me turn more specifically to the components of this regional project that would be in Frederick County. As you can see here, the project includes approximately 460 miles of new fiber distribution fiber infrastructure. This is like having the highway in place so that if somebody wants to connect a driveway to it, the highway is there. You have to have this in order to call to make sure that any location within a jurisdiction who wants to subscribe to service has the ability to pick up the phone and subscribe. The total cost of this project will be $40.7 million. Of that amount, all points will be responsible for $20.5 million, or 51% of the total project cost. We are recommending, and as part of the regional application, we would include... state funding request for $11.5 million, or 28%. I'm going to make a point here. A lot of people say, oh, well, Mr. Carr, you said there's all that state money going into the pot this year. Why don't we get greedy and ask the state for 50, 60, 70%? Because the state, this is a very competitive program. The number one most important scoring component is the state share of the cost. So we have designed the regional project. We have designed the regional project to leverage enough state money to make it work, but not so much that it's not a competitive project. And that has been the approach. We have designed this project to win, not to hope. This is about getting it done this time. If the county elected to proceed as part of the regional project, the county's share would be $8.6 million, or 21% of the project cost. And this would be not only eligible, but encouraged use, and this would be the cost of your ARPA funding. In terms of outcomes, most important, broadband will be available, not just any broadband. Fiber to the home will be available to all of the remaining unserved locations in the county. What type of network are we talking about? You probably hear gigabit a lot. I want gigabit internet. Gigabit is a billion megabits. I won't get into it, but gigabit means 1,000 up. It's a unit of measurement. 1,000 going upstream, so the video I'm sending over FaceTime has got 1,000. The pipe is 1,000 large. And then I can pull it down. That's what those two numbers are, how fast you're going up, how fast you're going down. So gigabit service means 1,000 up, 1,000 down. Like I said, we want to do this right. We want to do it once, and we want to include everybody. So doing it right means not just building to have 1,000 megabits per second. The capacity. But this network is designed around what's known as XGS plan, X meaning 10. So 10,000 units of capacity up and down. Now when I show you the rate card in a second, you're not going to see a 10 gig plan on there. It's because consumers don't want that yet. You don't need it. But the point is we designed the network, and it has the capacity so in the future when there are uses for that type of service, somebody like me is not back in front of you, hat in hand, this is about doing it right and once and including everyone. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If you want to, the pricing model, if you are a consumer and you want to subscribe to fiber to the home internet, you're going to pay a one time installation fee of $199. That includes all of the customer premise equipment, or CPE, that's the box that's mounted on the outside of your house that the fiber comes into, and it's the two boxes on the inside of the home. One that's not called a modem but it's like that, and the other is a box that creates a really awesome Wi-Fi experience made by a company called Calix. Our typical pricing model is the CPE. pricing model at all points is that the standard installation fee includes a 500 foot service drop meaning if the cord from the side of your house to get back into the terminal is less than 500 feet and it's included and if it's longer than that we don't charge you some crazy cable company like yeah we'll do that for 25 000 or one of those type of things we're going to charge you a flat per foot charge uh per additional linear foot it's going to be our cost plus so in today's market it'd be about a buck 20 a dollar and 20 cents however i said that everything we had done about this project was about maximizing points in this year's vady application so what we're going to do as part of this project is say that for the first year after service is available at your home in frederick county it doesn't matter whether you have a 100 foot drop a 500 foot drop or a 2000 foot drop all you're going to pay to get connected to the network is 199 dollars and that is a way of making sure that when the grant scores tally up the points at the end of the day we have knocked it out of the park in that category in terms of the service that will be available to consumers so the what i have up here now is what we call the rate card this is like the plaque on the back of the hotel door that says the maximum that they will charge for this room per night is x okay and so the bottom three plans are gonna this is our intended rate card in the market those are going to move over time we're going to change over time and they're gonna be based on the market i think if you say i don't think and i'm very confident that if you stand these up against the non-promotional prices of any of your other wireline providers in the county and again not the price with the asterix for the first three months or any of that mumbo jumbo but the real price after promotion expires every single one of our service tiers is uh the same or greater level of speed for the same or reduced price um now the baseline tier so this is this the the basic tier if you want to get on this service is 50 up 50 down um when we talk to boards of supervisors the most important thing usually that the board cares about is say okay we're going to make a big investment in broadband and the future of our community we want to make sure that at the end of the day everybody who wants to get on can get on and there's going to be a high quality broadband at an affordable price and so if you notice next to the 50 by 50 it says 59 59.99 fixed what do i mean by that we are committing that for the life of this project we will maintain that speed package at that price it will only increase at the rate of inflation so we will literally tie it to the cpi and if in 10 years inflation has gone up one percent or maybe it could be more than that these days uh but it will in real economic terms the price will be the same um and there are a lot of speed rates on that rate card with a lot more zeros on them i know that so let's understand what a 50 up 50 down plan can do if you google if you go to netflix right now and ask netflix how many megabits per second does it take to stream a streaming video in hd they're going to tell you five okay so you got a pipe that's 50. so that means as long as your internal wi-fi is good enough which is usually the problem as long as your internal network inside your home is good enough 50 up 50 down means that 10 people can be watching a different netflix video in hd with no buffering or 10 school children can be participating in a real-time hd zoom classroom remember because it's you get 50 down and you get 50 up with no buffering so that means that you're going to have to watch a different netflix video so again there are a lot of plans on that rate card they have a lot more zeros after them but the basic plan the rate of which is going to be guaranteed in economic terms is a very robust plan at a very affordable rate right now through the federal emergency broadband benefit program if you are a low-income household and you meet certain of the requirements you get 50 off your bill every month so your real price for that plan would be 9.99 now at least in the most recent version of the federal infrastructure bill that ebb is going to be a little bit more expensive than the federal infrastructure bill that ebb is going to be made permanent instead of 50 a month it'll be a 30 per month discount so if you were a low-income household in frederick county and you wanted to get a rock solid fiber to the home internet service your effective cost would be 29.99 a month in terms of moving forward a couple of key points the local match commitment would of course be contingent on receipt of a vady award we got to win the grant and there would also be execution of a grant and then we would have to win the grant and then we would have to win the grant we also had to go through some of the other agreements that we've been working on to get through some of the other agreements that we've been working on to get through the national commission it's due next tuesday we like to say in the vady process that submitting the application is not the end it's really the beginning of the middle what do i mean by that the state has some pretty good checks and balances in place to see that once we submit a project and we put up a map and say exactly where we're going somebody who's already serving one of those areas can show up and say now wait a minute we already provide service on that street or somebody can say well we got some federal money and we haven't built anything yet but we're obligated to build in that area and we're going to enter into an agreement with Frederick County to guarantee that we will so we're going to and if that's the case then we will remove those passings from the project area and there's everybody gets concerned you hear the word challenge oh that's routine it's actually pretty smart program it's nothing to be concerned about it happens but the point is that we and Brandon his team at the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission will manage that process on your behalf the state has indicated that the timeline for VAD this year will be that the grant awards will be announced sometime in December we think that's pretty likely this year usually they always say December and the grants come out in January but I think this year is pretty good chance we see it in December once that happened it usually they make the announcement there's a press release and it takes a couple weeks and you get the paperwork and that starts a 90-day clock to get under contract as between the applicant who would be the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission the participating jurisdictions and all points broadband that is the point at which the legal liability for the local match actually accrues another very important point is that we have a lot of people who are not eaters with paso and what this Soundt Lutheran if they took the public agency grants in and the big part is it's 100,000 save chegou in July the learning savings in every district close to it now they're trying to get 30 million dollars on most of these people that are in their households and especially in the Santa Rosa County and walk a tremendous while the V постро I think in I looks passport face to your FM if there's a transactionрыв I come forms a contract growing is We wrote a plan last year to finally take a الم lab communication here at falou mapping 40 か does not even taxi if there's stationed in Malibu in our county Pierre out of the lot care Micah to help us mediate that relationship they're They review it and approve it. It goes to the state. They review it, approve it. And at that point, the state pays its percentage, and the jurisdiction pays its percentage. So we spend all the money up front. There's no payment until the payment is on a rolling basis as construction is completed. Our project in this county would be substantially complete within 24 months. The Vady Grant Award and the completion of the electric utility routes that we put together in partnership with the two electric cooperatives who are here tonight. Should you elect to proceed as part of this regional project, we think that the county is exceptionally well positioned to win. A couple of points on that. First, we have a very high-quality network design. It's based on real work, human beings going out into the field, taking a look at conditions, and figuring out what a buildable, constructible network is. We've taken a bill of materials. Well, we had crews literally driving streets. I checked. I think all the ones that were mentioned here tonight are on our list. You can go to fiber.allpointsbroadband.com and take a look at the areas that we've identified in the county. But we had crews drive out there and physically verify that these are unserved locations. Then All Points' internal and third-party design resources developed an actual design. We've taken that design for this network and a bill of materials. We have taken that bill of materials and we've taken it to our vendors, most importantly to our cable supplier who has reviewed it. They've given us accurate pricing. That pricing is reflected in our grant application. And most importantly, our cable manufacturer has guaranteed to allocate manufacturing capacity so that we have the fiber and the cable that we need on the timeframes we have in our grant. And you won't have to take my word for that. They are stating that. We have a lot of funding in writing in our grant application. So there's a lot of talk about, you know, supply chain, which is true. There are a lot of problems. There's a lot of difficulty in the global supply chain for these commodities right now. How do we get around that? Big projects, a lot of spend, dedicated capacity from our vendors. The other thing that we have that makes Frederick and this regional application very well positioned is we have strong partnerships in place. So if you look at the VATI scoring rules, the second thing that we have is that we have a lot of funding. We have a lot of funding. We have a lot of funding. We have a lot of funding. And it says the level of advocacy works out at the highest point — the highest point category. The second highest point category — it's 40 points out of 300 — is called Commonwealth Priorities. And if you read and see what that actually means it's asking, do you have a good adoption plan? Are you thinking about getting those drops to low-income households? Yeah, $199 for the first year. It doesn't matter how long your drop is. We have that. The next question they ask is, are you using every tool available and partnering with electric utilities? We have three of them. Three of them. And it looks at is this a security accessibility space or is this a support ωared target or indirectly affecting the justice verdering of our ports? Yes, Dr. Spitz. I'll ask you two questions. think big project that involves a lot of counties, a large region where there will be economies of scale and the ability to guarantee supply and materials. Yes, we have that. We just talked about that. The final thing that really positions Frederick and this regional application well is that is what's known as a whole of jurisdiction solution. The state has figured out the time to just let's do one more neighborhood and act like we're making progress has come and gone. And so it's 50 points out of 300 if your project gets your jurisdiction to universal coverage, which is really smart because you don't want to kind of subsidize the marginally more cost effective and then really create a super long-term problem for your difficult to serve locations. So if you elect to proceed as part of this regional application, not only do we have a whole of jurisdiction solution here in Frederick, but you're part of a seven counties. But to date for this zillion counties, we've that's in makes since the turn of 2020 regional total up with his not just holo jurisdictionамен dogs would reach in fire in the home. To date IC den back in front. Six of the seven counties so you are the seventh county who participated in the first phase of this initiative and now we're coming back to go back toltry to proceed. Five of those click have made decision one more will make their decision tomorrow night, but will go about cash from alter edu dot dwa zillion activities to include construction projects to improve every single county that has reached a decision has elected to participate at the recommended amount to participate in the regional project. So to your east, Clark County is contributing almost two times their ARPA money because they want to solve this problem. Rappahannock County, probably the most expensive place to deploy fiber I have ever seen, is contributing almost three times their ARPA money because of the importance of doing this, which is 5.9 million dollars. Augusta County is committing 8.4 million dollars. Rockingham County is committing 8.9 million dollars. Warren County has committed 6.9 million. So we have put together a very strong regional application that is asking for enough state money to get it done, but not so much that we're out of the running. The final thing I just want to remind you about, and I mentioned this I've mentioned our Northern Neck project before, and I've mentioned how what we're doing is different. It's new, but it's not brand new. So about a year and a half ago I was talking with first four and then five counties on Virginia's Northern Neck saying, all points broadband, your electric cooperative, and investor-owned utility have a plan to do something different and to get you universal fiber to the home. Those counties said, you know what, we're tired of doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. We want to make meaningful long-term change. So yeah, we're gonna do this. Here are two representatives each from those five counties, and on the far right Brandon Davis's counterpart for the Northern Neck Planning District Commission. So that's Jerry Davis. He is the executive director of the Northern Neck Planning District Commission. You see on the left the Dominion truck, on the right the Northern Neck Electric Cooperative truck, and right in the middle is the governor who had just given us a really large check. This is back in July. When we broke ground on that project. So this is a new approach to an old problem, but it is an approach that is working, and we hope that you will elect to continue under this MOU, and let's get it done right, get it done once, and include everyone. And with that I'm happy to take any questions you have. Questions anyone? Supervisor Dunn. So thank you very much for your comments. Just want to clarify a couple things. Number one, when you're pricing scale for residents, you know, $59, $99, $60, $80, $100, etc. The resident is choosing that. We as a board, when we make a vote, we're not deciding that. You're going to provide the 10x, and then the resident will choose how much as opposed to us doing. Is that correct? Correct. So that's the menu that would be available. If I were a consumer and I called up and I said, hey I want broadband, or they went to the website and they say, well what are the plans? Those are the non-promotional plans. Right now, like everybody, this is very common in telecom. If you sign up for something for three months, you know, we do that less than other people, but at the end of the day, this is the plaque on the back of the hotel room door that says, you know. So every resident would have an opportunity to choose his up-down speed and the price that is according is not being limited by our vote, correct? Correct. Okay. Number two, I just want to confirm, you're having fiber go to every home, so we're not talking about the last connection, right? No. Okay. Number two, I just want to confirm, you're having fiber go to every home, so we're not talking about the last connection, right? No. Okay. Number two, I just want to confirm, you're having fiber go to every home, so we're not talking about the last connection, right? being a wireless connection, is that correct? That is correct. Thank you. Mr. Bekar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bekar, could you define unserved by broadband? Does that mean that if there's not a physical wire of broadband going to that residence, that that would be something that your company would be connecting, or is there a different definition of unserved by broadband? Great question, and it's frustrating for those of us in the business and probably even worse for you. There are many different definitions of served and broadband as there are state and federal programs. The most important definition right now is the definition in the ARPA. So in order to be served, an area has to have terrestrial wired service that is capable of delivering 25-3 or better. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just heard you mention about supplies and your supply agreements that you have in place. If those supplies would happen to not materialize, how does that affect the grant? Are there opportunities to extend it? Would we as a locality be on the hook to pay more money? How does that work if those supplies don't materialize? So as you mentioned, we have the best strategy in place to modify that, which is a commitment from not some distributor, actually the people who make the cable in South Carolina and actually Bristol, Virginia. As I said, it's a reimbursable grant. So if the county does not pay anything until we spend that dollar and then you reimburse our share. I do not think in the history of the VATI program, and there have been a lot of projects that went a little over the guideline, I am unaware that they have ever taken the money back. So that is intended to encourage you to get the project done. But this is not like a vindictive, punitive thing. They want projects to be submitted that can be done. But I think if, though I can't imagine more disruption to the global supply chain than we've all just lived through for the last two years, but I think that I'm confident that if there were legitimate supply issues, the delayed performance, that you would enter into a mid-project agreement with the state. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I have a question. In your proposal, you had mentioned that, you would complete this project most likely within 24 months of the utility routes being installed. Do we know what the time frame is for the utilities to install their routes and what the overall time frame would look like for a project like this? Yes. So we believe now, and they're here, I'm not speaking for them, but we believe that they are all on track to complete their components of the network, such that all construction and last mile service would be available in 24 to 30 months total. Total. Thank you. Other questions, anyone? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Appreciate it. All right. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to move for adoption of the resolution as written. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries and the resolution is adopted. All right. Supervisor Graber, a request to discussion on the fiscal year 22 funding of Lord Fairfax Community College. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So originally this evening I was going to elaborate and possibly ask this board to adjust the funding that had been allocated for the Lord Fairfax Community College as a result of them moving forward on their proposed name change. As you are well aware, approximately two months ago, we as a board voted to support the letter written by our state delegates and senators opposing the name change and the funds allocated for such. Having done the research, our county has allocated $81,308 to go towards the Lord Fairfax Community College. And we have already given them the first installment, which is $20,327 for the first quarterly installment. I was going to ask for an allocation or portion of the funds for the remainder of the year to be withheld. However, as we are well aware over the last 48 hours, and maybe some of you may not be aware, the Shenandoah County, there's been several, and I'm not going to go into the details of the amount of money that was allocated, but I'm going to go into the details of the amount of money that was allocated. The Shenandoah County has filed a motion to look into the renaming and the costs associated with such. And so I'd like to hold off on making the actual motion to withhold funds tonight to allow the judge and impartial third party to look at whether the funds are being appropriately used, if the renaming is appropriate, and just everything in the suit to be ironed out. And at that point, we would have some clarity on if the funds are being used properly to be good stewards of tax practice. So that was my thought process, and that's how it has altered in the last 48 hours since this was put on the agenda. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? All right, sir. We'll move on. We will go back and consider 8D, which was 6F, resolution affirming denial. All right. Thank you, Ms. Candace. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This year, Frederick County received one request for a comprehensive plan amendment. That is for the Russell Smith properties. As you may recall from your work session, it's a request to expand the boundary of the urban development area and the sewer water service area, as well as change the number of units that are being built. It's a request to change the number of units that are being built and to change the land use designation from urban center to residential for about 89 acres. If I can direct you to your screen on the left, just for quick reference, as you may recall, the properties are located on 522 and Justice Drive, near and adjacent to Evendale and Admiral Byrd Elementary Schools, or Middle School and Elementary. This map shows the existing limits of the sewer water service area and the properties that are currently in use. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The views recognized in this issue do not necessarily necessarily mean that Google is the only place where interactive access is available to users who use the filters under the age 11 realmente. So with that, thank you all for joining me on thislonicas.comoni.org. thislandicas.comoni.org, Vandell that I'm sure you all remember is My Bre RICHARD thatís one of my favorite sites. for the key awareness of fish. We're still getting all theseytes, he's on special debriefings tonight, so I Treat Ahmet, Follows Me and Eric Comey, higher density residential 6 to 12 units an acre. So as a state of the applicant is seeking to change that urban center to residential, I would note that the paper mill urban center contains about 45 parcels, about 350 acres total. This does pertain to only five parcels, 89 acres. So while the application does show striking the text for the given center, it does not really address the overall urban center. So you would really kind of fragment the center if you only look at these properties. There were agency comments for this. Frederick Water did comment. They did note that water supply is available, however sewer infrastructure would be necessary. Frederick County Public Schools, in their comment, they expressed concern about future traffic impacts as well as potential use of the TDR program. This did go to the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee at their July meeting. They really mirrored some of those concerns. Impact of future residential, TDR programs, extension of public facilities. You may recall this was at your joint work session of the Planning Commission of the Board back at the September date. Those concerns from both schools and the CPPC were again really brought up with the TDR's impact on future facilities. So tonight this is presented for discussion purposes. Staff is seeking a decision from the Board as to whether this should be sent forward for further discussion. And consideration by the Complan Committee. I would be glancing to questions. And Mr. Evan White with Greenway Engineering is here on behalf of the application. Questions, Ms. Kent. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The applicant is asking that it be changed from the urban center to the urban development. It's a two-part. They're seeking to expand the limits of the urban development area because that's the growth boundary necessary for residential, as well as change kind of the color on the map from that. Okay. From that urban center to residential. Is there any way for the applicant themselves to limit the use of TDR's within that section of the UDC? No. Okay. Thanks. Other questions? Ms. Perkins, anyone? Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Weiser, anything you'd like to add? Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Obviously, tonight. We aren't ready to make a formal presentation if that's the direction the Board decides to go, but I think that's an important one. I think the primary thing we all need to recognize with the CPPA process is what you're involved in at this very first step is consideration, should this be considered for further study, which means that's the opportunity to get very much down into the weeds as much as the county needs. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Wendell. Good afternoon, everyone. Good morning. I thank the board foreeee. I really appreciate, and I chert 말� as most importantly and impress Bev Arnold has pointed out to. It is an important problem that needs to go up ourpification story. So, we do have to lower the taxes. Now, the understanding that does exist is for affordableゆent Tor will be add. Which does mean that if you'rebound to this area for BrittМen who want to be led, the first step is to advise the state or high reg 있지만 you patheticyyt, the railroad service provider or community or people allowing users to have current and retroven essentialRight meaning h Lana z the requirement. that I've prepared that we would like to share with you, I think make a very persuasive argument as to why an urban center is not appropriate for this particular location in the county. So you have several things that go on with the comprehensive plan. You have future land use designations, you have urban development areas, you have sewer and water service areas. The collective wisdom of the board at the outcome of a process could be that you decide that an urban center is not an appropriate land use and that lower density residential is, but you could decide not to extend the sewer and water service area or the urban development area along with that land use change as an example. That would get the comp plan correct, that would protect the applicant from then circling back and using TDRs if that's a concern of the board, and then it would set forth maybe a potential where a future rezoning could come in front of the board that would request this change in zoning and the expansion of the UDA at the same time. That's just one idea. But I think once again, the thing that I wanna impress upon you, this is a first step and a first step only. It is a request for further study and further consideration. That means we go, we do more work, we get more answers, we address more questions, and maybe there's an opportunity where the board does believe that this is not an appropriate urban center area. So by moving it forward for further study, that in no way, shape, or form is tacit approval from the board that you're gonna adopt what comes out of the study. You may get to the end of the study process and say, I'm still not comfortable or I still prefer an urban center in this location, and then make your motion to deny the application. But my purpose in being here tonight very simply was we have not had that opportunity to have that discussion. We've not had an opportunity to make a formal request. We've not had an opportunity to make a formal presentation even though the property owners have paid their application fee and hired us to do a lot of work to get the information that should be considered. So what we're asking is really more of a continuance. And if you're not comfortable moving it forward for further study, we would at least like an opportunity to have a presentation of both bodies. And then if you decide at that point in time you're not interested, then the appropriate action is there. But at least we've had an opportunity. So that's what we're asking for. Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. How would the board like to handle? Mr. Chairman? Yes. Could I ask one question of the applicant? Surely. If you would, Mr. Quyatt. So if the first step is to determine whether or not this is ripe for further study, I guess the first question is, do we need to study something? Is there something to be studied? Is there a reason? Is there a reason for it? I haven't seen anything as sort of the impetus for why we would study this further at this point. Can you at least give me some anecdotal recommendation as to why this is necessary for further study? Very simply, if you look at the 350 acres that is basically identified for the urban center, there's a couple things that jump out. Number one, about one-third of it are 95 acres, which is probably the better development part of the whole area, has been purchased by Frederick County Public Schools for the fourth high school. So you now have a situation where you have an elementary school, a middle school, a future high school, and you have other properties that are kind of hodgepodge in between. And so the question really becomes for an urban center, how do you, first of all, how do you develop it? Secondly, is that something you want immediately adjacent to three public school facilities? The comments about concerns with impacts on public infrastructure obviously are going to be significantly greater for an urban center development than they will be for a lower density residential. All those things are really provided in the actual application package that we put together, and there's justification documents and high-level information. So that's what you need to get the introduction to the county to say, okay, this seems to make some sense, and should warrant some more discussion. And that's the basis why we think it's appropriate to move it forward. Thank you. Other questions, Mr. Wyatt? Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Wyatt, this question is for you. I just heard you say that this is a possibility of a lower density residential center. And please correct me if I'm wrong. Wouldn't the urban development area afford fewer homes in this proposed piece of property? The urban development area is really the policy that we're looking at. It's the area that says if your property is within it, you're entitled to public water and sewer service, and you're also entitled for residential development. It still requires you to go through the rezoning process one way or the other. I think the concern that was raised was if we do both actions simultaneously, does that open up the door for where the county does not get a rezoning opportunity? And I know there's a lot to unpack here with that, but once again, I think through the comp plan study, there's ways to make recommendations on what to do and how to do it and the timing of it, which is really what your comprehensive plan is supposed to be about. And then that sets your plan so it would be in conformity then for the applicant to come forward in the future with an actual zoning application. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. A follow-up on Supervisor Graver's question. So my understanding of the current zoning on this, under the comprehensive plan, is that you can have a lower density, there's some commercial development within the area as well. Is it that the commercial component is no longer feasible for the applicant? So, yeah, once again, and these are all good questions, which is why we wanted to request further study, but we've prepared an exhibit that looks at the 522 corridor from Interstate Exit 313 all the way south past the property. And there's a couple of compelling reasons, I think, from existing commercial land use where it exists today, and then the completion of the crossover boulevard Russell 150 bridge project, which is going to go east to west and provide, you know, a corridor between Valley Avenue in the city all the way to 522 in the county. And logically, that's going to be the big traffic mover, and logically that's where a lot of the commercial traffic or uses are going to want to be. So now you're looking at the 522 corridor, now you're looking at an area two and a half miles south of that, and I'm very skeptical that the type of commercial that an urban center is promoting, which is a high level of commercial activity with vertical residential above it, I'm very skeptical that this is the right location for that type of land use. Anyone? Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. How would the board like to deal with this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to give the applicant the opportunity to make a presentation, not tonight. He can make his arguments before the planning commission, he can make his arguments before this board, or we could have a workshop to do that where there's an interaction with the applicant. I think if he had to pay money to make the application, I think he should be given the opportunity to defend that and then take questions from both of you. I'm not sure if he's gonna be able to take questions from both boards. Others? All right. Entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would then make that as a motion. Forward for further study. For further study. It doesn't mean necessarily I'm gonna agree with it, but I'd like to give him the opportunity to make his application, to have a- You answered it. Okay. Thank you. All right. The motion is to forward for further study. Sir, second. Second. Second. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Further, second. Anyone? Second. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Could I have a little more explanation on exactly what we're studying here? The application. Just the application? There's not? No. Okay. Good enough. Thank you. Further discussion? Mr. Graver, my purpose is just to give the applicant the opportunity to make his case. I mean, if you had to pay money to do that, it's a fair situation. You know that I'm not in favor of of further residential development without the capital costs being involved. I know that's gonna be part of this discussion, but I think that if the person's put out money for that, he just ought to have the opportunity to make his case and answer questions. Thank you. Yes, sir. My microphone's not working. I apologize. Just to be clear, Mr. Dunn's motion to further the application for further study will start the entirety of the comprehensive plan amendment process rather than, I think, what his intent was, which was just to offer the opportunity for the applicant to make his case for further study. All right, so thank you, sir. I'll offer you an opportunity to clarify your motion. So, Mr. Pearson, if you'd like to clarify that, my intent is not to open up the whole situation. My intent is to go to give the applicant the opportunity to say, here's what we wanna do, here's why we wanna do it, here's the reason behind it. And you give us, the Planning Commission, the opportunity to say, let me challenge you on this, or agree with that, or the TDR discussion, or where do you go after we complete the initial thing on the 95 acres, what happens to the other 345 acres? Or to have a discussion on, there's only three urban centers that are being planned in this county, is that appropriate or not appropriate? So I'm not opening the whole can of worms, my intent is not to open up the whole can of worms, as opposed to letting them have the opportunity to make their case, similar to what we had in our work session a couple weeks ago. And then the boards can make a decision appropriately. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. If I could just clarify, Mr. Dunso, are you saying that you're not ready to recommend this for further study, but you'd like this to be remanded back to the Planning Commission to allow the applicant to make a presentation as to why we might consider this for further study at a future meeting? That's correct. Is that amendment to your motion? I can take that. And a second, concur? Second. All right, further discussion. Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. All right. Now we'll go to the Finance Committee report. Yes, sir? Looking at Mr. Williams, it looks like we would need another motion. Go ahead, sir, and take this. Mr. Chairman, what we have now is the facts of where the board was beginning to be. And there's an application in the file, but there's been no action on it. So I guess the proper question now is before the board, given the board's immediate action, is what? Is whether the board wants to entertain the denial motion. We have an application that the board has simply said, we're not going to talk about, but we don't actually have a formal action on the motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move to deny the motion. Second. Further discussion? Anyone? Motion to deny. Mr. Chairman? Anyone? Yes, sir? For the reasons that I stated before, I'll probably vote yes on this just to give the applicant the opportunity. OK. OK. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. We good? Thank you, sir. Finance Committee report. Supervisor Slaughter? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on Wednesday, August 18th at 8 AM. Items number 2 through 5, items 7 through 9 and 14 were approved under the consent agenda, and I would so move. Motion is there. Second. Second. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Item number 1, the Department of Social Services request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $89,322. This amount represents additional state and federal funds for the 1BE prevention services program. No local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there a discussion? Anyone? We're ready. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Item number 6, the Public Works Director request a landfill supplemental appropriation not to exceed $1,696,830. This amount represents a carry forward of $1,696,830. The Board of Trustees will now move to motion. Motion moved. Second. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Magni. Aye. Supervisorimiz. Aye. Supervisor Cash. Aye. Supervisor Mallanyak. Aye. Supervisor Fradyeah.� This item will be approved by the Public Works Committee. We move to approve the Ser лежed or scientl nonproέλci neehev deer hy Psix lich tejodscy Freddieel basey deee cn t en Gen nd Ye are Pr ag o da s ach c hepl We will again react to the motion to approve or Demc mo ar Ya fa gi Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and a motion carries. And item number 10 is what we addressed at the beginning of the meeting to go back to Finance Committee. Item number 11, the Sheriff requests general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $50,001. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds to be used for the purchase of vehicle routers. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So for this item here and number 13, we've done a budget and this is now the second month into the budget. This may be a legitimate need, but I'd like to see the finance. I'd like to go back to the Finance Committee so the Finance Committee could say what are our additional needs that we have going forward. We had some requests last month. We've had a request this month. Together this is $100,000 between the two Sheriff requests. And number 13. So the question is we've done a budget. Let's focus on question 11. Okay. But I'm just making a comment because they tie together to go back and have a listing of what's the highest priorities. If there's a high priority, fine. But if it's not, let's see a higher priority. Chairman. Yes, sir. Well, generally, I agree with you, Supervisor Dunn. I think we should have as a county have a list of, you know, what are the priorities that didn't get funded in the budget so that when there are additional funds available, we can go straight to the top and adjust that as the needs arise. So that when there are additional funds available, we can go straight to the top and adjust that as the needs arise. So that when there are additional funds available, we can go straight to the top and adjust that as the needs arise. But I did speak with our IT director, Mr. Varner, and he indicated that this is actually a good stopgap safety measure for public safety because in those areas that currently aren't served by our public radio, this public safety radio system, that these routers will allow us to communicate wirelessly through cellular with those officers in the field. It also allows us to track their location. So if there's ever an emergency, we can find those officers out in the field. So I do think that this kind of meets that criteria for high priority at this point, considering the state of our state. Our public radio system. That does not have no? That's correct. Okay. Thank you. Roger Averitt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I would concur with both comments that have been made, and I agree with both comments that are made. I think that we have to start identifying our high priority needs. And I agree that this is a high priority need, but it is getting very concerning to me as well that we continue to cherry pick projects that seem to need to get done or wants that maybe need to get done. So I would highly encourage that any further spending that comes forward from the Finance Committee in this format, have some discussion prior to getting to this point. Thank you. Yes, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes. One more comment. I do appreciate the Sheriff's effort to try to save budget money. I appreciate all the directors trying to save budget money. But for those monies that are saved, if we have a need down the road, then that should go into a general pot where the county can decide where the most appropriate use is. Thank you. All right. How would the Board like to handle this? There's a motion. I'm sorry. Second. And a second? I believe Judy made the motion. I made the motion. And Mr. McCarthy? Second. Okay. Now I have it. Thank you, sir. All right. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Item number 12, the IT Director Request a General Fund. Supplemental appropriation in the amount of $12,841. This amount represents salary and fringe funds needed for the remainder of fiscal year 22 for the reclassification of an administrative assistant to a technology administrative coordinator. Local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Sharman? Yes, sir. Again, this is the same issue. But I know that the IT Director had raised this issue in our budget process earlier, so I will support this. Otherwise, I would have some concerns. Anyone else? Further discussion? Anyone? All right. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Item number 13, the HBQ. Hanley Regional Library requested general funds, supplemental appropriation in the amount of $32,265. This amount represents increased funding to provide a cost of living adjustment to library staff. Local funds are required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? Chairman? Supervisor? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think in the same theme that we've been going on, this is money that, you know, is this the highest priority? I look at this and I say, you know, this is something that would typically be covered in a budget discussion, not as a supplemental appropriation as far as how we're going to fund the various departments in the county. Is this really the highest priority considering we've got the radio system coming online, we've got the broadband coming online? I would like to see this discussed as part of the budget process for next year versus as a supplemental appropriation. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to speak in favor. Yes, sir. First, to say that the... Thank you. ...memorandum of understanding among Clark and Frederick County and the city of Winchester, in that understanding, each jurisdiction's support of the Hadley Library system is based on library usage. And this appropriation of $32,265 would bring our county's financial support of the library in line with the usage of the library by Frederick County residents, which is 63.8%. Second, this appropriation would allow the library system to increase its staff cost of living adjustment to 5% after receiving no adjustment during COVID last year and after the staff kept the library system open throughout COVID in comparison with some other library systems that closed down. For those reasons, I'm in support of this measure. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Stegmaier, I tend to agree with the sentiment that you're saying that the library system is based on the usage of the library system. Thank you for sharing. But I also think that there's a process that we have to go through. We have a limited amount of money to spend as part of our budget process. There's a planning process that goes into how we allocate those funds, and it's much better to come forward during the budget process and ask for those funds versus coming in the middle of the year after we've already spent the money and ask for money that we don't necessarily have to spend. So for that reason, I'm not voting against the sentiment that's behind the proposal, but the process that was followed. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn? I just concur with Mr. McCarthy's statement. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Graber? No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will... It's mine. That concludes my report, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, ma'am. Planning Commission Business Public Hearings, Conditional Use Permit 0621 for Keltoff LLC. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, this is a request for a conditional use permit to establish a sawmill planning mill type B on a two-acre parcel located at 161 Woodstock Lane. It's in the Back Creek Magistrate. I don't believe we've ever had, on this board since I've been here, had a sawmill planning mill type B. Really, it's defined, just to give you a definition of what it is. We do have a type A also, but the type B is a mill used for sawing or processing of standing trees or their wood and timber. The type A, like I said, if you looked in our ordinance, it's different. It's sort of like if you're doing silvicultural forestry on a piece of property, you actually set a sawmill up there and do a lot of work. So that's the difference in what you're seeing tonight. If I could turn your attention to the map on your left, this is the Kilrock LLC CUP before you. It's outlined. Also, what's important is this is the current sawmill. It's out there now. It's a McCollins mill. I think most of us are familiar with it in Round Hill. The reason it's putting up, we've had some conditions that kind of are with the property. So I just wanted to show you the overview of the vicinity of what we have. Basically, the property is currently zoned RA and is surrounded by other RA zoned properties. This contains one building of 9,100 square feet, and all the milling activities proposed conditional use permit will be conducted inside the structure. Currently, there's an approved conditional use permit that was approved in 2004. Actually, it's 1904. For an operation of a public garage, should the board approve this conditional use permit for the sawmill, conditional use permit 1904 would be void. The site is located within the limits of the Round Hill Community Center as depicted on the Round Hill Community Land Use Plan. The development pattern established with this core of the rural community center consists of small residential lots along Round Hill Road, Poorhouse Road, and Woodchuck Lane. The land. Otter Road is the regional Styx overlooking the I encourage the continuation the residential properties in the pattern that they have out there right now. The Round Hill Area should Should the board of Supervisors find they used to be appropriate the Planning Commission recommend the following conditions be assigned to the conditional use permit. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complex with at all times number two ..... And the well is her sketch plan should be submitted to and approve Which plan I want the City to make when myICK sleepy boat isuaisl Roger Connie Antonio Torres Jr., dunes Св. disapproval vu prior to the establishment of this use. Number three, all milling operations will occur inside the existing enclosed structure on the property and any outdoor storage shall be screened. And number four, all delivery use via a tractor trailer shall occur solely from Ryan Hill Road through which is the McCullough Mill, which is actually McCullough's Mill, which is the property identification number which I showed you in an overview picture, which is 52A267. There'll be no tractor trailer deliveries along Woodchuck Lane. If you're well aware, if you've been out to the area, Woodchuck Lane is primarily residential. The applicant had agreed to the condition to come in through the main mill, which has been in operation since the 40s for heavier traffic, but they also wanted an opportunity for if they had smaller deliveries or customers to come up Woodchuck Lane. So staff felt that this condition, working with the applicant would work to alleviate any issues or any concerns along Woodchuck Lane. Number five is a non-illuminated freestanding monument. Business signs shall be allowed with this conditional use permit. The signage should not exceed 20 square feet in area and 10 feet in height. Number six, hours of operation shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. six days a week with no Sunday operation. Number seven, no more than six employees shall be permitted with this use. Number eight, the conditional use permit 19-0-04-20 shall be void upon approval of the conditional use permit. And number nine, any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this conditional use permit at their August 18th, 2021 meeting. There were no comments regarding this conditional use other than from the applicant who's also here. Following the public hearing, staff is seeking a decision for the Board of Supervisors on the request of conditional use permit. For the record, Mr. Chairman, the applicant and the people who are involved with the decision will be included. and the property owner are here to answer any questions you or any of the board members may have on this conditional use permit. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Mine is for the applicant. Thanks, sir. All right, sir. Anything you'd like to add? We have a question. I'm Rocky Keplinger with Kellrock LLC. We own the property and presently run Keplinger Repair Service from that location, fire and rescue vehicles. We have closed the business. I'm looking towards retirement. And we had several people interested in our building and our neighbors, McFarland's Mill, which I still own the building, have a contract on my building pending a conditional use permit. So their property they have right now is grandfathered. Because they've been there so long. My property is under a conditional use permit and they're looking forward to just having another building to move some of their stuff into and expand. And we've been good stewards to the neighbors. And we just think it's going to be a good move for them and should be a lot less traffic actually compared to what our business was, even though our business wasn't that big. And this is Nick See with McFarland's Mill. Thank you. Supervisor Graber has a question. Thank you for extending. I believe your business is what you want to do is grow. And I think it is a good use there being your business is already established right next door. The question that I have is regarding the noise. So often when we redo these conditional use permits, I go out day after day, week after week for noise complaints. Would you be willing to accept as one of the conditions a 50 decibel level maximum of noise at the property line should this be rezoned? I'm sorry. Should this conditional use? Permit be approved. The reason I ask that is, is a typical vehicle is going to exert about 50 decibels of noise. If you have that going on during the day, that's normal business, right? You have small vehicles coming in, delivering products, doing things of that nature. What I want to minimize is, is a high pitched planer or something that's really high noise type of environment for all the residential units that are next door. So would you be willing to commit to that? Yeah. I don't want to apply to this debate. Gentleman in the microphone, please. That is correct, Mr. Kepler. That would only apply to this two point couple of acres here. When they grind mulch, that would be more than that. But I just want to make sure. On this property? Yeah. Yes, sir. Further questions? Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kepler, good to see you. I know you've always been a good neighbor there in the community. Have you spoken with all the neighbors about this change in use? And have you gotten any negative feedback? Back at all from the neighbor? And did anyone raise any questions about noise or anything like that? Okay. Thank you. Anything our neighbors on the eastern side, the quarry. Sure. Yeah. All right. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Dunn. Your existing business, which you're now retiring, produced some noise when you were doing it, correct? We kept all of it inside. And the only thing that they would hear would be a siren if we blew it in. We never heard any noise. It was all outside the building. So ... I understand. I mean, I've been to all your places. I know you've done a decent job on that. So, my question is, what additional noise, if any, do you expect out of this sawmill? I expect none, be honest with you, because everything that the planning commission has approved will be inside the building. So, the biggest thing that you'll probably hear is a machine tractor moving, unloading the tractor trailer or moving product inside and out. So, it's going to be like a farm tractor. If you ... Therefore, there would not be a significant difference between what you're doing, the tractor, and what you're doing inside. So, then, the problem is, will this be a good solution for your business? between what is existed a year two years or three years ago and now is that correct thank you what else thank you gentlemen all right yes sir supervisor Graber thank you mr. chairman I would like to make a motion we approve conditional use permit 06 dash 21 for Kellrock chairman excuse me public hearing that's right public hearing would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed conditional use permit Thank You mr. chair anyone you're seeing no one will come back to you mr. Greger thank you mr. chairman I would like to make a motion and we approve the conditional use permit 06 dash 21 for Kellrock LLC with one addition that a condition of 50 decibels at the property line be added as a condition okay motion is second discussion mr. chairman yes sir I'd like to make an amendment to the motion to remove the 50 decibel item there's no one here complaining about the use mr. Koeppliner stated that he's talked to the neighbors no one has concerns about the noise so to put an arbitrary number on that I think is inviting some arguments in the future I mean how do we know that the 50 number is the right number so I would move to remove that section all right we have a motion to approve the conditional use permit 06 dash 21 for Kellrock yes sir I would like to make a Amen. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So on a weekly basis, I have a couple of event centers in my district. I can say every week. As there are events at those event centers, I get complaints because of noise. And I think Mr. Sharon can back me up on the number of complaints that I get on that. I think we need to head this off at the pass. If there's an opportunity to do a noise ordinance or something of that nature, then maybe we need to go down that road. But I would prefer not to get into the weeds of things that deep. I believe that putting an appropriate decibel level of 50 decibels, and I don't know how much readings you guys have done. I know for me, it's been every weekend for about the last four months I've been reading decibels at my neighboring event centers. Those decibel readings have been anywhere from 60 plus for some of these event centers. And it has been very hard for the doctors, the neighbors, the nurses, the other folks to sleep when they have to sleep when there's events going on or other things occurring. If you have the decibel level at a point, which 50 decibels is about the point where you do not hear the noise in the house, it allows for those doctors, those nurses, those other folks who have to sleep during the day to get some good rest and still enjoy their property at a point that is acceptable. However, it does not exclude the 450s and 550s. So I think that's a very reasonable level. That's why I attach that to this, and I cannot support the amendment that's been made. Thank you, sir. Mr. Brazardone. The reason I seconded this is I'm very sensitive to noise. I had a house that was next to a farm, and that farm was developed. And they started at 6 o'clock in the morning. They ran on the weekends, et cetera. And I did not appreciate it at all. So I fully. I concur with that, especially with a dying mother. There was no consideration at all by that developer. The reason I asked the applicant the question on noise was because his existing operation has not caused a problem with his neighbors. I've been out of his place a few years ago. He may not remember. And so if his existing operation does not cause a problem and the new operation is the same noise level as the other, then that was the reason why I was making that case. You can make your comments in a second, please. And so that means I don't think there's a need. If there is a need down the road, then we can come back and address that. And I would say to the applicant, if there's a need down the road where people start to complain, then be respectful of that. And maybe we come back to address that. But that was the thought process behind it. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In regard to your comments, Supervisor Dunn, I appreciate your concern. However, it is very difficult after CUP has passed to come back and make additional changes. There are amendments to it. In regards to the work that is presently being done, yes, there's grinding. There's other things that are being done. But if you would be running a planer, a high-pitched planer for hours and hours at a time, it would be a vastly different continuous noise than it would be for an air impact wrench or a grinder or other things of that nature, a short-term high-pitched siren versus a continuous multi-hour operation. That's, therefore, the reason for me to make the amendment. So I stand by or make the motion. Therefore, I stand by what was proposed. Further discussion? Anyone? So we're on the amended motion to remove the 50 decibel requirement. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? No. Chair votes aye. The motion fails. I mean, the motion carries. The amended motion. So now we're on the amended motion of approval with up to 50 decibel requirements. Supervisor Graver? Just a point of clarification here, Mr. Chairman. I thought we voted on the motion to the amended motion, which was to remove the 50 decibels. I thought that's what we just voted upon. It is, but now we need to adopt the amended motion. We voted to amend it. Now we need to adopt it. We voted on the amendment. We voted on the amendment. Okay. We considered the amended. Gotcha. Now we're ready to consider the amended motion. So you've taken the 50 decibels off, so now we're simply voting on the motion without the 50 decibels. The amended motion. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's it. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. Nothing. Board liaison reports, are there any? Anyone? Hearing none, we'll move on. Citizen comments. Is there opportunity for citizens to comment on any issue they'd like to bring to the attention of the Board? Did anyone sign up? No, sir. No one. All right. Thank you. We'll move forward. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Hearing none. That'll bring us to a motion. Vice Chairman Wells? Aye. So, Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County conduct a closed session to take place at an undisclosed location and date within 15 days hereafter, pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3711A1 and 2.2-3712B, solely for the purpose of interviewing candidates for the position of county administrator. Second. Heard the motion and a second. Is there discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That would bring us to you again, Mr. Wells. Chairman. Yes. I move we adjourn. Second. Looks to adjourn to second. Second. All in favor? Aye. Second. All in favor? Aye. Second. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
