Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-04-19
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=183
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes. I would make a motion to approve the fiscal year 23-24 budget resolution as written, scenario B, with the amendments that were proposed to us by Supervisor Dunn to fund an additional ambulance out of the capital fund for Station 22, approximate cost $400,000, and to amend the proposed salary increases to 5%. This change will decrease the amount will make a reduction of the capital amount funding for the capital asset prevention funding to come from the general operating fund as opposed to the capital fund. So the million dollars that would be accounted for with the reduction of the 5% increase would now free up an additional $1 million to offset the capital asset prevention funding, which we had originally discussed coming out of the capital fund. Lastly, Supervisor Dunn and we had discussed this, I believe it, at our board budget work sessions, that we would not approve any expenditures until the board has an opportunity to review the budget work sessions. So we would like to continue to review the budget work sessions until the board has an opportunity to review and make specific recommendations on each request for outside agencies. And that would conclude my motion. Chair Greg Musil. Heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chair. Yes. I vote actually to move a motion to table this. No. You can amend the motion. I will. You can amend the motion. Okay. We get ready to go there. Okay. And would like to just vote on the property tax rate. Discussion? The motion is seconded. Okay. Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes. I'd like to make some amendments to the motion. Go ahead. Okay. Thank you. I have four different amendments I'm going to make. I'll make one. I'd ask that we vote on it and then move to the second. The first one being the 5% that Supervisor Dunn was just for the county employees, not school employees. Am I correct in hearing that? Was the motion for just the school employees or was it for just the county employees? That was for the county employees. The school funding was specific to the amount of our contribution and that is how they addressed in the proposed budget. Okay. So my motion, Mr. Chairman, thank you, madam. My motion herein is to allocate the funds for the school system so that they have a surety. I have a 5% COLA that matches the raise that the county employees would get. So amend the budget for the schools so that they would receive a 5% COLA across the board for all employees. That is my motion. The motion is there a second? I second. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. To the best of my knowledge, we do not have the authority to go and deal with the school's budget. All we can do is give them extra money. Okay. And then they can provide them with the next dollars and then they decide and determine how those dollars are allocated. The schools have made in their proposals some suggestions on increasing the pay for maintenance workers, for school bus drivers, etc. And if Dr. Hummer is in the room, I would strongly and school board members, I would strongly encourage you to do that. I have heard from a number of school bus drivers and I think that would be a good situation. But we as a board simply are going to provide X dollars and then they have to do the allocation. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Since it is discussion period. I understand, Mr. Dunn, that we have the opportunity only to allocate funds. We can't tell them how much to allocate where. If the school board should choose to give bus drivers or other folks 9%, 10%, 12%, 15%, that is their prerogative. However, I would like to see all employees be treated equally. Therefore, 5% I am proposing that we allocate enough funds to give them a 5% raise across the board for all employees. All right. All right. Thank you. raise across the board for all employees how they choose to divvy it up is up to them but I I would like to see the the figure be equal to those folks who are deputies who are firemen who are all across the board if you look at some of the other districts across the state they're matching theirs I think it is improper to pit one employee against another therefore I think the 5% uniform across the board is is only fair the schools to spend the money in a specific manner thank you sir further discussion anyone hearing none call for the question mr. Weber do you know what the adjustment would be on the money that's going to the schools if we did this based upon I don't know the full number because I'll be only number that I got when I requested information from a Schaeffler was that 1% you is 1.3 million and the schools had had initially proposed a 6.8% raise for teachers so if we were to amend it as mentioned it would be about a two million dollar reduction in total costs to the county coming out of the capital fund yes sir he's spoken to the question Mr. Weber is it a two million dollar reduction in the amount of money that the school needs to go to the school that's what I just heard and I and I should have said that in response to the previous question is the board needs to say what the dollar amount of the amendment would be because the board has to have a specific dollar amount so if it's two million it's two million Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Mr. Schell is that correct? Yes, sir I'm inclined not to support this and the reason I'm inclined not to support it is because you don't have good numbers here today if we'd had the opportunity to look at these numbers previous that would have been helpful I laid out some amendments myself that everyone got we're gonna give X dollars to the schools and then the schools have an elected body that decides how they're gonna do that so I appreciate your sentiment and that's say the school boards o, you know as Mr. Weber said five percent I'm not looking to do less than that but I don't think we have anything wrong with that . but I don't think we have the ability and authority to tell the schools how to spend their money. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dunn, I think it is very insightful that you sit up here and say that you have no understanding of the dollar amount or the funds. Just last evening, you and I discussed this on the telephone regarding what that dollar amount would be, what that would look like. We did have this discussion. About the dollar amount, sir. I was speaking, sir. May I continue? You can continue. Thank you. So we did have this discussion on a telephone. So I think it's a little bit insightful that we're gonna say that we didn't know the dollar amount and we didn't have an opportunity to discuss this. So I just want everyone out there listening to know that this conversation has been had. Thanks. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. As discussed at multiple work sessions, the deadline we have for today, according to the county, is to pass a real property tax rate. For this fiscal year, we do not have a deadline on the budget. We already have amendments proposed and more to come. My preference is that we do look into all the amendments and calculate the correct numbers and take them up at the next session next week. We do have time to do that. And that was, I thought, the plan all along. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes. I just would like to call on Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to call to the attention of the board. And it was sent out to us. And we talked about it at our last budget work session on the superintendent's proposed budget, page 12. It outlines salaries and wages and the percent increase decrease for salary and wages for the school. And this is taking into aggregate everything that came in, went out. And the average is 4.3%. So I would just like to go on record as saying that, this is what is showing in the proposed budget from the superintendent. Further discussion, anyone? Are we ready? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Ms. Slaughter, you're saying that the average salary increase at the schools are proposing is less than 5%? Because that's not what I've seen in the budget breakdowns from Ms. Schiffler that we've had. I know. I know that the superintendent provided us a summary sheet with what their goals were. But if you actually took actual and their proposed as on this document, this is what is showing for salaries and wages, 4.3%. And then they've outlined every position with increases and decreases. And I know there's been some add-ins and some take-outs based on the increased employees. And I think it's fair to say that that's not the case. It's just a way of saying that this is an increase in the employees that they've asked for the new positions. This is their document. We hadn't referred to that, I believe, during our work sessions before. We had referred to scenario sheets with the school spending and the numbers were different from that. At our last meeting, we actually looked at this page because there was a question about, I believe it might have been your question, on classified positions, what was included in the classified position. Yes. And after the meeting, I believe someone in administration sent out to us a copy of page 12, which gave a breakdown of the, let me see here. We had the proposal includes a $2.6 million increase of 9.5%, average increase for the classified pay scale. And if I recall, you would ask who was included in that pay scale. And it did include the bus drivers. There's a whole list of them. I read some of them at the last meeting, not all of them. But then we were, a reference copy of this was sent out to us. And it also includes the summary of salaries and wages, et cetera, in here. And then there's more detail for all of them. Thank you. So, Mr. Chairman, it seems unclear to this board, or at least to me at this time, whether a 5% is an increase. Or a decrease on the proposed salaries. So, once again, I personally need time to look at these numbers so that I can understand what we're doing. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Lockridge. Can I just comment on that as part of that discussion? I met with Dr. Hummer today because on the original sheet that I had, I said, I'm going to be the first person to be on the board. And I said, I'm going to be the first person to be on the board. And I said, I'm going to be the first person to be on the board. And there's a one page and I've been searching to find it. But it says an average of 6.8% for teachers. And I ask that question. And because on page 34 of that same document that Ms. Slaughter is referring to, page 34 says teacher salaries are 4.6. And I was wondering what the discrepancy and why that wasn't clear. And it's because the different pay scales. So teachers are... Depending on their scale, are making... the average is 6.8 but it still leads me I mean the page 11 that are 12 that she just showed shows a 4.3 percent and that goes back to I would like to table this I have been researching into this oh okay all right I trying to make an educated decision for the constituents of Gainesboro thank you anyone supervisor lock sir yes before we voted I had a question for the county attorney mr. mr. Williams is it not permissible to table an object even after it's been seconded and and miss miss Lockridge's desire to table this other than voting on a 51 cent tax rate is appropriate is it not I'm willing to answer the question but I need to be reminded as to whether the who the board elected as parliamentarian here because it may not be my answer to give I think that was mr. Williams is it not permissible to table an object even after it's been seconded and he says it has Dipo said it was the project that ledや the district is reengaged I don't believe it's appropriate I don't believe it falls upon the original may and this is a question I wanted to ask and this is a question addressed by the branch clerk perhaps there was some efecto on an item I thought there went off I'm sure the Dave's team took this somewhat strange suggestion that it's not permissible to table the right to table this talk gate work autographed document ready in place the the Senate对 the discussion and so my question lies mr. chairman her motion to table was prior to my motion to amend therefore hers would take precedence as my understand I didn't recognize it but it would yes sir yes okay Lager your your motion to table I guess a little more clarity please sorry I'm motion to table this discussion and only vote tonight on the real property tax rates the discussion of the amendment oh I want to table no I would like I you're talking about my motion to table this the table the motion to amend is what we were discussing rod I think supervisor Graber indicated that he was consenting so to speak that supervisor Lockridge's motion took precedence so the the motion to supervisor Graber's motion to amend is kind of set aside for the moment subject to consideration of the motion to table got it thank you supervisor Lockridge go ahead motion to table I motion to table this discussion until next Wednesday second is there second I'll second and the second discussion anyone mr. chairman just like a little clarification if I may this Lockridge as I understand your motion it is to set the tax rate at 51 cents to set the tax rate high 51 cents to set the tax rate of 52 cents to set the reality rate 51 to set the Mr. Chairman just like a little clarification if I may Ms. Lockridge as I understand your motion it is to set the tax rate 51 cents to set the tax rate as 51 cents to set the tax rate as 51 cents to set the tax rate as 51 cents to set the transaction tax rate 51 cents and It is to set the tax rate at 51 cents, to set the tax rate so the treasurer can mail the tax bills. Correct. But any and all discussion on how those monies are to be spent is what you're desiring to table until next meeting. Did I understand you correctly? You did understand me correctly, yes. Very well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the clarification. Cheryl? Can we set all the tax rates? We have personal property bill out. Can we, I mean, if you're not going to, can the motion be to set all the tax rates? I guess I could amend her motion. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion to amend the motion that we set all of the tax rates this evening and postpone or table all discussion until next Wednesday's regularly scheduled Board of Supervisors meeting. The motion is there a second? I'll second. And a second. Discussion on the motion to amend Supervisor Lockridge's motion to table. Mr. Chairman? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So I was under the impression that that was our path anyway, that we would set the tax rates as required by the county deadlines this week and give the Board another week to discuss the amendments that have been, I've been getting e-mails on amendments all the way through this morning. In addition, I know that I got a county laptop and the privilege of having budget and other information, and a month before I was sworn in, because my election was on the second Tuesday of the November, Supervisor Lockridge was only sworn in this morning, did not have a laptop, did not have access to any of the budget information that we have, and therefore, as Representative of Gainesboro, hasn't had time to go through it or consult with constituents. She has attended working sessions, but I've noticed that the audience at those sessions do not get copies of the information that we get. So from my point of view, I would like her to have the time to dig into this. I know a week's not a lot, but it's better than an hour. Thank you, sir. Further discussion on the motion to amend? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Lockridge. The motion is to amend and decide all tax rates this evening. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? Just so we have a correct roadmap, the motion to table is to table only the budget discussion. The Board will still need to make a motion, assuming that, well, we have a motion to amend the motion to table. Assuming that passes and assuming the motion to table passes, given the way the motion to table was worded, we would then still need a separate motion after that to pass the tax rates. That's where I thought we were headed. I want to make sure. Thank you, sir. I appreciate the clarification. Supervisor Lockridge. So I'm voting. Aye. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Nay. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. We are then at the motion. Motion to adopt the amended, the fail on the amended motion. Your motion. Yes, sir. So we will be voting on Heather's, on Supervisor Lockridge's motion at this point. Because we just voted on my amendment. Correct. Yes, that's correct. Very good. It's your amended motion that. I failed. We are now voting. Okay. Aye. Well, we're going to start over on the other end. We'll go back and forth most of the time. Supervisor Ludwig. I'm sorry, sir. Point of order. Do we need to have a discussion of now this motion before we go ahead with this vote? We had that. If you would like a further discussion. I would just like to add one more appeal to the board. And that is that we waited this time before taking up formal budget votes so that we could see the supervisor for Gainesville. And let Gainesville constituents have a voice in this decision. I think by having the vote today before that supervisor who's just gotten seated mere hours ago, in my opinion, we're denying proper time and consideration for the Gainesville supervisor. That's my comment. I don't know if anyone else has a comment before we vote. Further discussion? Anyone? Where we're headed is to try to set the tax rates. So this vote, can I get, as a point of order again, clarity on what this vote down the line is for? Is this on her motion to table now? It is. Okay. Thank you. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. Okay. Okay. We are back to. Use motion. Only to tax rates. Any other motion? No. Do repeat your motion. My motion included the resolution as presented. So let me repeat my motion. Please. I make a motion to approve the fiscal year 23-24 budget resolution as written with the amendments that were proposed to us by Supervisor Dunn to fund an additional ambulance out of the capital fund for Station 3. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Second. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. included no discussion at this time on the outside agencies. The Board of Supervisors shall not approve any expenditures until the Board has had a chance to review and make specific recommendations on each request. And that is my motion. Is there a second? Second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I make a motion to table this discussion this evening in that we vote only upon the tax rates as advertised and all additional budget resolution expenditures or disbursements of funds be made at next month's meeting. I make that as a motion. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. In discussion. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber had mentioned previously that he had, I believe, four amendments to make, had made one and received a second, but then he gave precedence to Supervisor Lockridge's motion, which had been voiced before. I thought the issue on the table was the motion as Ms. Slaughter had presented, but on the first amendment as made by Supervisor Graber, I think it was the motion as Ms. Slaughter had presented, I think that's the order of progress, plus there were three other amendments, at least three by him and perhaps more by others that we had yet to hear. He changed his course, and so we dealt with the one, and then he changed course, and we dealt with that one. Now we're back to Supervisor Slaughter's motion. And we have a motion and a second to table, right? Again. Again. Again. No, to set tax rates and table. Correct. To table the further discussion. Of the spending. Tax rates only, I think, and if you would, Supervisor Graber, confirm that. Yes, sir. So, Mr. Chairman, my motion was to set the tax rates as was advertised, and that all disbursements of money be tabled until or not. Next meeting. Does that help? As advertised? As advertised. So, at what rate? It would be 51 cents on the real estate tax rate, as advertised. So, $4.23 for the personal property, $4.86 for the applied business, $2.25 for the applied personal property, one vehicle, volunteer firefighters, 0.01 for the aircraft, zero tax for the antique vehicles and mopeds, 2% declining values on applied machinery, and tools, $2 on the appropriated percentage of book values to be applied to contract classified vehicles, and $1.25 on computer equipment, and then the business and professional license rates, as advertised, the other general tax rates, as advertised, the sanitary fees, as advertised, the sanitary district of Shawnee Land, as advertised, the Lake Holiday Sanitary District, as advertised, the Star Fort subdivision fees, and the streetlight fees, also as advertised. Thank you, sir. So, as enumerated, that's clear. I just wanted to make sure. The county had advertised 61 cents at some point, and I wanted to make sure we weren't referring to that. Thank you. These were in the resolution? Yes. Thank you. All right. Further discussion? Supervisor Lockridge? No. Okay. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Wells? Nay. Supervisor Slaughter? Nay. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. All right. Chair votes no. Motion fails. We'll go back to Ms. Slaughter's motion. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a series of amendments, please. Sorry? I would like to make a series of amendments, please. Take them one at a time. Yes, sir. I would like to make a motion that we split the health care increase that is 10% that the county had previously been allocating to pay, and that we split it 50-50 between the employee and the county. There ends my motion. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I had a conversation with Mr. Graber yesterday, and we did talk about this. I had a conversation with Mr. Schiffler today for further discussion. Right now, I believe that if a county has an employee that is going to—let me rephrase this. County employees will pay between 22% and 10%, and the county pays 78% to 90% on various health plans. When Mrs. Schiffler and I were going through this discussion, that 50-50 split, which is a good number, gets to be complicated. So I'd suggest that this simply be deferred until next year. I believe the county administrator is also trying to go and work out issues on health insurance. So the thought process is good, but this gets to be complicated. In an example that Mrs. Schiffler had with me earlier today, if the cost went up $200, it would be a significant increase on the county employees. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So conceptually, splitting it is a good thing, but I believe that if you split it the way the existing items go, we'll be okay. What are you trying to accomplish? I'm not in favor of this motion because of the comments that I've had with Mrs. Schiffler on the various proposals we've had between 2080, 9010, et cetera. Heard the rest of them. Further discussion? Any discussion? Anyone? All right. You've heard the proposed amendment. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. How many amendments do you want to make? I'd like to make four, sir. Counting the one we just did? Yes, sir. I have three remaining. Thank you. Thank you, sir. In the budget scenarios that we had, we had several scenarios. One of the scenarios showed a significant increase in staffing. In scenario B, as is proposed presently, I would like to make a motion that these positions be filled as over-hire positions, not as permanent full-time positions. The reason I make this motion is that many of the decisions that I've made in the last two years have been made in a way that I think is appropriate. I think that the departments that are listed here are not at full staffing now, nor have they been over the last several years. They don't know what the full staffing would give them as far as ability to answer calls, ability to respond to the needs of the community. Therefore, allowing them to over-hire to the positions in which they are requesting here would give us a good opportunity to see if those positions are needed or not. And if those positions would not be needed, then through attrition, those positions could be released and the county would not drain their capital. Therefore, I make the proposal that all funded positions in scenario B be hired as over-hire positions and the board reassess the need of these positions next year. That is my proposal. Is there a second? Second. Second. Discussion? Anyone? Yes, sir. I'm sorry? Multiple mics are open. I can't turn mine on. Oh, there we go. So I think this is a good motion, and I want to elaborate on it. We have a number of departments that have high attrition rates. It's very hard to fill them. Supervisor Graber in the past has said, well, let's get to full staffing and see if you really have additional need. But they haven't been able to do that. Changing these positions, especially in the departments that have high attrition, would allow them to reach, finally, the full previous judgment of this board on what we need. It wouldn't make much difference except it would be better budgeting to account for them as over-hires and would relieve, if they are not able to fill them, the capital fund. In addition, it makes great sense, in particular, for the fire and rescue. We have a safer grant. We have a grant in motion that, if it gets approved in September, would allow 16 hires. If we increase by eight, as is proposed, as formal positions, and then get a grant for 16 more, we would be in the very unlikely position of being able to hire and train and place 24 positions all at once. We may even miss the opportunity to take full advantage of the grant, because we're behind on our own permanently staffed positions. On the other hand, if we put them into an over-hire mode, and they're successful in reaching their full staffing, or even beyond, then they're in a perfect position, come September, to take advantage of the grant, should we get it. If we don't get the grant, since we've given permission to over-hire, we would simply allot the money at that time to fill out those positions up to eight, exactly as this board wants. So I think it's a better strategy than this. And then creating full budgeted positions for departments that have never been able to reach those previous levels due to attrition. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir. A few years ago, I was a liaison for Fire and Rescue. And one of the issues dealing with Fire and Rescue was not to have a year-by-year situation, but to lay out a multi-year situation. And I think that's what we're going to do. We're going to have a multi-year game plan. Chief Mishek is laying out a ten-year plan on what is needed in this county for Fire and Rescue. That's probably going to mean that we're going to need to hire eight new firefighters a year for probably the next six or seven years. This county is growing someplace in the neighborhood of 1,500 to 2,000 people per year. That's significant. The call volume has gone up, and that's significant. So, from my perspective, we need to put that into a budget that we expect to do. The Safer Grant is a good situation. That Safer Grant could be used for Station 22. Station 22 is going to require additional personnel when it comes on board, or if it comes on board, in three years. That does not alleviate the need that most people in this county are going to need additional staff at the other stations. In Greenwood, where I am, there's four. It needs to go to six. There are other stations that have two that need to go to six. There are other stations that have two that need to go to four. So, I look at the Safer Grant, Mr. Ludwig, as a funding source for that Station 22, but we still have the need for increasing staff across the board for a growing population. So, for that reason, I'm not keen on that. One other comment, Mr. Ludwig, and that would be that I've had a conversation with Mr. Ballhofer, and there are some positions in the county that are authorized but not appropriated. And we're going to go through an HR and go through those positions that are not filled but have been authorized and say, unless we're willing to put dollars into them, we just won't consider them to be there. So, I think that will address some of the issues that you have on the over-hiring. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? I'd like to answer Mr. Dunn and argue that the amendment is more consistent with the county plan than the original motion. If we... If we assign a permanent eight additional positions and then get the Safer Grant, we'll be very different from the plan to hire eight per year. We'll be looking at 24 positions almost immediately, which I don't believe we'll be able to fill. If we over-hire instead, the county would have the authority to hire those positions exactly as we want at eight per year, assuming the Safer Grant is not granted. But... But we'll also be in a position to utilize the Safer Grant immediately, or at least eight of those 16 positions if we do get it. So, I think the amendment is exactly in tune with where we're at. I think we'll be in a very difficult position should we get the grant if we're behind not only our attrited positions that are empty now, but eight more positions that we haven't been able to fill. So, I disagree that the amendment is inconsistent with the plan. I think it's a better approach to the plan, in fact. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. I'm sorry. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Nay. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Chair votes no, motion fails. Your third. Third motion, yes, sir. The third motion was, we didn't have a chance to have this discussion earlier because it was killed, is the 5% COLA across the board for appropriation of funds to the school division. Therefore, I would desire to see a reduction to the appropriated funds for the school division of $2 million. There ends my motion. Okay. Three, two, one. Your third. Second. Your second? Yes, sir. My second motion. The second motion is a second. Hearing none? I'll second. I'll try to keep up, please. Well, sir. Second? My apologies. We had a discussion before that several members of the board were unclear on whether 5% represents an increase or a decrease. Supervisor Slaughter had thought that perhaps it was an increase. Well. Supervisor Graber put a dollar figure on it. That was what we were missing, but... what we were missing before very good thank you thank you sir all right and I didn't hear the second yes okay supervisor Ludwig thank you discussion anyone hearing none supervisor Ludwig I supervisor slaughter yeah supervisor Wells supervisor done supervisor Gaber I supervisor Lockridge aye chair votes no no motion fails your fourth fourth the allocations of funds for the fourth for the second ambulance while I believe it's needed I think there's an opportunity here to we that we can standardize some equipment and do the right thing in our fire rescue departments there's been much discussion including many on this board having stated a connection that there's a need for standardization of equipment we can do that tonight if we were to do things properly I'd like to propose that we eliminate engine 22 from our budget this evening and in its place put an engine tanker 22 combination piece an engine tanker 21 combination piece and still have the second ambulance as proposed that is my motion heard the motion is there a second second and the second discussion anyone people the second the second ditρ wiesch we have to get the property down. discussion anyone question around as to if this seems like a sound to you to ask, Chairman? Yes sir. I want to make a general comment that is relevant to this amendment. We've heard a series of amendments voted down but this board seems to be in a hurry to pass the budget this week when we did have another week to consider it and many of these expenditures that we're talking about are recurring expenditures that have been proposed. They're salaries that we would be committing to for multiple years and yet they're being taken out of the capital fund and not of the operational budget. At multiple previous work sessions, several board members including supervisor Dunn also the treasurer, Treasurer Orndorff, have raised that concern that we're committing ourselves to salary increases that we would have to pay for year after year and we are looking at the number of times that we are going to be paying for those increases. And we're looking at the number of times that we are going to be paying for those increases. And we're looking at the number of times that we are going to be paying for those increases. or other recurring costs that we would have to pay for year after year. And I just want this board to consider, I do not believe and I never propose that we should spend and commit ourselves to drain the operational fund on recurring expenses that we can't cover soon, as discussed at the last work session. My preference would have been for over-hires, which is not a continuing commitment, and for capital projects, which are also one-time expenditures, as appropriate for the capital fund. I don't believe we should be committing without serious thought to overhead and recurring costs in every case here without consideration of these concerns, which multiple members of this board had raised before. So, with that comment... I believe Supervisor Graber's amendment before us now is an attempt at saving funds in the capital fund, which we seem to be draining with all these votes today pretty rapidly. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This is just a little follow-up on this motion. As Supervisor Ludwig has stated, we are draining the capital fund. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I agree with what has been proposed here today from other folks. I have tried to limit the bleed of that. I want the folks in Frederick County to know that if this budget is passed, as has been presented without these amendments that I've put forth tonight, that you are likely to see a significant tax increase of 10 to 20 percent over the next 18 months to two years. There's a significant drain on the capital fund by what is being proposed. The simple, common-sense solutions that I put forth this evening would minimize the impact of the taxes upon our capital fund. This would be more favorable if there was nottha change in the tailings and the environmental impact、 than would be a feed- scientific material that would help in really centre and enhance the future changing of our wealth and livelihoods. The 정 Yukon drivery, Mr. Chairman, wasn't that injecting the fuel from the fact that we were still keeping the pickup gas through and see this츠 is actually san đi But a time-serving is the... a time-serving of water oil. The United States should have it� ayudar the standardization within our ranks. Tonight's the opportunity to do that. This is my understanding, to my understanding, is the first time in the county's history that we have ever purchased brand new fire apparatus and I think it is to be commended. But I also think we need to do so smartly, intelligently, and have a uniform purchasing of apparatus. You go to any large-scale county that has done this for a while, I'm going to use Arlington County for an example, they have a standard piece of apparatus across the board. That's not the case here. When we have a person that drops into one station to work the apparatus he drives there will be completely different on most occasions than the apparatus from the station that he just left, or she. If we buy an engine tanker combination that is capable of doing both functions, it does several things for us. The first thing that it does is it helps us meet our ISO rating. What does that mean? It means that it's a high performance operator, but that doesn't mean that we can't sell our немного to the state. Does that mean 4,000 gallons on the scene of a structure fire within a set parameter time frame, usually within a little over eight minutes, will help you lower your ISO rating? A 1,000-gallon engine, while it is useful, I have sat on the scene in Frederick County on many occasions out of water and the fire continues to blaze. An engine tanker combination will allow our first arriving responders to have 2,000 or, as in Middletown's case, 2,500 gallons of water to make a good fire attack. And if the apparatus is needed to function as a tanker, it is more than capable to do so. I've opened up to this board the opportunity that anyone who so desires should go look at Middletown's tanker. I did speak with the fire chief in Middletown about it. To my knowledge, there were two other folks who went to look at it. That was Supervisor Ludwig and Supervisor Lockridge. I don't see how we can have a vote on this this evening without other folks even having a grasp of what we're discussing, what we're talking about this evening. It's your motion. So I understand that. That's why I'm making the motion. I'm frustrated to think that we're going to have folks vote on this that haven't looked at and had these discussions. But if we're going to keep spending money on all these different things, there's a cost that comes with it. And your taxes, my friends, there are four people that have been voting this evening. Your taxes are going to increase because of those votes. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Graber, you made the comment to replace. Engine with a engine tanker. After you and I talked yesterday, I had a conversation with the following gentleman. One was Chief Don Jackson is the chief of the working group for all of the 11 stations. A long conversation with him on this issue. From his professional opinion, he thinks that having a tanker and an engine as separate entities is a better situation for the county as a whole. That comes from the staff of the 11 stations. The chiefs. That's their consensus. But a conversation with the Middletown chief Mark Dalton yesterday. So I did not visit that station, but I did talk to Mr. Dalton. They bought that vehicle that is there in that station in 2012, I believe, as a need. If he had to do it another make another purchase, he told me last night. Absolutely not. That was the quote. He is not looking to go and have another engine tanker. The thought process is that the engine, the tanker can go where there's a fire. There's another engine there. There's another engine there for suppression. If both can go, that's fine. But the professional staff here in the county are all saying no. Mr. Mischak said the same thing. So when you take a look at the professional staff that's here, and I know you're good at this too, there seems to be an overwhelming consensus not to go that route. I do agree with you on the standardization. If you have a fire engine, have it consistent across the board. But to replace those engines with a tanker, engine tanker is not, I think, in the best interest of the county. Further discussion? Anyone? The motion, Supervisor Lockridge. All right. We are voting on his amendment. The amendment. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Nay. Supervisor Slaughter. Nay. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes no. Motion. Fails. Go back to Supervisor Slaughter's motion. Yes, sir. Thank you. So to each of you who are residents of Frederick County, I just would like you to know, there are four supervisors up here that have voted consecutively to abandon the opportunity to save some of the funds in our capital fund. If our capital fund is depleted next year to continue... If our capital fund is depleted next year to continue to maintain some of these, it will very likely be nearly depleted, you will see a significant tax increase of likely 10 to 12% to maintain those items that is being voted on this evening. That doesn't include any additional items that might occur next year, such as a renovation to Sarandow High School, which there are some needs there. It doesn't include a fourth high school if this board should choose to vote down that way. It doesn't include an aquatic center or anything else. Simply to fund what is being requested today. I'd like for you as constituents to know, I have been a long advocate for 51 cents in balanced spending coming out of our capital fund that we could sustain. The budget that is presented this evening does not do that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Back to Supervisor Slaughter's motion. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Are we in discussion on this still? On what? On Supervisor... Supervisor Slaughter's motion. We are. If I may comment. Please. Thank you. I'd like to speak to the residents of Shawnee and also to the county at large. We have two responsibilities up here. To protect taxpayers against paying too much tax. And secondly, to spend money that is raised through taxes wisely. I was an advocate also of the 51 cent tax rate so that we don't... We don't... We don't... As a responsible measure on the first matter, had we gone with the 61 cent tax rate that four members of this board had voted to advertise, that would have been, we are told by the treasure, a 24% increase on real property taxes on people's homes, on top of 20-some percent two years ago. So compounding the two, if you do the math with proper compounding, you would get a 50% or more increase. On home ownership. On home property taxes over those two periods of assessments. So I thought that was too much, especially when the county has more than enough reserve funds, and I thought the responsible move was a 51 cent tax rate. I'm pleased to see that that seems to be what we're voting on now. However, the other half of that is spending. If we are going to keep taxes low, or at least not increasing precipitously, then we have to adopt a responsible budget that doesn't overspend or commit us to things that would drain the capital fund and put us in a tax crunch just two years from now. That's why some of us had done research on specific items. As requested during work sessions, you all might not have watched, all spring, to look for items where we could save money, or at least posture ourselves to be in a position, to have... To invest in a budget that is really helpful. That's quite a long sentence, isn't it? That's a long sentence, isn't it? That's a long one. That's a long one. Well, I am going to pass this on to our next question. Yeah, it is. Thanks. That's a great question. Thank you. Thank you. So that's for my conclusion. Thank you. defensible budget that we can spend against in the long run. I think unfortunately that by throwing all these positions in against the capital fund that Supervisor Graber is correct. We're giving every dollar as requested but we are taking it out of the capital fund. I just don't see how that's going to be sustainable. Ms. Schiffler showed us at the last work session and the session before, one of the two if not both, that the capital fund would be depleted in about two years. Maybe that was Mr. Balhofer, the administrator. I don't think we should be on a course to be in a crunch within two years. I would rather have seen these amendments or others proposed by supervisors that put us on a sustainable course. I implore the supervisors today, you can vote no on this motion and effectively continue the discussion for another week which accomplishes two things. It can put us on a budget plan that we can all agree, maybe unanimously, is sustainable and b it would also allow Supervisor Lockridge to have a week to research this and to make a more informed vote. I know that I wouldn't have wanted to have to vote on a matter so weighty the same day I was sworn in. Thank you. Further discussion? No. Any discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I would like to make an amendment to Mrs. Slaughter's motion. The amendment is as follows. I would like to use, well I'll put a preface up there first. The school is meant to take a bond of about $25 million to cover James Wood renovations and Indian Hollow renovations next month. Instead of having that $25 million bond, I would like to make a motion to do the following. Use $5 million from the capital fund to cover the $25 million bond to cover the $25 million from the capital fund for the renovation of James Wood and Indian Hollow renovation instead of borrowing an additional $5 million. That's my motion. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. This is discussion time. Just to put preference to the last motion that was made in thought by Mr. Dunn. Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion to the state to roll out a process on further expenditures of the county. I made a motion when we were renovating those two schools that we take the money out of the capital fund to completely renovate Indian Hollow Elementary School so that we didn't have to borrow money, the $11 to $12 million that was going to be required there, so that we would not have to pay this 5 percent interest on that school. I was defeated on a six to one vote. While I understand where Supervisor Dunn's comments stem from and I understand the fiscal responsibility that that does include. It is a wise decision moving forward. I could not support that because of how deeply we are depleting the capital fund with this year's budget. Had we not been depleting the capital fund so deeply, I would have firmly been in support of Supervisor Dunn's comments. In fact, I would have wanted to add it to it for the entire amount of the Indian Hollow renovation project and save us that 5% interest. It is a good measure, however, with, like I say, with what is presented. I hate to see what that would do to the capital fund should we have a severe recession or should we have a severe economic downturn in the months to come. So therefore, I concur with Supervisor Ludwig's comments previously that we are on a crash course or collision course for a massive tax increase if this is passed as presented. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to show everyone here the chart that we're talking about. Mr. Varner? Relevant to the motion? Yes, it's relevant to the motion. Relevant to the motion. So what you see here is the capital fund's fund balance of $36 million now. And as you can see in FY24, we are going to use $24 million of that. In the highlighted areas of ongoing annual capital expenses and transportation, those two items alone are $10 million. The county is expected to have approximately $8 million left over at the end of the year, and that on average has been the case. So if you look at this chart in FY25, or FY26, one of those two years, we're going to run into a significant financial situation. Those that are saying we should not go and pull money from the capital fund, I agree. But two of those items are ongoing items that should be in an operational budget, not into a capital fund. One of them is transportation. In that transportation fund, which Mr. Graber has strongly sought, and others have too, the purpose for that money is we have a growing population with roads that need to be repaired, roads that need to be expanded. If the county will put up 20% under the smart scale situation, then we get state money. If we do not have that money, we don't. So when you take a look at this situation in the next year or two, the question is, how do we go and produce the revenue to do what we need to do? Next year, the county costs will increase, just because of inflation. Next year, the county costs will increase because of new hires. This is a statement of fact. There have been people on this board that have wanted a revenue neutral rate, which is what we're going to have right now, the 51 cents this year. But next year, when some people are gone, the question is, how do you solve this problem? So I'm asking all of you, how do you solve it? I've made three suggestions. One has been impact fees. One has been to go and to have impact fees is one option. You can have a real estate tax increase, which is another option, which I'm not keen on, because I can't sell my extra bedroom. You can have businesses come into this county, such as bioscience, advanced technology companies, data centers that generate revenue. Or you cut expenses. But something has to give. And collectively, the supervisors here, and the county, and the school board need to collectively come together and work and say, fine, what do we need to do to solve a problem? Dr. Hummer is advocating for a budget, which he has just come into late. It's a budget that he has to work with. That's a 20% increase. There are other areas that are an increase here that we need to address. So those on the board here that are saying you're going to have a tax increase, Mr. Ludwig, Mr. Graver, Mr. Chairman, we all have to get together and say, how do we solve the problem? And if you don't want to have a tax increase, which I'm not in favor of, either business has to come in here or other things have to be done. But this is what's going to come down the road in two years, and we need to recognize that. I advertise a 61 cent rate for one purpose, to have a discussion, to go do my homework. And we've done that homework a lot. Other people on this board have said, well, I'm on 51 cents without the discussion. We're arriving at the same point. But before you go and make a conclusion, you do your homework. You gather the data, make a decision, and go forward. And that's what I've done. I think 51 cents will solve the problem for this year. It's not going to solve the problem for next year. Next year's board is going to have to address that issue. But for those to imply that other people that are voting against somebody or voting no on a mission do not care is absolutely wrong. We all care about this county. We're trying to solve a problem. And for those that are going and saying, here's the issue, as that board shows, what is your solution? Don't tell me no. What is your solution to the problem? Lay out the specifics, and then we can talk about it. That's number one. Number two, I gave all of you amendments so you could have a chance to look them over and think about them. There's a courtesy on saying, here's an amendment I'll do. Here's the pros and cons. The amendments that I gave to you stated an amendment, gave a reason for it, and gave you all the opportunity to come back to me and say, fine, I like it or don't like it. So it helps everybody going forward to lay out amendments, let us all look at it, we could have talked about it as a budget situation, et cetera, and go on from there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? No. Supervisor Ludwig? I'd like to answer the questions posed by Supervisor Dunn. He asked us what the answer is. Well, as I stated before, there's two pieces to having a balanced and sustainable budget. There's the income side on taxes, and there's the spending side. The items that Supervisor Dunn enumerated are all involving raising taxes. I think we'd like to see instead suggestions, as have already been proposed at least four times tonight, to save on spending. My personal favorite was overhires, which I think is a good idea. I think it would save the county money, and yet, position us to have every position filled that we're looking for in our plan. So the answer, I believe, should be proposals to save on the spending side rather than raising taxes. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to also respond to the comments that were made by Supervisor Dunn. I appreciate you sharing your comments, Supervisor Dunn, as far as sending the email out, and we did have dialogue about it. There were several things that you said multiple times back when we had our work sessions that you requested from us how to save 1%. And I gave you a scenario on how I could save 1% for the county. What I have yet to hear from you, sir, is how you would cut 1% from the county. I gave you my scenario on how I would do it. You have yet to share with me how you would save even the 1% that you ask us to present or bring to the table. So I would enjoy hearing from you where that 1% is coming from from you. Or was it just blind rhetoric that you were throwing out there at us? This will be short, Mr. Chairman. You made the comment when you sent me a chart that had no numbers on it. It had the miles, but there was no calculation on how you made the savings. That's number one. Number two, I made a comment to all of you. For the county budget, not the school budget, the county budget, which is approximately $119 million, I would like to ask you to give me a statement on that. I would like to ask you to give me a statement on that. One percent of that is $1.1 million. One-tenth of one percent is $100,000 or $119,000. And I know that this county budget, I'm sure we can save $2,000 or $3,000 or $4,000. But as a percentage of the total budget is small. You were the only one, Mr. Graber, to offer that, which is fine. But there were no numbers to back it up. Nobody else made that comment. And so I would say that this current county budget is a pretty good, solid baseline budget. And yes, I know you can fine me $5,000 or $10,000 for that, which is insignificant on a budget of that size. Not that I wouldn't like to have the savings, but that's part of the reason. So from my perspective, the county has done a good job in trying to save money. In addition, the employees per thousand population has gone down, meaning we have the same number of employees that are servicing more citizens. And that's a good number. It's gone down off the top of my head from like 2 point something to a little bit less. The areas we have had to increase have been fire and rescue, EMS, and the sheriff, because of the rising population. But the core outside of that has actually gone down, which means that we've become more efficient. And that's a good thing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Supervisor Slaughter's motion. Supervisor Slaughter. Ludwig. Ludwig. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Supervisor Lockridge. No. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. And the motion is adopted. All right. I don't think we have anything else on our agenda this evening. Vice-Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Who likes to do that. I make a motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. A second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. And adjourned. We thank everyone for their time and attention. Thank you.
