Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-04-02
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=277
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you We can get time with anybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. I checked him at like 4.57. It might have been. I couldn't get back to you. That's fine. We're good. That's fine. I can't wait. I've been called for. Yeah, you should go back to work so you can have more time. You're supposed to be retired. Hey, Bob. If he collapses, you know, give him some CPR because, you know, he's in trouble. He may not make it for the first 15 minutes. I think my certification might have ran out. His wife would probably appreciate any effort, you know, anything better than nothing. Yeah, I think you have to do it. I assume it is still in the lake. And the desk was not in there. So that's what I was looking for. The assumptions could get you in trouble. It's 5.01. I guess we should start. I just got a message. Heather will be about 10 minutes late. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. If you're ready on your end, I think this is all your material. Most of it. So I'm going to go over information. A lot of tonight's going to be linking back to expenses. Pretty much everything you're going to see tonight you have seen before. It's in your books. It's in your handout. So I'm just going to be going over it one more time. So this area, you know, it's different. to read, I wanted to tie up the numbers. This is right from the budget ad. Sometimes it's difficult to figure out how the numbers in the budget ad tie out to what's in your budget workbook under a budget summary. So this is the number when you look at expenditures for the county, $122 million. I move we give Heather five seconds to catch up. Ms. Stings, Heather, you were meant to be here for ten minutes. May I use the bed here, please? This is the first chart, actually, we just started. And it's in the handout. You probably have this. Great, thank you. I was stating earlier that there's really not a lot new in these slides tonight, the stuff we've been going over for the last few months. And in this first slide I showed, and this is the first slide I showed, this is directly from the budget ad that was in the newspaper. And I'm going to tie out that $122 million to the number you see on the budget summary. So once again, going back to the blue book, and you go to the budget summary, and you look at that one column, it always goes to $123 million. This is how you tie that number to the actual budget ad. And if you look at the budget ad, you'll see that it's a little bit different. It's a little bit different. And I'm going to tie these items below the $122 million. So that will tie the two numbers. And I sent that one spreadsheet out, I believe, which the budget summary had that total of that $123 million. And the primary purpose for this is just so you see that the numbers balance. Hang on. Hang on. Just to show you, this is the budget summary of the total page. That $123 million is the total of all the operating costs. So that's where that number comes from when you look at the presentation. Can I go back a second? Could you go back just to the previous slide, please? Mm-hmm. So the $123 million, that represents $123 million. That represents what? Minus $6 million, and you end up with $122 million. And I'm not following that. See, when you look at the expenses, the blue sheet, captured in there are expenses, the transfer to the jail, the transfer to the airport, transfer to the airport capital. Okay. So you have to subtract those out to tie these out because they're listed separately in the budget ad. Whereas in the workshop papers, they're actually added in, the operating costs. So you're saying that the county operational budget expenditures are going to be $122 million? Per the budget ad, correct. The main goal of this is just to show you that those two numbers tie out. All right. Thank you. And here's that same number again in the general fund summary, the $123 million. $123 million. And I was going to stop if anyone had any questions or if they're comfortable going forward with that. Mike, would you touch on the school operating transfer, 119? Back to? One. John, you can move. I'll take the middle call. 118 million, 413 as it compares to the budget ad. So I can answer that. So the 118, 413 is what was presented in January. And then we had an adjustment to that number of like, I don't know, $40,000. That's what I ended up adding. That's what I ended up advertising. And that would reflect the 4.5 million in cuts. So I advertised 113,873. It was the original request from the school before we made those adjustments. Okay. So this general fund summary is not what we advertised. That's correct. Okay. Thank you. And just to jump ahead, this will show you those numbers here. This is the number that was proposed on 310. And this is the number that's in the act. Yeah, he has 113. Correct. Proposed two weeks ago, it's 115. Proposed on 310 was 118, 373,000. That includes that minor change that Cheryl had discussed earlier. So the school first came in the 118,413. They subsequently adjusted it for a smaller amount, which got it to their proposed on 310. This number. And in the county, we put in there a reduction of 4.5 million, which brings it to the budget at 113,873,000. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So once again, the 118 before the 40,000, some odd dollar adjustment plus the 4,500, and that gets you to 113. So I did, I mean, correct, Dr. Homer's been talking about adding 1 million to that, but that's not there. That's correct. And I'm going to go, I'm going to work myself to those numbers. Okay. So I was going to go through, these are the adjustments that have taken place. Over time, you've seen these time and time again. So this is repetitive. These are the adjustments for personnel requests. So these are additional expenditures, like for fire and rescue, we're putting 821,000 commissioners getting 77,000. That's what this is showing. Correct. Correct. So you have a total increase in expenditures, according to this, a 1.6 million for new positions, new positions. Okay. So that's what we're looking at. And then when we put that down to 2,000, that's really a reduction in the college graduation rate. I'm sure there'll be additional student dollars able for that to come in to almost their consideration. You see this here. What I'm pretty sure it's suppose to be over $15 million in general. It has to be a really important increase. This is $15 million For you which truly. . Correct. From the 쌩 Wow, the amount that goes right to $5 million. I do not trust the data, 3.9 is the number you've seen all along, which is the capital expenditures for the county at which they've been moved to pay for them out of the capital fund, 3.9 million. The beginning balance of the capital fund is 36.4 million. That's the Frederick County capital. That's the $7 million transfer to transportation. That's the $4 million transfer for this Frederick County Public Schools capital. This has been consistent throughout. Go back to the slide. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought it was moved. So, Okay, there's the roll over from last year's money coming in, not a million. Okay, go ahead. So, Mr. Chairman, you want to have discussions? We go through each slide. You want to have discussions at the end? We can wait until the end. Keep going. I guess any clarification or short discussion is fine, but I don't want to derail. Okay, that's fine. Go ahead. This is how we come to the expenses to give the total expenses for your budget. Once again, go to the 123 million you see from your budget work papers, budget summary. And to that, you're going to add school operating transfer. It'll be reduced down here. School debt transfer, transportation, debt service, the capital, and the capital. So, you're going to add that to your total expenses. Okay. So, you're going to add that to your total expenses for your budget. Okay. So, you're going to add that to your total expenses. Okay. So, you're going to add that to your total expenses for your budget. And to that, you're going to add the new employees. You get the 279. And then we're going to shift that $7 million in transportation, move it to the capital fund, move the capital to the capital fund, and then reduce that school contribution by 4.5%. Okay. Thank you. million. If you remember in earlier meetings, what we did is we also put in there a reduction of expenses of a half a million dollars, and we took out the Microsoft license at $309,000. And then what you have here is the Board of Supervisors contingency. This is when you go to the 48 cent tax rate is sort of the excess you would have of revenues over expenses, and it's moved to the contingency fund. It gives you your adjusted expenses of the $263 million. That's total expenses for the county. And this gives you your comparisons at the various rates. As you remember, it was advertised at the 48 cents, so that's why you have this here as a balanced number. To balance it, you had that additional $550,000 that was moved to the Board of Supervisors that contingency fund. And then you have the additional $550,000 that was moved to the Board of Supervisors that contingency fund. And then you have the additional $550,000 that was moved to the Board of Supervisors that contingency fund. And then you have the additional $550,000 that was moved to the Board of Supervisors that contingency fund. And then you have the additional $550,000 that was moved to the Board of Supervisors agency. Please, any questions? Go back a slide, I guess. So, debt service, $1.9 million separate from school debt transfer. So, that debt service is county projects and the state government and the city government and the city government are in charge of that. That's I believe that's the other debt, but I'll defer that to Cheryl. And that's an increase in school debt. Then 1.93? Yes. Okay. And the school debt transfer. Aren't these tied together, these two items? So last year we took the school increase out of the capital contingency fund. I don't know if you remember that or not, but like two and a half million. So really we could add those two numbers together. These are together or debt service. It's not my chart. Hold on. It's county debt. I'm sorry. It's county debt. That's what I thought. So for things like previous fire station. Fire stations, et cetera. Yes. We're still paying on the public safety. Millwood. And around Hill. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Chair, can I ask a school question? Sure. Dr. Hummer. Yes, sir. Thank you for being here, sir. Absolutely. You're always convenient in here. Thank you. I have a question for you. This may be too soon to ask this question or not. I'm not sure where you are and if you've completed your budget deliberations or not. But I got an email a couple of days ago about concern about. You know, the metal detectors in the buildings. Yes. Constituent wanting them in the building. Yes. Yes. Will that be able to be handled in this budget that you have or am I getting. And I was going to address that. Please. Okay. And I can address it now because Dr. Hummer and I have discussed it. Okay. They're going to bring that as a separate issue because of the amount of the funding. It's I think he'll correct me if I'm wrong. Approximately 150,000. Okay. They may have some rollover accounts. They are going to bring that to the finance committee as a separate funding feature since we're so late in this. Budget. Okay. Thank you. And what was the total again? It's approximately 850,000. That would be for the whole system. That's for the whole system. I believe three schools have it. So right now we have four schools that have it and this is to add to the additional schools and we're working on some more grants to get some more added as well. So with the 850 that's with not including the four schools as well as some grant funding that will go towards this as well. Our plan was to initially roll this out and phase it in. But of course with the recent situation, we need to accelerate this and we are. We're working with Mr. Bohoffer as well as rollover dollars to make this happen sooner rather than later. Very, very important to us. My understanding was the existing equipment that's being used is not very advanced as far as imaging. It's simply a metal detector. It's pretty advanced. I mean, you can come by. We can show you how it's working. Also keep in mind, this is another layer. We have other safety protocols and procedures in place. We're also taking a look at adding on some more layers as well because safety is important. So this is just one more additional layer, but it's pretty advanced equipment. I'm more than happy to. Bring any of you through the device. If you'd like me to do that, just let me know. I'll set up a time at one of our high schools. So is the proposed equipment equivalent to the same equipment? It's yes, sir. Same one. It's the Chaya. Yes, sir. Does it help if we go ahead and advance the 850,000 since we have these capital funds sitting here? Does that help expedite this process for the detectors? Yeah, I mean, we can get on it right away. It does help, but I also think you also need to do the combination because they have rollover funds, et cetera, to see how much they're available. We could use the rollover funds to offset the capital funds. It would seem to me that this issue is necessary quicker than some of these other capital things. So if we could advance those funds ahead of this budget process since we have these funds here, and it would enhance the security of the system. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I understand you. Um I like to read. You definitely aggressive tool. It is right. I got we're standing for just 15 minutes. Very down to get him to go. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, we would greatly appreciate that gesture. Isn't there a tradeoff in different options? We're talking multilayer security, and I know there's different technologies possible in this equipment. So I've heard words tradeoff and advance, and I don't know what that means for the resolution. Does that mean you're supplanting it, or does that mean you are? It would be coming back here to, say, less school capital, where it says $4 million, to determine what that amount is they need to add to their rollover and increase this transfer from capital fund by that amount. So I'm increasing that $4 million by $850,000? They don't need the full $850,000. I would have to talk to Dr. Hunger and figure out what amount they need to go with their rollover to cover the total cost. So that would... Well, I still think you could make... Go ahead and advance it out of the $4 million. I know it's ahead of time. So you're not changing it? And then have the rollover go back to offset the capital that we're approving in this $4 million. So you're keeping the appropriation of $4, you're advancing it ahead of another project, and then when your rollover comes in in September, you can use that for whatever project you had in the beginning. So you would increase this number now then to $4.8... $4,850,000 in your capital fund? No, that's not what she just said. What I'm saying is... Is you go ahead and advance the $850,000. And then when you do the rollover from your year-end numbers, it would go back to offset this... It would go back in the capital fund? Isn't that how you would handle it, Cheryl? I'll handle it however you want. Are you increasing that $4 million appropriation by $850,000, or are you saying using a project that's in the $4 million and then replace it with your rollover? That's what I'm saying. So you're saying B. So keep it at $4 million. So they would remove one of their projects out of the $4 million to cover the cost. Then when you put the $850,000 back, they can still go forward with the $4 million in projects. I don't want to reduce their capital contribution in net, but I think we could go ahead and use those funds out of our capital fund. Does that make sense? Either way it works, it's really an option for the board. If you stay with the $4 million, then they could come back and use the $850,000. If you stay with the $850,000, then they could come back and use the $850,000 to pay for some of those other projects that the $4 million was going to pay for. I think the playground. Or you could add $850,000 to this, and it would be $4,850,000 and then replace it later. Either way works. So we'll have to decide that. So when you get that resolution next week, it'll be what you want it to be. I think the resolution stays at $4 million. Okay. We have the capital fund money sitting there unobligated. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. To increase, right, to help us with the record there with the required bonus. And then you lay out where, we stay have to wait for a carefulク to an email. Right. at the end of the day, the security of the kids is important. So $850,000 is $850,000. Whatever product comes out of it, all we need to know is, do we need to give $850,000 more to do what we need to do? If you've already obligated to $4 million, then... It's really, either way accomplishes it. Does the board want to use, add the $850,000 to the $4 million, or just give the $4 million, let them buy it out of that, and then adjust that amount at a later date? I think we already have a capital fund that has, what was the number? Let's take the $850,000 out of it and let the schools move forward with this project. Leave the $4 million alone. Once year-end books are going, then we take whatever it is, if it's $850,000, and put it back into the capital fund to offset whatever they needed. We're at a point where we know we need it. The schools need it. Exactly. I just have to disagree with that. I don't... I haven't seen any proposal how this works with the rest of our security in the system. I haven't even received anything that suggests a change in the threat posture to our schools from what we've had over the years. I've seen one report of one incident. One report of one incident? I'd hate to throw out a million dollars that may or may not work. And we have doors open, kids entering and exiting the school every hour of every day to and from recess, to and from sports. I mean, is... I'd like to hear... I haven't heard anything from the sheriff and the SROs about how they would integrate this and how much they think it would help. There are a lot of other holes in systems in schools. Windows, doors... I mean, I can respond to all that, Mr. Chair, if you'd like me to. Um, we have taken a large step of making safety and security, a priority for our students and our community. When I first came to Frederick County, we didn't even have a department that oversaw safety and security, it was shared amongst three people. And that was very stressful when I first came because we... there was a lot of structures and procedures that we were dividing amongst numerous people and that's when mistakes happened. So we have allocated a position that we found within our current positions and they have overseen the safety and security and security of our schools. And that's when we started to look at the safety and security of our buildings, which has added everything that you have mentioned. We had antiquated locks on our doors that was not safe for our teachers. So, for example, if there was an intruder or if there was a serious situation where they had to close the door quickly and lock the door, they had to literally go outside the door, use their key to lock it, and close the door. Now we have the anti-lock doors where all you have to do is hit a button, close the door, and it's locked. Our schools did not have that before. And now they do. We have replaced windows. We've replaced entire doors at one of our elementary schools that... I don't know why it was installed, but it had a latch that all you had to do was hit that latch, which kept the door ajar and people were accidentally hitting that latch and it was accidentally leaving the door open. We replaced all of those doors and that was due to having more oversight. We have a phenomenal sheriff's office and the relationship that we have with them is outstanding. We are very lucky to have SROs in all of our schools. We partner with them with all of these structures. As a matter of fact, when we were searching for which device to use, they came with us. And we searched Loudoun, Prince William, Louisa to see which device would best fit Frederick County, and this is the best device for us. Our plan all along was to add these devices as another layer to all of our schools, and yes, it was one incident, but it was a significant and traumatic incident that could have been a lot worse. This was a loaded weapon that was in a child's book bag. That is one weapon too many that is in our schools. And with these devices that we've added to our high schools, not only does it add an additional layer, but it adds an additional optic that we take this seriously and you are not going to bring weapons into our schools. One of the things that keeps me up at night is there is no fail proof. Okay. Okay. So, we have a protocol that we can put in place to prevent these things from happening. We can get closer to that, but there's nothing that we can install that's going to be 100%. But the closer we can get to that, the more safe and the more investment that we have in our students to keep them safe. So, these devices do work, and it is a layer that we've invested in that our school board supports, and they support us moving to each school and installing these devices. I appreciate all the fixes and improvements you've made. This one incident that occurred, there's no indication from what I've seen, correct me if I'm wrong, that the child intended to use it. He brought it to show or... Still had it on him and it could have went off and somebody could have gotten hurt. Right. So, a million dollars to prevent a potential accident. But meanwhile, we're building schools with open classrooms to each other, large window spaces that are not bulletproof from hallways. There's a lot of questions I have about security. I worry more about a shooter getting into our schools. Okay. I worry more about a shooter getting into our schools. Okay. I worry more about a shooter getting into our schools. And doing what we can to stop that rather than an accident. I mean, we're about to see our state of our capital fund. This chart we got given to review, just a couple of charts down, is a lot worse than what we saw a few weeks ago. So, I just thought before we invested a million dollars, almost a million dollars somewhere, we would hear from the sheriff or the SROs. We'd hear about them weighing all these different potential risks. Supervisor, what else? This is a, we're talking about something that we can do later. We don't have to do that tonight. And I agree with you. I think there's more study behind it. So, there's a consensus. A lot of folks like it. And there's some questions about it. Let's get the budget done. And we can come back to this after we get the budget, after we vote and do all that. We can come back and talk about that. Dr. Hummer can bring it back. And it can be done. It can come out the same way it does now. We don't have to do it tonight. My just thought was if we were having a lot of incidents along that accident path, or we had some sign that there was a community in Frederick County of students that had ill intent in mind, that I wouldn't understand the emergency to rush. But my take is I don't see that. I'd like to finish this budget. Mr. Hummer. I mean, if we gave you 850 today, you would not even implement. You have some money already to start the process. If we come back to you in two weeks or three weeks, does it make a significant difference? No. I mean, the quicker the better. But it can wait. So, your points are done. Yes. So, they're not going to be installed before the end of the school year, right? They take time to apply. We're probably going to move on the one that we are using the grant dollars. I mean, of course, the more money that we receive up front, we'll be able to do that. But to Mr. Dunn's point, we're not installing them tomorrow. We have to order them. We have to have them delivered. We have to do training because we also don't want to install these hastily. So there is going to be a process to this. But the quicker that we can move on purchasing them and start the training, the quicker we can have them implemented. But yes, to your point, they're not going to be installed tomorrow. They're not going to be installed next week. But the quicker we can get to that, the better off we're going to be. I mean, my goal is hopefully we can have these all installed by the beginning of next year. So that would be my goal. And my thought is just if there's an imminent threat, by all means, we need to rush. And if it's improving our generalization. I mean, I think that's a good point. I mean, I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. But if we're going to have a general security posture, we need to think a little bit about it given I think we have other kinds of threats too. Sure. Mr. Chair, I don't have a vote or say, but I do. Dr. Hammer was probably on the other end of my strong inclination to increase it. So I appreciate what the schools have done over the past few years. I would not part. It's on the tail end of kind of this moving forward and don't exactly know what systems are there now. But one thing that I think the board should be aware of too, and would lean on the school board and Dr. Hammer's thoughts around the system and he shared that they've worked with the sheriff's office. But I do know there were different calibers of systems. And with the one that I'm understanding that we currently have, it's not kind of a roll through. So I think that's something to think about as individuals are able to roll through and identify exactly where it is on the person, suspected devices that may cost a little more than the 850. I think this is a big one. It's a big one. And I think that's something that we can take into consideration and see if we can do something about it. But I think the other thing that I'm seeing is that the school board is probably not really in the position to consider the system as a kind of a mid tier option. And so the board may consider it maybe a higher tier option. I think the school board's probably coming at back with a more realistic request. But that is something that I think this board should consider is that there is a higher tier option that would, in my opinion, provide a greater level of security. So that may have been what I heard, not from you, but that there's other kinds of equipment. And if it's better in the sense of getting kids through more speedily, it's better for the school or if it has better resolutions, you are more likely to find something. And so don't want to insert again. I know there's other conversation, but I just want the board to be aware that there may be a desire to have a greater amount to fully create a greater level of security as well. I imagine you've looked at this before as chair of the school board or elsewhere. I would. So I appreciate you. I would come back with probably a greater recommendation. I think the school board is doing what they think is realistic to provide a more expeditious solution. So is it upgradable? In other words, if you spent $850,000 now, can that be turned into the higher level equipment or it's a different purchase, right? Then we're locked in. We've spent money on one system without considering another. If I may. When we were looking at these types of devices, we tried to make sure that we were lookingushima Seeing that to see what they look like, It really stratified the student individuals initially who got on zich and deemed resourcefulness was the deciduous decision of the system going to a setting where you don't want to have them. I think this conflict is very serious. This happens. It's been, it's not always for everyone. And that's what it's all about, because it's a forecast system. So if we could look at what明 It's not always just about this device, training. advanced equipment that we add, the more intrusive that's going to be, which is going to cause for longer wait time for kids to get in and out of the school. So if the board is willing, our board and your board is willing to pay that additional money, sure, I mean, we'll advance that and increase that, but we also have to think through the logistics of where these students, I mean, we're going into a school setting, so it's going to impact the scheduling. So that's one of the things that we'll have to definitely consider and take a look at. Mr. Chair, I'm very familiar with both systems and, you know, to Supervisor Well's point, you know, let's focus on the budget, but I just don't want this kicked down the road. I want to make sure we work on it sooner than later. So the schools that originally come with the proposal to bring it to finance and then to the board so we could hear, ask questions of the sheriff and the SROs or any questions we might have, and were they going to bring that soon? Superintendent, were they going to bring that to finance next month? I mean, or the month after? In our discussions, it was to bring it at the very next meeting to the finance board. Okay. And I would encourage not waiting if there is a security concern they want us, I just don't want to rush and then we've spent money and bought and then regret later that we could have had something better. Not questioning, you know, your thinking, but I want to hear your thinking and what the SROs think as well. Yes, sir. I appreciate that. I agree. Mr. Chairman? Can we get back to the budget? I mean, we have an hour to go before this. I'll be brief. You could take it as an individual item, add it to your agenda next week and take it out, fund balance and move forward and the board vote on it. That's what I'm hearing around the table. Well, then we're going to have to add a lot of information. I guess I want to learn a lot about the security of our schools. Okay. And where we're going with these added layers and improvements. I don't know if we can handle that at one meeting. Does it require a public hearing? No. We've already got a budget. We don't think we've had a hearing, but we're adjusting it by quite a bit. We do that, I guess, all the time. So the capital fund and the resolution is an automatic appropriation with funds from the previous year that are left over. So you don't even need an appropriation. You just need an approval. Okay. We do need to get on with the presentation. I don't want to be dismissive of the suggestion that's been made. We should go around from maybe a consensus on how we want to handle it. We could take it up and finance as the school's originally planned. We could add it to the meeting next week or we could try and give authority right away. I usually go last, but I'll start. I'd like to take it to finance and have time to visit with the sheriff and the SROs. If you all agree that those are three options we've discussed so far, we can always revisit if we have time at the end of this work session. That would be mine of those three. I think what the treasurer suggested would be what I think we should move it forward as quickly as possible. And I don't want to belabor it because I know we're trying to get through the budget. But for me, this is extremely important with the safety of our students. Supervisor Walz? I don't think it really makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. I don't think it makes sense. It makes a big difference either way. You're going to get it done. It's not going to get kicked down the road. The superintendent's going to bring it before us. It's always good to have more backup information than less information. So that makes no difference, either way. Supervisor Walz? I'm inclined to wait for one month. One month. Here's why. Brandon makes some comments about types of items. I'd like to see... Brandon makes some comments about types of security, walkthrough, et cetera. I'd like to see the data. Then when you make the decision on what you're going to get here with the school board, you and the sheriff says is most appropriate. It might be $850. It might be more, but I'd like to see what you're going to, what works, okay, and what the tradeoff is. So for waiting one month, if we can get that information, that's probably where I'm at. Like Josh said, you want some data, make a decision, get the data, make a decision, and you make a decision on that. This was a verbal comment of $850. You don't know where you're getting it. So obviously, what do you get for $850? What do you get for a million? Like Brandon said, higher security. See what the school says. Yes, we'll support this, but tell me what your options are. And if you have the $850, you have one out of 1,000 get through, and you spend a million, you only have one out of 3,000 get through, that type of thing. So that's the type of analysis I'd like to see before I make a financial decision. Are we able to bring other data, and is it soon enough next week for the finance meeting to bring other data that's going to be available to us? Is that what Brandon's talking about? Maybe an upgrade to the $850? When's the next finance meeting scheduled? 16th. 16th. 16th. I'm inclined to go bring it in front of the finance committee. And then we have a meeting one week after that. We can take it up as early as the 23rd of April if we pass it through finance. And that gives the sheriff or the schools time to come and give us information. I'm in the turn. I like the turn. Let's support that. Which is next week? So we're kind of split. Let's see. I would say go through finance and get some more data. Make sure we know what we're getting and what equipment. One week is not going to... We can't install them by next week anyways, or even two weeks. So I'm good with getting more data, getting the SRV, getting the SOROs involved, or sheriff. Finance works for me. And if we... So we have one, two. I think Clay and yours was bringing it to finance? Yes. And I would certainly be willing, and you all have the right anyway, that whatever package goes to finance, we can distribute it to the whole board so you all get to see what's coming to finance. Seems like everybody's very interested in that. We get to see it as soon as it's assembled. Thank you. Three finance. At least two or three that want to do it next week. I'm not sure. Does anyone count four one way or the other? Supervisor Wells, you might be a deciding vote. I don't get consensus on this. Do finance and we're done. Yeah, but then you just... You changed yours to finance, right? No, I didn't change it. I said, yeah, I have four finance. Four finance. Okay, so we'll go that route. But we'll take it up at the next finance meeting. We want to hear from the sheriff as well as the superiors. schools, their recommendation and the equipment that they're... And I'd like to be able to ask questions if they come up about security in general at the schools, if there's any other weak points they're going to want to address in the near future. So if we do fund whatever it is, $850,000, $900,000, coming out of capital fund? That probably would be a good idea. I was suggesting if we expedite it, we can take it out of capital fund, but they were going to roll over funds back, which could offset whatever we take out of capital fund. That's what I was suggesting. Okay. You know, I mean, we're cutting a budget by a million dollars, the school's budget, and then we're putting $850,000 back in the budget. Let's get this budget done. Let's figure out what our money is. If you need a million dollars... If you need a million dollars for something really important, maybe it's more important than the security system at this time. And security is important, I understand, but I'm... Mr. Lario has been in school systems, and I've been in school systems, and I've been in office buildings, and there's no perfect world. You just... You can't stop everything. So you can do the best you can. I think we need time to look at it. Can we continue the budget? I guess we should go on. I'll ask one more question. Dr. Harmer, are you able to make the finance meeting? Just edit it to my calendar. I will make it work. Awesome. I will be there. Just trying to reestablish my place. I think we covered this. Once again, just to point out here, to balance it, you've got the $554,000 for the supervisor contingency, which really is your excess of your revenues over expenditures at the $0.48 tax rate. Quick question on this chart. So it used to show a positive $504,000 on the $0.48 scenario, and you put that... Did you adjust the other scenarios as well by $554,000? This is all updated based on moving the excess into the contingency so that it comes to a balance. But the last chart you just had, the comparison at various rates chart, this one that you just had, so the $0.48 is now showing zero. Zero. Zero. Because you moved the $554,000 to your contingency. Did you move the $554,000 to contingency in the other columns as well? No, because I didn't need to to balance the budget. The only reason I did this is because before I did that, you would have seen that the positive balance at $554,000. Right. But you didn't adjust them all. Right. So we have little apples to oranges. If someone wants to propose a different tax rate, wouldn't... Yes. It's not available and... It doesn't exist in the... It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. Right. Mike, on the rollover. Okay. The $9 million rollover we talked about the other day. We had other higher rollovers years before. We're projecting, based on all the things that finance has done, a $9 million, maybe more. Would you throw that figure out there and just give us some ideas? Perfect timing. Okay. Got it. And I know Cheryl and I, we've had a lot of discussions. What's the safe number on the $9 million? And Cheryl, if I'm wrong, last year it was significantly more. It was. But we don't expect that in the future. In our discussions, I think you feel and I feel that $9 million is a safe conservative figure if you go in there with the $9 million, even though it may be more, spacing it out over the five years. It's hard to gauge. I mean, you have a windfall from your real estate. You've got a shortage in your personal property. You're not going to make revenue projections in your sales tax. Your savings is going to be on the expense side. So it's the last two years that have been higher? And before that, not quite so much? It was higher because your budget amounts were catching up. You budgeted conservatively for so long. And then you had these windfalls that you budgeted less revenue and you had much more revenue. And we're not in that position now. Not much more than that. So you don't expect the real revenue? I think that's why he reduced it to $9 million instead of, I think it was like $17 million. $17 million was last year. If you remember the last meeting workshop, I put $12 million. And some people were like, wow, that's too high of an estimate. So I dropped it back to $9 because I think that's a more, I think everyone's more comfortable with that estimate or projection. It's not even an estimate. Projection. I don't want to belabor it. I guess I'm not sure I understand what slack has been taken up so that you wouldn't expect it to be. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I don't want to belabor it. I realize it can hop all over the place. But if there's some systemic slack that's gone, you wouldn't see it being $17 million. I can give you one example. We know that the personal property tax estimate is from last year. So it will go down by that overestimate of the personal property tax. So that will be one adjustment. And sometimes if you start narrowing down and get it closer on your expenses, your roller will be less. Cheryl, do you have any? Yes, please. Yes, please. Yes, please. Yes, please. The closed-year roller will be attributed to expenditure savings. I think that your windfall is from revenue, maybe interest. But you know it's not in personal property. You're going to have a little bit of real estate because in June you're collecting at a different rate and a different assessment. It's not really sales. So I think that. So expenditure savings is mostly unfilled positions, right? It's in labor. Usually. Correct. If it's a capital and we haven't cut a purchase order, or we have cut a purchase order, those are. Those will be deducted before you get to that 9 million. And is the last couple of years is most of the rollover from revenue? It's both. It's been pretty equal. Expenditure savings. Has it been mostly schools unfilled positions? I mean, I know we have sheriff and. No. This is all county. The unfilled positions. Okay. So our roller, the 17 million wouldn't have included the schools because I wouldn't have done that until after they came back and asked. So, you know, the funds to be reappropriated. So those are counting. And I would venture to guess and Cheryl correct me if I'm wrong is the rollover of unfilled positions is probably going to be the most consistent number because those percentages are fairly consistent year by year. So the fire and rescue system have eight more to hire, right? So those are more positions that hopefully they can buy for them. But. That's more potential for rollover if they can't. We always are missing what social services and other ones. We have typically are missing people. I don't know what the third one would be. Sheriff. That has a fairly significant amount dollar wise. Well, again, we could put 912 or 17. I'm not sure what the number is going to be. I'm just trying to understand the reason for thinking that it'll drop back down. But I guess we're all guessing to some degree. That's correct. And that's why it's always risky even introducing this number. But it's nice to know you have an idea. It's probably the best way to look into your future. And obviously on this chart, the big number put in there, it makes a big difference. You know, I hate to use the cliche, the elephant in the room when you look at these is going to be in the 28, 29. And then the last one is the number. And I think that's the bottom line in year 30 when you start getting hit with that significant increase in debt service because of the three projects in the schools. So the bottom line on this chart is much worse than the same chart you showed us at the last work session. Yeah, I had. And that's is that entirely because of the school debts now added in? I don't think it was there before. At least when I go back, I don't find it. And the last chart, one of the I included the capital for fire, which I took out of this. And I also have had 12 million each year as a rollover. I have made through it but nothing's ever taken note of it. Do we have into 120. Beyond that? Yeah. And back to. She included. So if it was a road trip, it doesn't mean it was not well handled. To put it a little cakey, most of the money would have have been funded by the ethical money for anything. Actually, there do have one of the most important financial and financial scholars at the Re Chicago 지원 trabajar group, who has a contract with, you know, the bottom line is the state fund of July. Oh yeah. Correct. I don't remember when the last significant county debt that we took on was. Round Hill, yes. That was the 1.9 number that you asked about. Okay. Why did you take out the fire and rescue? Because last time it was in there. During the discussion there, there was some concern, the fact that it was added in without the board having significant time to review it. So I pulled it out. Obviously, it's going to be out there in the future at some point in time. Whatever that amount is for equipment, it will have to be addressed. I do have charts where I do have it in there. And if people want to see those, obviously, when you add that in, it's going to make the scenario worse. So basically, we've taken it out, slid it down, so that we have a balance. We have a balance budget now. And we'll just try to figure it out at the end. Correct. And I believe I sent everybody during the week an updated chart where I put the fire back in. Okay. Starting in 27. I moved it all out one year and then put it back in doing that. We haven't seen any of the agreements, the 60-40, whatever. I mean, none of that has been vetted through the board. And it's... Until we look at that... Until we look at that and make sure we're comfortable with it. Not even sure we want to get in there. Right. No, I would agree. But we did see it taken out already. And now it's... Yes. And that's why I pulled it out after the last meetings, discussions, there was concern. But I did send you a chart because some people asked me, what effect does it have if you put it back in? So I did put it in so people could see that. That was a question that was asked to me. This is budget reconciliation. And if the school board was requesting, you know, we reduced their budget by 4.5 million. They were hoping to reduce that reduction by $1.2 million. A question was asked of me, what would the school do if you weren't going to give back that money? How would they adjust their budget based on that? And as I was told, that first... There weren't any changes. One of their primary goals this year, they will go forward with all their pay raises, their adjustments to compensation for compression and address that. And they would probably more than likely adjust it by looking at the new positions and probably putting them on hold for a year or such. And if you just toss those numbers in your head and you were to say a new position all ends $80,000, which is underestimating, that would be about 15 positions to make up $1.2 million. So if they were to try and make up that money, they would probably adjust it by looking at the new positions and probably putting them on hold for a year or such. They would probably adjust the whole $1.2 million of positions, it would probably be 12 or 15 positions out of the 40 they asked for. Here's the term new positions. New positions. New positions or vacant positions where we need someone there. All new. And of the 40, only eight of them are required by the rules that they have to do. The other 32, the ones they believe they need, but they're not required by the State. Obviously, they would keep those in. I've got George behind me. Do you have any questions? Having said that, I just wanted to give the board an option because people also asked me, if this board so desired to restore that funding, how could you do it? And this is just one option. This was the easiest one I looked at. If the board took the money from the board supervisor's contingency and added it back in, another option they stated is if the board took, because in their budget they're going to have two school buses, $150,000 a school bus. If this board decided, well, we'll pay for those school buses out of the capital fund, that would free up $300,000 that they could add back to their operating expense, which would leave the remaining $361,000. And if the board wanted to fill that, they could always do that. They could always use that 3% undesignated fund balance. That's just one way. There's numerous ways to get there. I just want to put one option idea to give people an idea if they so desire to want to go that route. I've always been an advocate and will always be. So I want to make sure that schools have the money to de-operate. If that's new positions that they must have, then that's something we need to look at. There's new positions that, there's some new positions in there that we don't necessarily have to have, and we need to know that. But I'm in favor of moving the money forward to give them the opportunity to have what they need when they open schools. That's where I'm at. So if that's the full amount, that's the full amount. If it's a portion of that, it's a portion of that. Supervisor Vieira, do you remember the superintendents here too, that they had quite a number of unfilled positions they operated with this year? The last time I looked, I don't know, it's not a current number, but it was over 100 unfilled at some point. I'm not sure where we are with that now. It's at 40 right now. Okay. Mr. Chair, I know the governor recently did a line on a veto. It was around support cap. And when the 4.5 was discussed, I think there was an idea that there would be some increased state funds. I don't know. Is that still? I don't think that's happening. It's in flux. The governor did reduce that some. However, I know the legislature's battling to put it back. So I think the answer there, it's still not known for sure what that'll be. But this number is under the assumption that we would receive those increased funds. Is that accurate? Yes. This assumption was made before the governor vetoed those funds. We recently had a business that paid in their proper funds for the schools of 250,000 to Stonewall, I believe, for Stonewall School. There may be a possibility that if you use those funds, because I did look at your capital asset plan, and you do have expenditures for capital for Stonewall School coming out next year. So perhaps you could use that 250,000 and offset the buses from the capital fund. I thought those contributions were made on the proffer funds to Stonewall School, but if we could double check that and make sure that is the case, we may be able to appropriate that. Thank you. So we may be able to appropriate those proffer funds to offset those expenditures, and that would allow you an additional 250,000 to offset buses or what other items of importance that you have. We'll verify on those proffers. Are you talking about the 300,000 only? Whatever the school feels most appropriate of what they need. But I'm just saying the 300,000, since it's up on the board, perhaps... I'm pretty sure you have proffers. Well, I'm saying the 250 was designated specifically for Stonewall, and they had expenditures on this list, this capital list, that that 250, which would free up whatever we're given the schools... Right. ...of the 4 million. So in essence, you'd have 4,250,000. Yeah. Okay. So, those are the options there. Just some other general information. These are questions that have come out. These are your big revenue sources, and these are the current numbers in the budget. The sales tax revenue has had that additional 600,000 that we had mentioned earlier has been added to that. And for a general rule of thumb, when you start looking at the revenues for the county, it's close to a third is your real estate tax, a third is your personal property tax, and sales tax revenue makes up about 20% of your revenue. So those are your three largest revenue generators for the county. This was discussed at the last board meeting, but just to emphasize, the outside agencies will be brought back at a later date to bring in whichever outside agencies this board wants to meet with. And as of now, the tentative schedule has... Well, it's not the tentative. The schedule has the budget adoption separate April 9th, and I know the prime... One of the primary folks tonight is to get the budget resolution drafted with the final numbers. So we'll have to prepare for the meeting next Wednesday. So we put a budget resolution in front of everyone's seat. That resolution is written by fund on what was advertised. It's the advertised 2025 tax rates, calendar tax rates, and it's the FY26 advertised budget. And so items that were discussed tonight would be mostly... What I'm gathering is the school funding, the increase in state, and the increase in county request. That would change this resolution because it would change the state number on the school operating, and it would change the county transfer on the general operating and the school operating. Those are questions that I have. Where are those here? Sorry. Sorry. Where are those? So on the first one, it's the general operating fund. The 267. That if you're going to increase the transfer to the school operating fund by the 1.2, that number would increase by 1.2. And then when you get down to the second from the end, the 251,621,000, that number would increase by the 1.2. And then 251,621,000, 621,000, second from the bottom. Yeah. That would increase by the 1.215. And then the request for additional state revenue of 3.284 would be included in that number. And I kind of gathered that we're moving back about the table. If you increase the 1.215 number, I need to know if you're okay with Mike's strategy and how that's being funded because he only has $554,000 in his contingency. Does that make sense? Do you want to follow me? Yes. I thought the school capital projects was 4 million, not 5 million. Is that on your resolution? Oh, they have a carry for it of $1 million. Okay. So you have to appropriate the carry for it, even though it's a non-revenue, like you have to appropriate a transfer. Thank you. Mm-hmm. So did we want to talk about, which one do we want to talk about first? The 1.215 and additional county funding? Does that work? Absolutely. Can we have a policy discussion on items first? Sure. So how much time, Cheryl, do you need to do what you need to do? I'm leaving here tonight knowing what I want to do? No, no. Is that what you're saying? No. No? Do you need 10 minutes to walk through it, 15 minutes, whatever? I want to take five minutes and just tell you some of my concerns on this project. I guess it depends on how fast you make a decision. Those are my questions. So however long it takes you to answer them. So I have some issues to deal with. Can you put up the slide that said, your slide, but with my modifications, please? The April 2nd item. Trying to read it from here. April 2nd from the bottom. No, which is as BPD at the back of it. It's BPD. BPD, yeah. BPD, yeah. BPD, yeah. BPD, yeah. Bottom one? Yep. , Yeah. You know that, you can minimize that for a second. It was the other one. That's yours. It's a spreadsheet, not that. It's an Excel spreadsheet. I think it's the bottom one. Okay, I'll tell you what. It said his initials on it. The April 2nd. The bottom one. Very bottom. I think that was the first one I opened. Should I open that again? Thank you. He's got multiple pages in his workbook. The April 2nd item that you sent out yesterday. I had modified it. You won't even pull up the April 2nd one. This bottom one. Go ahead. Go ahead. I'll work with what you have. In that case, go to the first tab. So on this one here, two weeks ago, you said that there was a need. We had a discussion on fire and rescue. $22 million approximately over the next five years. In that, we had about a $3.9 million or $3.5 million expenditure expected. In our pro forma one, two, and three. If you notice on this, that's the number shifted to the right, and that's what that yellow item represents. If you take the same data and put that in, $3.5 million in for fire and rescue, as you can see, your capital fund goes red in FY28, not FY29. You can see the differences in FY29 of $17 million versus $19 million in the out years. So that's the first one. So just by shifting that, you gain something, but you're postponing a need. My question to you as policy makers is, if this is a need that fire and rescue needs this year, you're pushing it out. You're pushing something down the road. The pro forma one, two, and three that we all had last week, that's $3.5 million as an expenditure. Two weeks later, all of a sudden, it's not needed. So the policy question is, if this is needed, we ought to do it this year. If not, understand. The third tab, please. Excuse me? Yeah, the third tab. That's right. That third tab. On this tab here, it's the same data that Mike sent us earlier, okay? But here, we just need something from the Winchester Star. Winchester Star put out an article today, and they said, on the county budget, the county revenues are $263 million for $3.9 million transferred, and total expenditures are $267 million. I'll come back to that $267 in a minute. Here, the first highlighted yellow says expense per budget category, expense per budget summary, and that's the $263 million which we've all seen. But if you add in the money that's coming out of the capital fund, that number goes up to $279 million. And then if you add in the fire and rescue, that number goes up to $282 million. So if you take a look at that, we are spending, we're planning on spending $282 million, and that's $273 million. So we're looking at $283 million, not the $267 that was quoted in the paper. If you go to the 48 cent, which is revenue neutral, theoretically, that still does not account for the additional $15 to $18 million of additional capital costs. Fifteen is $14.95. That's for the transfer of the general operating, $7 million for transportation, $4 million for the schools. If you put in the $3.5, so we're looking at a differential there of $18.95. So that's $14.95. That's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. So that's $14.95. That's for the transfer of the general operating, $7 million for transportation, $4 million for the schools. If you put in the $3.5, so we're looking at a differential there of $15 to $18 million, even at $0.48. Then can you pull up the other slide for me, please? And I'll send you all these slides. Lane, one thing. Your second row, additional revenues from increase in real estate. Tax rate, the rate didn't go up. It went down. So you're saying from real estate taxes. The cost to the county, the cost to the county of that $278 is the operating costs plus the capital costs of $15 million. That's where the number comes from. Okay. I'm just nitpicking on your second row, seven. You talked about an increase in rate. You mean increase in taxes collected. Okay. Yeah. Because the rate's going down. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Correct. Just making sure I understand what you're saying there. Okay. Mike, can you then go to my other spreadsheet? Yeah. It's one that I showed you. It's a page. You want to see it? No. You want the same spreadsheet? No. The one that I showed last week, which I modified. And I want to show you guys something here. That might be it. Go ahead. Okay. So, I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. I'm going to go to the next slide. Okay. That might be it. Go ahead. Go to the first tab. So, this is what I showed last week. But let's just walk, we're having a work session here. So, under proposed, we have $263 million. That's our operating revenue. We're then transferring 3.9. So, our total revenue is 267. But then you have to add $11 million in from capital costs. That includes the transportation issue. The money to the schools. that's $11 million. So total expenditures are $278. If you then put in the money, and that leaves us a shortfall of $14.9. If you then put in the money for the fire and rescue, that's another $3.5 million, and so your total expenditures are $282. That's an $18.5 million deficit. So that's one. Go to this third tab, please. This tab here is the same thing we went through. These are the current numbers showing $3 million for capital expenses going forward from the county, and $4 million for capital expenses going forward for the schools. If you put those numbers in, you're running $18 million deficit this year, $20 million next year, and your capital fund goes red in two years and significantly red in three. Go to the next slide, please. The next sheet? The next tab. Okay. The next slide. This is the same data, and the only thing that's changed is the school expenses on this sheet are $5 million, or $5.5 million, and the school capital is $5. And the reason I'm having the conversation along you is last year, when we were having the same budget discussion, the expected out years were $5 million, $5.5 million, and $5 million, respectively. To save some money, we're now bringing that back in. Three years ago, we had expected, we had transportation money at $8.6 million. Then it dropped to $6 million. Last year, it was $3.2 million. And when I look at these numbers here, if I'm trying to keep that capital fund alive, I'm just going to cut those numbers. So I'm not trusting those numbers, and that's a concern to me. Go then to the final one, REV1 versus REV2. No, that one right there. This is the comparison between using $5.5 million and $5, last year's numbers, and the three and four this year. And you can see how the difference is between the two. So, the difference is that the two are the same. The difference is that the two are the same. The difference is that the two are the same. The difference is that the two are the same. So, we see how the difference is in FY28 of $7 million, if you use last year's numbers as a negative, and $800,000 is this year's. My policy question to all of you is, from my perspective, I run out on this board, and I read this item in the paper today, I say we have a balanced budget. And we don't. We are spending much more than we're bringing in. So, technically, it's a balanced budget because you take the money as savings. But we don't have a balanced budget. We're spending more than we're bringing in. It's not that we're spending more than we're bringing in. So what's a balanced budget? We're not saving on that. We're saving on that. And that's a problem. Now, the question now is, how do we solve that issue? I've laid out some concerns on the one percent sales tax or meals tax. You've talked about cutting expenditures. But that's this, the issue that this board is facing. And we're crazy not to try to address it. I know, Cheryl, you have to do this budget . So I'm making this fast. But this is the thing that really drove, drives me batting. We'd have to figure out how to solve that problem. If you're going to make cuts on expenditures, we've gone from 236 two years ago to 2805. I'm making this fast. But this is the thing that really drives me batty. We have to figure out how to solve that problem. If you're going to make cuts on expenditures, we've gone from 236 two years ago to 280 this year. If you're going to go bring in revenue, I've laid out suggestions on revenue. We can agree to disagree. That's fine. But the numbers don't balance. And next year, when I'm not on this board and I read the paper that things balance, I'm thinking we're good to go. But in this case here, we are spending significantly more than we were bringing in. And we're all policymakers here. Everybody here at this table is a policymaker. Everybody here at this table can make a decision on what you want to increase or decrease. But that's the issue that I'm scared about. One last comment. This capital fund is designed as a one-time expenditure. I made the comment before. Take $30 million to give to the schools. That pays for the two middle schools in Stonewall and Middletown. If you did that, you'd be forced to have a budget. Right now, we have a slush fund. This is a slush fund. And so we need to have in our operating budget revenue streams. Transportation is ongoing revenue. Money to the schools is ongoing revenue. You have to build that into your budget. The yearly capital stuff is ongoing revenue. This year, it's 3.9. Last year, it was 5. We have to build into our operating budget to accommodate that. So having said that, just in the interest of time, I'll shut up. But... But... But... I am concerned that we are going to go and having big spending today. And then you're going to have... Oops. We now have a huge tax increase. We have the time right now still to solve this problem. We're not going to have that time in a few years ago. Two years ago, I voted for a $15 million deficit. I said at the time, we have the time to solve a problem. Last year, I voted no because of this. We are trying to solve a problem here. If you guys have suggestions, please let me know. That's a significant issue. I'll just cut short for the interest of time. Mr. Chair, can I ask Supervisor Don a question? Go ahead. Sure. On your chart there, FYE 26 under Capital Fire and Rescue 3.5 million. I mean, wasn't our vote last week to review that whole process and look at the big picture of reserve... I'm using the wrong terminology, but full-time firefighters versus volunteers and looking at that holistically. Wasn't the part of that purpose of that to develop, see where we could get some efficiency, some savings, so... That's right. But here's the issue, Mr. Leroy. You have $3.5 million. So if it's a 60-40 split, 80-20, whatever, this is here to say the county was going to come up with that. And $600,000 for a fire engine doesn't cover the whole cost. These were county expenditures. And the cost of a fire engine right now is running $1.2 million or more. Ambulance is running, you know, $400,000. And it's fair. So if you want to say we can push it down, the last two weeks ago, when all three of these, when all three, pro forma one, two, and three, this was here. And then this week, it disappears, and you just move it out a year. And if you want to say policy-wise, take a look next year, that's fine. But if it's a need this year, and you kick it down the road next year, and a year from now, when I'm not here, is it going to be kicked down the road again? That's my question. So my question would be, how far, how long do we expect that process to take? And then... When would we be in a position to fund equipment anyway this fiscal year coming up? I think on the outset, it's probably a six-month process. It may be sooner, but on the outset, six months. And that's what I was thinking, the reason why that line item was just moved over to the right one here. Okay. I think the line item was moved over to budget. Balance the budget. We're balancing the budget for now. And if we move these things, I can balance my business budget by doing that too, moving things down. And now I get a balanced budget. But it's not a real budget. It's a balanced budget that looks nice, but it doesn't really tell me what the facts are. I'm not trying to be all... I understand. No, I'm just saying... I'm just pointing out that we voted last week... We need a real budget. I said that the other night. We voted on a process to kind of review that whole fire and rescue... Yeah. We can review, but we need a budget. Now, we don't need it tonight. We don't have to go... on April 9th and have a perfect budget because it can be moved around. We can change numbers and do things after that. But at some point in time, you have to know what's really the facts. You can't just kid yourself and say, we'll move this here, I'll move that there, and that makes it look good. We can't do that. We have to stop doing that. So I appreciate the discussion to distinguish between making budget work out for one year versus looking at the long-term picture. That is a problem that we have to get a handle on, or we will run into a wall a few years down the road. We can hope revenues will improve. I have some confidence they will. Transportation doesn't have to be $7 million a year. This board had not invested in transportation, anything, for over a decade until three years ago we put in $7 million and then $7 million again. It's $8.6. And then... The reason it dropped this year to $3 million, roughly, was not because we had to balance the budget. It was because we couldn't handle all the projects that were approved by VDOT. Things weren't going to get done. So I don't know that $7 million a year is the right number for transportation to fix our roads. We all want to fix them, but we can't even spend $7 million a year right now in the pipeline. The comment for the $7 million, is that, as you all know, if we put in 20%, we get 80% from the state. So we have money to leverage. You've all seen the thing that John Bishop put out. If we do not build either I-37 or some road on the right-hand side, on the eastern side, call it what you will, call it a parkway, if we don't build that, you're still going to have internal problems inside everything else. And if you do build it, either way, there's a cost factor. If we can start to put away money for a capital project, a project, and we can start to build projects for that, then when we have a project at $10, $20, $30, $40 million, we can easily put down the 20% to balance it. So we are going to have transportation issues going forward as this county grows. And putting some money into a transportation fund which we can leverage when we need it, in my opinion, works. And we can agree to disagree. That's all. No, I don't disagree. I was one of the people who argued to start funding transportation to make that initial appropriation. I'm just saying, a lot of these numbers are assumptions. Some of them could be paused for a year, or some of them, like transportation, might be a high number. It exceeds what we can get done, even when we do bid many things to do that. They only approve so many for our county. This year's budget, this year's budget, FY26, which we're talking about, does not include any of that. I read the, you know, you can read what Winchester Star wrote. That number is not included. Total expenditures are $18 million less. If you take out the fire and rescue, they're $15 million less. And there's nothing in our budget ad that says we're going to spend that money. Thank you. I mean, I made my point, I think. I'm just frustrated that our operational budget doesn't reflect this. And that's unfortunate. If anybody has any comments on how to solve the problem, I'll shoot. Well, I agree completely that we ought to be wary of what we're funding in recurring costs out of the capital budget. That's not going to go on forever. Unless, you know, the rollovers continue at 1917, and I end the year, then we at least have a lot more breathing room. I'll make one more comment, and then I'm done. We have $36 million in our capital fund. That is designed for one-time expenditures. I've made two requests here to move that money to the schools. $30 million. The vote was no, okay? That's fine. You disagree with me, that's fine. But by not... By borrowing $30 million, it's going to cost all of us $1 million per year for the next 20 years. That's the cost of moving that money. That $36 million we have there is designed for one-time expenditures, not ongoing expenditures. Everything there is an ongoing expenditure. And if I made a motion to say, fine, take 33 of the 36, give it to the schools, give it to Dr. Hummer. He can now take care of the schools. He can borrow $33 million less. We have $2 or $3 million for contingency. Fine. But you're using this as a contingency fund and a slush fund, and that's just bad for budgeting. I'm done. Thank you. I'm finished. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, if I may. Supervisor Dunn, when you made the remark about the $30 million going to the school, two weeks prior to that, this board had approved 20% of funding on smart scale applications. As you're talking about leveraging funds for transportation, it's typically 80-20. We validated those numbers, and if we are successful in all of those applications, you're looking at almost $30 million. So we are leveraging those funds in this capital fund if we are fortunate enough to be successful in those applications. So, from my perspective, I'm not sure that if you made a commitment to the state that you're willing to fund the 20% and you don't have it set aside. That's where I'm not comfortable, that we'd essentially be spending that money twice, not knowing whether we're going to be successful. I finished my comments. I know Cheryl's running out of time, so I'm going to go ahead and ask the next question. I'm going to go ahead and ask the next question. I know Cheryl's running out of time, so I'll defer to you. What you want to do or what Cheryl wants to do on the budget, I made the comments I wanted to make. I think, and Cheryl, it's still answering that question about the school, the $1.2 million, or the questions I think she needs answered for the ad, if I'm not mistaken. Well, we've already done the ad, so if we're going to change, yeah, the resolution, if we're going to increase the county funding, yes or no, how much, and if it's more than that. So, we're going to increase the county funding, yes or no, how much, and if it's more than $500,000, where is it coming from? So, I have a question about whether we do it or not, and that is, do we have the percentage of the school's total budget with and without that $1.2 million, how much it's grown from last year to this, including state, you know, all funding sources? Yeah, one of the supplies was like $48.3. It was on the last end of Mike's comments to you. Well, I was asked this question. This shows you that the school year 25, fiscal year 26, first line up there, you know, the county operating, when you look at the total there, it's 7.11%. However, I adjusted that because it includes in there a $1.3 million expense, which is from Abrams Creek, which also has a revenue in there. So, it's, it kind of cancels itself out and it's a one-time item. So, when you reduce that by the $1.3 million, it's a $1.3 million in total. So, I think that's what we're going to do. So, I think that's what we're going to do. So, I think that's what we're going to do. So, I think that's what we're going to do. You know, you're going to have that $5.9 million in total. So, we're going to add to that by the Abrams Creek, it gets you to 5.93%. The school transfer at the $113 million, 3.76%, 3.76% increase in the transfer. The school operating budget, which includes all their funding from the state, the federal and the county at $251 million is a 5.58% said the school transfers our funding toward the schools right which would be and that is with that with the four point five reduced correct nothing restored correct so the next line school operating is their total funds available from us and from the state correct perhaps federal wherever they're revenue comes from right so their total budget without any without that restoration right now the way advertised I guess is about five point six percent over last year so the only thing that that lacks for my way of looking at the different departments and I'd like to do it for every department obviously we can't do that now is you look at inflation you know or Cola cost of living adjustment to labor a lot of our mainly labor and you look at the size of school population how much is growing so I would adjust that I would make one more adjustment if I was going to compare the county department gross with the school growth and that is the county population is gone up or is projected to go up by X percent between this year and next and the school population who they serve is a different percentage and I think if you did that you understand I mean I describe it asoya how many credits do you consider to have a soap in equipment all right well where it does issue five only lot of testing andим And we're adding some other positions, clerk of the court, sheriff, deputies, et cetera. For the schools, I just feel like the federal government overspent and got itself in a situation where now they're making dramatic cuts. And I want to make sure we don't get in that situation, that our rule of thumb should be departments grow based on population growth and inflation. And no more unless there's some specific service we've decided as a board that we're willing to pay for. We said we were willing to hire eight more firefighters every year for a while. It's a decision this board made. So I understand if we broke the departments, they would probably be an outsized part of that 5.93%, right? They'd be the biggest driver in operational increases. Yeah, the eight firefighters are significant in that number. So... But just remember, Mr. Chairman, we're dealing with two elected boards. We have this elected board, and then we have a school board that's fully elected. Ideally, you say the school board, if you want to raise money, go raise taxes or whatever and do it. But what we're doing is transferring dollars to them, but we can't micromanage their expenditures. But they also don't have the same inhibition that we do on spending, because we have to raise taxes if we want to raise spending. And they just raise. They're... They have to raise a tax rate at their request. So it operates differently. I'm just leery about increasing any department over inflation and population, unless we can clearly explain to the taxpayer why. And I think the school budget, the way we advertised it, is right in line with the other departments of the county. Now you can disagree. That percentage is slightly higher. lower I suspect that it makes sense I mean it's very close anyway but I think it makes sense because the schools aren't growing I think as fast as the general population is here at least that's been true for many years that could be changing now you know I stand to be corrected from one year to the next but the overall trend has been much more growth in total population in the county than school age population or school enrollment so we need to make the first decision is do we want to restore that 1.2 million of funding schools before we presume that we're going to and then if we've decided we're going to then the next discussion in our few minutes half an hour left would be how to account for it like you had shown in your chart mr. chairman yes make a couple comments with regards to your comments in the blue sheets in the budget document you have the percentages you're talking about you'd like to see the county portion of your percentages of change for in in that document and I did take the budget ad and come back to the advertised budget was the 267 minus the amount going out to the schools of the hundred and thirteen point eight million and I think that's the most important thing that we're going to be able to use that so Tim a couple seconds from now we'll get back to our earlier statements I like to say that Ok pandas okay well Cynthia just for the first point on the statement that you also made you made a forgot in partially unclear crave I kind of x- stern that 하겠습니다 question because intuition we had next time that we are going to it would be about the transfer rate going up so white signification systemaryolics are going to be doubling up the apartment ain't going up so overall we' re going to assume thatåt talking to you $5.8 million. You got $2.8 for COLA, $1.7 for new positions, and your $550,000 plus for the contingency gives you right at a little over $5 million. So the difference between last year and this year, when you apples to apples, subtract those two numbers, gives you a half a percent increase on the county side of the budget. So I'm not sure we're getting these big numbers at that you're indicating. I mean, it looks like we actually could spend some more money if you're going to use population and inflation. But that's kind of where that stands. So you think on the county side, the departments aren't matching growth and population plus inflation? There's actually reduction in some departments. So if you're looking at the first half, they don't include. New positions. County attorney down, treasurer down. But those don't include new positions on that tab of our work. I said operating. Right, but our operating budget will go up. New positions, I'm not sure on the county side. I mean, we actually had outside of fire and rescue and maybe a couple for the sheriff's office. That was it. I'm saying to go to 26, we have a fair number of new positions. We have the fire and rescue plus the two for constitutions. Right. That's what makes it hard. And as county administrators pointed out, that's a little challenge with our older software system. We can't roll those numbers together very easily and see that. Our first tab in the workbook just doesn't include the, right? It doesn't include the new positions. For the COLA, we've. We've allocated for next year. Call this. Call this. Yes, for the. Exist for the positions that are continuous, just the new positions are not in there. I just think. All the way back to supervisor Don, I don't want to get started again because he quit himself, but for the long term projection, we've got to constrain departments. Unless we have some exceptional. We've got to have some exceptional reason to that we we've decided we have to increase the service that applies to every department. You know, not just the schools. It's all the they get picked on a lot because they're our biggest expenditure by far, but. So, looking at percentages by department, I didn't see a reason to restore the one point to state kindly up there contributions. So. Yeah. That allowed us to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're still, we're still giving more than we did last year. And their budget overall is still going up by a fair bit. But, you know, this is a board, you all can disagree with me if you want to restore the 1.2Million, that's what. This board would have to decide. Okay. I'm going to go around the table. And my last appeal to the board. last appeal would be the county administrators gone through and made cuts to every department's request so the school if we don't restore the 1.2 it's it's nothing I don't think it's out of proportion than other cuts from the quest request that have already been made I just had one question out of the 40 new positions for the school did you say eight were only required by the state so eight had to as a requirement yes ma'am okay that's correct so if we're gonna take a vote I vote no to the 1.2 however I'm wondering if that's gonna be our and we're gonna discuss that in finance for the security if that's you know if we reinstated that for security what we had talked about in the beginning if that's the case then I'm wondering if we can get the 1.2 to that if that could be maybe that but you know if eight are required then I'm good with that but so no for the 1.2 yeah but we're right we're still increasing it by what 32 or 30 positions question dr. Hummer to her aid those 40 or 40 vacant positions that right now you're filling with part-time subs these are new positions 40 positions right now some of them have subs some of them are unfilled yes but this is it just it is ironic that are coincidental that we have 40 that are in the budget but we also have 40 vacancies that number fluctuates so that 40 are new positions new teachers and or staff etc correct to go to Bob's comment when getting your schools operate correct these are all building level staff correct and these are so yes these eight positions are allocated based on state SOQ and state budget so we're not going to have to go through all of that right now we're going to have to go through all of that right now we're going to have to go through all of that right now we're going to have to go through all of that right now we're going still στη王 we're going to have to go through the district budget so if we think about in this has to adversely impact to local schools in school our funds have echoed to the bottom in our state so this is probably a recommendation that they make so we're going to have to do this in just thesquare and to you before we go through the district budget then later this year we're gonna go through here particularly theater student an elementary students particular students than to think about are you host should be scattered because all three students are coming in completely off the filling the vacancies assuming you have success filling them no so i want to again if it's okay mr chair i want to be very clear that our original ask was 5.3 so it was then reduced to 4.1 so that is why we're asking it to go back to that 5.3 because our initial ask if you recall was 8.6 but then we we were anticipating of getting three million dollars from the state which as mr monk mentioned earlier it doesn't we might not get that we might we might get that money so so that's why we started at the 5.3 it got reduced to 4.1 but the closer we get to 5.3 that will help us to not have make as many cuts to those positions the closer we get to it yes but there would be no cuts to your staffing level from the current year our current baseline positions that is correct so you still have vacancies to fill currently and then without the 1.2 there's there'd be yet another 30 positions or so authorized assuming the state comes through yes i mean that's the data we have if the state changes between now and and we when we set a budget supplement you know there's there's still room to correct for things correct mr chair so dr hummer if we if we went with 10 positions that you're looking at 25 of that correct would be around 400 000 say that again mr if we went if we funded 10 positions instead of 40 you're you need additional 40 but you know your state's saying you need eight if we give you 10 well and also keep in mind because i've been in constant communication with with my board yeah so if i go to them and say all right we only got 4.1 which we'll be thankful for whatever we get we appreciate that it would be them to for them to decide what they want to cut they might say we want to cut salaries i mean my my proposal is we don't touch salaries or they might say to cut some instructional things or cut line items like there's a whole slew of things they could cut so we have to have those conversations one of those is if you recall we initially had two buses in the budget right they wanted to add two more so my recommendation is we're not going to be able to add those two more so that's 300 000 less okay so so there's going to be ways for us to get that that closer to what our original ask was if you don't get that one point two yes sir are you going to cut anything currently you have because i've heard all i've heard about was 40 positions no it's it's only going to be items in the new proposed budget we're not going to cut anything that currently exists well if we were able to even give 50 of those say 600 000 then you would be able to be closer to what we've asked yes sir the closer we can get to that one point to that original 5.3 ask the better okay i'll remember we still have to come and try to get that one point two and then we'll get to that one point two and then we'll get a ten-point cut at tx without a berry award to activate one yes um i understand that this budget is right so we need to be really careful about that of course but any that right prelim how many buildings can be cut since our fiscal year is far too short for it but this facilities and pat amazed me because she's a huge vivian welsh now in 2013 extrawood was will make 50 cuts and every few years So, eight positions, if you had eight new positions, is that approximately $600,000, $650,000? Roughly, yes. Are you thinking $75,000 would be the benefits? Yeah, I would say that roughly, yes, sir, Mr. Wells. Is that about right? Yeah, roughly. Okay. So, to fill those eight positions that are required is about $600,000. Round that number? Yes, sir. Okay. Yeah, the total 40 positions was around $3.5 million. That's where I was going with the eight positions. I don't want to filibuster. We should go around the table. I don't want to restore the $1.2 million now because we have the $850,000 in security look at. We have the state trying to decide on its final budget, which affects the schools directly. And we do have time to make changes to anything, even after the budget is set. Vice Chair? The bus, Cheryl, we talked about that earlier, the $300,000 in the proffer that I do believe has probably already been deposited from what I'm gathering. So, we could take the $300,000 out of the proffer money from the schools, as you suggested, or we can say that's for the Stonewall School, which was on your capital list for the year. Well, both of those are fund ballots. You know, so I can just... That's where I would go with the $300,000. I can figure out how the resolution is going to be written with four yeas or... Again, when we received this, there were resources that were needed for that school that could take care of that $300,000, roughly, I think. So, I'm okay with the $300,000. You're okay with $300,000 coming from buses? For buses? That would go out of the $4 million that we've already appropriated, and we could take the... So, first of all, are you a yay? Up to $300,000. You're a yay for $300,000, but not a yay for $554,000 out of contingency and $361,000 out of funding. Well, that would take care of the... That's Mike's paper. Okay. So, that would take care of those positions that are required, and the state isn't reimbursing us for those eight. Positions. It would fully fund them. I don't know about positions. Okay. Yes, I'm okay with that. So, you're a yes? Yes. Okay, and then we'll come back to the other. A yes for... She's a yes for $1.2 million. And then the various revenue sources with the bus and the use of a... I think we said half of it would cover the positions, right? Six. Yeah, $600,000. $600,000. That's what I was asking. Yeah. So, I'm okay with half of it. $650,000. Right, and you've got money out of the... I'm not understanding the... Okay, can... Without the $1.2 million, the mandatory positions are still covered. Okay, they are. They should be. Okay. Can we either shoot down or shoot up the $1.2 million and then come back for your $600,000? Does that make sense? Because I have, unless you guys want to change. Do you want me to start all over at $600,000 and scrap the $1.2 million? I don't want to do that because I don't know if I have four. I'm sorry, what? Mr. Hummer... Dr. Hummer. Mr. Hummer. The... Eight mandatory positions are not currently funded. Is that correct? Well, so, if we don't get the $1.2 million, I want to be very clear, it's not that we're not going to get 40 positions of the eight positions. It's built into the entire budget. Sure. So, we have those eight positions already built in. It's $1.2 million to go to everything else. So, I want to be very, very clear on that. So, the $5.3 million goes to all of the new items that we had in our presented budget from the... Compensation packages to the additional positions, the instructional packages, everything I presented. So, the less that we put towards that, we'll have to make a decision to cut those items. So, I want to be very clear. If we don't get the $1.2 million, we have other money to pay for those eight positions in that whatever we get from you all in the state. So, another summary. Your request originally was for 40... Included 40 new positions? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. If you end up $1.2 million short... We have to... Decision... The board has decision... Then... Then... Then... You'll only get 30 roughly new positions instead of 40. Or 40 and the board cuts something else. They can keep all 40 and we have to cut other items out of our budget proposal. Right. But they could fund everything they asked for. You said they would probably... Your thinking is they would take it out of new positions. That's what we're... Or the county administrator might have quoted you and said that. Well, that's because what we're currently talking through. Right. The board has to make that final decision. Right. So, if they did want to keep everything they had requested and they were $1.2 million, $2 million short, that's assuming the state comes through with what they had promised. Yes, sir. Then, instead of 40 new positions, you could solve that $1.2 million shortfall by just hiring 30 new positions, roughly. Yes. So, the aid is easily covered. Yes, sir. Plus another 22 in growth positions. That is correct. That's why I'm not stressed about it. There's plenty of time to fix it if the state gives you cuts, what they're going to give you. We can revisit with supplemental. I just think filling the vacancies now, which you have the funds to go after from this year, plus 30, 32 in new positions is a lot of positions. There's no question about the eight mandatory ones. I mean, you have to do them anyway, but I mean, the funds are there. I have two no's and a six on me. Can I ask a question? All right. If we add any amount to what we've already been talking about, whether it be $1.2 million or $600,000 or whatever, am I correct in assuming that then there's three different things that we could do to cover that money? One, either move from capital funds. Two, associate the same amount of cuts elsewhere. Or three, have to change one of the proposed tax rates. Is that correct? I think. I put up there the three easiest things to do, which would be to take it from your fund balance, move two buses to capital. Therefore, they could use that $300,000 for operating and that board of supervisor contingency. So if you wanted to go the route, these are three of the easiest things to do. So I'm okay to wait on this and see if we can figure out about the proffer funds to cover the two additional buses. I think that's a great question. I think that's a great question. And then see where we end up. So you're a no on the $1.2 million? Yeah. At this time, because I think it's something we can take care of at a point in time in the future. But I'd like to see those buses. We've talked about the buses. And if that $250,000 is in the capital fund that would offset what they've requested for the $4 million, then I think that is a wash. I agree. I agree with that. We'll revisit that. All right. So Bob. So what do I. Are you yay or nay on the $1.2 million additional local budget? If we're talking about looking at it, see what the state funds do. I want to make sure that we're covering the need for hiring the eight. And the chairman said we have the money there to do that now. And that's fine. If we don't get the state money, then that money needs to be put back. So they can move these other things. That they need because they're using one pot of money to buy something else. So I'm in favor of it. I can wait. But I want to make sure that we come back and revisit that if we don't get what we need from the state. However you want. I guess I'm a yes. I'm not sure exactly. How about no or yes? Yes. I have one. I have one. I agree with the chair. And vice chair. I vote no. Just because we can come back. If we weren't able to come back later and look at other data, I would probably vote differently. But since we can come back and amend it, I vote no. I'm a yes. I think we already have a consensus. We can go around. I think we had four. Oh, I was already a no. Yeah. So I'm not going to restore the $1.2 at this time. We will take up the security. That's our. probably quickest thing with regard to the schools at the very next finance meeting and the subsequent board of supervisors so now the item on the table is the three point two eight four million additional state dollars might you have a slide on that no I don't I passed this Houseiero this term okay so we just we just addressed the county transfer increase of 1 point 2 1 5 we're going to put that on hold it's an hour looking at the three points okay so we just we just addressed the .284362, which is the change in state dollars. And that would be in your resolution under school operating. It would be added to that number. And so if I could have a vote on it, that's okay to add that for the resolution next week? I'm in favor of that. If the state is going to give us more money, I'm certainly not going to turn it in. Only this is to accept the additional state funds. And appropriate. Heather's good. John's good. Bob's good. Josh's good. Mom's good. Everyone's good? Okay. So the resolution will be just like this with the exception of school operating, and I'll add that 3.2 to it, which is additional state dollars. And we'll figure out about the propers and the extra school buses. We'll figure that out. I'll talk to you. And that can always go to finance as well to appropriate these proper dollars. Yes, we can do that. All right. Is there anything on our agenda left out of our remaining 11 minutes? No, we covered it all. Mr. Chairman, when do we do outside agencies? We're going to bring that back. We haven't got a date set, but we have time on that. This money will be in the budget, the appropriate. So we brought it last year back in the summertime. So there's time on it. Normally outside agencies. Are paid at the middle of each quarter. So that would be, their checks would go out in August. So we would need direction before August of what we're going to do so that they're not in a holding pattern. I'll just make the one comment. Next year's budget, I'm not going to include that in this total budget. We have for the first eight years. So that's just a comment. I've just got a suggestion before we break up in this quick. I'd like to propose that Chairman. Poll the board on a roll call basis, including himself, to see if all of us can agree on the 48 cent tax rate that we talked about, that we can vote on that as a group and be unanimous on the 9th of April, just to see where we are. I like that. I hope we have no surprises. We know what we're going to do as a board. I'm a yes. So we don't, do we have to set that rate on the 9th of April? Yes. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. You want to go around the room or, I mean, I'm a yes. So you want to. I'm just saying I'd like to know where everybody votes going to be tonight. We'll be good up in front of our constituents. Okay. And no surprises. We know one for all, all for one. Somebody doesn't want to do it and they want to say, no, I want to lower or higher or whatever. It can't be higher. I don't want to lower. I think we need to know that tonight. I don't want to be standing in front of our constituents and arguing. Let's get the arguments out before that happens. It's just a suggestion. If you don't want to do it, that kind of tells me where we're at anyway. Well, we. I'm a yes to Bob. Okay. So it looks like he's got four votes already. No, let's go. I want to know where everybody is. It's not a four person. Everybody's clear. Mr. Chairman. I'd love to cut it if I can find even in the last week some savings. I'd always like to cut tax rates. So you're not going to be in favor of the 48 cents? If I can find somewhere to cut. Right now we're looking at a pretty. We're looking at a different difficult capital fund period over multiple years as many people have pointed out. So cutting it now, it's much harder to raise a rate in the future. I'll say that. You cut it now just to raise it in two years when people are getting a new hire. It's incredibly difficult. So I understand where you're at. But if it could be cut, if we could find a long term and a short term projection that. If anybody can tell me where you can cut it now and make this cap, make this budget work. I'd really like to know where that's at. But never mind. Just me. Just me. Anybody got any suggestions? No. And I. Because I summed it up. My comments earlier that you're down to. Three items. And your public safety component of it is something you want to do. The other is COLA. If you have the county administrator, a little bit of money to spend during a year if something comes up. But I don't know where else you find it. So I'll make one comment to you. I'm not in favor of the 48 cents. We spent a year. I've laid out other options. I like the 1% sales tax. I'd like to be able to have a sale to sell my extra bedroom. We have $36 million. Get rid of the budget. Get rid of the capital budget. And then we can talk about that. But I'm not looking for $30 million in capital budget and a tax increase. That doesn't make sense to me. Okay. Get rid of the capital fund and then we can talk. And I can get rid of the capital fund but give it to the school. I'm going home. That's right. We're on the spot. That's right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
