Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-01-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=262
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you Selling houses and castles dirt cheap Take special person Probably one of those places a nice place to visit mosquitoes How are you off Sometimes I turn it off today I Did everyone Have the agenda in front of me I don't either so we'll just like So you have the funniest committee members have the annual financial statements in front of them We will be talking about them our next spot against committee meeting So I gave you a chance to look at it plus there's like a condensed version That's called a popular annual financial report that we kind of put out in the hall and it's a lot easier to read And then the board your copies are at your There and then we have the budget notebook that we're going to kind of start with tonight In your notebook went on the left side there's like a summary that I did So that I could kind of like it kind of walks you through this book But also gives you just like a snapshot of where we are today What we know what we don't know so the first page is a budget calendar But I think that Mike is working on some changes to that so once we get that update it will send it out Our next meeting is Friday, so that hasn't changed So on this summary if you look at this summary I started with last year's revenue Because we usually talk about increases and decreases So I thought it was less confusing to say okay last year's revenue per resolution Was two hundred and fifty six million and then I did back category the areas of increased revenue So we have property taxes of 2.1 other local taxes of 445 and I don't need to read it to you it just goes on down So if you if you look at that total FY 26 revenue of 261 428 589 it tells you that behind the second tab is all the detail that Comes back to that number So the second tab has general fund revenue and it gives you a line item detail that on the last page Which would come back to the two hundred and sixty one million dollars So you can see the areas and I also Your eyesight's good contacts and glasses And as we're going through this if there's something that you don't like other than the size Oh? Just joking. You know, let's talk about it, and we can get it to you. Different format, additional information. What's recovered costs, Cheryl? Recovered costs are things like when we bill the city for trash collections at one of the combined sites. So you have a negative 15, so you just thought you would have $15 million less than last year. Probably a lot of that is attributed to the Lake Holiday Sanitary. The treasurer's office would charge for the Lake Holiday Sanitary district fees, and since that bond is paid off now, there's no longer a charge there. That's probably what that is. Thank you. Sorry, which sheet are you on? Excuse me? Which sheet is that on? It's on this one, the summer sheet. Up front? Yes. We didn't get you one? Okay. I apologize. No wonder you're confused. Thank you. So now that you have it, Josh, we are looking at, about the middle, it says F526 proposed revenue, the 261, and the detail is behind the second tab in your notebook. This is just a summary form. And one of the reasons I pulled out by category is because I don't have a lot of money. So I'm going to go ahead and look at it. Okay. So the first tab is, there's things like in state and federal. Those are mostly grants. So those are specific to public safety in this case, and parks. And we'll talk about those later. The next line, which is the first and the third tab, are the proposed general fund expenditures. The first tab, behind the first tab, you have the blue and white forms. And if you look at the end of the blue and white forms, it'll show you a total of the 271, 871, 730 in expenditures. And then if you look behind the third tab, you'll have non-items retail. It's called general fund expenditures. And that real small print with all those long items will come back to the same amount. We just put it in summary form on the blue and white page. He has young eyes. He can do that. He has young eyes. Normally when we meet with departments, the blue and white sheet seems to be the one that everyone looks at because we usually talk about increases. So we'll talk about increases and decreases in your budget. One thing different that we did this year, last year, I'm talking about the blue and white form now. When we compare one budget to the other, we always talk about the original budget. Because the original budget is what's related to the original revenue. This year, we took all the salary increases and put them in the department. So it's still the original budget. But you don't have to try to figure out how much you're going to get. You don't have to try to figure out what was last year's salary increases. You put them into parks? Excuse me? Did you say P-A-R-K-S? Departments. Salary budget. Departments. Oh, departments. Departments. Okay. So the budget that says 2425, that has been updated to reflect the salary increases that have already been done. The total is still the same. Does the 271 represent the request from departments? No. Okay. Before the administrator has gone through or has the administrator gone through and made adjustments? It's before. Okay. It's before. And so at the bottom, I kind of, okay, so let me back up. So if I take the 261 and proposed revenues and the 271 and proposed expenditures, we have a shortfall of $10.4 million. And that 261 is the tax rate at what level? It's 41 cents. It's revenue neutral. It's 41 cents. So it's a tax rate that reflects the revenue from new construction and the revenue from personal property that was identified. It's 41.4. I mean, that .4 makes a difference when you start to look. So is it truly a 41.4 number? Or don't you know? The revenue neutral is 41.4, correct? 41. I don't know where you're getting the 41.4. We're getting the 41.4 as a revenue neutral. You said. You said it was at the. You established that 41 cents or. Yes. The real estate is at a revenue neutral rate, which only recognizes new construction. Okay. And the personal property is the amount that was given to us by the commissioner. And then we were to stay tuned for any changes to that. Thank you. I think you were pointing out that it was, there was a fraction on there, but I think really what she did was just add the new construction to last year's revenue. That's correct. So it should equal 41.4. Okay. So I'm just asking the questions. Is the assumption here on a 41.0 or 41.4? If you don't know, you can get back to me later. That's not critical. We can answer that Friday. Okay. Okay. So if I could ask, property tax, is that number, is that real property or personal property or both? That's real and personal property. And you can also see all those behind tab two will give you a detail. This is just a summary for you. So this is before Mr. Bobhoff has gone through any adjustments before presenting to us. But it's also before any salary increases for the year. So I want to go through what's in it. Okay. So on the expenditure side, because there's all these assumptions that we make when we do this summary form. I want to make sure you knew this. School debt is based on the borrowing schedule that we had in the fall. So that could change a little bit based on timelines and interest rates. School operating is at present level. There's a $5.5 million transfer to the general fund that comes from the capital fund. That was part of the fund. Okay. So that's the first phase that the schedule that the county administrator gave you. That number for the current year was 5.6. So it was at the top. We also included $7 million for transportation. That's already in the expenditures. Is that $7 million total or $7 million above last year? Last year we had zero. Last year we didn't fund any other general fund for transportation. Okay. Okay. It includes a 4% salary increase. It includes 300 in contingency. That's what we usually start at. We usually end up a little different. Last year we ended up with close to a million because at the end we reduced the salary increases and it went into contingency. And there are, we have not budgeted any increases for health insurance. Do you anticipate a health insurance or when will you know? We're going to try to make changes so we can absorb most of those and then we'll get back to you if we can't. Okay. On the revenue side, we've already talked about it that the real estate is the new construction and we talked about the state and federal is mostly grants for parks and public safety. So the increase in the revenue is going to be $7 million. So the increase in revenue, which is the difference between the 256 and the 261 on my summary page, is about $5 million. So if you take that new revenue of $5 million and my shortfall of $10, it takes you back to the bottom change here on the blue and white form of $15 million. Did I lose everybody on that one? So I have $15 million increased request. $5 million in new dollars, which gives me a shortfall of $10. That kind of comes back around and ties it in. And that shortfall of $10 is under the assumption that there's a 5.5 transfer from the capital? So the transfer from the capital, yes. That's correct. Just a short answer, yes. So. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So in the blue and white sheets, 24-25 budget, you said you brought in the actual salaries. By department. By department. That's correct. So then when you write a column, you've got the same number of people because there's no new positions reflected in there, as I understand it. You have the new salary for the whole year? There were some departments that we did mid-year. I think Fire and Rescue we hired mid-year. Okay. So you're saying that you're going to have a new salary for the whole year? Yes. Is that correct? I think we had them January. So there would be a change in that one. So in that example, you would assume the new salary for the sake of the 25-26 column for 12 months, even though they only benefit for? Yes. It would be the difference between the annual amount and the semi. Yes. And there's also, like Fire and Rescue, I'm sure Steve will talk about it on Friday, but there is a built-in overtime cost to new positions. And he can touch base on that. But he also has that included in there. Cheryl? Yes. Where is it? salaries are broken out I'm not seeing the skip through this okay so go to the end I kind of do things backwards that's the end of the blue and white sheet yes okay so at the very at the very bottom the very last thing is this contingency after COLA transfers okay yeah okay that number started out probably about four million dollars okay so we took half of that which was related to the current year salary increases and we put them in the department that they were given okay does that help yeah I'll go through this and you can see like the end is kind of what's confusing but you can see the school debt transfer we increased it it went up 2.6 million not all of that was increased debt because we we funded the school debt out of the capital but we tried it that the FY 26 number is the most recent number we have we put the 7 million in transportation that we talked about 5.5 in capital that we talked about and now the field has looked good last year last year we're going to go 1.5 on absolutely 11 that's the first drop of the climbed state okay so before the fourth letter you durch they are<|haw|> just general spot on but the otherängen I do think that there's still some convenience but it depends how they do it after a mixture if it's 1 halfway through the which gives you the general fund expenditure summary. And then skip a tab, and then we have the expenditures by line items under general fund expenditures. It also comes back to the totals. It comes through the totals in the summary and the totals in the blue and white sheet. And then the next tab is capital. The only capital that's in the operating budget is grant-related. And then the $5.5 million. So these are all things that will be part of, that will be for further discussion on what gets funded, what's prioritized. We also try to give you the detailed backup that was given. So the capital page is purple and white, and then there's the backup on what was submitted by the departments. This year, something that we asked for was the operating costs associated with that capital. So you'll see that noted. The next tab is new positions. New positions are put in at the end of the budget, so we don't have to keep on taking them in and out based on multiple scenarios. So when you add a position, it increases your deficit. The next page is outside agencies. It's a new position. It's a new position. It's a new position. Sorry, the new positions in fire and rescue, are they requested for the full fiscal year, or are they mid-yearly? It appears that they requested the full fiscal year, yes. And Cheryl? Yes. But so for firefighter and the deputy patrols, that's first-year costs. Second year costs simply would be salaries not, you're putting out equipment on both of them, right? That's correct. Okay. And those various amounts are identified on the following pages because we also gave you the backup for that. Okay. So now we're on the outside agency tab. We did a summer page for you, and we also tried to get documentation that was submitted. Okay. So they put on the unavailable document in there Now, you should be able to read that out because a lot of 하면 does that for you as well. Okay. Let me just make a quick note here about the last subheading I put there. Okay. So that's the new outcomes you get with USRC 잘 but you also have one year's minimum equal Celsius saving without overpaying for SAFIS, or choosing to pay for the school for new healthcare. You do also get to the school taxุç So I thought I would include it in case you wanted to read it. This is a large request. Our larger departments will be here on Friday. Who are those that will be here Friday? Do you know where I'll have it? Yes, it's a... Jay will help me on one I might miss, but we will have recreation, public works, primarily to talk about the landfill. We will have sheriff, fire department, the health department, and even though they're not a... We put them in even though they're an outside agency because they're private. We're requesting such a large change. CSA. CSA will be in here primarily because they have a very large change or request. We thought... CSA, child's... Okay. Yes. IT. IT. IT. IT will be here. IT is coming in because they have three large softwares for backup systems of a sizable amount. So we brought them in. Planning department, Wyatt and John Bishop. We'll be here because they will be presenting on the transportation funding. You know, that's always been a big question, how much money we have, how much is set aside, what roads, etc. So they will also be coming in. And then you. And I'll be doing an initial presentation, going over the calendar, some overview, general ideas. And one of the things I'm going to ask, if anyone wants anything, any special department here for any reason, if they can let me know by tomorrow, sometime tomorrow, I can schedule somebody out. I can schedule somebody else to come in. Any questions you may have, comments, commentaries, tomorrow, if you can send them, that will help us out. We can also, if we set aside some time at the end for Friday for whatever the board may desire. And if I may, I would suggest, because you have these books and it's a short time trying to go through all that line item detail, you probably don't have sufficient time. So probably one of the most efficient ways to approach this come Friday is to go through the books. The general fund summary expenditures, the capital expenditures, and the new positions. The new positions won't take you long because they're pretty straightforward. Yes. Yeah, because all that was pulled out and done separately, so it's just easier to review. You don't have to go by line and try to figure out what's changed. And the good news is for Friday, it's really just for providing information, asking questions. And trying to determine what further information the board will desire. No decisions will be required that day, so you don't have to come in thinking there's any pressure to make a decision. So it is not a decision-making day. It's really an information distribution and gathering day. In expenditures, debt service is here. I will bring in some information to show you any changes for debt service. I guess one of the questions that was presented to me is the additional debt service based on the new school. Is it set or so I will bring that information for a presentation. But we also pay down past debt year, over a year. Correct. So it would decline and then you'd have to add the new debt. Yes, we'll provide you some information on the debt too for Friday. But that's not in expenditures currently? Only for FY26. Only the amount related to FY26. If that is in? Yeah, we try to include that. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know that this is kind of like a fast question, but is there anything that you remember that you didn't have last year that would have helped? If you think about it, let me know. And I'll talk to IT about the print. And please email any questions tomorrow. Call, ask any questions or request any information. We'll do our best to make sure we can provide it for you Friday. And the goal of Friday is to have the long work session to accomplish a lot of this work up front to make it easier as we go through the process and subsequent workshops. Ms. Sherrill, on the small print, is this one either an Excel or a paper? Yes, it is. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's a paper. It's not even fluffed or copied. It's a paper contract. The machine is a image of each one of the pages. Emmanuel Davis? Yes. No. Mr. Benny? Yes. And are these information tables related? Yes. No. No. On a about time basis until Tarason, when we come back from two more sessions, some things we could use to try and get back into working on it and, perhaps, help you better eliminate the conflagrations in the competition. Is that было we argue that we should be Wendy Lee? Right. interested in last year to your question is kind of a year-over-year I don't know how easy this would be don't waste a lot of time on it but thinking back you know we see what happened from last fiscal to the proposed but maybe going back two or three more to see you know if one department had a decline one year but then is requesting to try to think about some fairness there just a trend to see so I know I don't even remember a document as I don't have it in front of me but we published I think it's an audit final book on FY 20 and it showed there were our position improved significantly have to go find that table for you but it seems like we're very conservative you've seen the results of the last year and I think it's a good time to go back through some of the end of the year together with some of yes and those other projects as well so you know I haven't really finished there yet do you have a other future plans list tonight to complete as a brand review strain the next time we do a lot of videos, we are getting ready to now just as we said in the past, you are estimating what new revenues we get and if we're in a pinch here on the budget, I want to go look at but the difference has been and when we do prior budget years and how we've had such a rollover so we would miss property tax revenue by a tenth of a percent. And a lot of the things from, again, I don't know which document you're looking at, but when we're looking at this budget, it's not necessarily that there's no growth in revenue. It's just that what we budgeted in the current year was not as conservative as we had been in the past. So when we don't make the current year projections, I can't push out FY26 projections. And we do have, you will be seeing in the very initial part of that, a trend analysis of revenues over the last 11 years. You will see fund balance and changes over the last 11 years. That information will be taken out of the audited financial statements and put into a graph format. So that will be presented Friday morning, very first thing, so you'll have an idea of the history of revenues, expenses, and fund balance. I'll try and find that section. Okay. And email it to you. Okay. So I don't, yeah, I don't know what you're looking at. So, you know, those financial statements are so complicated. I don't know if you're looking at countywide, fundwide. It was like Chapter 4, Section 4, and there was a graph that showed a $38 million improvement in our position. So that was, that's changes in net position. Yeah, I have that in a graph format for you with the numbers. So I can, I'll be presenting that on Friday. So you'll be able to take a look at that. I just went back to 2014. Okay. Mr. Chair, I guess just too quick, I'm a simple mind here. So just to be clear, the expenditure or the requested expenditures versus anticipated revenue, if you take out the transfer from a capital, is about $15 million difference between the initial requests and the anticipated revenue. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, but it does not include, I think, any increased requested from the school. It does not include, and correct me if I'm wrong, capital requests, correct? Or does it? Yeah. So it doesn't include the capital. I do not believe it includes the new position. So you would take that $15 million and realize you still have what the school is going to request, capital and new positions. And you answered my second question about the new positions. Perfect. Thank you. Okay. I'm just going to give you didn't make it so gap. Mr. Vol taxpayer, how much time does it make you leave the school with your scholarship? $25 million of heaviest scholarship makes it $25 million. Yes. Did you get your school with your scholarship as full loans so the kids can use it? I was influenced by what Mr. Zal沒錯 before. Now, I think you can take care of the school for another 2 months if you need better than every 2 months. Now, I don't think that it would allow for premium school. I don't know. I'm just going to continue all. Okay. So, can I just finish? Yes. I was just wondering if any school members must participate in an in Reed's position. Are there any other programs going out to free their students to those restaurants, to gas우�ings for example. reduction in the budgets that have been presented to you as far as what you would feel would need to be not a part of this, of these requests. I've gone through a lot of that work already, but I think my preferred method would be to wait to see after Friday and then by the following next week, get those done by the following next week and send those out. I've actually met with a lot of apartment heads and talked to them and there's several items already that they agreed are not as necessary as they really believed they were first. Thank you. I'm just wrapping my head around the bigger picture. So we've got about $15 million in additional requests over last year. We have about $5 million of additional revenue from last year. Okay. So we're going to have to wait until next year if we go revenue neutral on the real property taxes. And that's without new positions or hearing the school budget yet, et cetera. So we're already starting 10 behind. Now is there a surplus or deficit number as well from last year that factors into that? Our capital fund decreased, but that net position chart shows an improvement. Our capital fund, I think, increased 17 million dollars is what we rolled into our capital fund. How much? 17 million. And we will be presenting that. We have that data. That'll be shown on Friday, what's in the capital fund and the fund balance. Were there any unusual factors in that 17 million? I know it floats from year to year, but was there something in there that you wouldn't think would work? If I remember correctly, it was about half revenue and half expenditure driven. And I think most of the expenditures were of our high. Vacancy rate. Vacancy rate. So if that stayed the same, and we were again conservative on revenue, we would have another 17 million. So I don't, I can't say that's sitting here. Well, under those, my speculations. If I may interject on that, and one thing we're going to show on Friday is that some of the revenues from last year may have been higher than we really thought they should have been. So we're going to show you that when you look at these revenues here, and Sherry, I think it's several of them we budget at the exact the same amount as last year. So we will be taking a look at those revenues. So I can talk about sales tax. Sales tax is a pretty good indicator. So last year we collected 21.9 million in sales tax. Sales tax is up 3.7%. So I'm like, okay, let me factor what that means for this year. This year, it means 22.9 million. This year, it means 22.7 million. We have budgeted 23.5. So we're like, we can't increase that 23.5 because we're going to be 700,000 short this year. So when you look at those revenue printouts, that's, your revenue could have increased more than that, but it was because you didn't budget as conservative in the current year. We budgeted 10% because we've been doing 10 to 20% in the last couple of years. We're at four. You're saying you budgeted a 10% increase in sales tax revenue, but you didn't see that. No, we're not seeing that. We're a little less than four right now. Now, you have an advantage that you have still interest earnings that are exceeding budget projections. So it's not like you have to make cuts today for 700, but it is an area that at one time you experienced a lot of unbudgeted growth in. And we're going to do our best to attempt to give you the best information. We can give you on that fund balance and also what you may anticipate as a rollover, but that's very tricky to do because of the forecast. That would be one of our goals is to try and get you that number. Best guess. Best guess. From schools. Right now it's a zero. So can you put in a dummy number with an approximation of what you think the number is? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I mean I think it's probably in the 3 to 5% range. I think you're going to probably look at $8 million and that ballpark would be the request. There's a percentage. You know what that percentage is? Less than, I think it's less than 10%, somewhere between 8 and 10%. Okay. And we don't have the discussion with the schools until a few weeks from now. Right. So I'm going to ask you to kind of do that. Okay. So you want to be sure that that's in the Right. I'm just telling you that it's in the list. Okay? Yeah. Okay. give or take? The 12th. Thank you. And as I'll go back, tomorrow Friday we'll be able to answer a lot of questions, but I assure you there'll be a lot of questions we still won't be able to answer, but there'll be more time in future workshops. And as I think Cheryl told me, as we get closer to March and some of these numbers, especially in revenues, we may be able to make better estimates of what we think they'll be. The $8 million in schools, that's the $8 million on their operating expenses, correct? Correct. That's not ordinary capital. And then I'm asking your second question. You still have an outstanding $19 million from last year minus the three or five we gave them, so you still have... Last year's outstanding capital request as well, correct? That's correct. Yeah, it was $19 million. We contributed a significant amount. Of course, they've got additional items, so I'm not sure what that number is. I gave it to you today. What was it, $39? That capital fund? Yeah, that was in the capital fund of the last state we measured a capital fund. There was $39 million in it. It's a date, October 24th, or I forget what date you had on there. December. That was the last interest that was posted, yeah. Yeah, last interest, December. So we've already took the money in the FY25 budget out of the capital, the $5.6 million, and I think it was $3.5 million or something for schools. Oh, that's already been deducted. Are we tracking anything in Richmond that would change state revenues coming? You know, the big thing I think everyone's tracking, and if I didn't send it out, which I should have, I will send it out, is the question was asked on what the state's doing with the personal property tax. Yeah, that's right. There is a bill out there, but there's always a bill every time they meet. And on the one bill out there, they would reduce it to eliminate it eventually, but reduce it 20% per year over five years to bring it down. The appetite or in the chatter regarding that doesn't seem to be as great as it was as the prior year. But I think they have until January 17th or so to file their bills. We'll have more information by then to keep you up to date on that. That's probably the most ominous thing. As I say, they usually talk about that personal property tax every year. And the flavor seems to be even if the legislature were to attempt to do something, they realize the consequences of trying to do it all in one year in local government would probably kill the bill. So anything they would do, I'm sure, would be phased in. Of course, that's my opinion based on the legislature. We also have another bill that is coming into play. For our veterans, our disabled veterans, if you were over, if you were one of the localities that are experiencing a lot of difficulty with the veterans being a high percentage rate, anybody that's over 1%, they're talking about giving half a percent back for every, excuse me, 50% back. We are at. 1.01. So it's, you know, when we figured it out, Derek and I, we were looking at 75 to 79 million. So we're looking at probably getting back maybe 40, 50, 450 to 500,000. So that's still in the works. Is that that you give back what's over the 100, the 1%? Correct. It was just what you're looking at, what's over the 1%. So the 450,000 would be. My apologies. It was 40 or 50,000. It's not a whole lot, but it's a little bit. Okay. That makes more sense. Sorry. That was my mistake. Okay. Any other questions? If we adjourn this work session early, you're going to be around the next 50 minutes? I have to stay for the board meeting, so I'll be around. Is there something else I can do for a little while? Nothing? Anything for you? Okay. Um, I think we're gonna, we are going to turn a late party back to the profitable hold. I, filming this. I actually need to join. Okay. First of all, make sure to follow. Um, Same rate. I think the personal property, same rate, yes. So not revenue. It's the same rate, yes. And I think that that was like maybe 1.2 for personal property tax and maybe 900 and some for new construction. That's kind of like how it was split. We won't be able to run the books until probably the mid-February. And when we do that, sometimes it takes a while to get that information back from Avenity. For J.D. Towers, so we're looking at adding an extra week or two. So it's going to be around the first part of March before we can have a very exact number for personal property. So these are just our proposed and projected revenue. And you're talking about that rollover amount. It doesn't look like, and I don't know how far this number is. But it doesn't look like what we budgeted for personal property tax for FY25 is going to be met as well. So all those are going the opposite direction that they usually go. A lot of the values for some certain types of vehicles are not maintaining that value. And if anybody had any questions in regards to why do we use J.D. Power over Kelly Blue Brook, we'll get to that. Kelly Blue Brook is for the vendors. J.D. Power is for a wholesale. Excuse me, a retail versus Kelly Blue Brook is a wholesale. And when you look at that that way, you know, if we used Kelly Blue Brook across the board, instead of having it $4.23, we would just have to raise the rate to maintain the same revenue. Does that make sense? So is Powers in this year dropping the rate? I have an ABC car. Last year it was $1. Are you telling me that this year they're just dropping the rate, the value on that car? It depends. We use J.D. Power because it's the most accurate. Right. I know that. So I'm not following the question. As J.D. Powers this year then dropped their valuations, on the same car they had last year. Okay, so ABC car, it's also a year older so it's going to decrease in value as well. Yeah, I understand that. But Cheryl made the comment that your number's coming down, so you have some new cars coming to the system when, you know, Tom buys a new car, Sally buys a new car, et cetera. We're not seeing the trend of it used to be an 8% to 10% increase. Right. that increase on average of people purchasing new vehicles, but people aren't purchasing new vehicles. Okay. Because, so we're looking at like 3 to 4 percent, so you're not going to see as great of an increase. That explains it. That explains it. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chair, you mentioned about the increase of operating costs, or estimated operating costs for the capital request. And I see it, can you just explain that a little bit more? I think it's great, but I see it in the vehicle maintenance and repair, the lining is different in some things. So each page represents those ongoing operating costs. Yes. Yes. So like for the Sheriff's Department, it'll say, the first one after the purple and white sheet says, Security door locks. And then it says, key fob entry will need no further maintenance. And then the next one will be vehicles and equipment, and then you'll see. Awesome. Thank you. And is that increase in operating included in the . . . No. No. I mean, usually the first year you don't have, yeah. It would hit you next year. And we added that just so when people make decisions on capital, they got an idea that there will be ongoing costs. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Can I ask a question on the reassessment ad discussion slash decision? Last time we met, we kind of postponed that decision, and it says on Friday that we're going to include the discussion. Does that mean the decision at the end of that or . . . No, we do not. We've gone back and we're going to go over that in the very close part of Friday. We've looked at the laws and such, and you can actually stretch out that date, and I don't remember exactly. I'll tell you Friday morning. But I think it's going to be a little bit later than that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But, that decision will not be . . . need to be made per law until sometime achieve March. I know the board said they would rather wait until they have more information before they have to make that decision. So, we'll be discussing that on Friday morning with a timeline so everybody can look at the dates. The real key factor on our dates is the driving date would be the date you have to mail the bill, so you take that as the date, and you've got to work backwards from that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. And it's all in a timeline for you that will show you. Thank you. Thank you. In looking at the capital request, like for the instance, the sheriff's office with 18 replacement vehicles, would we be able to find out how many purchase orders are outstanding and we're not able to get vehicles from last year's request? I think that will be helpful for us to know how far out we are in getting some of this capital. It's about two years. So we can tell you what purchase orders haven't been filled for January, but that could change in June because they will be purchased in July. They will do this purchase order in July, whatever. And I saw Missy back there saying we're probably two years behind. Yeah. Yeah. And receiving the vehicles that we've already have outstanding for purchases. So between 18 months to two years. 18 months to two years. And are there other things besides the sheriff's office, police vehicles and such that we have outstanding that are being asked to be requested again, but we haven't even received two years. We're back ordered two years now, right? Some of inspections vehicles. We've had two years of inspections. We've had two years of inspections. And I think it's good. We'll see if we can get the money back. Yeah. We'll see if we can get the money back. We'll see if we can get the money back. And the vehicles have taken a year to get. Vehicles in general are delayed. And we'll provide you that information. And even more important, so if those vehicles have been ordered, has the money been set aside and does it really affect the budgeting decision making? We'll have that for you. And I believe if I'm. But you wouldn't want to delay because then, you know, you still want to keep up the rotation. You need to get the order in. Understood. That makes sense. And we'll also have to. We'll have to. We'll have to. I believe we've got the matrix. I think, you know, we use that matrix to assess all the vehicles. We've got the first draft of that done and submitted by everyone. So we're trying to review that and give you some information on that Friday. Is there an update on the fire station? The fire station, we're putting together a committee to go out and the preferred method will be a design bid bill to build the station. What we're waiting on now is we're going through reviewing RFPs so we can get our design architectures and engineers, experts on board to help us with the RFP. That's the same type of people we'll use in the review and all the school plans. We did purchase the property. The final closing, I guess, was this week or last week. I think last week we closed on the property. So we own the property and that went very smooth. And then go with a design bid bill, which means you have to hire an architect. They designed it. Then you bid it out to a contractor to build the station from what we've heard in the industry right now. We're going to use the best methodology at this point in time to get the best price. That changes year by year. Sometimes construction manager in charge or a different methodology works better. And that is the methodology they are going to be using to build the high school. The design bid bill. Mr. Chair, along with... Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So did the I think the Sheriff did, lots of folks added more information. There we go. Thank you. Mr. Chair. I hesitate to suggest a journey when there's so much information we need. I don't want either Cheryl or Judy on the police purchase cars, for example. We took a price, but if the cars are not being delivered for two years, are we getting the price of what was done? I mean, it's a set price. It's not an inflation factor that could have come by just either on the vehicle itself and or on the equipment that goes into the vehicle? It's contract. It's a contractual price. It's set. Okay. All right. Thanks. Through the state contracts, right? Are we going through state contracts to get the vehicles? We're going through lots of contracts to get vehicles. When do we get the school board budget? Because if we're meeting on February 12th, do you know about how far in advance we'll get it? I have no idea, but I will find out and let you know. I'll let you know on Friday. Oh, okay. Great. It would be great to get in advance. It's the single biggest package we'll get, so we have to read it and prepare questions to make sure we understand it. And if I may toss out one thing that's not budget related, but it is time sensitive that's come up. We're in the process of getting ready to redo the vehicle. We're going to have to get the carpentry done. We're going to have to get the carpet in this building and to paint and to clean it up. And I guess I was asked to ask a decision as of right now, our seating is pews. So this is an opportune time if this board wants to change from pews to seating, we would need to know sooner rather than later because that affects what we're doing. I will tell you, decide to go away from pews. Look at some preliminary numbers and miss you correctly if I'm wrong, depending on the quality to do 150 to 180 chairs, it's 10 to $15,000. It would probably be the cost. Ballpark. 15 to 20. 15 to 20. And if you go too cheap on the chairs, if you do go with chairs, you'll always regret it because you want to get stackable chairs that lock. And if you go cheap, they get beat up and they just don't last. But that's it. If not, we could just leave the pews here. It was just an option and I was asked to bring it up before they move forward. So they just wanted to check with the sport. If you had the inclination. To go with the stackable seating chairs. So for the fuse we have here, if you replace all this with chairs, do you get the same number of people? Do you get more people? My guess is you'll probably be able to, the fire code will probably be about the same because you're allowed, you're limited by number of seats and such. However, I think you'll be able to fit more people in easier because of the chairs, you can line them up in a range of going to the back and such. I know when we have work sessions, if there's a lot of interest, people are sitting in this pews facing the wrong direction. But with that said, other than that, we don't have any need to make that open floor space at any time, do we? I can't think of a meeting we've held that was big enough. It's optional for the board if you ever wanted to use this room for any other purposes. If you had a small banquet, if you brought people in for whatever purpose, it makes it more flexible and versatile. And it does allow you if you wanted to, to change seats around. And also you have these dividing walls. If you wanted to have separate meetings or conferences. Yeah. If you wanted to have separate conference rooms in the short term, you have that ability. So there's pros and cons both ways. Staff wasn't pushing it one way or another, but they're getting ready to make that decision on painting and replacing the carpet. Can people get on the board longer? Can you think of a time you needed two conferences at once or a really big gathering? Could the pews be reversible? I think they're kind of fixed in that. They're fixed. It'd probably be not very practical, but I guess you could turn them. I mean, they're attached to the floor right now. I mean, you could detach them, but it's probably impractical to try and swing around pews on that type of thing. I just need to know whether or not to include them in the project to get painted. Yeah. And I think we can wait until... I have to post it before it closes and it closes on the, at the end of the month. End of the month. End of this month? Yes. So, the next Friday? Yes. And the cheapest option is to keep the configuration we have? Yes. Probably. I'd like to see the cost differential between the two and what you get for it. We can do some looking tomorrow and get some ideas of range of cost. And then if you go to shares, just keep these... How old are these pews? Do you know? I don't think they're antiques or anything like that. 96. I think they're 99. 96. I don't think they have a lot of value. And then the same question is, life expectancy of shares. If you build that in, you're building in what's your life expectancy for the shares? Well, I will tell you, in my previous position, we had the stackable shares and they bought the good quality ones, put them in in 2008. I showed, I think, you a picture of them in 2024 and they were still in great shape, but they were good quality ones. It all depends on the quality you buy, how long they last, because when you're banging those around and they're cheap. And they will fall apart quickly. I know our church has stackable shares and they do a very good job. So, I mean, I've seen the effectiveness of that. Yeah. So, there's pros and cons both ways. That way, you can think about it. I'll see if we can get you some rough prices on Friday. Any regulation changes since we've had the pews like ADA or something about people being able to... You have to have a certain space between the hallways. It doesn't... The ADA requirements will stay the same. You just have to make sure you accommodate it. My guess is I would... Those pews are probably less likely to need ADA than you will be chairs. You can't make additional room. Right. But to that point with ADA, we've had requests before that I've brought to you about having a door that are handicapped accessible in this building, which we... Do not have. So, is that something we could look at as well? That is something you have to take into consideration if you have the budget. For instance, obviously, because the tricky part is if you do the front door, which is the most likely one, if you do it the full way with a push button, which is usually acceptable, it's fairly sizable cost because you have the double doors. I'm not sure. Somebody told me 10,000, 15,000 or such, but I can get you a rough estimate and bring it in on my own. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Here we said, a brilliant estimate, but I can't trust you. I know that came in late, which was part of a budget issue when Ikm Gates placed us ahead of those who are holding the project and the primary commission for our tout is that you need to have everybody look at it. Don't be easily misled by the story of what goes on in the building just so and make sure that everybody is looking at each other. It doesn't have to have the same plan. I know I got mixed passed on. I know. It's hard to trust since not everyone Ozzie feels the better. You're right. YOU'RE GOING TO REDO THIS ROOM. YOU KNOW WHEN YOU'RE GOING TO DO IT? WE'LL PROBABLY ISSUE THE CONTRACT WITHIN A WEEK OF THE CLOSED DAY. SO NEXT WEEK WE'LL ISSUE OR WE'LL REVIEW EVERYTHING AND THEN ISSUE THE CONTRACT THE FIRST WEEK OF FEBRUARY AND THEN GET STARTED AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE. THEY REALIZE THAT THERE'S MEETINGS THAT GO ON HERE SO WE WILL SCHEDULE THINGS AS NECESSARY AND THEY ONLY HAVE FIVE DAYS TO GET THIS AREA DONE. SO DO YOU EXPECT TO HAVE THIS ROOM BE DONE LIKE IN A TWO-WEEK TIME FRAME BETWEEN? FIVE DAYS. THEY HAVE FIVE DAYS TO DO EVERYTHING IN HERE. OKAY. MR. ADMINISTRATOR, HOW'S THE HEAT? I'LL BE SERIOUS. LAST WEEK WAS COLD. IS THE HEAT AN ISSUE? WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT THE HEAT. WE'RE WORKING ON THE HEAT CONDITION. I KNOW WE CAN TALK ABOUT IT. WE CAN TAKE A LOOK. IF IT FEELS COLD IN HERE, WE'LL HAVE OUR TURN UP THE HEAT EVEN MORE. IT'S BEEN AN ONGOING PROBLEM WITH THE HEAT. I UNDERSTAND I HAD SEVERAL COMPLAINTS AND YOU CAN FEEL THE COLD CREEPING IN NOW. AND I WILL GET IT ON AS SOON AS WE GET OUT OF THIS MEETING AND HAVE THEM TURN UP THE THERMOSTAT MORE. IT'S COMING IN WITH DOWN JACKETS. YOU GOT IT. AND DOWN SNOW PANTS. I'M NOT TAKING MINE OFF. OKAY. ANY OTHER QUESTIONS? ANYONE ELSE? MR. CHAIR, JUST QUICKLY. I THINK I HEARD YOU SAY THIS. THE BUDGET IS BASED UPON ASSUMING THAT THE GOVERNOR'S BINANCE BUDGET WOULD REMAIN THE SAME. THINKING ABOUT SOME OF HIS PROPOSALS OF DISPATCH, I THINK HE HAD A 9 POINT SOMETHING PERCENT SALARY INCREASE, WHICH MY ASSUMPTION IS THIS IS ASSUMING THAT THERE'S NONE OF THAT THAT WOULD OCCUR. OKAY. THANK YOU. ANY OTHER QUESTIONS? IT GETS VERY TRICKY TRYING TO BUDGET BASED ON THOSE. HYPOTHETICALS. YEAH. ANYONE ELSE? THANK YOU FOR THE FINANCE COMMITTEE MEMBERS JOINING US. I THINK WHEN THEY ORIGINALLY SIGNED UP, THEY DIDN'T HISTORICALLY COME TO ALL OUR BUDGET MEETINGS TO HELP US. SO WE APPRECIATE THE TIME. AND BEING YOUR SECOND YEAR, FIND SOME COST SAVINGS FOR US. SO THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. aberrant dialogue style. . . .
