Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-06-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=134
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for coming out tonight. Board of Supervisors Liaison, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, sir. We held our regular meeting last Wednesday, and there were two issues relevant to this commission that were not in line with the rules. One was the short-term lodging, which you may hear about today or have already heard about that was sent back for more consideration. I don't know. You probably have all the details already, but I'll just mention there were some supervisors who voiced concern about some of the provisions, including shared access to private roadways. So the question is, is anything that the county puts, makes law, puts in an ordinance, does it deprive the owner of a current buy right to do something with this property, like rent it out as Airbnb, that weighed against the rights of people who share property or ever shared private drive on the use of that drive? So there were that and perhaps other issues that were referred back to you. And then another thing I want to mention, there's, I expect a motion at the next meeting, next Wednesday, to revive a motion that failed two years ago, and I think was introduced before that as well, on private ownership of chickens. That plan, if it's moved the same way it existed two years ago, would allow up to six chickens with a number of provisions to restrict and to make, you know, to account for neighbors and cleanliness, et cetera. But it would be on not just the rural area, but also R4, R5, and RP zones. So most of the county would be eligible as long as they owned 0.34 acres or more. So that does eliminate most of the, you know, typical quarter acre, most suburban, smaller lots. But it would extend that right to quite a bit more of the county. And we'll see where that goes next Wednesday. That's it. Thank you. Mr. Ludwig, appreciate it. Next up, citizen comments. This which we open for any items that are not before the commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. Please state your name and your measure of district. And I don't think we see anybody, so we're going to close the citizen comments. Okay. The next item up is a public hearing regarding CUP number 0322 regarding a dog kennel boarding. Mr. Charron. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Planning Commission, this is a request for a conditional use permit to allow an operation of a kennel on properties located at 409 Brill Road, which is in the Back Creek Magisterial District. The property is currently zoned RA rural areas. All right. Oop. There you go. Your map on your left there shows an outline of the property at 409 Brill Road where this conditional use permit will take place. Kennels are allowed in the rural area district with an approved conditional use permit. Zoning ordinance does define kennels, and for some of the members that have been on the Planning Commission for some time, our kennel ordinance actually changed a little bit. I think it was two years ago. But for the record, the kennels, they have been on the Planning Commission for some time. They place a repair house, board, breed, handle, or otherwise careful dogs for sale or in return for compensation. One litter of dogs for breeding for compensation per household per year should not be defined as a kennel and should be considered as a home occupation. And what that is, basically, if you had a, we've had folks that were coming in that were doing some breeding, and we let them have one litter, instead of bringing them in front of this board and also the Board of Supervisors for Ultimate, the Board of Supervisors for Ultimate, the Board of Supervisors for Ultimate, the Board of Supervisors for Ultimate, working through an ordinance amendment that came through, allowed you to do one. In this case, the applicant is actually doing some boarding and training, and so she qualifies as a kennel per our ordinance. Should the Planning Commission find this application to be appropriate, staff will recommend the following conditions to be signed to this conditional use permit. Our review agency comments should be applied within all times. Number two, this conditional use permit, is solely to enable for the boarding and training of dogs, so there'll be no breeding. So basically, as the business plan, and the applicant can answer the business plan a little more clear, that that's all it's gonna be a use for, it's gonna be no breeding of any dogs on this property with this conditional use permit. Number three, no more than six dogs not owned by the applicant should be permitted on the property at any given time. Number four, no employees shall be permitted with this conditional use permit. Number five, all dogs will be controlled, so not to create a nuisance to any adjoining property by roaming free or barking. And number six is all dogs are gonna be confined by 9 p.m. The hours of operation, number seven, the hours of operation to the public should be from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. And Mr. Chairman highlighted that it was a change from what your staff report said. It will be a lot easier to speak with the applicant, and staff looking at, to keep the hours the same, for one reason, the dogs have to be kept in indoor by 9 o'clock. We had our hours of operation, the public was at 8. To avoid any conflict that would be a violation of the conditional use permit, staff bumped it up to 9 o'clock, so it was even, so if there's any dogs after 9 o'clock, it'd be a violation of the conditional use permit. So that was the only change that was made that may not be on your diets. And number eight, any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. Mr. Chairman, the applicant, Ms. Christina Boyer, is here to answer any questions you or any planning commissioners may have on this conditional use permit. Staff will answer any questions that you have. Commissioners, do you have any questions for Mr. Chair? Mr. Thomas? Mr. Chair, there was a number of e-comments we received on this applicant. The positive e-comments that I read, and maybe I didn't read all of them, I thought I did, but all of them, none of them gave their address where they lived. They said they had purchased animals from the Mrs. Boyer, but they didn't say they were neighbors or lived there. Is there any way, do we know at all if they lived in the area or if they were all from out of the area? I would have to look into it because we do get the e-commerce when it comes to it. I would have to look into it because we do get the e-commerce when it comes to it. I should say e-commerce, but it comes online. A lot of our service staff, they do sometimes leave an address or phone number, but most of the times, no. We also get that on complaints or if people want to send applications in, sir. Best that I could tell, the only comment from what appeared or said that the person was a neighbor was vehemently against it. That is correct. That was the only one that staff did receive, and I did read that. We did, staff, we did read that. We did, staff, we did read that. Staff, we had received a few phone calls. Staff, we had received a few phone calls. Most of them were positive, of course, the e, which is at your table tonight, were positive. Good evening. Quick question for you. Point five on the CUP, if you could go back one. The one concern that I read was that they were concerned that it would be a nuisance with the barking. How would that be determined if they are a nuisance? Who would be the judge of that, and how would that be decided? That's a good question. As far as in the contents of the conditional use permit, you're looking at who would be judging it. Staff would be the judge of that. Staff, the zoning administrator. I do want to add one, and we'll let the applicant answer that question too, Mr. Kearns, that the applicant has her own pets, dogs here, but the, yes, if there was a long story, the nuisance, there's no nuisance complaint out in the rural areas where she's at by code. If it was a consistent nuisance, as far as this conditional use permit, wasn't controlling any of the dogs, that she was either, training or boarding, it would be a violation of conditional use permit, it would be a zoning violation, and we would follow up that way. I have a question. You're go. Yes. On the information we received at the Frederick County's inspection department, they had listed that a building permit's required, but then there's, it says none proposed, but then it says interior boarding of less than five canine, but now we're saying six. Right, yeah, and that was, the applicant will have a total of three dogs that they are boarding. And I'm gonna let the applicant explain her business plan a little better, but just because what was put also in the packet is the applicant also wants to do on-site and off-site training by appointment only. We had put, or staff had looked at it, that okay, it was five, if the dog comes to be picked up or not, that would give them a little bit of room to have that six dogs. So inspections, as a reviewing agency, yes, she has to abide by that. The applicant will, on her business plan, only wants three dogs at any time that she's gonna be boarding there. Three additional to whatever she may have. Whatever she owns, that is correct. Oh. One more quick question. Mr. Dunn. You talked about the hours being changed and to make them consistent, you went from nine to nine. Why did you choose to go to nine instead of eight? If we wanna be consistent, why didn't we have all dogs inside by eight and the hours nine to eight? That was more of a follow-up. If you recall, Mr., well, you may have not, Mr. Thomas, that a lot of our conditional uses for kennels, we thought the nine o'clock. We've, you know, what we've done in the past seemed to be a good equilibrium. However, because there's appointments only on the hours of operation, as I explained earlier, our staff felt it would be better to lock it up, to keep it consistent. So as Mr. Kerners talked about the barking dogs or how many dogs that may be there, what this would do is that after nine, nine o'clock, nine, one, nine thirty, no dogs period. And if they could find indoors, in other words, their hours of operation is no one bringing dogs or picking the dog up that was already there that was boarded. But this intent of this is her dogs have to be inside by nine also. No, her dogs are not a part of all this. Okay, but you say all dogs, that would kind of include all dogs on the site? Interpreted that, yes, sir. But I would, I would say the dogs, you know, the dogs, you know, the dogs, you know, the dogs. the dogs would be what the conditional use permit is well yes no but any other questions for mr. chair miss goes up is fencing required around the kennel or is there fencing or how how's that the applicant I'm not the applicant answer that on what with her she came to this business plan okay mr. chair question room yes so basically we're not limiting the amount of dog she has owns only the ones that are being boarded and trained that is correct mr. okay triplet thank you okay mrs. Boyer hi would you mind coming up don't be nervous we're just I know there's a lot of questions so let's we'll start with your cat people okay I have a question mr. Sharon said you're not doing breeding but you're you're hobby yes I do though I have a business license for the hobby breeding and I've had that for about six years and so I added the pet sitting and training to to broaden what I can do with the business really it came about because I used to be an account manager and that she lost an account and I just became available for and I wanted to do other things with the animals than just you know have the breeding on the side I wanted to be able to be at home with my kids and so this is something that I've been trying to do so I'm going to go ahead and talk to you about it. gave me that opportunity. And when I first started it, I thought because I was doing the pet sitting and the training inside my residential dwelling, which means in my house, I thought it fell under a home occupation. So the only reason I know that it needed a CUP is because somebody had made a complaint and then talking to Mr. Scherer and he said that even if it's inside a house, it's considered a kennel because you're boarding for compensation. So that's why I went ahead and applied for the CUP. Okay. Your breeding, is it just your pets? Yes. And is it one litter a year? Yes. Yes. To the right. Anybody have a question? I have a question on fencing. So is... I have a fenced in area for when like my dogs are out playing. I let them play in that area. I'm... I'm in the middle of fencing in my front yard. But whenever I have pet sitting and training, I don't let them out by themselves. I take them out on a leash. I also take them for walks. And then when I'm doing training, I have a 50-foot leash that I use to give them the sense that they're off lead for training, but have that extra security so they don't take off. But I am in the middle of putting up a fence over the front yard and I have gates over the driveway. So the whole property will be enclosed by the time I'm done with it. Yeah. Another question. Training, since you're going out on leave, do you limit the type of dog you're training? No. It's case by case. So if I don't take in somebody, a dog that has an aggression issue, because I have my own animals and I have children, so I don't work with aggression issues. It's general obedience is what I work with. Okay. Thank you. How long do you typically have a dog? Training. So the training camp is two weeks. They can do additional weeks if they want to, but it's per week and it's suggested minimum of two weeks. And then the pet sitting is a minimum of two-day, two-night stay. And so that can go anywhere from two days to 14 days, depending on how long they're out of town. And the reason the clients like to use me is because they get to stay in the home with me, as opposed to in a kettle boarding atmosphere. So they get to sleep in my bed if they sleep in their bed. They're allowed on my furniture if they're allowed on their furniture. I try to follow their house rules so they don't pick up anything bad while they're at my house and take it home with them. I'm still a little unsure of the numbers. So I only, because I have my own animals, I only have the capability to watch up to three dogs at a time. So for pet sitting, it's up to three dogs at a time. But if I have a training camp, I only do one dog at a time. So I can focus on that dog because it's too much if you're trying to do the pet sitting and training more than one dog. I like, I write the training for each dog because certain dogs respond differently to certain things. So you can't just train every dog the same way. So you have to get to know the dog. And then once you get to know the dog, you get to know what they respond to and how they're going to respond to training and what is going to create that bond because it has to be a trust there between you and the animal for the animal to respond to you. So I only do that one at a time so I can focus solely on the dog there. So then when you have a training. If you have a dog for two weeks, you're not boarding those two weeks also? Not generally, no. Like I said, it's up to three dogs at a time. So if it's towards the end of the training and I feel comfortable and say I need like two days where I'm going to be pet sitting this dog as well as wrapping up the training, I would do that. But I won't do honestly like the five dogs was just, you know, giving me that extra number. But unless I ever get a bigger house, I don't have the room to really do that. I would just do three dogs at a time. But the likelihood of you getting a bigger house. Yeah. So you training one and boarding two at the same time for weeks on end. Not for weeks on end. It's like a few days overlap here and there. Yeah. Questions? I have one. The breeding. You have three personal dogs and those are the only ones you use for breeding and you do it once a year? Oh, I have more than three personal dogs. Okay. So I have 14 dogs. So I have my poodles. I have my males. And then I have my retired dogs. They're spayed. They're spayed and not intact. And then I have a couple of girls who are intact, but I don't breed them every time they come in heat. I don't breed them all the time. So I pick a dog whenever the schedule comes about. One dog was a foster fail. So she was a pet sitting that they asked me to rehome. Then my daughter fell in love with her. So I ended up with her. I have a license on file with the county for each dog. So, I mean, I love my animals. I have my dogs. I have my daughter has her rabbit. We have our chickens. We have our ducks. We have our dogs. We have our dogs. We have our dogs. It's what I do. I take care of the animals and I take care of the kids. And then being able to do the business at home helps me be able to be there and present for my responsibilities that I take care of at home. Well, there's some concern about the posting of the sign. It was there. It's there. And I've had several people call and concern. And I have pictures of where I have it located. I took pictures of it on the property. What I'd like to do is I'd like to. I'd like to have a motion to. You haven't opened the public meeting yet. We opened it. We opened the public. I haven't closed it. Public comment. We had staff report and we had the applicant. Oh, that's right. That's right. Okay. This is a public hearing at this time. I open this public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against this item. Now, state your name. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Mr. Jury's. Please keep your comments for three minutes. Okay. So. Do I sit down now? You can sit down. Yeah. Okay. You can sit down. Okay. Mr. Chairman, since there is some confusion on whether the sign was posted or not posted, I move that we continue the public hearing. I had a hard time saying that. I'm good. Continue the public hearing at our next regularly scheduled planning commission meeting on the the 15th of June okay all right so we got of a motion do I have a second second okay I'm gonna start with this Brandon are we gonna do discussion or Brady we're we're not we're going to but can I make a comment but the comments come after you close the public hearing so we have to keep the public hearing open mr. chairman if there's discussion on the motion being made that's appropriate well I drove by today and where the sign is I think you can only see it from one direction down the road so even though it's posted I do think it should be moved to a more prominent place so that you can see it both ways driving down the road I don't know how to add that to the motion or if it should be mr. chip mr. chair and they'll take care of that one so okay okay so just Brandon how do you vote yes yes Brumbach yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes so this we will continue this on June 15th so thank you okay all right we'll be at your doorstep so am I gonna be there and you can go thank you for medicines I will do the ones those in the back oh you can go down but get with mr. chair and about the signs so it's will boards display thank you thank you so much learn a learn by the sea your pants brother regarding draft update of the 2022-2020 Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement. Mr. Bishop, you're up. Flashbacks of last night, walking through my neighborhood looking for my dog that got out of the yard. But thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. And many of you have been here before, and this is our annual update of the Interstate Primary and Secondary Road plans. But just to give a brief overview of what those are, is the Interstate and Primary plans are basically a statement of Frederick County's priorities on those specific systems. They're not required, which the Secondary plan actually is, as is the public hearing. But we always bring them through all together for consistency sake. So that people don't get confused by what we're doing. So with that said, I'll jump right into it. To begin, we have the Interstate plan. I'll go through our interstates one by one. Beginning with I-81. Ending with I-81. I apologize. It was a late night looking for my dog. Anyway. We do have this. I believe it was the year before last now. The board broke the prioritizations up into interchange priorities compared to widening priorities. So those items don't necessarily compete against each other. Widening versus interchange. But within those categories, they do somewhat compete against each other in terms of how these are outlined. The probably biggest change that we did add this time, we added exit 321. And 323. Those needs at those interchanges have fairly long been identified within your Northeast land use plan and your Eastern road plan. However, they haven't necessarily risen to this specific plan and been communicated strongly to VDOT in the recent decade, if you will. Because frankly, of all the interchanges in Frederick County, they've been operating about as well as you could ask compared to the rest of the system. And they still are today. But we are in the midst of a Northeast land use plan update. And on top of that, from purely staff level perspective at this point, we are in the midst of a coming wave of rezoning applications in this area that are going to change that, if approved, that are going to change the face of exits 321 and 323 and how well they operate. So. We're trying to make sure we recognize that. And that's why they've been added to the priority list. And of course, that's that's your signal that you as the planning commission have extra work coming as well. With that said, 323 is probably a little higher priority right now since you already have Amazon there. And we've we've got a lot of frankly land right around their identified industrial 321 is a little bit behind that. But it's really facing much the same challenge. And we're going to take a look at that. And we're going to take a look at that. And we're going to take a look at that. And we're going to take a look at that. The next biggest change you will see from last year's update is the exit 313 has fallen from the top priority to now the third priority. The key reason for that is while exit 313 does remain on the list because the coming project, which is going to replace the bridge and add a small amount of capacity, does help a lot with safety. But there's still a fair amount of unmet needs. That's why it's not just falling off the plan. In addition to the fact that we don't really pull them off the plan. We're going to have to do a lot of work. And we're going to have to do a lot of work. We're going to have to do a lot of work. And we're going to have to do a lot of work. So that's why we don't leave it on the plan until the real project is really there. So that's why sometimes you'll see something on the plan, you're like well that project's under way, we leave it on there until it becomes a real thing. We leave it on there until it becomes a real thing. Just for caution's sake. However, while 313 has those improvements coming, that fell down below the other two projects because they have active daily safety concerns. 317, yes we have a ramp realignment coming. Three 17, yes we have a ramp realignment coming. Yes, we have a ramp realignment coming. That is only a small piece of the framework. significantly needed puzzle in that area and 307 regularly backs up into the main line so that's why you now see them ranked above exit 313 so sorry not to not to try and drag that out but that's that's why those are as they are now the widening priorities have not changed from last year but as you can see we still do call for widening all the way through the area we all know that exit 313 to 317 is on the way but once again as I alluded to before until it's really here here we do keep it on the plan and make sure the Secretary's office and V dot know that remains a Frederick County priority all right that decided to stop working bear with me I apologize this is a new one bring that appreciate the detail you give us what I do Oh and while we're waiting can I ask a question so these priorities they these are Frederick County priorities they're not V dots priorities okay right right okay you also you started that one congratulating staff of all of you guys did one crossover Boulevard thank you thank you and I'm grateful for this was definitely one of the most representative departments and I have probably been one of the best that's 35 years I've lived here definitely very excited about it and I apologize particularly to the folks at home but it seems as though unless I do a full computer restart we may not get anywhere with this and I know you have the paper in front of you and I don't want to drag on your meeting are we okay Mr. Chairman with that? Try to hotspot it. We can, yeah, if that works. But I'll go ahead and roll into the primary road improvement plan. And thank you for that, Mr. Thomas. That was a long time coming, and there were many days where we wondered if it was coming, so let's appreciate that. Moving into the primary road improvement plan, we're actually not recommending changes to the primary road improvement plan at this time. Since last year, that is. But I will do a quick overview of where we are. The top priority does remain the Route 37 bypass. Beginning with phase one, which is from Route 11 north to Route 7. Phase two from I-81 at exit 310 over to Front Royal Pike, Route 522. And then following that, we have the loop around Stonewall Industrial Park. Thank you, Wyatt. And then finally, we have the section from Route 7 down to Route 522, kind of filling in that middle gap, if you will. Route 11 north and south of Winchester, calling for a widening to basically all of it. Different levels, though. For example, Route 11 on the north end, we basically call for six lanes from just south of exit 317 all the way to Cedar Hill Road, based on the adopted land use plan for the northeast area. Route 37 slip ramps. That actually refers to this little spot right here. Lenore Drive is one of the key roads within Stonewall Industrial Park that stubs out just short of Route 37. So the idea there is particularly for departing traffic that's heading southbound eventually on 81. That's a nice way to get them out without having to go through the Welltown Road intersection and the lights at exit 317. 277, east of Stevens City. You will maybe note that we have dropped off the section from I-81 in terms of the widening of 277. We have dropped off the section from the interstate to Double Church Road, because that project is quite literally under construction. Called VDOT just a couple weeks ago about one of the medians that to me didn't look quite long enough and pointed that out to them. But we do have the next phases, beginning with Double Church Road to Warrior Drive, then Warrior Drive to White Island. Then White Oak Road. And finally, White Oak Road to Route 522. Establish six-lane cross section on Route 7 from 315 to the future Route 37 interchange on the eastern part of Route 7 there, heading out of Winchester. Route 50 east and west, six-lane cross sections on the east side from interchange at exit 313 to future Route 37. And on the west side, once again, from the interchange with Route 37 out west to Poorhouse Road. Finally, South Frederick County Parkway, which everyone may not be familiar with. No, that doesn't show on there. I'll try this pointer again. Seems very dim to me, so I apologize if you can't see. But that's this brand new road down here, which would be established south of 277 and eventually tie in at a new interchange with, which is actually a relocated exit 307, just slightly south of existing 307. And for those familiar with the Stephen City bypass, that's what you would be running into as you went across that interchange into the Stephen City proper. Finally, we also have Route 522 at Costello Drive. It's one of our upcoming smart scale applications as well. And finally, commuter park and ride lots, which there is some need for. In the county, we do try and focus, when we're talking about these, on locations that also benefit Frederick County. Historically, there was always a big push to get park and ride lots, particularly on Route 7 east. And my attitude was, well, why are we waiting until they've driven all the way through the county? And sometimes the location just makes sense. Different people come from different spots, and that's where they converge. But we try and make sure we look at areas that will also benefit Frederick County. But it's also becoming a key point as a way to get extra points on smart scale applications to where the additional cost on a smart scale application to establish a park and ride lot near or as part of that project can help a project score significantly better so that even though you're spending a little more money, it improves your overall bang for the buck on your application. So it's a competition feature as well. Will you go off the bat? One quick question. Yes, sir. Have they considered, whether you're for or against electric vehicles, but have they considered putting charging stations in the park and ride lots for people? That is something that's taking place, yes. How soon we might see it in Frederick County, that's a little harder to say. But yes, that's absolutely something that's already happening in the Northern Virginia area and others. I think they even have one in Strasburg. We just happened to be talking about that the other day. As we move into the secondary road improvement plan, I apologize if there are any other questions on the primary road improvement plan. Anybody have any questions? I reckon on the 37 bypass, which one of those is the most likely for one to be done first? It's a little difficult to say, but I would say definitely one of the two top priorities. The gravest need at this time really does seem to be that top priority, which, is Route 7 to Route 11. While you can wind your way through the country roads and make that connection now today, that doesn't mean it's a convenient enough connection that all the cars that are currently going, willing to sit backed up on Route 7, go through that interchange at 81 and get up to 317 and get back off are not already doing that. Because anybody familiar with that piece of the county knows that people are doing both those things. Because at key times, Redbud Road, anybody familiar with that road, is backing up. Pass that railroad crossing, which occasionally, sometimes teenagers like to see if they can jump over. And it's a real issue. And that's where a project I'm about to start will help us as well, the Redbud Road realignment. And with that, that begins our major road improvement projects for the secondary plan. And the first thing you're going to do when you look at that map is say, well, where are the projects? Because the secondary formula funds of days of old don't exist anymore. So the projects that you see, both of these projects, Renaissance Drive and Redbud Road, are both revenue sharing projects. Renaissance Drive, of course, we are clawing our way toward actual bidding. We are making our progress with CSX. We got over a key hurdle in the last couple of weeks, which had led to a significant delay. So that was encouraging. But that project's moving forward well. And Redbud Road is coming up in your draft. We have six-year improvement programs already in the draft, rather, that the CTB is adopting. So that application was approved, which we are very gratified for, because that's also a key linchpin in VDOT being able to move forward with the Exit 317 ramp realignment that will remove that intersection of Redbud Road and Route 11. So we're excited to have those moving forward. But in years to come, this major road, improvement portion of the secondary plan is going to remain sparse. And most of what you'll see on it will be Frederick County, VDOT partnership type items, revenue sharing, those kind of things, unless something changes the General Assembly and re-events all that, as tends to happen over the years. Moving on from the major road improvement projects, we have the hard surface, which, while the smallest part of the spending, it tends to be what I get the most calls about. These are the unpaved roads seeking to be paved. And what you have in front of you here is the scheduled list, what we refer to as the scheduled list. This is the same list that was adopted last year. Now, some of you come to Transportation Committee, or it's possible I've mentioned it here before. With the revenue projection updates from VDOT, there is more money being targeted toward this program. But as you look, you'll see that right now, we're not putting anything on the list past the actual date. So we're not going to be doing that. We're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing that. We were able to take millions of dollars behind our front page for our project. But it was actually under else's control, and that made us the most particular. It only elevated us down the list. So we are going to be able to do this and likely the Advertisementfilm will lift it. That means that these revenue projections will have to be done say, 두億은 보은 20k co efù boy, not 20kство tuition. The plan does not apply to any of this table. And you're not going to be able to cover the rent. And this is going to change. That's why we're actually going to be able to do this. At the staff level, the recommendation in coordination with VDOT was made to the Transportation Committee. Let's not promote those projects just yet until we have greater surety, given the fairly large swing in recent revenue projections, and just be a little more cautious there. It doesn't mean the money's not still projected to be there. It doesn't mean the money is not still targeted toward that use. They are unpaved road funds. It just means we're going to sit on it and be a little more cautious. And as we get to the point where year three, year four is opening up, that's when we'll be promoting projects from the unscheduled list. Just a question on those. Not too far. The rankings on that non-hard surface road improvement, those rankings, are they staff rankings or are they VDOT rankings? These are staff rankings. Frederick County. The VDOT is regularly held up as an example of our adopted ranking system. And I apologize. I wasn't anticipating the question, so I didn't include that scoring system. But please feel free to contact me. We can talk more about it. But we have a fairly rigorous ranking system. It includes any number of items in determining what road deserves most to be paved in a competing funds environment, especially as you look at this list of 19 projects which are unfunny. And so people leave pressure really high over time, 3 to 4 or more calculating how much research we need and whether students are confident in achieving these choices, considering level of progress that students are able to make at their local level,опEX, we'll go back to gen finals on that in just a minute. But I just wanted everyone to know just to celebrate these vehicles with me so you are able to see what types of bus, we offer we do give you your file lists. We're sitting here in South 소� km. The bus is FREE. We're accessible to anyone with a ticket. we're promoting projects, but it had been a couple years since we did a re-rank and it just seemed like a good idea to do so. So we move forward with that. There are the key new road that was added is New Hope Road, which is down at number 18. The biggest thing working against New Hope Road at this time is its traffic count is a very low traffic count. And I point that out as a segue to there is a minimum of 50 trips per day required to be able to use those unpaved road funds. And you have two projects on this list that currently sit at 40. However, over years of experience, the amount of time these projects tend to wait on the list, it just made sense that these people strongly want to be on the list. It's a reasonable road to pay for other reasons aside from the trip count. And odds are, the trip count will meet by the time they actually qualify for funds in this rather competitive environment. So they were added to the list. But we did go ahead and add a clarification. There's an asterisk next to the two roads. It's Light Road and New Hope Road. That's that states if for some reason they they were to reach to where they could be funded, they would have to be passed over if they have not yet met that 50 trip threshold. Most of them, that's not a problem. But we did make sure to clarify that to hopefully avoid any confusion in the future if we ever ended up in that situation. With that, I can take any additional questions you may have. Questions for Mr. Bishop. All right, no questions. I will say, again, you know, you've been fantastic when I've called to ask you about anything with transportation. I'm excited to see Renaissance moving. I mean, that's just a dangerous spot back there with Shady Elm and with the new construction going on and everything coming out there. And then, of course, the realignment of Redbud Road because, you know, just going through those lights. So just thank you. Thank you for what you're doing and the way you did, how much knowledge you've given us by with transportation. I appreciate it. So thank you. Many hands make work light. And I appreciate that. Mr. Chairman, could I ask a question or two? Sure. It was asked about who inputs to these priorities and you said it was Frederick County. Does the City of Winchester input at all to this? No, no. This is a solely Frederick County exercise. Okay. I'll just stop with that question now. Thank you. But I'll just add, if I may, I apologize. I've been verbose all night. I might as well, right? But the City of Winchester and Frederick County, as well as Stevens City, all participate in this. Thank you. I'm not sure if you're familiar with this, but I'm a member of the City of Winchester, Frederick, Metropolitan Planning Organization. So there's definitely those items do happen. This happens to be a Frederick County exercise. And this is part of what goes into that effort. But I wouldn't want it to seem as if there's no coordination whatsoever. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Well, questions at this time. I will open this as a public hearing. And I see no one. So I'm going to close this public hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Discussion? Commissioners, any discussion? Look to the left, look to the right. Okay. Do I have a motion to, do I have a recommendation to move this onto the Board of Supervisors? So moved. Second. Okay, I've got a motion and a second. Individual or? Mr. Chairman, are we sending this forward with the recommendation of approval? Oh, recommendation of approval. Thank you. That would help, wouldn't it? With the word approval. So moved. So moved. Second. Second. Do I have to do all? Can I do it? Just all in? Okay. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Motion approved. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Appreciate your time on that. Mr. Pearson, do you have anything other? Not much, but I'll gladly fill you in on a couple items. As far as current planning. Yeah, comment reports about the rotating or not photoshop, et cetera. That's going to be easy as it comes on VVA. But there was another study that came out last month on saying that if it was going to Pray spread on the right to that 들고 ask're the property world Snap querétaro免 previously were in some form of an orchard for some time. It's comprised of, the proposal includes about 190 acres of M1 for warehousing, 20 acres of OM for a potential data center, and then 10 acres of B2 for a hotel and restaurant. And for comparison's sake, one logistics was about 277 acres, this one's about 220 acres. So it'll be coming before you all, probably about two months out right now, I guess. Yeah. It's gonna be a complex traffic study without a doubt to work through. So, but we're getting started on that now and that's something to anticipate. Only other item, or two items I'd like to mention is, you all have known John Bishop in the transportation context for a long time, but with Candace's departure, we're doing some minor reorganizations and you can now refer to him as our Assistant Planning Director. He's still gonna be the face of transportation for the department, but he's gonna take on a more general role as well. And I know for those of you who have worked with him for a long time, you know he's well suited to just about anything that we'll throw his way. So thank you John for taking that on with us. And then lastly, Matthew Gittleman is the face you don't recognize here. He's an intern with Rod's department. He's with the University of Richmond right now and hopes to be an aspiring Commonwealth attorney very much like Rod, I'm sure. So any difficult legal questions you have, direct them to him. He's an academic and he'll get you the answers. With that, I have nothing else for you all, but I'm happy to answer any questions. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? I'm not seeing any questions. Do we have a motion to adjourn? Move that we adjourn. Absolutely. We are adjourned.
