Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-02-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=175
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Father, for this board who sacrifices and desires to serve us, the citizens of Frederick County. And my prayer, Father, is that you'll give them wisdom and grace and patience and mercy and sustain them, Father. Bless them and their families and give them, especially even tonight, Lord, an understanding of the issues, clarity, and that they would make the decisions that would honor you. This I pray in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I would move that we adopt the consent agenda as presented Thank you. Yes. We had the noise ordinance come before us, I think the previous meeting, and a portion of that noise ordinance, I know it was voted down, but a portion of that noise ordinance actually dealt with dogs at large. I have spoken to the sheriff, and the way our ordinance is currently written, we're having a very difficult time enforcing that part because some of the magistrates are struggling with the language. So we just wanted to verify with this board whether or not you would like us to bring that portion of the ordinance back so you can address that, where you would correct the language so our sheriff's department could enforce the part of the ordinance that dealt with dogs at large. I think, yes, it does. All right. So? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I don't know if we need a motion to move forward, but I certainly would like to see that updated. Okay, we have a motion. I'll second it. I'll second it. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Yes, sir, we'd like to see it back. Bring it back. Thank you. Wait a minute, sir, aren't any? Right. Committee of business. Bye. Okay. All right. All right. Sorry. As noted in your agenda and as included in your agenda. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. We have put the draft scope of work for Route 37, phasing and feasibility study, as well as a cost estimate of $380,000 in front of the Transportation Committee, and Transportation Committee has recommended approval. That the board is in agreement and gives us the go-ahead tonight, we will go ahead and execute that contract with the consultant. Any questions of Mr. Bishop? Just a comment that came out of Transportation Committee, and that was that staff would look at if there's anything within this study that staff could do that could help reduce that cost and keep us at the lower amount that they certainly are planning to do that. Mr. Board, one of the things that we've been doing is we've been doing a lot of work on the transportation side of the city, and what are we kind of looking for that's going to come out of this study? What are we going to see from it? What do we hope to see from it? A lot of things, if you will. And one of the reasons the cost is higher than originally expected is that there is a very substantial modeling effort to look at mid- and long-term needs for the corridor and demand for the facility, as well as a robust public involvement process, since obviously the thoughts and feelings of our citizens, as well as the public, as we plan this, are very important as well. Traditionally, 37 has always been looked at as four-lane, limited-access roadway. That's part of the reason why the cost is so extremely high and why it's so hard to get portions built by development when it comes into vicinity and everything like that. So in addition to kind of reassessing that purpose and need, what the point of the study is to look at it on a reasonable segment-by-reasonable segment basis, and what we're looking for is that there's a lot of work to be done to make sure that we're looking at this and say, is a limited-access roadway what we actually need between, say, Route 522 and Route 50? And something else, what we need between Route 7 and Route 11 North? And looking at those individual components as well from a cost perspective versus benefits, demand in the community, and say, does this piece make sense like this? So...apa- Ambassador H 2030- CONância Campoo Board I'd like to make a little discussion here, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I think this is the right move. I think we absolutely must move forward in this. I also think that this is another tag-along to the monies that we appropriated this last year. This is the first year that we've appropriated this last year. This is the first year that we have appropriated this last year. This is the first year that we've appropriated this last year. This is the first year that we've appropriated this last year. the first time in 12 years that we appropriated money for transportation, and I know I keep beating a dead horse, but our community has grown exponentially over the last 12 years if you look at the growth, and our road system has not kept up. So I think it's imperative that we do this. I think it's also imperative that this year's budget and future budgets also continue to incorporate funds for transportation. If you look at what we've been able to leverage this year because of our limited funds, it has been an incredible return on the dollar, and I think it is something we have to, as we're talking about budgets, incorporate into this year's budget. So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? Aye. Supervisor Flutter? Aye. Supervisor West? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Grady? Aye. Chair, we'll find motion carried. Sure. Chair and welcome. Chairman, members of the board. Ag and Forestal District. Yes, sir. These are Ag and Forestal District. Four of them? Yes, sir. Actually, there's three districts, new districts, who will be presented tonight, and also additions to a current district. The Agricultural District Forestry Committee, or ADAC, met on December 16, 2022, to review the three applications before you tonight, and the additions. The three new districts will be known as... The Long Creek Farm District, the North Frederick District, and the Whitehall District. And there's an additional six parcels to be added to the Timber Ridge District, which is an existing district that we have here in Frederick County that was added, I think, two cycles ago. The Planning Commission, at its January 18, 2023 meeting, recommended approval of the districts and additions after a public hearing was held on these districts and additions. There were no comments. No comments for or against the districts. Currently, Frederick County has 10 Ag and Forestal Districts for a total of 13,897.11 acres. Should approval be denied to these districts and additions, the approval will bring the total acres to 19,081.60. Now, as always, we were asked about what the advantages of property owners coming into an Ag and Forestal District. And just to highlight what some of them are, Mr. Chairman, they are land use taxation, preserving land for open space, which I think we all, as we bring these forward every year, it's one of the things we look at. Also, promotes the agribusiness and long-term agricultural planning. It allows the districts, whoever's in the district, or wants to add to the district, or when we renew them, to promote the long-range agricultural and any agribusiness. And also, through your TDR program, you do... you do get a bonus density, which was one density right per two dwelling units. So that's another little bonus that you have if you decide to come into an Ag and Forestal District. So with that, Mr. Chairman, if there's any questions on any of this, I'll move forward with our Ag Districts. Each one of them, obviously, will be a public hearing. And we can... if there's any questions you or the Board members will have, I'll pause and we can go from there. Mr. All right. Mr. Chairman, on the TDRs, I believe there are... three levels, is that correct? Depending upon what the underlying... ground is worth. So if it's something you can't do anything on, or something you can do something on, something you can do very much on. So can you just tell us what the... exchanges are, and of this, how much is in the Tier 3? Mr. That, Mr. Dunn, is a question. To tell you tonight what they are, I couldn't. And the reason I say that is, as you know, as you're well aware of seeing our TDR program, if someone has to be in the... TDR program, staff has to evaluate it. We go... we actually go out with also the Commissioner of Revenue, we get the evaluations. Staff actually inspects the properties, the layout, makes the determination of what your density unit would be. So to tell you today, yeah, that the 13,000 acres is what you can get, it's... I'm not going to say it's... I don't want to say it's impossible, but I don't want to throw a number out there that would be misleading. Mr. Then the other comment is, typically, typically, in this type of situation, though, one acre in a rural area could become, which let's say has one house on it, is arbitrary, could become two houses or one and a half houses in a more dense area if that TDR goes through, correct? Conceptually. Mr. After evaluation. That's just so we understand. This is just a, if you will, a starting point. Mr. Forward. Mr. The first agricultural forest district is known as the Long Creek Farm Agricultural Forest District. This is a request to create the new agricultural forest district. Again, it's Long Creek, has a total of 1,077.39 acres. It is located in the Back Creek Magisterial District. It's generally located a mile and a half west of the intersection of Shady Elm Road and Springdale Road. This proposed district consists of 14 parcels. It's controlled by one property owner. I can direct your attention, Mr. Chairman, to the map on your left. It gives the outline of the district. It's in blue. Again, it's Long Shady Elm Road. I think we're pretty much familiar with where this area is. And again, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors after a public hearing on the creation of the Long Creek Farm Agricultural and Forest District. I'll be happy to try to answer any questions that you or the Board may have on this. New addition. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, anyone? No one. Did anyone sign up? Yes, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak to the public hearing on the Ag and Forestal Districts? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, this is Back Creek. I would like to make a motion that we approve the Long Creek Farm Agricultural and Forest District as proposed. Second. Any discussion? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. So, I've read these, and I have problems with them. And here's my problems. I had a conversation with Wyatt Pearson earlier today, and these are all in rural areas. The concept here is to take an area that is a rural area that you know is going to be developed or have high probabilities it's going to be developed and move that development into a more dense area, such as Redbud or Stevens City. You can buy a TDR, and the associated costs that come are not addressed, at least in my opinion. So, I'm going to use Redbud as an example. In Redbud, some TDRs were used to build some houses off of Sensody Road. We have approximately 300 to 400 houses that are within a quarter of a mile in one area. We have Abrams Point in another area. Sensody Road is an area that's going to have close to 100 acres. It's going to have close to 1,000 houses on it. This concept of TDRs means that the cost associated with that is not transferred. So, there's no transportation costs. The capital costs for new schools, et cetera, is not there. And so, I'd like to see this delayed until we can address how the associated costs are dealt with. I like preserving rural areas, but I don't want to have the rural areas preserved at the expense of taxpayers going to have to have additional costs and the congestion that they're going to have to deal with. So, this is not on any particular land of these four. It's just conceptually, I just have a problem with that. And I'm either going to—I'm going to make an amendment to your motion. And the amendment is going to be to delay all of these until those cost issues can be addressed. So, I'll do this on this one, and if there's a consensus, fine. If there's not, but that's my concern. I'm not going to support this today because of the associated costs with it, and we need to. I had conversations with the proffers. This is a way to reduce proffer costs, and then the taxpayer has to pick up that additional cost through the subsidies that occur in the building. So, I have problems with this at this point in time because of the reasons stated. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. Motion. Is there a second? I'm sorry, sir, you're— COMMISSIONER MAY. I'm sorry, sir, you're— CHAIRMAN BRYANT. I'm sorry, sir, you're— COMMISSIONER MAY. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN MAY. CHAIRMAN MAY. CHAIRMAN MAY. This is my concern. I understand that and I agree with you on that. My concerns are that there's associated costs there. there that we're not addressing so we can agree to disagree mr. chairman and oh the motion in the second is to approve supervisor Graber hi supervisor done supervisor Wells supervisor slaughter supervisor Ludwig I chair votes I in the motion carries the second district tonight for creation is will be known as a North Frederick agricultural forestry district this is a request to create a new agricultural forestry district called North Frederick but a total acreage of 1961 point eight six acres is located within the Gainesboro magisterial district the general located 2.5 miles west of the intersection with Frederick Pike which is known as 522 and along North Sleeper Creek Road and Bloomerie Pike and this district will consist of 15 total parcels and if I could turn your attention again to the map on your left mr. chairman it's a pretty big dish it also goes up to the West Virginia line and down to Bloomerie Pike it does have as pointed out it's pretty extensive in terms of the length after seeking again recommendation from the board supervisors on this creation a new North Frederick agricultural forces district after the public hearing mr. chairman I answer any questions you were born about the creation and North Frederick agriculture forest district questions of mr. turn anyone yes sir you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you this is discussion period correct yes it is all right so I have a question for supervisor done what do you know that we ought to know on this in speaking that you would like to have this delayed my concern is is the chairman and others have spoken we are essentially taking the opportunity from having development out here in his rural area to be able to have this very much as much as we can and I'm very that are hard to serve and moving it into an area where it's much easier to serve, which costs the county significantly less dollars. It also significantly improves our vantage point as far as to keep rural land rural and agricultural, which is much and highly desired in this area of the county. So I guess I'd just like to hear a little bit more of what your thoughts are as to why we should wait, because I personally didn't have that conversation, you know, as you did today. But I would like to know why you believe we should wait and we should maybe change our mind. I'd like to hear it from you, what your thoughts are on that. So I had a conversation with Mr. Pearson today. Ironically, there was also an article in the paper on the same issue. I also had people that said to me, yes, I'm going to sell TDR, but I'm never going to develop this anyway. So you have abuse of the system. So I would like to hear your thoughts on that. Thank you. Thank you. Is there an issue there with the TDR system that you think needs to be resolved or can be resolved or can help address this, that if it were delayed would make that change? Or is this simply something that you're saying there is a problem with the TDR system that we need to address, irregardless of whether these pass or not? Mr. Pearson is... I've had this discussion with Mr. Pearson, and he's saying, yes, we think that... ...byproduct of that, because that's the reason we make the comment. This is... Further discussion, anyone? Chairman? Yes, sir. Oh, I'm sorry. Would you like to... Just real quick. I just... With Mr. Gray-Ryde, I think the TDRs, and I've had some problems myself, and I know you and I have talked about it. I don't see... I don't see that. It does directly, kind of indirectly and indirectly affect this. I'd like to see us go ahead and change these things. I think these are good moves for our agriculture districts. However, I think we need to have a discussion on TDRs, which we can have after we do this and still be okay. Mr. Ludwig? A couple quick things, sir. Thank you. First, to the public, please don't throw anything at your computers or phones. We have a new microphone system tonight. So the problem... The problem's on our end, not yours. Mr. Chairman and Supervisor Dunn, I could tell in the last discussion that your voices weren't picked up at all times. So I don't know. We'll have to fine-tune the system's behavior, or more likely our behavior, so we get our voices on the mics. But also, one thing apropos to this subject, one reason I don't want to delay this, although I appreciate looking into TDRs and whether they can be improved, the whole process. And that is a couple public events in the last week, as a matter of fact. I was approached by Land Oaks. I was approached by Land Oaks. I was approached by Land Oaks. I was approached by Land Oaks. And I think it's a subject that I plan to investigate a bit. I imagine that's a state matter and that's something we voted on. But nonetheless, that may be driving some of these moves into the forest districts. And I don't want to delay these farmers who want the tax savings and want to save their land. So I don't support delaying these moves at this time. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Yes, sir. Mr. Wells? Yes, sir. I think you have to get closer, quite close to these. So you said we want to look at this afterwards. From my perspective, the reason I was looking for the delay is because I think once this occurs, I don't think you can go backwards. I mean, once this occurs, it is. And so that's the only reason. I'm not debating. I'm just making a comment that I think that if you do this, I ask Mr. Pearson, are you aware of any development that's designed, any of this in the next year, two, three? And he said no. So that was the reason that was going for a delay. Further discussion? Anyone? I call for the question. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunne? Nay. No? Nay. Yeah. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We'll bring this to Whitehall. I can give Mr. Chairman a request to create a new agricultural forestry district known as the Whitehall Agricultural 974.30 acres is located on High Ridge Road. This proposed district will consider it will be, excuse me, managed by one property owner. If I could turn your attention to the map on your left, it's outlined again on this agroforestry district. And the Board of Supervisors following a public hearing on the creation of this new agroforestry district will be known as the Whitehall Agricultural Forestry District. Mr. Chairman, as usual, I'll answer any questions that you or Board members may have. I'll ask the question, Mr. Chairman, is there any other questions that you or Board members may have? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Just some new questions. Thank you. Maybe Walmart can take this. Maybe McDonald, maybe McAvoy's thing that you really have a direct time in MIIC. Then they will tell you guys, what? In fact, what was put on the basis of this thing more than an hour before we were introduced to Microsoft, we could have gotten this done. This portion, we'll need to see what I mean here. If you don't believe it, then one of you has to agree with this scripture. Certainly not. That part of the commercial protection ... Just you. No, it's not considered enough. Let's hear you. You get say we get a mean number here. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion that we approve the Whitehall Agricultural Forestry District as presented. Second. And a second. Any discussion? The reason is I stated before, I'd like to go and say no, but I won't go to the amendment because I absolutely don't have the votes for or delay. But I think it should be delayed. Anyone else? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. South Frederick Agricultural, South Timber Ridge District addition, Agricultural Forestry District. This is to add an additional six acres or parcels, I should say, totaling of 189 acres. We can'd happen to have preserved more than 7 tens of acres. More than 860 acres. We now see 17 floor acres. district the district is located in Gainesboro Magisteria District currently contains 17 parcels for a total of nine hundred and eighty one point zero eight acres the addition of these six acres parcels of 189.86 acres will bring the total acreage in this district to one thousand one hundred and seventy point ninety eight acres ninety four acres managed by one property owner this district is generally located along Hollow Road to the north Muse Road and old Gold Orchard Road to the east and for your reference director map to the left this is what the new addition to this current agricultural falls district looks like again staff again mr. chairman is seeking your recommendation from the board supervisors on the addition to the additions to the timber ridge and the new addition to the timber ridge and the new addition to the timber ridge and cultural force following a public hearing mr. chairman I'll answer any questions you or any of the board members may have on these additions thank you mr. chairman questions of mr. chair and anyone seeing no one this is a public hearing did anyone sign up mr. chairman sir anyone who would like to speak with word about the proposed creation addition to this agricultural district anyone seeing no one will close the public hearing portion I would the board like to handle this mr. chairman yes if I may I would like to approve the South timber ridge agricultural and forestry district addition that's presented okay Aaron yes the same reasons stated before I'd like to see it delayed that's not an amendment I'm just making my comments anyone else good hi supervisor slaughter hi supervisor well hi supervisor done supervisor graver hi chair votes aye the motion carries and it is adopted board liaison reports are there any chairman yes sir February is benefit programs worker appreciation month this you I believe determined by the Virginia Department of Social Services. You may not know it, but many state and federal programs are actually made possible through local personnel working in our county's Department of Social Services. By their work, this county received over $100 million in Medicaid benefits and $12 million in SNAP, not to mention programs in energy, employment, emergency child care, and other benefit programs. This year will be particularly hard for our benefit workers staff as the national health emergency laws expire, and they will have to requalify every beneficiary for these programs in the county. Please join me, the County Director of Social Services, and the Virginia Board of Social Services in thanking them for their work this coming year. Thank you, sir. Any other board liaison reports? Anyone? Comments? Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone who would like to speak with the board about any issue whatsoever? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. I'm going to make some comments here that I wish I didn't have to make, but I think that in light of what occurred, they are very appropriate. My comments are only going to take a couple minutes. Last night, the Republican Party had a firehouse primary in Gainesboro to nominate a candidate to fill the seat of Supervisor McCarthy. Heather Lockridge, whose family owns a small business and has worked on a family farm, defeated Joe Crane, a former Green Parade and current partner in an international consulting firm. At the end of the election, Crane congratulated Lockridge and said he would support her in the April 11th special election. That was gracious of him. Thank you. Unfortunately, as he was leaving, Lockridge's campaign manager, Mrs. Ronnie Ludwig, made a comment regarding Joe Crane. What he heard was, the war hero lost, or words to that effect. That's wrong. Crane, as an Army Special Forces soldier, better known as the Green Parades, has been in numerous firefights in foreign countries on behalf of the United States government to defend the very freedoms we have in this country. He put his life on the line to defend the way. This election process has been just participated in. Heather Lockridge and Ronnie Ludwig would be smarter to be gracious rather than sarcastic. Mrs. Ludwig could have said, we likely have more in common than you and I think and I would appreciate your support. She could have been gracious and said, you ran a good race. Thanks for the competition, which will only help us get better in the special election. Instead, it was. The war hero lost. That's sad. We need to work together in this community to resolve issues. We are not always going to agree on the problems or the solution. However, we are all Americans and we need to remember that and work in a civil manner to make Frederick County a better place to live. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Board comments? Yes, sir. I believe the comment, whatever it was, heard by Supervisor Dunn was either incorrect or out of context. I would... I believe that was a party to cleaning up after that primary last night and also a meeting and discussion that was held afterward. And there was nothing but gracious comments by all. There was at least 20 people there toward Mr. Crane, not only his service to our country, but toward his demeanor. We had not met him prior to the primary day itself. He was an extremely late entrant and I went and talked to him for a period of time during the primary. And it was a very pleasant conversation. So I appreciate that he wanted to enter, as does my wife, that he wanted to enter the public service domain. And we were hoping to talk to him in the future. So I hope that doesn't... Whatever that comment was you heard, I hope that does not color his opinion whatsoever. Thank you. May I? I'd like an opportunity, sir. Thank you very much. Just wanted to share with my constituents a couple of things. The first thing being, I have been a strong advocate to keep taxes low to and for my constituents the three years I've had the opportunity to serve. And this year will be no exception. I want them to know that I did not vote to increase the tax rate to an additional 20% tax increase on real estate this year, as has been advertised. It was my strongest understanding at our first work session this year that the staff would be submitting an article. To the newspaper that would advertise a 51 cent tax rate. In speaking with a few other board members that were present that evening. It was their understanding that that also was the understanding of the board or of their understanding. When we left that evening that the 51 cent tax rate would be advertised in the newspaper the following week. That did not occur. And I'm not sure what happened in the interim. I don't want to point fingers because I don't know. But when we came back. Two weeks later, there was a secondary discussion again on the tax rate and there was a revote taken. And the consensus that was garnered the second time around was to have the tax rate set up to 61 cents. And that's not where it may settle. We don't know where it may settle yet. However, the consensus was that there were four on this board that agreed to raise the tax rate to 61 cents. I want my constituents to know I was not one of those. I wanted to see our. Tax. Rate stay at 51 cents. If you look at history of recessions, you will look at reduction in money circulation. And if you look at November and December's numbers, it would show that there's been significantly less loans made. There's been a reduction in the money supply, which has been very indicative of recessions in the past. I'm not saying that we are headed towards a recession, but I do have those concerns. And I would like to look out for a taxpayer in the coming year if if we are headed into a recession. I think that it is very challenging and I believe it's wrong to look at a. Be staring in the face of a 20% real estate tax increase just to keep the property that you may have had handed down through generations as a simple one year, 20 cent 20% tax increase. So I wanted my constituents to know where we stood. One last comment, Supervisor Dunn. I. I heard several things that occurred at that meeting as well, and I cannot agree with the comments that you made. I believe that they were wrong, and I am. I'm just disheartened to see. What was presented. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Motion to adjourn. Thank you, sir. Second. Yes, sir. Second. Thank you all for your time and attention. We'll stand adjourned. I'm sorry about the delay for all of the part mouse users. I think it was in a recording镜 but I didn't realize. And if I do well. So far, it's a straight. All right? Thank you gentlemen. Do your part. Thank you. Thank you. This is? Sorry about that? Or I have some room or. Thanks, sir. For the herzlich welcome to everyone, thank you, Stephen just who with an original official Thank you.
