Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-06-03
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=351
========================================================================

Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I call the June 3rd, 2026 meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. If you will, please stand for the invocation. It'll be offered by Pastor Bobby Alger from Crossroads Community Church and remain standing for the Pledge of Allegiance. Get set here. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this amazing time of year that we get to experience your creation come alive in new life, Lord. I thank you, Father, for tonight that we can gather as a community and express our views about matters of concern to us. I thank you for the Planning Commission that has done their due diligence and bringing forth something that would benefit all God. I'm reminded of James chapter 1 where it says, be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to anger, Father. I pray God tonight will be expressed in that way. In Jesus' name, amen. Mr. Barker, will you lead us in the pledge, please? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Alger. That leads us to the adoption of the agenda. I would like to propose two changes. I'd like to move items 8B and 8C, which are a public hearing and a conditional use permit that we have on the agenda for tonight. I'd like to move those to the joint meeting. I'd like to move item 8D up to item 8A and slide the item 8A back to 8B. I'd be glad to entertain a motion for that change. We have a motion. Is there a second? Yes. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? Motion carries. So it will be completed on March 18th meeting. Those who passed out, comments, corrections or additions? Seeing none, we'd be glad to receive a motion to accept those as presented. I'll make a motion to approve those minutes. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. All in favor, say aye. Any opposed, likewise? And the minutes are adopted. That takes us to committee reports. Committee reports to my right. Do we have any? Yes. Okay. Committee reports in my left do we have any I do mr. Chair Frederick water did not have their monthly board board meeting in May. However, there was a special meeting to Listen to Wiley Wilson and burns McDonald and the board authorized the 33 million dollar expenditure For the Peckin Creek water supply. That's part one of the East Pit initiative and we also received an update on the GIS system and improvements at Frederick water and then we were then we viewed a Sewer rehab project from the redbud force main to the Berryville gravity sewer 4100 linear feet of sewer was lined and should last us another 50 years. That's it Very good any other committee reports from all right. I mean my left. I know the difference I have one from the Transportation Committee. We met this past Monday And there were a couple things I want to point out um I know on social media and then the Winchester Star has been noticed that VDOT is going to be redecking resurfacing the bridge on route 7 over 81 the works going to begin on Thursday nights and Hopefully end by early Monday morning The traffic will be neck down to one lane on each of those bridges while that works going on. So I would just Say leave early if you have to go that way. The second thing we learned from the Sheriff's Department is that The speed cameras that have been put up in into school zones which have only been up for about three months have clocked in 18,000 violations Alright that's on Route 7 over by Millbrook and Redbud run and up on 522 near Gainesboro Middle Slow down people those are school zones And last but not least June 23rd. There was a VDOT public hearing at Millbrook High School from 4 p.m. To 6 p.m. to present the designs for the exit 317 on I-81 that is the Stevenson exit up where The steakhouse and those things are so that is a report on the Transportation Committee and That leads us to the board report. Mr. Orndorff Mr. Chairman Commissioners There were three items that the Planning Commission sent to the Board of Supervisors for action Public hearings were held on these three items ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modifications chapter 165 zoning ordinance That was approved ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modifications to chapter 144 the subdivision ordinance that was approved also and ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modification to amend chapter 161 sewage disposal and sewers That was also approved Mr. Chairman that conclude concludes my report. Thank you, sir. I Did I didn't see anyone from Winchester's Planning Commission? Is there anyone here from Winchester? Okay, good. I didn't skip them Okay, this leads us to item 7 on our agenda Which is the citizen comments. This is the time where if you'd like to address the Planning Commission Concerning an item that is not on our agenda this evening This would be the time to do so if you would like to speak to the Planning Commission Please come to the podium state your name Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes or less Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Okay, I see none so I will close the citizen comment period that leads us to public hearings with the reshuffling of our agenda The first item up will be a draft update of the 2026 2027 Frederick County interstate primary and secondary road improvement plans Mr. Bittner good evening, sir Thank You. Mr. Chair Eric Bittner planner 2 This is the annual update of the interstate primary and secondary road plans You are all probably quite familiar with this the secondary road plan for a reminder and for the general public that does require public hearing For ease we simply combines all three plans into one package Moving into the interstate road improvement plan the main changes here have been verbiage updates to bring in line with the state code and then also we've been advancing 310 and 313 improvements in priority to reflect the fact that they've been funded For our primary road improvement plan. There are no changes currently proposed. However, we do anticipate having changes come from the comprehensive plan modeling exercise So there will be some substantive changes coming in the future and Then as for our secondary roads, we have the redbud road realignment. This is the major road improvement project on this list This is a carryover from the old funding method VDOT and the state has since switched over to smart scale This is the last of the projects that we have that's being funded through the old Revenue share method. So once this improvement is done this is done. This slide will likely be disappearing as for the rest of our second Dairy roads we have our non serviced road improvement projects The main change here has been grace Church Road has been advanced to this as it has now been scheduled the full scheduling and as many completions are all in your packet and the annual report and Then we have our unscheduled non hard surface road improvement projects These are unpaved roads that that are aiming to be completed but haven't been scheduled The two additions here are veterans Road and Shady Creek Road. These were both added due to citizen petition The Transportation Committee reviewed and recommended approval of this document at their April 27th meeting of this year This item is presented to you all now as a public hearing item Following that public hearing staff are seeking recommendations afford to the Board of Supervisors That public hearing is scheduled for June 10th next week at this point staff are available for any questions Any questions for mr. Bittner to my left? Any questions to my right? Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing if anyone would like to speak to this item This would be the time to do so Again, you would come to the podium state your name Magisterial District and please limit your comments to three minutes or less Good evening, sir. Good evening chairman and members of Planning Commission My name is Todd leg back Creek District and I'm here representing Garrett farms LLC I stand before you as the third generation of my family to represent or to present to this commission over a 40 year span My late grandfather began his effort more than four decades ago and my mother continued it in 1994 today I'm here to carry on that legacy. I would like to speak on the unscheduled non-surface Road improvement project included in this proposal plan specifically veterans Road in Middletown between Meadow Mills and Chapel Road When I was growing up this entire stretch of veterans Road was unpaved due to my grandfather's persistence and advocacy Frederick County has made had made the decision to pave a portion of that road in 1994 However due to budget constraints the project was stopped short ending at 4th Street and leaving the remaining remaining point five two miles unpaved For more than 30 years this partial completion has completed has created confusion and frustration for the surrounding community the road that was intended to serve residents effectively was only improved halfway Today that remaining stretch has finally been placed on the county's unscheduled list I'm here to rest respectfully ask that you move this project forward Our family farm spans much of that the length of this unpaved section We along with the residents who rely on this road are unified in support to seeing this project completed. I Understand that the cost today is far greater than It would have been in 1994 however However, the need has only grown and the consequences of leaving an unfinished continue to impact those who live and travel along this road every day I'll leave you with this thought Completing only half of a project Ultimately limits its value It's like designing and building an airplane, but choosing not to install landing gear to save money What could have been fully functional and effective system is left incomplete? Unable to truly serve its purpose Tonight you have the opportunity to correct the decision made more than 30 years ago and to provide a practical Lasting solution for the residents of this community on behalf of my family our farm and the neighbors I respectfully ask for your support in moving this project forward. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you Would anybody else like to speak to this matter? Seeing none I'll close the public hearing Planning commissioners, what's your pleasure here? Mr. Chairman, I'd make a motion that we move the forward to the board with a recommendation for approval We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion a second any further discussion Okay, dr. Olam onna can you begin our voting place? Yes Run back. Yes Wattorf yes, it's nothing. Yes Margaret yes, Cozo. Yes, de Haven. Yes crane. Yes Whitaker. Yes Chair votes yes and the motion carries this will go to the Board of Supervisors on July the 8th Thank you very much Okay, that takes us to item 8b which was previously 8a rezoning 04-26 for Virginia Technology Park. Let me I would assume That's what folks are here for. So let me make a couple of editorial comments just so Just so you know If you're following the calendar You might be interested to know that Tuesday of next week we will have a work session the planning commissioners have a work session right here in this room and we will be discussing the Winchester Gateway LLC application which is also a data center That'll be similar to the work session that we had for the project we're discussing tonight. That'll begin at 6 p.m. On the day of the project and we'll be back in the next few weeks So we'll be back in the next few weeks So we'll be back in the next few weeks So we'll be back in the next few weeks So we'll be back in the next few weeks Right here in this room We do anticipate a public hearing on that in July, but that has not yet been confirmed as for tonight Mr. Pearson, how many speakers are signed up? Ask mr. Bittner for a head count real quick And if you did not sign up and you wish to sign up mr. Bittner who was just up here has the list 47 are signed up to speak 47 Okay And that's fine. We want everyone to have an opportunity to speak All I'm asking is we've got to maintain a decorum or we're all going to be here till 6 o'clock tomorrow morning So if we understand the concerns if you were here for the work session You understand we grilled the applicant pretty good on those concerns. So I Would just ask that you keep your comments brief. Everyone will have three minutes but we would appreciate the minimizing of the Hand-clapping cheering and so on that are going to delay us will also ask that when you come to the podium to speak We'll list off two names If you're the next one, please come up right behind the person who's there so we can move this along quickly with that. Mr Pearson good evening, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. And as you all know, this is John Bishop's case So think warmly of him as he enjoys Jamaica and I have to do this presentation and for him when you graduate from planning Planning with a planning degree they say they're sending the crystal ball in the mail Well, John must have got his because he bought these plane tickets six months ago and he left today Literally got on the plane today. So This is a rezoning application for 220 acres in the Stonewall Magisterial district to rezone a property from the RA rural area zoning district to TM technology manufacturing Park District General location is 1420 rest Church Road and the proposed use as mentioned is the data center park or camp? is Using the countywide locator map the area in red is the general location of the property in question in the Stonewall Magisterial District Just west of exit 323 outlined in purple on your zoning map here You can see the property is zoned RA the adjoining property to the east Just flying J as well as a number of other small businesses along Zachary and Lane including the Cat rental and then the properties to the west are all RA residential subdivisions including the roads Macbeth Rubeck Jolene Timberlakes Lane the Ridgeway estate subdivision and then the properties on the north side of rest Church Road a residential and agriculture in nature This is the long-range land-use map for this area of the county that kind of candy cane striped color is called mixed-use industrial office the properties to the east are an orange business and the properties to the southeast are in general industrial and as mentioned before all the properties west of this are both zoned and planned for to remain rural in nature and Then that's just a location map without all the colors on it for contexts exit 323 Amazon distribution route 11 West Virginia is just off the north part of this map and then to reorient you as the concept plan actually displays a lot clearer than the original plan the red point is just the north part of this map and the upper left is the west virtual area and with north on the right side of the screen. This is an illustrative image from the applicants exhibit showing a conceptual layout of how the property could be developed in the future if the rezoning is approved. As you'll note there's about ten plans data center structures as well as an office component and three substation pads, the requisite stormwater management, and a plans new road called technology park road that would go through the property and be built by the applicant. So by the numbers ten to eleven data center buildings totaling over two million square feet, likely three substation pads of six acres each, up to 288 diesel generators as backup for the data center buildings, and then 24,000 square feet of office space. So your comprehensive plan that the section that speaks directly to this property is the Northeast land use plan. Most planning commissioners remember updating that back in 2023. And there's a wide range of text that applies to this area, and I've snipped a couple of it for the slide there for you, but I'll summarize it, as I'm sure you've read the staff report and the other requisite materials. But this area of the county, particularly the mixed-use industrial office planned areas, are intended to be filled by targeted growth sectors identified by the county's EDA, which does include information technology and data center style uses. However, those uses that contribute significantly to air noise or light pollution may not be the best solution for the project. So I'm going to turn it over to the next panel. Thank you. Again, earlier this morning I said there was an opportunity for models to havefeitoal This is the plot. It's not going to be appropriate in this area of the county as well. It should be noted, and it's clearly noted in the COMP plan that this particular area does have significant electrical that runs through the area as well. Additionally, these areas are anticipated to be highly visible and both the building and site design should be of high quality but also enhanced buffers and screenings should be provided along roadways and from surrounding residences. All development applications should seek to mitigate their impact on those residences. The applicant included a voluntary proffer statement that I'll overview. You saw sitting at the dais a red-lined minor change that we received around lunchtime today from the applicant. That's highlighted in yellow on this slide and the ensuing slides to show you what they modified. So they are proffering a generalized development plan which I'll show in a minute so that it will be built in general conformance with that plan. That they're going to prohibit all uses except for computing infrastructure providers, data processing and data centers. They used to have flex tech and they now have a lot of flexibility. They're going to have flexibility in the property. They've removed the flex tech in there in the proffer statement that was on the website but they've removed that use as well. So the only remaining uses other than data centers that could be developed on the property if the property is rezoned are uses that would be later added to the zoning district by an ordinance amendment approved by the Board of Supervisors. Additionally, the accessory uses that tend to support data centers are included and listed there. They proffered to do a traffic impact analysis and implement improvements if any of the uses proposed exceed what they studied in the TIA. There's perimeter landscaping including a 75 foot buffer area and an 8 foot berm along the Carrollton and Ridgeway estate subdivisions. This is the generalized development plan that I referred to earlier that they proffered to the property being built in general conformance with. It's largely in compliance with the illustrative sketch but provides additional detail as to the location of some of the plantings, the setbacks, the structure locations and some of the stormwater management and floodplain as well. One of our GIS techs provided just a rough estimate of physical distance from existing structures to the proposed structures on the generalized development plan. So those are shown here. In some cases they range from a thousand feet down to I think the smallest or the closest one is actually on the other side, the north side of Rest Church Road, and that's the area where the stormwater management and floodplain are located. So that's the area where the stormwater management and floodplain are located. So that's the only 261 feet. So it's just there for Planning Commissioner's context. The applicant provided per the Planning Commissioner's request in the work session some viewshed analysis as an attempt to identify kind of what could be visible and I'll let them speak to this in further detail but to explain just how that graphic kind of works. Each one of these lines shown on the graphic corresponds to one of the exhibits that was provided in the packet and is numbered accordingly. So the applicant has proffered to Tier 4 generators or equivalent, lower emission units, and in particular permitted them to be used for the demonstration. So this is just a rough estimate of the performance of the application. So the applicant has proffered to Tier 4 generators or equivalent, lower emission units, and in particular permitted them to be used for the demonstration. So that's the only way that we can provide further context about this in their presentation. So moving back to the second section of the proffer statement. The applicant has proffered to Tier 4 generator or equivalent, lower emission units and that's is basically in terms of high efficiency usage. So for the commercial market, before Providerurfing Authorityולם, friendly remarks, one of the вес tener that if the inverter with popular存 out if the electric fourQuad uses at any time and she's notamo insights when台 마iter2126 этомinh tools when a car has floating BreadboardPack and a vehicle dayus Инfabrikze, alternér earrings, along вашу to read CC for a visits and just sort of hoped this to provide causally specificバ simples to those and going to limit generator testing to Monday through Friday, 8 to 5, and no holidays. And then the additional yellow is an addition on the redline proffer statement you received tonight, which dictates that no more than 50% of the generators on any given building would be tested at any given time. They proffer to a 70 decibel limitation where the property abuts the industrial and business-owned properties to the east of them, and then 60 DBAs where the property abuts residential to the west, require use of sound mitigating equipment on the chillers and the other sound producing items, and to require a supplementary environmental noise impact assessment based on the equipment that is installed when the property is constructed. A significant list of building materials that they intend to use for the architectural. I would note that the proffer only says that they will use at least one of those, and it had previously said that they will use some of those. So it's a further clarification, but still not entirely binding to use all of them. And then to proffer in the future a design guidelines manual that is not yet created and is unclear as to what it would contain until it is created. The last one is new since the work session, and that's the $10,000 to purchase a digital sound meter for the county to use for enforcement activities in the future. And then proffer three for transportation. As mentioned on the GDP technology park road, the land ofение. would be built through the property and facilitate the relocation of Zachary and Lane for a portion of that frontage improvements to the Southern portion of reference Roche road along the frontage of the property upgrades to Route 11 andso and restaurant road right of way reservation for the future widening of respect, tried the construction of technology park road to abandon through Buck Lane board extends into the property prohibit access from rubic into the property or out of the property for that matter dedication of an additional 25 40 foot right of way to existing Rubuck Lane for the residential area that's already there. The paving of Rubuck and Macbeth Lane to rural rustic standards and the construction of a turnaround. And the Macbeth Lane is the addition to that proffer that came in late today. And then all deliveries for development of the property to take place outside of peak hours. And the signage is limited to a singular monument sign on Rest Church Road. From a lighting perspective, no more than 25 feet above grade and any lighting within 50 feet of the property line will be oriented perpendicular to and faced away from the property line. A hundred and fifty dollars per, sorry, thousand gross square feet, not thousand dollar gross square feet of constructed building. On the water and sewer size, a limited gallons per day usage of 120,000 gallons per day that they will construct all on-site and off-site improvements necessary to provide service to the property. For water and sewer, they've included a number of potable water use minimization strategies for the mechanical cooling of the server racks and that they will not use any groundwater via private or on-site wells for any reason. Proffer aid is relative to cultural resources investigation and preservation and the architectural resource study of the prior property to MDP property prior to MDP approval for the two structures that are on the property, the Lewis Solenberger and Cather houses. For the new building, the new developer and developer of a new building in the area will be able to use a number of potable water use minimization strategies. And then a further archaeological assessment of the property. Proffer nine includes a 200,000 dollar contribution to fund an endowment at Laurel Ridge for the enhancement of the cloud infrastructure program. And then as typical, a CPI escalator for all monetary proffers that include cash contributions to escalate them based on the urban consumer price index. So as included in further detail in our staff report, staff lists a number of positives and concerns for the application. The positives is that from a large number of The positives is that from a land use perspective, it is compliant with the comprehensive plan. It has a lower overall traffic generation than previous proposals for the property, as well as typical built industry in that area. It has proximity to major electrical transmission lines. They are seeking to accommodate and build a comprehensive planned roadway. There is some buffering of the nearby residential properties, and the proffer of Tier 4 generators permitted for emergency use only helps to reduce the air emissions within reason. From a noise mitigation perspective, staff still has concerns about the sound analysis, and our third-party expert, Alexis Kurtz, is here at the table and happy to answer questions from the Planning Commission when we get to that. And the applicant has additional information that they're going to describe to you about how they further studied the topic during their presentation. Staff believes equipment upgrades for noise attenuation should be proffered to keep the facility up to date and continue to minimize noise well into the future. We have concerns about whether or not the transitional zone from what is inherently an industrial use that is constructing close to the maximum amount capable on the property is enough joining a rural residential use, and that goes hand-in-hand with the noise mitigation issues. We're also concerned that the berm location at this point is not specific, and given that there's significant floodplain through the property, we think a portion of it is infeasible for berm construction. The impact and enforceability of design standards is not abundantly clear in the proffer statement right now. And then if the applicant does need to acquire easements for the construction of the public water system to the property, we're unsure what those impacts might be on neighboring properties or properties further down the road. So this is presented as a public hearing item. We're seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission following the public hearing to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this proposed. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm happy to answer any questions. As I mentioned, Alexis from Trinity Consultants, who's done all the peer reviews of the sound study, is here and available as well, Mr. Chairman. Any questions for Mr. Pearson to my left? Any questions to my right? Mr. Whitaker? Where are they supposed to be getting their water? They're right. The applicant intends to connect to the Frederick Water System. So they are using groundwater? Yeah, Frederick Water extracts the entirety of its source water, absent what they buy from the City of Winchester from a groundwater system. The City's system is a surface water system. All right. Yes, sir. So for them to say they're not going to use groundwater is inaccurate? I think the proffer was worded to indicate that they aren't going to tap private groundwater sources on the property. Okay. Thank you for the clarity. You're welcome, sir. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, earlier today we received a document that said there were neighbors who did not, who took no exception with this project. Where are those neighbors located? Can you show us on the map? Because I didn't recognize the street name as being one adjacent to this project. I'll let the applicant provide further details that relates to the petition that they provided. But the addresses that I saw were along Macbeth Lane, which is located right here. None of the houses directly adjoin the property, I believe. But I'm not positive about that. And they can speak in greater detail to that. Okay. Thank you. And can we ask Alexis some questions? Absolutely. I hate for her to come all this way. No. And Alexis, Alexis, if you want to, you can use the microphone there. That's fine. Yeah. Good evening. Good evening. Thank you for being here. Can you talk to us about the receiver and how the increase, this proposed in decibels is going to be perceived by that receiver? Sure. So when we're talking about receiver, we're talking about two different areas. So if we're looking at towards the Flying J, the difference is negligible. I believe that it's about what it currently is, the noise level. So the noise created by the data center at the Flying J is not perceived to be much different. Looking towards the residences, it's a significant increase in what is currently there. This is, so sound is logarithmic. And if I say it's 30 decibels louder, it's six to eight times louder than what's currently there, what was measured by the applicant. It was how much louder? Six to eight times. Six to eight times. Six to eight times. Okay. So if I'm in my backyard cooking a steak on the grill, I could have a lot more sound is what you're telling me. Is that correct? Mm-hmm. Okay. All right. Mr. Chairman. I hear a voice. Mr. DeHaven, yes. Sir, just to follow up since we're kind of asking her some questions on this report, do you mind if I ask? Please proceed. Yes, sir. Ms. Kurtz, thank you for being here tonight. Absolutely. As the chairman had indicated, we're going to be looking at the distribution of the data. And I think there's a couple of questions that I would like to ask. One is, in the case of the data that was indicated, we've gotten a memorandum that's titled, I think, Peer Review Memo. Yes. Could you just maybe give us just a little context on what that means or what the procedures were that went into this document? Sure. So we were provided with the applicant's ambient noise survey that was done in January. We're provided with that report. It was issued in February. Okay. We were provided with a report dated May 19th, which discusses the changes that they have put forward. We reviewed both of those and gave our professional opinion on what we were seeing and maybe what was either included or maybe should be included in a further study. Okay. Reading off of this report. Okay. So it's kind of under the executive summary section where there's a comment on the Fruit Hill Data Center Acoustic Evaluation Report. It's item 3-0 there. Okay. And it says, considering the sound study results, it is evident that the data center, in its best case scenario, all chillers on, all generators off, so just kind of in normal operating mode I'd take from that. Correct. Yep. Will be affecting many nearby receptors. I'm assuming receptors are calling those residences and houses and things there to the west of it. Yes. Tremendously. Yes. And then further down, three paragraphs down, it goes on further to say along the western perimeter, which I think on the map here is to the left and where most of those residences are located, that western perimeter, the noise levels from the data center under situation one, which is I think that condition we just talked about, normal operating, no generators, just the normal cooling chillers. Yes. Anticipated to be 10 to 20 decibels higher than the current. Current levels. It further says this is perceived as being two to four times as loud as current ambient levels and will likely be extremely disrupted to residents. Okay. So that is based on comparing to current ambient. The proposed, I believe it's 50 decibels at most of the residential property lines. Comparing to what's there right now, it's a significant increase. That noise level itself is not what would be considered disturbing in other areas. Again, we have to look at what's there now, which is why the data center proffer, why the data center code specifically calls out we need to measure what's there now so we understand what's there right now. So if I'm understanding, a significant change from where we are now. Correct. So that means proposals go forward, even in the best case scenario, where it's cooling only, none of those generators, 288 I think, proposed generators are running? Correct. Thank you for the clarification and thank you for the report and analysis. You're welcome. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Mr. Quigg? Yes, ma'am. Would it be accurate to say that all this is based on hypothetical information? No. I wouldn't say it was based on hypothetical information. The applicant did measurements on site, has stated those in the report, so we're able to look at what the noise level is now. So that's measured. And then the other document which they put forward says we're going to use this type of chiller. We're going to use this type of generator. These are the levels that the manufacturer is going to use. Okay. Thank you. And then the other document which they put forward says we're going to use this type of chiller. We're going to use this type of generator. These are the levels that the manufacturers have provided us with. And then they inputted that into an acoustical analysis program called Sound Plan, which is something that's used industry-wide. And they put that in. It deals with not only the noise that's created, but also the contours of the land. It looks at any kind of barriers that are there. So I believe the applicant has barriers on the roof, and so that any of the chillers on the roof are actually shielded by what's there. By what's...or shielding what's on the roof. To essentially make that path longer. Right? If there's not a barrier on the roof, it's a straight shot to the property line, I'll say. By having a barrier on the roof, some of that noise is actually reflected up. So it takes all of that into consideration and says, if we use these generators and this is where the data center is, and these are the barriers that we've put in line, and we're using... We're limiting our generators. We're using type four generators, and this is the sound level that we know those have. This is what's gonna be there. And so it's not hypothetical. It's fairly based on information that exists. The word if sounds iffy. The first presentation in the first sentence, it used the word on all of the data that was brought into about the science. And the word hypothetical was in that first sentence. So nothing is written in stone on what they're doing or what will they do, absolutely do, that we really don't know what they're talking about. Because it's if this and if that. I can address that piece probably better than Alexis can. The sound model itself and the results are not in turn... I think it's written into the proffer statement. The applicant's taken the approach of proffering to achieve a certain DBA at the property line and used the sound model to justify that they think they can make it. So your point is accurate that the modeling itself is in no way binding those proffer requirements are the things that they have offered to try to give the county confidence that they're capable of complying with it. And the model supports that they think they can feasibly get there. Does that make sense? So you're saying that the model is in no way binding? That sounds good enough. Only the proffer statement and the 60 DBA on that western property line. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Pearson or Alexis? What are the legal ramifications if they surpass the 60... Because there's a lot of information in the packet where they can exceed X. What are the ramifications if they do exceed? What are our... Yeah, if they violate the proffer statement, sure. I'll speak to the first part of it and then hand it off to Mr. Fox who takes it through the court system. But when we have a documented proffer violation, in this case if it was noise, we would collect evidence of the violation and then cite the property owner, give them 30 days to remedy the violation or provide a plan of how they're going to. If they don't respond or they fail to and on that 30-day mark, we go to the magistrate and file it with the court. And then Mr. Fox's office takes it over from there. Yeah. That's correct. And just to remind everyone, the proffer's become part of the zoning ordinance. So the enforcement of the proffer's is no different than the enforcement of any provision of the existing zoning ordinance. But as Mr. Pearson has described, we try to resolve these matters through working with the landowner and that's for all zoning enforcement, not just for specific uses or specific provisions. But ultimately we end up in court and we've been very successful in putting on our case, which is very simple. We've got a lot of legal evidence of what's occurring and the courts have been receptive to ordering compliance with the zoning ordinance, including monetary fines and injunctive relief where necessary. And that will be an option here. Okay. Any other questions? To my left. Sorry. Do we know what Flying J, current DBA, I know it was brought up, but I'm just trying to compare Flying J to data center and have more of a visual. I think maybe. Yeah. I think maybe polysonics with the applicants since they did the study, they might have a better idea than Alexis does. Okay. Thank you. Sorry. Do you have another question, Mr. Whitaker? Yeah. It's for Mr. Fox. If this data center was for national security reason and they broke such a covenant, I'll call it, restriction on the sound. What's the reason? Okay. I think it's just chances of you, this county, fighting the federal government under nice and security reasons. All right. Let me rescue you, Mr. Fox. There's a lot of hypothetical situations. I'm honestly not aware that that has ever been the case, but the federal government is not exempt from zoning requirements just because they're the federal government or based on national security. The things that I'm familiar with are aircraft impact zones from the Hampton Roads area. And the federal government generally works with the community understanding that people have to live there. And that is a cooperative process that results in specific overlays to the zoning ordinance. And I'm just kind of rambling here because you really threw me a curveball there. Because I don't think there's any indication. This is not the applicant. It's not a government entity. Okay. So, it's not a government entity. Yeah. The couple times that the federal government has done projects in the county, they have either leased space from somebody who developed it. And if that's the case, the property owner has to comply. The federal government's exemptions in no way carry through that lease. And we have that for, I think, the Army Corps building and possibly for the FEMA building as well. The other example is the FBI records facility. They purchased the property outright and went through our process as a courtesy to us when they were developing the property. They did not have to. And the National Park Service is the same way. But those are the two examples that we've at least dealt with with the federal government and the county currently. Well, I think it's realistic to believe that if it's for national security, for the military or something, you're going to have a big expensive battle. A long battle and probably won't be successful. Wyatt? Okay. Any other questions? I do have an answer to the Flying J question. It looks like there were three measurement locations taken that are on that perimeter. And they were, depending on which statistical measurement you use, so LEQ, which is the average measurement time, the average measurement sound. It was somewhere between. Okay. It was somewhere between 57 and 67 decibels. If you look at it as an L90, which is kind of a baseline noise level, it was between 46 and 58 decibels. The projections that were provided by the applicant estimate no change to the LEQ numbers and one to three decibels for the L90 numbers. Okay. So, it's a good thing. But, if you look at the measurement for the other two, the measurement for the L90 numbers, just for a point of reference, three decibels is barely perceivable. Okay. Any to my left? Any more to my right? Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Thank you, sir. Mr. Minshew? Good evening, sir. You got that ready to go. Is this your line? Yep. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. I'm Randy Minshew, to speak on behalf of the applicant tonight. I'm going to take a moment to thank the members of the Planning Commission for their assistance in the planning of the land. I'm going to take a moment to thank the members of the Planning Commission for their assistance in the planning of the land. I'd like to start off by thanking Mr. Pearson and Mr. Bishop in absentia for their very thorough professional work on this application. We've been working with them for about eight months on this application, and I just want to note their professionalism and thoroughness at the start. This is an application to rezone. Okay. So, this is land to the TM zoning district, and the people here are the ones sitting over those folding chairs over there, Mr. Chairman. We've got the applicant, who is the contract purchaser, obviously our legal team, civil engineering, acoustic, power infrastructure, you can talk about the grid, NextEra, Schindler Valley Electrical Cooperative, also electrical engineering and dealing with water consumption and the cooling apparatus. We have a fiscal impact study that I don't believe that Mr. Pearson mentioned that we'll be touching on. And lastly, but not least, traffic. So these are not all within my area of expertise, Mr. Chairman, so with your leave, I'd like to hand the ball over to a professional if a question comes up that they can answer better than I can. But I want to go over seven bullet points at the very start. This property is adjacent to an approved substation by NextEra that is part of the grid. You saw that there was a 500-kilometer grid. You saw that there was a 500-kilometer grid. You saw that there was a KV line coming down, and that is literally right adjacent to this property. On this property will be a Schindler Valley Electrical Cooperative set of substations. That's unusual. Normally you have substations that are distant from a data center. In other words, you've got transmission lines. You've got the transmission lines flowing into the distribution lines. Here, basically the grid comes to the substation. You've got the transmission lines flowing into the distribution lines. You've got the transmission lines flowing into the distribution lines. You've got the transmission lines flowing into the station and you have a substation that comes out of the substation that comes out of the substation. So here is the ground line line. The ground line line, which is where this is going to beConcept City. This line one is going to be connected to a parcel that is due south of this parcel. That power will go, that's wholesale power, that will go into the Schindler Valley Electrical Cooperative substation that are on site. From there it becomes retail power that will go out to the data centers of this property. And I note Mr. Chairman that originally we had filed a subdivision ordinance exception to allow for overhead power lines. We met with Schindler Valley Electrical Cooperative and realized that we don't need that. We can handle that in the future. need that. Every single distribution line of power coming from the substation can be underground. And that will mean that you're not going to see any above ground transmission lines or distribution lines like you sometimes see around the vicinity of data centers. We have proffered to abandon all existing wells and to use no groundwater. I noted Commissioner Whitaker's question. We are in the swaths. Water will come to us as a municipal utility from Frederick Water. Better people than I can talk about where Frederick Water gets its water from. But our water usage that we have capped not to exceed 120,000 gallons a day is not larger than other uses we have in Frederick County, particularly those in the manufacturing area. We have received a clear authorization from Frederick Water that they can provide 120,000 gallons a day. And we'll be dealing, talking later about how that water will be used. Additionally, I noted that we have proffered that the ambient sound level, and I'm sure we'll have conversations with noise a little bit later on and I'll be yielding the floor to our polysonics consultant, that we're going to basically keep sound levels down to be consistent with residential areas that are adjacent to this property. I also want to mention that the data center use is one that generates a lot of tax revenues. We have a study that was filed by Marissa and I. We have a study that was filed by Marissa and I, the project will generate $237 million of tax revenues to Frederick County over 20 years. We'll create approximately 440 jobs with a starting salary of $72,500. And we'll inject approximately $600 million in wage income into the regional economy. One thing that doesn't mention is that there will be electrical engineering that will be used to build the power plant. We'll have a lot of engineers and contractors who will come and build this. These will be skilled, master electricians. They'll be paid pursuant to contract. Hopefully they live in Frederick County. And frankly, one reason why we're wanting to work with the Laurel Ridge Community College is that we would like to have a training facility here in Frederick County where both cloud infrastructure and advanced electrical engineering, those high skilled jobs, that we can be educating them and then giving them jobs. I've had the face looked out the other day, I left this words book, mind you, but I did something that was incredibly confrontational for me here on the market.ou're gonna fly faculty. I left a России office. I surrounded the school with a police officer, education that the next-draft substation literally is right due south of the technology park. Basically, you can see that kind of purple triangle there. That's the next-draft substation. Right where it says VA Technology Park, that's where the Shinra Valley Electrical Cooperative substation will be. Literally tooth and jowl next to what is part of the grid. Additionally, Mr. Chairman, quite often there's a worry that there will be a breakdown of the distribution system of electricity. In this, you're going to have a part of the grid, part of the PJM grid 500 KV line coming down to the next-draft substation. That's going to be new infrastructure. The next-draft substation will be new infrastructure. That will go into new Shinra Valley Electrical Cooperative infrastructure. So we're not relying upon a rural electrical distribution system. Everything is going to be new. For that reason, we think that if there is a . . . an electrical power breakdown, it's going to be due to the grid breaking down, not to anything on site. And we don't envision that. Shinra Valley Electrical Cooperative has given us a rundown of when blackouts have happened. And we've got a slide for that, but our electrical engineers will believe that when given the newness of this infrastructure and the location of the grid, that if we have a blackout of property, it's going to be regional in nature and not just a substation. These are three bullet items of quotes. These are not our language. This all came from other professionals. First, Frederick Water. I'll leave it up there on the screen. You can read it. Basically, Frederick Water has told us that 120,000 gallons per day of demand can be accommodated. Again, the source of that water is up to Frederick County. They can tell you where that water comes from. That is roughly approximate of 250 residential single-family detached connections. A mid-sized residential product. And we will have a proffer that will state that that water gets measured. In other words, as Mr. Fox said, it is a zoning violation if we ever were to pull more than 120 gallons a day on that. And we will make sure that that does not happen. Frederick Water will also make sure that does not happen. SVAC has also said that they can provide the loads required. They do have a separate consumer class. They've told us that provision of power through them as a retail and company utility provider will not increase residential rates and as for that substation, the consumers of electrical power in Frederick County will not be paying for that substation. This applicant will. Most likely, there will be a long-term easement or lease given to SVEC and this applicant will build kind of a bill to suit forotex. So. So. So to those details. Thank you so much. We appreciate your attention at the end. the Schindler Valley Electrical Cooperative. SVC has told us they're aware of the risks and they will insulate their consumers, the members, from any risk associated with the cost of this project. And lastly, Polysonics is our consultant and I'll be bringing him forward to speak, but basically the children and generators will be governed by industry standards and we can get deeper into noise that we're going to make sure that we not only are constantly below the zoning ordinance, but that we will have sound levels as low as 63, particularly adjacent to residential areas. I'd like to briefly talk about staff report concerns. We had a work session, Mr. Chairman, here on May the 5th, about a month ago, and we revised our proffers based upon Planning Commission input, and I just want to go through that. These are on the left-hand side, you've got staff report concerns. On the right-hand side, our applicant response is basically, we have proffered to tier 4 compliance generators, tier 4 compliant generators is the highest industry standard, and I'd note that these are diesel generators, and the amount that a tier 4 generator makes sure that carbon-related gas emissions and particulate are kept at a very low level. This is adjacent to interstate 81. Interstate 81 has a lot of truck traffic that primarily burn diesel. So diesel fumes in this area, the Stonewall District, will be primarily coming from Interstate 81, not from these diesel generators. Particularly with the Type 4 compliance generators, we'll be glad to address questions, but the Tier 4 generators will make sure that the air is clean and that, again, they will only come on when there is a breakdown of the grid, other than for testing. And we'll talk about that later. We also have proper design guidelines. We do not have those yet. That's an architectural document. We're going to prepare those, showing what the buildings look like. That will be enforced like your HOA covenants are. There will be a property owners association here that will maintain conformance with the design guidelines. We're going to file that with the county, that the zoning administrator will see it, but we're not going to ask the zoning administrator to serve as kind of a board of architects review, judging the integrity of the architecture. But that will be enforced privately by the property owners association. As Mr. Pearson mentioned, there was one use that could generate some traffic. We've taken that out. So functionally, unless the Board of Supervisors were to add any new uses, the only use that will be allowed here is the data center, which is a very low trip generating use. We are installing berms. Those locations will be set. Hopefully those berms can be built concurrent with the berms that NextEra will be building on the substation. And we've... We have those as ways of providing not only screening visually, but also screening for many noise activities. And I talked about the design guidelines. In terms of noise, again, I'll be yielding the floor with your lead, Mr. Chairman, to Mr. Rob Miller, who can talk more about noise and address questions that the Commission may have. But we will be holding a maximum sound of 60 dBA at property lines adjacent to residential uses. Obviously, there's more noise. There's more noise on the east side where we're close to Interstate 81. And additionally, based upon our recent sound study, the anticipated sound level of the property will be lower than the 60. It will be between 50 and 55 dBA where we adjust adjacent to resident properties. I talked about Frederick Water. Frederick Water has told us that 120,000 gallons per day will not be a problem to provide. And I'll briefly go through some of the proper revisions. Some of these revisions, Mr. Chairman, we've done after our work session. We heard the Planning Commission. We've worked with Mr. Pierce and Mr. Bishop. And these are some changes that we've put in since our work session back on May the 5th. And I've talked about some of them. Property and other uses. We can only use Tier 4 generators. And that also we have put in a restriction on when and how those generators can be tested. They do have to be tested. That's part of their maintenance plan. That's part of their maintenance program. But we've made sure that we will not have these generators all firing up at once. That there will be a very conservative yield of when they will test it. We have also made sure that at least one of the architecture components will be incorporated in every building. And as Mr. Pierce had mentioned, we're going to, on our nickel as a bonded improvement, we'll be doing an upgrade of McBeth Lane to the VDOT railroad standards. And I also mentioned that we have withdrawn our subdivision waiver application because it's not needed. Moving on, these are some topics that were brought up previously about outage issues. Again, we don't participate in outage issues. If outages occur, they are primarily due to the grid. And I note that SVC even said that on the existing infrastructure, there is only about 2.95 outages per year based on our latest study. Eight hours of outage per year. Eight hours of outage per year. And that's the average time. We think that's a high number because, as mentioned, if there is an outage, it is an outage due to the grid. Not to a big storm blowing down some distribution lines. Additionally, we're, as mentioned, we're holding the despoil level down to residential zones. And also, generator containment. We did some study, Mr. Chairman, on that. We're going to have a 10-foot acoustic wall around all generators. We're designing that to reduce low-impact noise. And that we can get into the exact engineering of why those are better. Apparently, not having a roof on top of those generator enclosures is better from a standpoint of avoiding low frequency noise. And Rob Miller can talk about that better than I can. Generator testing. We had talked about it briefly. This is a slide that basically shows there's 298 generators. They will need to be tested. They're only 15 minutes per generator per week. And basically, if you have those, no more than 45 generators being tested at any one time, that gives rise to a seven-cycle testing regime, each one for 15 minutes. So we don't believe that the required testing for these generators is going to produce an impact. And they're only 15 minutes per generator per week. Okay. So we're going to have to do that. We did mention that the citizens of Mimbeth Lane did sign, the ones that are in yellow there, signed a petition that they had in opposition to this adjacent industrial data centers. This is a viewshed analysis. Basically, if you're driving southbound on 81, we want to pick up when will this come into your viewshed. Obviously, if you're northbound, you're probably not going to see it unless you are high. But it's really the southbound trip. This is a line of sight that when our data center building will come into view. And you can imagine if you're that car driving south, the biggest building you're going to see is the Amazon Logistics Center. As you go further south, the data center buildings will blend more into the western area. Then you've got the flying J that will be the most visible thing you see. This is a photo simulation taken on Public Road right away at Mimbeth Lane and Rubeck Lane. And you might ask, why did I put this up there? Well, you can see between two trees, that is the data center view. If you're asking what it is here, this shows basically a schematic view of how these will look at this intersection. Here's another view from Jolene Drive. Again, in the cul-de-sac of Jolene Drive. That thing above the house there that looks like a low-lying cloud, that's one of the data center buildings. That is on the horizon directly above the house to the right there. With that, Mr. Chairman, what I'd like to do with your leave is turn the podium over to Mr. Rob Miller of Polysonics. We know that noise, sound is an issue here. He can speak better than I can. So with your leave, Mr. Chairman, let me add Rob Miller of Polysonics to come up. And he can tell you about what the next few slides are. Rob Miller of Polysonics. Good evening, sir. Good evening. I have the good fortune of talking about sound levels. It can be an out-there subject, but I wanted to bring some grounding and truth to what we are. How long are they allowed? We're allowed three minutes, but they're allowed what? They're the applicant. Yes, sir. Please be seated. They're the applicant. They get as much time as they want. They can have as much time as they want? Yes, sir. Okay. I'm glad to be as long or as short. I know this is an important topic. And I want to make sure that we're all on the same page. And I want to address it to the satisfaction of everyone. Can you use the mic, please? Of course. I would wish I could. I'll lean this way so that everyone can hear and I can hopefully see some. So the ambient noise level study we did in January, which was a good month. No snow, hard ground conditions, no leaves on trees. Able to get good sound level measurements around the site, which you'll see ten measurements across. Here, it's rotated so that north is on the right. And so the flying J question you can see is here along towards M2 and M3. We are, I-81 is further south. This is the frontage road behind the flying J. Where you can see the LEQ level is at 66 or 56? It's 66. 57 at M2. At M2 and 63 at M1, closer to the CAT dealer. Elsewhere around the site, 51, 41, 41, and 41, furthest from I-81. Notably, something, a comment that was earlier. Actually, we'll just get there here with the slide. Before I get there. Touchstones to think about here. The sound level for this site right now is 70 dBA is what the maximum limit is. We're looking to achieve nowhere near that. 60 dBA is the Frederick County residential noise level that this site is not subject to, but might be useful for those with residence in Frederick County. Okay. So, when the EPA developed this model noise ordinance and said this is a good starting point for communities to adopt for noise levels, they chose 55. It protects the requisite use of people's homes, enjoyment of their surroundings, outdoor barbecues, and such. The normal day-to-day use of the data center, chilling only, not testing generators, not running all of the noise levels. Not in emergency mode and not testing. Depending where you are, 50 to 55, as we heard just a little bit ago. So, already, we are approaching 5 to 10 dBA quieter than the Frederick County noise ordinance. And to use the decimal math that we've been talking about, that's about half as loud. Towards half as loud. If it was 50, it would be half as loud. 50 to 55, 50 to 55, 50 to 55, 50 to 55. That's about half as loud. 50 to 55, somewhere in between. Hopefully that makes sense. So, you know, there were some terms used of how extreme this is. We are under the residential Frederick County noise ordinance. This was our simulation of including I-81 noise in conjunction with the site. There may be a better slide. There may be a better slide that I added here later on. We'll see if it is here to show. But unfortunately, those numbers are small. I could come up and read those to you. But they are in the low 50s. In fact, can I yell and I'll just read out some numbers to you all? Thank you. Hey, Rob. Rob, you've got to stay in the mic because you're televised. We're live streaming the meeting, so you've got to stay in front of the mic so that people watching can hear. No, it's on the screen up here. Okay. So, I will use my mouse. And this is coming up Rubuck Lane. 52, 53, 53, 54, 52, 52, 52, 51, 51, 52. And along the Flying J 60, and I believe when it says instead of being equal to the data center is equal to the Flying J, it's actually 10 decibels louder than, quieter than the Flying J. So, there's no addition happening. It's purely I-81 noise that you're hearing at that location. So, this is just looking at the data center noise itself. And again, similar numbers starting from the top. 52, 52, 53, 52, 51, 52, 52, 52, 52, 52. 51, 51, 51, 50, 50, 52 down here at this corner. When we have generator testing happening, you saw a little spreadsheet earlier. What that ends up being is half of one building for three buildings. So, half of one building. And then, the other half is being tested three times across the site. And they can be spread out so that they're not ganging up and one neighborhood, one group of neighbors is hearing three half data center noise. It's spread around so that the distance works out and you're not hearing, and you're only hearing the closest testing happening next to you. In this case, we chose this property line to Long Beach. This property line to Long Roebuck. And these generators are being tested here at this third building south. And what you'll see is that this level expanding from the building is between 55 and 60 as it crosses over this residential property line. So, for the testing scenario of a half building being tested near you, we still remain under the residential noise ordinance. And the proffer in general is to maintain 60. But that is, again, assuming that we're in emergency mode. This is testing mode. And I'll leave it there. Thank you. I have a question from the members of the public. But the last few slides are just some examples of renderings that the design guidelines basically calling for. Use of architectural components. This is the, these are not proffer architectures. But this is what they would look like by use of the design elements that are listed in the proffers. With fenestration, glass, windows, and I note that the county I came from, I've seen three different iterations of data centers. The first generation is the one that's been tested. The first generation looked like warehouses with no windows, no fenestration. The second generation looked a little better. The new ones being built now have more of a curb appeal with the design elements, use of glass, good lighting, and neutral colors. With that, that's a rundown of our aerial. With that, Mr. Chairman, let me yield back. I'd be glad to answer any questions or have any members of the development team ask any questions that the commission may have. Thank you. Any questions to my right? Mr. Crane? So I've got two questions for you. One is if there are separate companies, let's say there's ten separate companies, one at each data center, how are they going to coordinate the testing of their generators? You know, if there's 200 different generators, how are they going to coordinate the testing of their generators? All right. If you're 288, is company ABC going to coordinate with XYZ? Hey, I'll fire mine up this day you fire yours. How is that going to work? Well, if these are landowners that are lessees, let's say, part of their lease will be conformance with these proffers. So they're going to have to work it out that they can't fire all at once. And that'll be a violation of their lease if they do. And then I'll fire mine up 10,000 times to see if it's going to work. All right. And we'll also have an operations manual that will dictate when, pursuant to each lease, you can test your generators. And there are enforcement mechanisms that we'll have as the owner, again, in a lease scenario, if anyone breaches those lease terms, just like any commercial tenant who violates the terms of his lease. Okay. My second question, I'm a pretty simple guy, so this is a pretty simple question. Do you live in Clearbrook? I'm sorry? Do you live in Clearbrook? I do not. I don't live there yet. So if you did, if you built a home there 25 years ago and you enjoy the ambiance of that neighborhood, would you like a data center built in your backyard? That's a fair question. I bought a house where I lived, and I looked at the comprehensive plan, what it says for it, and I looked at what that comprehensive plan. I looked at what the comprehensive plan could allow in the terms of zoning. I also looked to see where the infrastructure are. So to answer your question is, I would not have a problem. My opinion, I know that you might not, but I think those decisions on land use primarily abate in the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan doesn't say residential on this property. As a matter of fact, the Planning Commission heard an application. For this same property and recommend approval of this property to be rezoned to the M1 zoning district. That would allow for warehouses and logistics operations and much more truck traffic. That was an application before this Planning Commission about two years ago, and the Planning Commission recommended approval of it. Thank you, sir. Any other questions? To my left. Mr. Botthoff? Yeah, I had a question. Doing some reading and research. I have a question for the noise gentleman. Can you tell me about mass-loaded vinyl and whether it would have any options to reduce low-level noise in your buildings? Mass-loaded vinyl is about for an eighth-inch piece of vinyl, it weighs about one pound per square foot. It can come two pounds per square foot. I don't weigh. I wish the handyman to deal with two pounds per square foot. Mass-loaded vinyl, it's very difficult. It is frequently used to wrap ducts. Ducts when they're coming into the building because there's noise coming off the rooftop unit or something like that. It has about the benefit of, depending how it's used, six to ten decibels of improvement. So it is frequently used as a compressor rack. It's a very good gap for chillers and you saw in the proffer that there are mitigation techniques that must be included in the chillers. And so I suspect that would be one of the components that the manufacturer is already doing for that type of equipment. Is there a specific? Nope. Okay. Hang on. I have a question related to sound. So we're talking a lot about decibels, noise levels. Yep. But we don't really address a whole lot of noise. Right. So we're talking about a lot of noise levels. Right. So I'm just wondering if you can talk about that. I'm just wondering if you can talk about that. Yeah. Yeah. So you don't address a whole lot of frequency. And from what I understand, it's the low level frequency that causes a lot of these health issues and potential other things that we're just not really talking about. Sure. So and I know in part of your study, I think you did address frequency, but it was higher. It was like maybe 65 hertz or something of that nature. 60. We looked at 63 hertz, which is data the manufacturer provides. So let me discuss that a little bit. We used the ANSI. Okay. So the ANSI standard. ANSI is a major U.S. governing body that brings professionals together to decide on what should be standards. And it was done in conjunction with our professional society, Acoustical Society of America. In terms of the low frequency noise, there is an appendix, an annex to that standard that addresses it specifically. And it gives, just like a standard, it gives you a standard. Okay. So you're talking about a low frequency noise. It does. And it gives, just like I sort of listed frequency, excuse me, decibel levels that are ordinances, there are decibel levels that contribute to low frequency, you know, a level that people don't like, right, that is annoying to use in their home. And what we did, we took the generators and we took the chillers. Okay. And the different sounds. Okay. So we got the high frequency noise. So we got the low frequency noise. So we got the low frequency noise. Okay. So we got the low frequency noise. Okay. And then we got the low frequency noise. Okay. So we got the low frequency noise. testing scenario for the generator. We modeled it similar to what you saw on the screen. And for the nearest residences, 70 decibels is unweighted. So no, this A weighting or C weighting going on. The pure decibel level at that 63 hertz, how much of that comes across the property line? What we found was that we stayed below 70 decibels for the type two, the level two noise enclosure for the generator. Which what that means is that what the standard body found was that for homes of standard typical wood frame construction with no improved windows, no storm windows, no masonry in the walls or anything like that, this 70 decibel level at 63 hertz maintains the peace and quiet of someone being able to enjoy their house. It's the ANSI standard. And we analyzed it. And so we're really happy to report that. S12 dot, I have it on my phone. Next time someone calls me up, I will give it to you. The the the of we stay the 70 decibels stays outside the property line. And what what you what? S12 dot, . What's important to know is that S12 dot, S22 dot, S22 dot. Rob, you need to address the planning commission, sir. Thank you. Okay. So the 70 decibel unweighted 63 hertz stays off the property line with the level two generator enclosure in the testing scenario. S12 dot, Ok. S12 dot, Thank you. S12 dot, Thank you. S12 dot, So Yeah, I mean, I guess, I guess, you know, we're going to have to get that back. I guess just going back to the peer review, it seemed like that there was concerns about lower than 63 hertz. I mean, is that something that we could get results on just to make sure that even though we may be above and beyond this ANSI standard, at least we know that we're protecting everybody above and beyond a standard. So in terms of the frequency that we're able to study and understand, manufacturers for both the HVAC equipment, the chillers, and the generators, their lowest octave band, frequency band slice that they report is the 63 hertz octave band. And so we're unable to investigate anything lower than that, but we investigated what the manufacturers provide. Typically, the... So the low frequency noise that has gotten communities upset has contributed to the windmills, low blade counts, slow rotating fans. And I'm learning about natural gas and flaring is also a low frequency source. I have not seen any indication of diesel generators or particularly chillers. They operate... They operate much higher than that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Yeah, I had another question. I know in the last meeting we had, we talked about the water usage at 120,000 or I think it was 120,000 gallons. And I think we had a description of what the 20,000 was for. And I think Mr. Stowe brought up a comment as what's the other 100,000 going to be used? And have you talked about with anybody about where that 100,000 is going to be used? How is it going to be used? Well, the water will be used for cooling purposes. And... Oh, let me yield to someone who can answer that question better, Mr. Bator. This is John Knott of Equus. Okay. So just so I'm clear on the question, you'd asked about the 20,000 of domestic and where does the other 100,000 come from? So, you know, as we stayed in the proffers, we were proffering to... We have a number of different cooling systems which are... Use a low amount of water. Air-cooled, closed-loop, direct liquid chip, and immersion. So those are low-use water technologies. We expect the amount of water to be used under those technology scenarios to be less than 100,000 gallons per day. We believe it is very important, after having spoken with a number of users who are data center operators, to maintain some flexibility, some flexibility, with the amount of water that we're asking to use. We have capped it at 120,000. We've confirmed with the director of Frederick Water that that amount of water is currently available today with the water system and the sewer system that exist adjacent to our site. So are the technologies that we're thinking are going to be used three years from now when we build these buildings? Are they going to use that 120,000? No. Is there another technology that's being developed that none of us know about that might use a little bit more water and probably is a better system than the ones that currently exist? Could be. So we're just asking for some flexibility. Okay. Actually, I had a little comment because I know when we talked about this CEP process that Mr. Pearson expressed concern about being able to enforce the 120,000. I think it was the 20,000 gallon limit. And so myself sitting on the board of Frederick Water, I've reached out to both Eric and our outside attorneys down in Richmond, and we are going to come up with a policy to, or a contract sort of, to address and cap it at 120 with penalties or the ability to shut off if you exceed that over a period of time. That's still under development. Frederick Water had a policy for significant users going into the wastewater system, and that was 5% of its existing capacity. We did not have a policy regarding a large water user that basically evaporated all the water off, and it didn't make it to the sewer system. So because of the comments we've had, I've reached out to Eric and our outside counsel, and we're going to come up with something so that when something's in a proper statement, I think this board can feel that Frederick Water can basically enforce that, and that's what we're going to do. We welcome it. We're accustomed to entering developers' agreements with different governing bodies. And that's why I say I want to make sure that you guys are comfortable with your number. I'm sure they'll work at it. But if it's in a proper statement, we want to try to hold, just like all the other proffers, we want to try to hold it to that. And we'll have to apply for the water use with you and pay the tapping fee for the exact amount of gallons that we propose at the site plan time. So we will all know how many gallons. We'll be at that time. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Knott. Thank you. I have a question. Of that 100,000 gallons of water, 100,000 gallons go in. Does 100,000 come out? You mentioned that if it's 100% evaporated, then nothing comes out. What comes out? We're not using evaporative systems. If you were to, I mean, you can pick a gallon. One gallon a day, 10 gallons a day, 100,000 gallons a day. If we needed to take that in, which is available today, it's likely that most of that water would also come out into the sewer system, which is also available today in the current system. And the water that comes out, what condition is that in? What contaminants are in there? It's clean water. It's clean water. I mean, we cannot send anything into the sewer system that Frederick Water does not permit us to send into the sewer system. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Ms. Bruback? Mine's not on water. Well, the area that is in flood zone, I think Wyatt had brought out, how would we handle the berm in that area of flood zone if you can't have a berm because of the flood zone? I don't, I'm not an engineer, but putting in earthen burns and floodplain, I think we need a permitting. I think we need a permitting requirement if it's minor or major floodplain. That's a good engineering question. Generally, you don't want to put in any obstructions, earthen or whatever in a floodplain to disturb the drainage flow. So we'd have to do and build in that berm whatever county engineering says is allowable. I think FEMA has a problem with doing things that will interfere with how many floodplows and a berm would do that. It might have a berm with some drainage, I don't know, a lot of drainage, but it might have a berm with some drainage, I don't know, a lot of drainage, but it might have a berm with some drainage, I don't know, a lot of drainage, but it might have a berm with some drainage, but it might have a berm with some drainage, but it might have a berm with some drainage, but I'm not an engineer, I don't really know. But I know you can't fill in a floodplain, that'll get you in trouble. Mr. Minshew, I have one question for you. I got this question today in an email and I had no idea what the answer was. There is a suit that's been filed against the folks that are developing the substation adjacent to this property that'll be supplying your power. If the plaintiffs prevail in that suit, what would that mean for your project? I don't know about that lawsuit, but I think it's challenging the approval of the substation that the Planning Commission approved. I really can't speculate since I'm not a party to that litigation, but if the next area substation were not to be built here, would that present an issue with this data center? The answer is clearly yes. Okay. I mean, you probably knew the answer to that question before you asked it. I'm not a lawyer either, sir. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr. Chairman. Let me yield back and let's hear from the public. Thank you very much. With that, I'll open the public hearing. Again, this is public hearing and the moment we've been waiting for is to hear from you. And that's important for us. We do want to practice decorum. We do want to keep orderly and we want to move things along rapidly. We have 47 people that signed up to speak and that's fine. We'd love to hear from all of you. We know what a lot of the concerns are based on the emails you've sent us and we read those and many of them I get to respond to, which I'm fine doing. But with that, we want to get into this. So please limit clapping, hooping, that sort of thing. And off we go. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First speaker is Vicki Michaels followed by Jay Martz. And Jay, if you can come up and get in line, please, sir. Vicki. Good evening, ma'am. Good evening. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Vicki Michaels. And I live in the Stonewall District. The best argument for not resigning rural land is our very own comprehensive plan. Chapter two, rural areas. Frederick County's rural areas provide places for agriculture, forestry, protection, and preservation of natural resources and tourism. The rural areas best exhibit the nature, beauty, view sheds, and tranquility for which Frederick County is a natural resource. The rural areas best exhibit the nature, beauty, view sheds, and tranquility for which Frederick County is a natural resource. Agriculture, forestry, conservation play an important role in the environment, heritage, and economy of Frederick County. The rural areas of the county provide benefits to the community in many ways. Preserving and protecting the rural areas of Frederick County is important not only to ensure the economic viability of agriculture and forest operators, but to guarantee that these lands are present for use and enjoyment of future generations. Please honor our comprehensive plan and vote no. Don't give away 220 acres of rural land. We've all asked about data centers causing our electric bills to go up. There's talking about putting in battery storage for these. Because of the Public Utility Regulation Policy Act of 1978, our electric bills are now being used to save money for the public sector. And we're also asking that electric companies will be required to buy power from the battery storage sites whether they need it or not. So, yes, our bills will go up. I had intended to end it here, but today the Winchester Star survey came out. 2,901 surveys for Winchester and Frederick County. Sixty percent of those people indicate it being informed. And 90 percent of those respondents would not be in favor of a data center. Ninety-six were concerned about the impact on environment and utilities. Seventy percent of the health risk and noise. And sadly, 60 percent of those respondents do not trust the representatives to honor what their constituents want. So, you know, we're going to have to keep going. We're going to have to keep going. We're going to have to keep going. And we're going to have to keep going. So, folks, today is a promise. Today is a promise for tomorrow. You need to do the hard things. You need to save our rural land. And you need to vote no. Thank you. Thank you. Jay Martz followed by Jody Zise. Hey, good evening, Chairman Stowe, members of the commission. I'm Jay Martz, Frederick County taxpayer and resident of the Gainesboro district. I'm here tonight to speak in opposition to the rezoning action 0426, the Virginia technology park. I'm here to oppose any further rezoning of our county farmland. As you may recall, I greatly opposed the action that you took on Madison 277. You are destroying the character of the county with these votes on rezoning our farms. Joe, Vaughn, you're pretty good friends. John Lamanna, we go way back. We go way back. Charles, you're pretty good friends. You're pretty good friends. You're pretty good friends. You're pretty good friends. You're pretty good friends. I've got to know you from the Mountain Patriots. Tim, we've had our back and forths, but we always speak cordially. I think it's great. Al, thanks for coming to the Memorial Day celebration. Hey, your Redbud town halls are great, Mike. I love it. And Randy, it's good to see you tonight. I mentioned first names. I mentioned first names like this because Frederick County has a great small town feel. A place where first names are used often. A community. It's a community. It's a community. I'm not just a resident. I'm a member of this community. And I greatly enjoy that. And I really, really want to preserve that. You know, I pushed hard, very hard for all my family to live here in the Northern Shenandoah Valley. To stay away from Fairfax and Loudoun. And I succeeded. Today, today, I had a yard full of grandkids helping me trim bushes, water flowers, cut the grass. Great time. My neighbor had just cut his pasture down and he had raked it up today. I loaded him up in the pickup truck. And I took him down there and I drove him around that. And I said, you know what? He's got it all raked up. He's going to come back and bail it now. And then he's going to feed his cattle over the winter. Now do you think I would load up my grandkids and go to the data center? I mean, would that be something that I would do in this community? I don't think so. So, you know, I'm not here to talk about megawatts of power, gallons and gallons of water, noise, view shed pollution. No. No. The main purpose here is to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the public. Okay? This action is in the wrong direction. So please, vote no. Thank you. Jody Zeis followed by Elizabeth Halear. Hello, board members. Thank you for serving. My name is Dr. Jody Zeis, Gainesboro District. There is literally no data anywhere that I have research stating that a data center of that size can use 125,000 gallons or less a day. Everything I research is 1 to 5 million, although he did just mention it's not evaporative, but what are you using? By the way, somebody asked what 70 decibels sound like. It's like a hair dryer or a vacuum running all day long when you're walking your toddler or trying to take your afternoon Sunday nap. That is decibels or loudness. Infrasound and low frequency pitch is just as dangerous to your body as how loud it is. Additionally, the tier 4 generator can mean more than one thing and they have not specified. It can mean resilient or how well it works. Or safety. It doesn't give off the nitrogen oxides that cause cancer or respiratory diseases. I don't see a specification. The data center has curb appeal. You have 200 generators. Have you been to Prince William County lately? I drive there every single day. According to the report to Governor Youngkin dated December 9, 2024 and conducted by the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission, data centers of this size only employ 50 to 100 full-time jobs. Half of those are contract workers, not necessarily employees of the entity occupying the building. If these developers are building it and other companies use it, they cannot sit here and tell us how many more people will be hired. Contrary to the recent news cycle, those against data centers are not extremists. We are not anti-government and we are not anti-progress or even anti-tech. We are here for health and safety of our neighbors. I'm your friendly neighborhood nerd and I research for fun. We are here to ensure our right to a healthy life and happiness in a place where we call our home. According to this report, construction on a data center brings temporary jobs for only two years. What are you going to do then? Build even more? According to that report that went to Governor Youngkin, the recommendations say that electric utilities have the authority to delay but not deny service to customers when the additional customer load can't be supported. That's different than what we were told at Jameswood High School. It also recommends that our local government establish and enforce maximum allowable sound levels for operational data centers and facilities and use alternative low frequency metrics and zoning ordinance. That has not yet been done. It also states that many mistakes have been done from other localities in Virginia where they have allowed technical centers and not considered them industrial to be next to residents and agriculture and it clearly states in the report to Governor Youngkin that that should not be approved. That industrial centers and technical centers should not be now next to residents and agricultural areas. If you vote yes to changing the zoning, you are acknowledging your full understanding of aquifers, the draining of aquifers, clearly they don't understand in our region how forever chemicals never ever go away and there will be some and the full understanding of infrasound, low decibel sound and your understanding of gray water's environmental effects on our entire ecosystem. Thank you. Thank you. Elizabeth Aylor followed by Heather Reese. Hey y'all. I'm Elizabeth Aylor. I live in Back Creek and I just want to kind of talk about the larger initiative here nationwide. I think we all need to put our heads up and wake up a little bit that we are on an onslaught of unvetted industry that is like a parasite that's growing across our nation. It's a cancer and it's affecting our supply chains, it's affecting and stressing our resources and even on May 18th they already initiated federal guidance in order to activate generators that across Virginia because the electrical grid was stressed and I don't know if y'all remember our Julys but they are very hot and the air pollution that's going to be put into our airways are just going to be intolerable. Let alone the supply chain itself. There's diesel shortages across the nation and we as the people are affected by that and where are all these supplies coming from? If we're building thousands of data centers across our nation in rural lands that are affecting us the people, who's building these supplies? Because I have a 1970s build and one drop of water, one pipe that goes and I got $50,000 worth of damage I gotta deal with. What happens when these suppliers or who's going to be building these things in an already stressed economy? What are we looking at here? These industries are not vetted. You can't have impact analysis, you don't have metrics, you can't rezone to something we don't even know, we've never seen in human history. Three years it took me nine months to grow one of my three children. Just saying, we gotta get perspective here on a larger national emergency because this storm is bigger than just data centers and it's coming for us all. I love my community and I love the people in my community and I want to participate in our health and wellness because guess what, when this comes and takes all of our resources where are you all going to go to sanitize your water or your food? It's going to be with us because we know how to do that. You're missing the point of the truth. I think we're all going to be responsible for the true treasures that we have. We are stewards of this land and this valley with these mountains. We care about our people. We care about our butterflies and our waterways and our systems. Our true treasures are those resources and as we pledge our allegiance under God to this country, that is the land we stand on, the air we breathe, the water we use and our connection to it and to each other. So I just want us to kind of get out of where our own way as humans and see a larger picture of what we can do to make a bigger picture here. And long story short, as we build as a community going forward into a sustainable future, can we take our time please and build into industries that provide us jobs and work with our wild spaces and in our communities. There's no rush here. Let's have some wisdom and step back and watch the larger picture unfold so that we can protect our county and build towards industry gains that really contribute to our community holistically. We can do this together. I believe that we can and I think we can do it together and I think we can do it together. And I really appreciate you all. Thank you. Heather Reese followed by Carrie Hibbard. I'm Heather Reese and I'm of the Gainsborough district and I'm just here more to speak about the tonal noise that has been alluded to but I think we're being fed some false information. DBA, I guess that is the only metric that we have. We are way below the standard if we do not have DBC measurements. We are not doing the work that we are doing in our properties required of these centers. Every residence that is backing on this needs to have their own meter. This meter needs to run 24-7. Not an eight hour averaged which is what happens in industrial hygiene when you are doing basic industrial hygiene data gathering. You are looking at an eight hour day average because they're only looking at occupational health. We're talking about women, infants, other children running around exposed 24-7, 365 days a year. This is a serious, serious health impact that this county is completely ignoring. Why does it even matter? These are the decibels you don't hear. These are the decibels that get into your body. I'm a physician by my occupation. I am not an industrial hygienist so I can't speak nearly as eloquently as Alexis can back there and I'm so glad she's here. But our own internal systems run about 5-8 hertz. 5-8 hertz are low frequencies so when you have all of these 5-8 hertz coming from external sources, it is elevating cortisol. It's raising your blood pressure. It's raising your pulse. You might be asleep through all of this and yet you're going to have a heart attack 10 years earlier because of this chronic stress. It's affecting the development of the prefrontal cortex of fetal brains of our children that are growing up around these. 24-7, 365 damage to our children. And we have to listen to what's happening in livestock. Livestock are losing, all of them are losing weight. Hens are laying 50% fewer eggs. The cows are not producing as much milk. I grew up in Appalachia next to a coal mine. My grandpa used to send in the canaries with the coal miners. When the canary died you came out. We have to start listening to the canaries before our own children are injured. And I love the when they talked about, oh, your basic wooden house is fine. No. If you really want to halt these sounds that are coming through, you need a 2-4 inch air gap in your windows. Your exterior doors are going to have to be solid. When you have these low frequency noises coming through into your home, they're amplified. When it's cold out, they're amplified. Those waves are being pushed down into your home. The corners of your home are dangerous. Suddenly you're going to have to move all of your furniture to the center of the room. I mean, these are things that are not simple. Nobody wants to do that in their homes. And these are the risks. There is an industry standard. And please write this down. So this needs to be our industry standard. If the DBC is 15 above DBA, then they need to be sanctioned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Carrie Hibbard followed by Scott Lynch. Hello. My name is Carrie Hibbard and I live in the Gainesboro District. At the May work session, one of the concerns that I had was when you all asked about easements, if it was needed, they just stated they would negotiate easements. But my concern is if neighboring property owners decline to negotiate, what happens next? Are residents expected to worry about the possibility of government involvement or eminent domain? These were not answered. I won't talk too much about the noise because I know everybody's going to. But, you know, 60 decibels doesn't sound like much, but if it's 24 hours a day nonstop, the lowest sound can get really annoying. And if this is your backyard, that is a problem. And if there is a zoning violation, we have the courts to use. But in the meantime, these people are living with crap that are surrounded, that are surrounding this property. My mother's property is right next to that responder that has the lowest. So you're talking about going from 32, 42 to 60? That's kind of, that's a big change. Commissioner Kozell, you had asked about a building timeline being based on five or seven days a week. They said most of our projects are five days a week. The proffer says Monday through Saturday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. So, during however many years these are being built, nobody can use their backyard on a Saturday and relax. In the 2025 work session, when the two similar proposals were considered, Commissioner Whitaker stated, I don't see any way at all how this benefits the citizens of this county. It seems like we have these profiteers coming into our county and treating us like the cash cow. I could not agree more. Chairman Stowe, your words were, we don't need them adjacent to schools. We don't need them adjacent to housing areas. We don't need them in areas that are peaceful and tranquil and rural. That is still true today. You guys talked about the nose of the camel getting under the tent. My concern is, you do this one, the precedent is set, and we will have a lot of trouble saying no in the future. This project and the others coming are already affecting our community. Many people are living with high levels of stress as we research and oppose and come to meetings and watch. It is very stressful to the people who live in this county. I know several residents who are preparing to put their homes on the market if data centers begin locating here. These are not people who plan to move. They do not want to live with the impacts they believe will follow. Others are publicly asking on websites whether they should even consider moving here. Are data centers coming? I don't want to move from Loudon. That should be a concern. The developer purchased land that was zoned RA. They bought property. It does not prevent data centers. We are now asking county residents to bear the burden. Nobody will buy our properties next to a data center. Would you? Thank you. Scott Lynch followed by Bill Moore. Hi, everyone. This is in my neighborhood. I'm Scott Lynch. I live in the area of the West Church Road. I have a small farm. I'm already struggling to make ends meet as it is. I don't want to have the noise and the light pollution and the air pollution. Water is our biggest problem in this county and this whole country. Everywhere in the world, water is a problem. The county has taken my water away on my property. I can't seem to do anything about it. You start to draw in water into the quarry to sell to the county. My creek dried up on my farm. I haven't gotten a good answer from anybody about that yet. Let's just hope we don't put a data center in. That will just make me want to move even more. Good night. Thank you. Bill Moore followed by Deb Bouserman. Good evening. My name is Bill Moore. I come very proudly from Lake Frederick. I'm the head of the Opecan District. My high school calculus teacher recently passed. This is for you, Mr. Z. There will be some math. While I've learned a lot tonight about data centers, invisible and soundless as they might be, I've heard claims that a moratorium preventing data centers from being built in our county is illegal. There's another way to discourage these unwanted monstrosities from being built here. Money is a powerful lever and can be used for bad things, but it can also be used for good things that our citizens support. Frederick County's tax rate for data center equipment is a measly buck and a quarter for $100 assessed. Commissions are $4.50. Compare that to Loudoun's rate of $4.15. I'll do the math for you. Our rate is 30% of Loudoun County's rate. Now maybe I'm picking data here. Maybe I'm cherry picking a bit. Or maybe I'm not. Fairfax County's rate is $4.57 per $100. Prince William's is $4.50. I'm not sure if ours is 27, 28% of those rates. So good golly. Yeah, I'd want to build in Frederick County as well. How about more locally? Warren County, Clark County, Fauquier County. Their rates are between $4.15 and $4.50. Ours is a buck 25. And it's outrageous. But as awful as the tax rate is, it's not the full story. Our Board of Supervisors has set in place an accelerated depreciation rate of 50% in the first year. That's effectively cutting our awful rate in half. By year four, the rate is cut by 90%. So the effective rate is then a minuscule 12.5 cents for $100. So that's a lot of money. $100 assessed. Happily, there's a solution and it doesn't require a moratorium. The Board of Supervisors should simply move a decimal over one place and make the buck 25 rate $12.50. Or given the ridiculous depreciation rate, maybe $20 on a $100 assessed. As Mr. Z would often say, QED, not to bore you with the Latin, but to make the buck quite easily done. Thank you. Deb Bouserman, followed by Vic Canfield. Good evening. I'm a resident of Winchester along with my husband. I'm a resident of Winchester with my husband. We are also this generation's custodians of a family farm along the Apecan Creek, which lies about three or four miles due east of Flying J in 81. We're definitely, I think, in the impact zone. I was sure people were going to be talking tonight about the impacts on natural resources and the impacts on the quality of life. I thought maybe I would just, for my part, open up the screen a little bit and talk about the impact on the health of the people who are affected by the effects of the effects of the effects of the effects of the effects of the effects In Maine, we have the first state to pass legislative, I can't read my own writing, they're trying to block, again, large data centers there, and they're trying to argue for more time until November 27th to give time to develop protective regulations. At the federal level, Senator Sanders and Representative Ocasio-Cortez have introduced the AI Data Center Moratorium Act. So I thought those were all kind of useful to give us kind of a big picture here. The U.S., and I hope these are halfway accurate statistics, has 5,427 data centers, the largest number in the world. China, our technological giant neighbor and competitor, has 250, and the majority of these are unused. They're not even in operation at this point. So I thought that was a good point. I think there's some thought that these centers are speculative in nature, and who knows if they'll ever be put into operation if the tax dollars will be coming in to the fair people of our county. I've also heard, and maybe I thought this was a conspiracy theory, that these are not data centers, but surveillance centers. So if you haven't read it, please do. It really talks about the actual use of the data. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I think Vic Canfield has left, so Jay Banks is next speaker, followed by Alexander Ritter. Hey, if there's any gentlemen in the room that are practicing chivalry, there's a couple of ladies in the back who might like to sit. Chivalry is not dead. Okay. Who's next, sir? Good evening. Jay Banks, followed by Alexander Ritter. Okay. Alexander, if you can line up behind him, please, so we're moving along expeditiously. Randy, it's good to see you west of Fairfax County this evening. I can't articulate any better than what the previous speakers brought forth to you to talk about this county. So I'm going to stick with what I know, and that's over 30 years of municipalization. I'm going to stick with what I know, and that's over 30 years of municipal urban forestry in the land development process. So let's start. I attended the James Wood meeting, and I brought to the attention the point that the county's web page states, failure to maintain the required vegetative buffer is a violation of the county zoning ordinance and can be enforced by the county criminally. Well, we can only have to look at the... Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. to be a big faction of Buffy Yards provided with this project. Excuse me. So if we're not going to hold their feet to the fire, we're going to have a very difficult time with this project as well. So if we want to talk about one of the issues that I saw at the James Wood meeting, there was a lady that was up on stage, very nice woman. She was brought up as an acoustic specialist and was brought to the audience's attention that she was hired by the county because she understands acoustics. And when I brought up this issue about the Buffy Yards at solar farms, the county staff just said, well, we're learning to work with the developer. So my question is, if you go out to get a specialist to work on the acoustics of the project, why wouldn't you go out and get a qualified, certified arborist to work with the county that understands proffers, can read them, can write them, and understand them, and then development conditions, and evaluate the existing vegetation that they state that they're going to save? There's no tree preservation in your zoning ordinance. And there's none in the proffers. We'll save some trees. It's left open to interpretation by the developer, not the county. I looked at the data center plan set, and I went through it. The application is very poor. I'll leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Banks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alexander Ritter, followed by Rebecca Brunnen. Good evening. My name is Alexander Ritter, and I'm a resident of Opequen. As a musician and hobbyist audio engineer, I had prepared some comments about the noise analysis, but I believe our sound consultant addressed the bulk of what I wanted to say. But the most important thing here is that for the residents, they will notice a significant increase in noise nearby. Even a technically compliant facility represents a dramatic increase in noise. dramatic and permanent change to the acoustic environment residents have known for generations relative to what they are accustomed to. Now, again, you could argue that it won't be above this or that threshold and it isn't noise pollution, but let's take a look at what our comp plan defines as noise pollution. Unwanted noise, often described as a displeasing sound that disrupts the activity or balance of human or animal life. A substantial number of people would probably describe that noise increase as a disruption and hardly anything has been said on the potential impact of that increase on nearby wildlife. The TM zone ordinance itself states that uses are allowed which do not create significant noise beyond the property line, smoke, dust, or other hazards. Even with technical compliance, there will be a significant perceptual increase in noise beyond the property line for the residents. I'd argue that a use that needs a proffer to mitigate such an increase is a use that doesn't conform to the rules of the TMS. To the standards of the TM ordinance itself. And moreover, even if data centers are allowed by right in the TM, that does not mean that this specific project fits within that zone. Now, I want to address the NEALIP, or Northeast Frederick Land Use Plan. The applicant may counter all of this with a sentence in the NEALIP that this area may be well suited for energy intensive development. Yet that sentence is conditional. Note, the full language reads,érique which reads, only if the other necessary utilities could be provided in the development provides Does this project provide benefit to the County beyond revenue, and may be jobs? I would say no. The comprehensive plan states that the purpose of a plan is to guide and accomplish a coordinated development of the jurisdiction to promote the health, safety, prosperity and in general welfare. Revenue is certainly a part of prosperity, but the first things listed are health and safety. The dunno гарu That order is important because you can't have prosperity without health and safety. Those two have precedence. So when you are weighing a rezoning, you are justified in citing concerns about safety, health, and welfare. You're allowed to deny on the basis that the rezoning doesn't fit with the comprehensive plan, that the concerns have not been adequately addressed. What I've heard from the applicant is a lack of concern for our comprehensive plan. A lot of ifs and uncertainties and creative interpretations of our county's ordinances. The plan discourages this type of use, and I believe it is on this basis that the application should be moved for denial. Thank you. Thank you. Rebecca Bonin, followed by Stacey Haga. My name is Rebecca Bronson. I'm a resident of the Stonewall District. I'd like to return to the water concerns. You know, the water that this facility will be using is coming from our groundwater, and that affects all of us. You know, the other thing that I wonder if we've thought about is, you know, this project will, you know, displace maybe 650 houses. So looking into the future, you know, are we going to, you know, we're going to add an additional 650, you know, house use. And I think that's going to be a big demand to, you know, to our water system. Water is essential. It's, you know, essential for all of us for life. You know, so I just want, you know, want to encourage you to deny this application based on the amount of water that, you know, that it will use. Virginia, as you guys probably are aware, has been in a drought, is currently in a drought situation and has entered a drought situation every year for the last four or five years. And, you know, climate scientists forecast that, you know, frequent drought will become more and more common. So we need to think about these things going forward and not spend tomorrow's water today. So for that reason, I encourage you to deny this application. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Stacey Haga, followed by Matt Haga. Good evening. My name is Stacey Haga, and I live off of Brewstown Road in Clearbrook in the Stonewall District. And. I am here tonight to oppose this rezoning effort. I could echo everything that has been said so far and that I anticipate will be said. But as a health practitioner in the area, I'm specifically concerned about the health implications. I agree completely with what Dr. Reese was saying about the low tone frequencies. I have great concerns. We don't have long term data on these data centers. We do have short term data. We do know that. We know that these frequencies and the byproducts and emissions from these plants affect respiratory, cardiovascular disease, neurological function, brain health. You know, we see an increase in all of these things already because of our daily lives. And this will only add further insult to injury, in my opinion. You know, we have a long history in this country of doing things that we think are safe and healthy that end up not being safe and healthy. We put cocaine in Coca-Cola. We put lead in paint. We put radium in makeup. We put talc in baby powder. Doctors smoked in exam rooms. Let's not even talk about the last five years of assault on public health. We know that there are long term implications to this, but we don't know what they are. And until we do, we need to just slow the roll. Like it's been said, we cannot rush into this. Okay. Because ultimately, the people that are the people, you guys, you guys, some of you are my friends, right? We're all going to pay the price. We're going to pay. We're going to have water scarcity. We're going to have higher electricity bills. You know, we're going to have higher health care costs. And real estate is going to tank. You know, specifically, we purchased our house in Clearbrook a year ago. And I had great hesitation, great reservations because I already knew water was an issue on the side of town. And this is only going to further that issue. But the ultimate price is our health. We cannot get that back. And the only way to even improve your health from these kinds of environmental factors is to completely remove yourself. And that's what's going to happen in Frederick County. We're going to have to remove ourselves from Frederick County. We're not going to bring people in. You're going to push people out. And I don't think that is the long term solution for our county. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Matt Haga. Also, Clearbrook, and that was my better half just speaking. So, I've heard the name EQIS mentioned several times. I believe that's the applicant in this case. For those who don't know, EQIS is a probably maybe even trillion-dollar data center REIT. And this is not intended to be disrespectful or disparage the applicant, but I don't know that. they have a connection to this area. They're doing a good job. They're doing their job. They're pursuing the interests of their employer. But I don't know that their responsibility is the best interests of the citizens of the county. And I'm sorry, I don't have to tell the members of the commission whose responsibility that is. There's a lot of reasons that I think that, most of which have already been said, that I think approving a rezoning decision would be a mistake. I just wanted to kind of point out maybe some questions around the proffers, around what's in the proffers, how the proffers are enforced, and what's not in the proffers. So, what's in the proffers, there are some serious ambiguities around sound. There is, I believe, a statement that the generators will not be used except in emergency circumstances. But I have not heard a definition of emergency. What does the company consider to be an emergency? Is it high rates? I don't know. Also, when we talk about lighting, there is consideration of individual lighting fixtures, but I didn't see any consideration of aggregate impact of lighting. Has that been looked into? I don't know. But I can tell you, having lived in multiple locations around the county, industrial facilities of this type with the industrial lighting, I mean, it throws off a lot of glow. I mean, it's significant. It's also, the lighting doesn't address qualitative aspects. It doesn't talk about the type of lighting. I think the amount of light pollution could probably vary. I'm no expert based on the type of lighting that's being used. I think I'd also mention in my last time here, the biggest thing to note is that the lighting is not the type of lighting that's being used. The problem to me about the proffers is it seemed inadequate in terms of sort of compensating those in the county who would be most directly impacted by this development. I didn't see anything about, I saw a berm, which is great, and I know there are limits to what proffers can be offered and how they can be negotiated, but it didn't seem like there was a lot of thought given to how can we adjust the proffers or how can the applicant adjust the lighting? I think that's the biggest thing we need to do. I don't think we have enough data to be able to adjust the proffers to better mitigate the impact of placing such an industrialized site right next door. That's it. Thanks. Thank you. Willie Deutsch followed by Heidi Lozinski. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan District. One of you asked a very good question of the applicant. If you had a data center, would you live next to it? And the applicant said, well, I would look at the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinances when I decide where to buy. Well, what is this land right now? It's mixed use. Mixed use is generally considered a mix of office space, restaurants, stores, housing. And while data centers is an acceptable use listed under it, the development has to be mixed. There's nothing mixed in this development project. It's a heavy industrial-based project that's entirely data centers. So there's nothing mixed about it. So a homeowner nearby would have zero expectation that they would have a high-level industrial project built right next to their home when they looked at the comp plan and saw mixed use. So I think you should take that under consideration. Next, I want to run through a couple of polls. And polls are not everything. But April 2026, Washington Post released a couple of polls in Northern Virginia. In 2023, they saw 69% support for data centers. In 2026, they saw 35%. Gallup released a national poll in May that saw 70% opposition to data centers. And Winchester Star just released their poll showing overwhelming opposition. The Winchester Star is important because they have 2,900 respondents. In a nationwide poll, 1,000 respondents is considered to only have a 3% margin of error. It's incredibly statistically significant. And the more and more people that look into it, that see it, and that see it in their backyards realize that they don't want it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So one of the purposes of mass hyperscale data centers being built across the country is to reduce jobs that we have for corporate profit. And so when you talk about jobs being brought in, you need to do a full study on jobs that are also being taken out and removed. It's why we're seeing mass layoffs in the tech industry as automation and AI and data centers are brought in. So just talking about really the fewest jobs per square footage of a major industrial program being brought in. You also have to consider the jobs being taken out. Thank you very much. Heidi Lozinski followed by Kathleen Cargill. Thank you. My name is Heidi Lozinski from the Opec District. Thank you for reminding me that I brought something I received in the mail the other day from Frederick Water. I'm sure you saw it. It starts with for the third consecutive year Frederick County is experiencing drought. By the time these data centers are built, how many of these data centers are built? How many of these data centers are built? How many years will we have experienced drought? You tout the various water sources in Frederick County. Not one of those water sources is unaffected by drought conditions. Now, in 2008, the Virginia General Assembly locked the Commonwealth into a contract in order to attract businesses. It seemed like a great idea at the time. The reasoning was that the few million that would be lost in revenue would be a small price to pay for the jobs that would be generated. That 2008 decision. That 2008 decision is now costing the Commonwealth billions. And Virginians are bound by it until 2035. It is no wonder that billion-dollar companies are flocking to this business-friendly state for data centers. Ladies, gentlemen, we can't know what the future holds. But I hope that we can agree that climate change is real, even if we don't agree on its cause. And I hope that we can agree that bar none, our most precious natural resources are clean air and safe drinking water. Not rare earth minerals and not data. The decisions that you make regarding data centers will have ramifications for decades. Most of the people that will be adversely affected if data centers are allowed to litter Frederick County aren't even born yet. You have a gigantic responsibility. responsibility on your shoulders, there will be no turning back. Thank you. Kathleen Cargill, followed by Kurt Krieger. Hi, my name is Kathleen Cargill. I live in Opecun. My question is, why would we put the health and safety of our residents in jeopardy for opportunistic, speculative investors to build giant monstrosities for which there is undetermined need? Overcapacity of data centers is a thing. These data centers will probably be obsolete when quantum computing arrives, which is happening before you know it, and we're going to do this for lower taxes. Really? What price do you put on environmental degradation? What price do you put on the health of our community? I'm pretty sure my electricity rates are going to rise and eliminate any tax savings that I personally would benefit from from these data centers, if there is one at all. It certainly has in other states. We live in a beautiful valley, and you're considering destroying that with giant buildings that are in every sense of the word, fugly. In an emergency situation, for water, who gets the priority usage? The residents or the data centers? Same question on energy. I see that they're trying to dress them up now by putting some glass up there. I hope that they address bird strikes when they do that and put the dots on the glass so that we don't lose more birds with these things. It's billi- this is being built, it's a speculative thing on spec. I'm going to blame it on the other industry. It has a percentage. It's linked to your problem and definitely other force's issue. So I'm humble about it and I'll come back but frankly speaking I do have my doubts with anQU- because our action is to please the hobbits and Depois was very Messing the president and he said, his business bothers us a lot and he said please put this as real as possible because obviously if you want to go big you need to yourself and you can't believe what you can do to people but what is real and recognizable Ist are all this cool and you should call this clean with your euro. Skype consumer's naar protиваетi e. professional opinion are the planned 288 diesel fire generators which are intended for emergency power supply. The applicant was indecisive at the Planning Commission meeting the work session on May 5th wherein they stated that the generators may be diesel or natural gas. The final tendered rezone application concluded that a 36 inch natural gas pipeline would be required to serve the project. Therefore the applicant evidently for cost and convenience selected the least cost option. Let me repeat for short-term cost and convenience the applicant has selected the dirtiest fuel source available. Furthermore the applicant has stated their intention to deploy tier 4 generators which according to Virginia state law just enacted is the only option available after July 1st of 2026. Tier 2 cannot be used so the proffer has no meaning. Diesel and to a lesser extent natural gas generators are known to be diesel and diesel are not available for the project. The applicant is also known to emit fine particulate matter something called PM 2.5 for which there is no safe level of exposure. Fine particulate matter is 30 times smaller than the human hair. In addition nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide are emitted from diesel generators. Exposure to PM 2.5 can induce asthma, heart attacks, stroke lung disease and premature death. Therefore the use of 288 diesel or natural gas generators can be used to mitigate a potential risk of diesel fighter generators will damage the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Frederick County due to the effects of industrial air pollution. The cost of air pollution is conservatively estimated to range from $525 million to $980 million. Compare that against the promised benefit. It's stunning. On this basis alone, the reason for the proposed project should be denied because it is inconsistent with the Northeast Land Use Plan. The proffer only agrees to abide by Virginia law and does nothing to mitigate the impact of proposed air quality. With respect to the cost, who pays? The county and the data center operator will be liable for the cost through tort claims filed by injured parties and the estates of people injured through your actions and the operation of the data center. There being between $350 and $450 residential units within one mile, that's a lot of plaintiffs for a lawsuit. It's worthy to mention that there's a school 3.5 miles away and that similar modeling done using the COBRA EPA co-benefits risk assessment model shows that a plume of PM 2.5 can travel over 30 miles. So it's not going to be limited to the immediately adjacent neighborhood. It will affect many people. So please consider denial of this rezone request. Thank you. Steve Callahan, followed by David O'Neill. Folks, I appreciate your passion, but you got to realize every time you clap, you're delaying the next speaker to come up. So please hold your applause. Who was it? Steve Callahan, followed by David O'Neill. David O'Neill is here. He can go ahead. Mr. O'Neill. Yeah. Callahan's not here. It's good to see you again. All right. My name is David O'Neill. I'm a degreed architect and engineer, and I'm author of the Enterprise Architecture Guide for the Unified Architecting Framework Modeling Language, which is the industry standard here for this business. It's a little higher than what? Yes. As we go, there's a huge number of που, like there's a lot of good stuff to be done, so take it easy, then they add the while. . Mr. O'வoso. on for the last 34 years, including design, deployment, and real-time operations. Within that context, I can assure you that the odds of any return on investment by the county, given the overall life cycle impacts of hyperscale data centers on this particular region location, are extremely low and likely to be negative in the long term. So our county is a small rural county. It and its government are easily overwhelmed by large hyperscale data center operations, corporations. Our county power and water supplies are currently stressed due to high demand. The power grid provider, PGM, now down to about 16 percent on overall grid margin, threatening rolling blackouts this past January, is an issue. The county is undergoing a drought watch. To conserve water. Our commonwealth of Virginia has an abnormal and disproportionate quantity of the world's data centers, including the largest grouping of hyperscale centers in the world. The location of Frederick County, near these major fiber optic runs that go through, there's about three or four major loops that head on over to Ashburn, make us susceptible to hyperscale data center exploitation. And including the data centers that are in the middle of the world, including the data centers that are in the middle of the world, including the data centers that are in the middle of the world, including the data centers that are in the middle of the world, including the risks for national security concerns, such as terrorist or military types attacks, even non-terrorists as well. Hyperscale operations need to be limited and remain to national level pre-planned locations like Ashburn, Dallas, Los Angeles, Chicago, these kinds of places, Denver. This county needs to work with the commonwealth to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale operations, we need to work with the commonwealth to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale operations. And to prevent hyperscale data center exploitation of rural areas, such as you've seen going on in Oregon, Iowa, places like that. This has already been occurring. So data centers consume huge amounts of power. One hyperscale is going to take the equivalent of 17 Frederick counties combined, you know, at about a gigawatt for the center. They must provide their own power source. Last comment is that it doesn't matter if you're dropping a power source, you're dropping a fixed inflation rate. But if you're dropping something, you know, this substation otf the 500 kilovolt line, it's part of the overall GRID. So it will impact things regardless. de Thank you, sir. böyle Thank you very much Sr Smith, followed by Kathy Weiss. fino everybody touched on everything I want to touch on discharge Whoever knows what is coming up is the task force for another great exercise in development. zero less t I think they're wrong with reinforcing the thoughts. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Elizabeth Mixer. I live in Frederick County. There are 4,000 data centers in the United States already. 737 of those are in Virginia. That's a lot. Excuse me. We do not have the infrastructure to support data centers in our area. We are already in a severe drought. We have been for a long time. We cannot spare the water these places require. They can use it, and then they send it back, and then we have to pay for fixing it, and we're going to lose some along the way, you always do. Shenandoah Electric begs its customers to lower usage during extreme weather now, be it hot or cold. To add 11 data centers to the grid would place a disastrous burden on the system. Even if they increase it, if they increase the infrastructure in their area for their machines, it's going to affect the whole system. A talking point is increased jobs. During construction, this may be true for a short time. To run a data center requires very little. It's a bunch of machines. A few specially trained maintenance workers for air filtration and generator maintenance, generators that create quite a bit of disturbing noise 24 hours a day, and depending on how the wind blows, I used to live about a half a mile from a train track, and six miles from a shooting range, and if the wind was blowing right, it sounded like it was in my yard. A few IT techs will round out the workforce. Data techs on their... Data companies already have IT techs on their payrolls. They're scattered all over since they work remotely from home. Microsoft has announced it will be dropping its cloud code AI completely. They blew through their whole annual budget in six months. Turns out, it's less expensive to use humans instead of AI. There seems to be no further, no future in AI data centers. Please do not be swayed by the dollar signs planted in your heads by the equivalent of used car salesmen. Data centers are not worth the destruction of water resources, power costs, damages to the environment, and health costs of voters and their families at any price. I leave you good people with this final thought. Caveat emptor. Vote no. Thank you. Kathy Weiss, followed by Melissa Wolfberg. Good evening. Thank you for letting me speak to you. My name is Kathy. I'm from Back Creek District. I'll be brief. My concern with data centers writ large is the land being lost to the structures once construction is underway or after they're built. Technology changes with time, and the building may become unneeded. Ownership may change. What becomes of the structure if it's abandoned? How can we reclaim the use of all the land that's been sacrificed to the structure? How can we make the land whole again? Please factor this into your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Melissa Wolfberg, followed by Aaron Fox. Hi. I'm Melissa Wolfberg, and I'm a resident of Back Creek. I'm here because of my concerns about data center development in Frederick County. My husband and I moved here 27 years ago and have worked here and created a life in this wonderful county, that is primarily rural and historic. I love being part of this county and this community. While change is inevitable, I urge the Planning Commission to offer the residents of Frederick County the time and the means to identify other ways to use the land without harming our wells, our health, and our rural areas. The data centers do not align with the comprehensive plan for the county, and I urge the Planning Commission to vote no. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Aaron Fox, followed by David Dixon. Aaron Fox, Back Creek District. You have a lot on your plate. I truly appreciate you taking time to consider all of the facets of this. Frederick County is at a crucial crossroads here. Three large data center projects are proposed that would fundamentally change the character of our county. Changing this land from rural areas to a TM zone will set a significant precedent. As one of the most prosperous and robust counties in the state, our decisions here will be made in the next few years. We are also going to be looking at the development of a new urban development plan for the whole Shenandoah Valley, where many other data centers are being proposed. I think it's easy to get stuck in the details of seeing if the various impacts can be mitigated enough, but let's zoom out and ask, does this type of development even align with our comp plan? The plan for this area of the county, the NELUP, states, I quote, uses which significantly contribute to air, noise, and light pollution are discouraged in these areas, end quote. This is likely because they border private homes. On air pollution, we live in a valley, a bowl, the pollution doesn't dissipate as it does elsewhere. Ask anybody here with allergies. As for noise, has anybody studied existing data centers to discover all of the sources of low frequency noise, or is it just based on hypothetical models? This area is labeled to become mixed use industrial office for future use. However, the comp plan has additional guidelines for development. It reads, quote, the county should be proactive in ensuring the resources necessary for business development are planned for in a viable way. And also, quote, there is a finite capacity of these resources that must be managed accordingly, end quote. The electric demands alone make this proposal deviate from the comp plan here. Virginia already imports more energy than every other state except California, mostly because of the data centers. Our grid has become vulnerable and costs are rising. There are data centers that are sitting, waiting for hotly contested new transmission lines to provide them power. So if we add to this growing burden to our region, we aren't proactively ensuring resources are managed accordingly. Here are some comp plan statements, quote, end quote. These buildings will be tall. The total campus will be huge. The substation will be large. The stations will be looming. It will be what you see when you first enter Virginia. The first 20 years especially. Berms and landscape only go so far. They have to grow. It will not entice visitors to come. But we could always change our sign to Virginia as for data centers. One last quote from the comp plan. Overall, a sound office and industrial business development strategy will result in the conservation of a variety of finite resources and promote a high quality life for citizens, end quote. Important guidelines in the comp plan would have to be totally different. We are not going to be disrespected in order to approve this proposed use. Thank you. Thank you. David Dixon followed by Tammy Canfield. David Dixon back, Stonewall District. First of all, this is completely pending with NextEra Energy because they got pending court battles all over the country and as you all know, here in this county too. And so if it might not even be a good idea, we're going to have to do something about it. We're going to have to do something about it. So that's the first thing they're going to put intoilo military do being in this country right now. And we're going to have to do something. Anything going to be on the track or the vaccines are going to have to be tested. So, we're going to have to do something. And we have everything ready, if it's bringing this set up or the line getting해주ar, looking at what is needed with inaudible to put together that you have our data center that is includes what is needed. We are going to have to get everything widget and it is beginning to the points where once again what's going to become justיךard is going to be a requirement and, you know. Yeah. But we have peopleɪ cannotümüz just�로 does not need to be working with Susanmas and, and weceksin We are building up teams And then what they're proposing is 220 acres. And then... Mr. Dixon, you're supposed to be addressing the planning. Yeah, I am. I'm just looking at this. I'm not looking at nobody else. So 923,000 gallons. And this is just for 60 acres. And they're proposing 220 acres. So I'd say they're a little off on their math. And 133 megawatts. 900 megawatts. I'd say they're a little off. That's it. Thank you. Tammy Canfield followed by Mark Steffler. Hi, I'm Tammy Canfield. I'm from the Stonewall District. And I live about two miles as the crow flies from Fort Worth. And I'm from the town of Flying J. And something, my husband had to leave, but he had sent me this. So from what I understand, and I'm not very good with math and numbers, but what Alexa said was that it's about 30 decibels higher than what Flying J is. And so if I understand this correctly, 30 would make it 80. If Flying J is 50 to 60, it would make it 80. And if Flying J is 80 to 90 decibels, well, 90 decibels is the sound of a, is a low sound of the rock concert. So, and just imagine that right now. And when I go outside, especially at night, I hear the quarry running. I hear 81. And we are down by the Opecan, which is drying up, by the way. And I know they said they weren't going to do any land water or ground water. So anyways, I just wanted to make mention of that and the sound. I think it would be like we're in a concert hearing that. Also, I'm a very scattered person when I write my notes. We are, and I appreciate, I don't have any degrees, but I do a lot of reading on health and try to eat healthy. And because I have Lyme's disease and alpha-gal, so, you know, those ticks are really attacking me. Needless to say. So we are surrounded by a lot of people. We are surrounded by 5G towers. I'm not sure if you guys were the ones that approved that or not. But, so that has a lot of EMF. And then we're going to have these data centers. And that has a lot of EMF. And the nurses spoke really well to that. So these are all attacks on our health, attacks on our cognition, attacks on our everything. And so the more we let in, the more, like all we have is our health. We don't have our houses because the government owns that because we have to pay taxes. So anyways, also these data centers, I don't know if you know that the Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, they refired the nuclear plant that melted down when I was a kid. And Amazon and China are using that to fire up their data center. So I'm very curious to know who owns this company, who is funding this company, who is getting the data from this company. Because like the one lady said, yes, it is a surveillance state. And we already know how Amazon listens to the Alexa's stuff and writes everything down. We also know China is our enemy. And China is behind the 5G, collecting data from the 5G. And now they'll be collecting data from the data centers. So I think we need to stand up to our enemies. I think we need to keep human interests the most important thing. And data centers are not in human interest. They're for AI. Mark Steffler followed by Bob Curd. Yeah, I'm Mark Steffler. I'm in the Ocon District. And it's past my bedtime, so I stumbled. Sorry about that. I know that you fine gentlemen and ladies are doing this job for practically no pay. You care about the county. I believe that. I believe you all do. I think the problem here is it just allowed me to tell a story of my wife and I were living, in mid-90s, in Ashburn. And one day we get a, you know, thing like this happens. What's happening? Well, WorldCom couldn't come to town. Remember WorldCom? They built a big thing there, data center, brought in the fiber. Once bringing the fiber, the power falls after that. And after that, these gentlemen right here, good people, they're just doing their job, making money, making good money, I'm sure. They came, give a presentation, beautiful, just like this, because of the care they got out of người َthe assigned person and not having their own Ster Mack. You mentioned that migrating to the other side of the world because of everything else, but then they'd gone and 펌y driving on the side of the world in no, and manufactured some of their fun or something or something like that. Did you ever think about those problems with braking berth out to turn red? No. And obviously that's a constant up and down. Here's what we gotta do. Now, once you bring, once you, you are the, you are the bulwark. This is a hard no that we in this county, you here are the citizens. Is there anybody for this here? You are the bulwark. You are our representatives. We represent, you represent us through the supervisors who we elect. And we're asking you to do your duty, to listen and represent what we want, not what, do you have any idea how many billions of dollars a year these data centers are going to afford them? And we're going to get peanuts. If you want to raise the taxes, raise them a couple of dollars. We'll pay another couple hundred dollars. I don't need this. If you let this go through, mark my words, it won't be the first, it won't be the last. There will be endless data centers. Once the fiber comes in, the power comes in. Get it. Get it. It's game over. The money corrupts. And so this is what I'm asking you gentlemen and ladies to do, is do your job. Represent the citizens of this county and do your job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bob Curd followed by Julie Curd. Yes, I'm Bob Curd. I'm a licensed civil engineer. My undergraduate degree is from MIT. After MIT, I went to Vietnam and flew Phantom's 180 combat missions. I would like to share specific concerns regarding building heavy AI centers in our county. Has anybody here heard of Karst? Okay. Okay. Karst. Have you been to Karst? I don't know. I have never been there. But I feel comfortable living there. Karst, is part of our current civil society. Karst, our future is generally different. Karst is the capital of our system. There are microclimates in the Schüttl Gonzalez. That is a major problem for us. It remains a challenge. This civilized society is already living like this. It is reimaged likeינה. Look at the ways we combat kil세� chains. Karst is a thứ una satisfy차� 시. Several of my neighbors have had slabs, concrete slabs, that their houses are built on, sag, and they had to have them repaired. I myself oversaw the repair of a floor in a factory, Torre, south of here. The floor started sagging. They had to raise it back up, so we pumped foam plastic underneath it to raise it back up. Google Earth shows an enormous sinkhole near my home, and I've been watching over the years. Even though we were in a drought, Google Earth Pro sends pictures of the terrain. And you can tell that this sinkhole, which is 150 yards in diameter, has been getting deeper and deeper over the years, in spite of the fact that we haven't had much rain. There's a new map coming out this month. They come out every June, and we just had a lot of rain. It'll be interesting to see how much more it has fallen. I noticed that the company has a civil engineer, but they said nothing about a specialized karst geological engineer. We have laws in this county that say that a site has to be checked by a specialized karst geologic engineer. Next time I speak, I'll have a list of the laws. I'll have a list of those laws. Thank you. Thank you. Julie Curd, followed by Penny Smith. I have to say that I couldn't be prouder tonight of we, the people of Frederick County. This is amazing. And all of the rest of this is absurd. Totally absurd. How did this go this far is what I don't know. How? Money. Money, money, money. And it's got to stop. We can't take it any longer. The people don't want this. It's not good for us. We don't want it. Sinkholes. On the line of Frederick and Clark County, there was a little modest ranch house. Sinkhole. Within six weeks. Six months. The whole thing was in the ground. These things do exist. This is not a make-believe. This happened here. It can happen again. And we don't want it. In summary, citizens know the harm of data centers calls to their health and livelihood. We also know now that building over cursed land is unwise at its best and actually very foolish. As charters... narrow Manager gentle, open-ended business and hospital services will do their job solely to serve these dimensional needs of these precise directors of assessment. Safety rules have been<|br|> imposed. The sólo law, and these laws must involve each building's support. make sure you hold outstanding. The Board of Supervisors. Dere Instructor afar taking to surprisy to their employees. in their own will nonsense, will extract a data center from work where Hey! just just keep looking at your mail passer. I have brought up this very serious concerns tonight the country's most that should want this approval of data centers know that you're approval and subsequent building d-stabilize waterflow our lives. be under achterronical idea provision through which it will not be permitting us to fund under our lands and likely contaminated. Contamination would extend for many, many miles. We also have catastrophic sinking of heavy buildings. And yes, a yes vote by you to allow the data centers would be a grave insult to the land that is precious to us and to our very lives. I would like to close by reminding this board that you are not here to what you think may be best for Frederick County, the entity. You're here to protect we, the people. We are Frederick County. You are our elected officials tasked with representing the will of the residents of Frederick County, and we say no data centers. Thank you. Thank you. Penny Smith, followed by Kathy Weinman. Hello, I'm Penny Smith. I worked in collaboration with my engineer friend and his wife, and so I just have a couple of things to add. The sinkhole in Clark County that swallowed that house, it happened when they put a well in. All they did was drill a well, and they tried to take the water out, and the house fell in the hole. It was such a painful old well. It started at a well. But certainly, you know, thosethren first time we knew what it was thinking. So we drove to Clark County to answer some questions as a result. So it was during those time that theaire ay were the annual event for Ms. Robert Smith and for us as a result of that given that when theedy EJ what happened was that it was a well returned home in Clark County. That point was the critical point. I'm not a fond of court parties. to prevent we need to prevent sinkholes but let me move on to what I had to share I can find it I'm gonna read the second part of mine because of time because I don't want that part cut out I'm focusing tonight on sound the elephant in the room that they don't say is the word infrasound I fear infrasound more than any other aspect of data centers and you all read my letter because I mailed it and emailed it infrasound is sound that's too low to hear it goes out in a five mile radius imagine living one mile or two imagine being in school near the data center imagine your home also ten of the 19 schools in Frederick County would be within a couple miles of a data center data centers they cause vibration our internal organs vibrate our organs vibrate our internal organs vibrate our internal organs vibrate our heart our liver true no hype here our bony cavities vibrate our skull our eye socket our chest I can't go to a rock concert I can't handle subwoofer it gives me chest pain in fact I can tell you that one hour exposed to infrasound causes cardiac muscle to thicken and it causes the artery cardiac arteries to thicken this is dangerous stuff people complain of cardiac muscle constant headache while your skull is vibrating nausea that's because of vestibular system severe insomnia dizziness irritability lethargy increased heart rate respiratory disease cellular disease mitochondrial disease people that move away from data centers further than five miles most of the symptoms of bait you can have permanent mitochondrial damage like me following Lyme disease I wanted to say conversations mother-child mother-child Sam's mother can you go outside and play I don't want to I don't feel good Sam lays down Julie's mother their 11 year old son Caleb just exploded over a minor thing at supper and stormed out I don't know what's wrong with him he's so irritable thank you blood money that's what it is blood money is money gained from an unsavory source that hurts you Kathy one Kathy Weinman followed by Mary Jo strobel good evening excuse me my name is Kathy Weinman and I live in the back creek area you know I wish I had been first because everybody said most all of what I have to say and they've said it very well so I guess I'll just say I'm Kathy Weinman I'm Kathy Weinman I'm the second and Michele and Larry I did say hi to you all at the API and the link which comes from hi Roger uh that's a fascinating stell I really would like to hear statistics from an impartial party to compare. But we've been told that data centers bring jobs, but of course they're only temporary because it's only when the data centers are being constructed. And I found out tonight that sometimes the data centers bring in their own crews to construct it. So they're not really bringing us any jobs. And it has been mentioned that the data centers only really employ about 100 people. So I suggest instead of building data centers, we need to invest in projects that bring the most jobs with the least impact on our resources, citizens, and land. We have rapid growth in the area. Can our infrastructure keep up with the demand of new housing, new businesses, and data centers? You've probably noticed in your yard or your neighbor's yard some dead plants recently because of the drought. What will happen if we have data centers and experience a severe drought? Whose water will be restricted? Ours or the data centers? The Shenandoah area is a popular destination for escaping the noise and congestion of city life. Let's keep our beautiful rural areas, preserve our farms, and protect the nature that our tourists and residents enjoy. Respectfully, please don't be dazzled by dollar signs. It will have a negative impact if we have these data centers come. God gave us this beautiful area. Let's be good stewards. Remember the apple looked really good to Eve and look what happened with that. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Mary Jo Strobel, followed by Pat Wert. Hi there. I'll keep it short and sweet. Mary Jo Strobel and I'm a resident of the Redbud District. And I respectfully urge the commission to deny the rezoning 0426 for the Virginia Technology Park or, at minimum, delay action until additional information is offered for public review. I'm concerned with the fact that the- concerned about unanswered questions regarding the long-term impacts of this project on Frederick County residents, the resources, and the infrastructure. As many have shared today, noise remains a concern. The impact on nearby homes and the health of residents must be carefully considered. Water usage and electrical are two other major concerns, and I have not been able to find any publicly available independent studies evaluating the long-term cumulative impacts of this project on county water resources or electrical infrastructure and capacities. I heard repeatedly this evening about the current water capacity, the capacity today, but I didn't hear anything about the capacity during periods of drought or future growth. Given the scale, the the, the proposed development, and its expected lifespan, residents deserve a more comprehensive, independent, and public analysis of these impacts. The rezoning would have long-term consequences for our beautiful county and its residents, and if this technology park is approved and developed, the impacts will be challenging, if not impossible, to reverse. For these reasons, I respectfully request that the City of Frederick County and its residents be prepared to take action against the Water 大 SCP Arts nggak nor Or secure the micro for tunnel And combined ballistic systems will be to desperately change our location andhabعد projects on thedot location which has the Planning Commission for all the work that you're doing on our behalf because I believe you do have our best interest at heart. You might be wondering why I brought this with me. Several years ago a very dear friend of mine moved into an over 55 community in Prince William County and there was a decision made to build a data center next to this community. I now live in an over 55 community but I will say there are some of us who are way over 55 that live there but I started doing research to help her back then look into all of the ramifications all of the information available about data centers. I love doing research and I never started And I do not know why they have so many people and places of work that are that big to do work. I stopped because it kept getting bigger and bigger and more and more expanded. And I did live in Fairfax County for almost 50 years. And my husband and I moved out here almost four years ago. But we had a business in Loudoun County for over 20 years. So we know all about the data centers. But when I go back there now, I don't even recognize what it looks like at all. I have been continuing to get information on a daily basis from around the country. And of course, I'm keeping up with what's happening in our own community. And I believe that you have a very, very important decision to make that are going to affect a lot of people for a very long time. And I truly believe that although everyone is doing their best possible job to give you all the information that you need to make an informed decision, I'm standing here tonight to tell you I don't think you've got all the information that you really need to make an informed decision. I think you've heard a lot about water, about electricity, about all kinds of things. But I've been looking at what's been happening around the entire country and the different situations that occur. And they occur frequently in different places. And you don't know what's going to happen until it happens. And so... So rather than getting into the details, but if any of you want any answers, any questions answered, believe me, this is just a teeny bit of the research that I have on this from all over the country. And I would respectfully request that you vote no on this because I think that there's a lot of information that you don't have at hand because you don't get the whole entire picture, although you get a lot of it from the residents that live here. And even the Pope has chimed in on data centers. Thank you. Anjali Grubb, followed by Teresa Ostertag. Teresa, I think you can go ahead then. I don't see Anjali. Step in for her. Thanks. Hello. My name is Teresa Ostertag. I'm from Back Creek. I'm going to be speaking on the grid and power. The grid isn't stable enough to do the rapid growth of data centers. Currently, 85 data centers that are already built cannot be plugged in because there isn't enough power to plug in. The Navy currently will use USS Gerald R-4. to power Naval Station at Norfolk, showing the frailty of our grid. In Lake Tahoe, California, NV Energy is giving the 50,000 residents there one year to find another energy supplier. Why? Because a data center wants their power. For one data center alone in Coweta, Georgia, Georgia Power, which is a very powerful company, is using eminent domain to take 30 homes, demolish them, and take the land from at least 300 other homes. and property using eminent domain. All of those houses and land will be forever changed by just one data center. They aren't even being paid what it's worth. They are affected the most, fully losing the sanctity and use of their yards, patios, gardens, pools, acreage, for chickens, goats, cattle, people that worked their whole life to achieve what they call the American Dream. Saved their whole life with careful choices and planning, they had their paradise. But not enough was spent on the grid. Not enough time was spent on voting and electing the right people. The people that are elected may say that the electric company, what they did, is not my fault. I say it is, cause and effect. In Virginia, Dominion and NextEra merged recently, making it more powerful. From what I hear, NextEra is a dirty company with lawsuits across the country, allegedly. Also, the battery storage, that's what you call it. It's a battery hub to help power the grid. From what I understand, there is plots all across Frederick County, future homes of battery hubs. So get used to them being built and ran by private entities. What regulations will they be made to adhere to? The battery life of seven years. Who will decide the charges? Who will regulate it? Uh... This is what we will be facing. This is what we will be facing. If you let them in. Currently, we have now been billed for over $900 million in transmission line costs being paid for the residents of seven states. Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland, Delaware, and New Jersey. We are paying to build these transmission lines. And we will be billed to maintain them for life. Currently in April, SVEC Electric went up $650 per 1,000 kilowatts. In May, it went up $17. Our electric bills will double. You cannot protect us from what they will do. They will do what they do if you let them in. Data center charges in addition. Data center... There was an amendment made by the governor... Oh, crap. Anyway, there was a lot more. We don't want to be Loudoun County. You know, please listen to the county. We don't want to change. And also the... What's it called? The comprehensive plan. You can make changes. You can make this better. The EDA strategy is currently in place. The EDA strategy is currently not working. Please change the comprehensive plan. Please listen to the people. You can make changes. Thank you. Thank you. Jack Tensley followed by Linda Cezale. Hello, everyone. Hello, everyone. I've been working pretty hard since I got here. There are a lot of people, obviously, that are very concerned with what's going on. So I missed everything that they said. Here's what I got. I'm super, super concerned about these data centers coming in. And I know that you all are going to be passing up to the Board of Supervisors whether or not you think that they should be voting yes or no on this. I think it's pretty obvious that the answer is no. Big points here. I don't want a center that is going to have some billionaire corporations or maybe some foreign corporations coming in and collecting our data and using it for God knows what. It's not something I'm interested in. And I don't think anybody here wants to see any of that. Further, we have enough data centers and we have enough... And we have enough... We have enough infrastructure that lets people use Facebook and Meta and Amazon as much as we need. We can Netflix all day. No problem. So we don't need any more. My concern is, and this is the thing that's most pressing for me, is that these data centers are not really going to be used to make our lives any better. But instead, they're going to be used to have these flock cameras placed in where there are going to be microphones on them. These are already passed things that are being used in the world. These are already passed things that are being used in other places across the country. If these data centers are providing the brains that this technology can be run on, where it can listen to any one of these people walking down the street, talking to each other and saying, you know, I don't feel like the Board of Supervisors is really listening to us. Is democracy alive? If those are key words that these data centers can say, tag Jack. Let's send a robot dog to his house. That's possible. That's very possible. And it happens. You can look this stuff up in the U.S. today. So I don't want it here. I don't want anything that is going to allow that to happen to other people who are here with the freedoms that we are supposed to have. And those freedoms are really only granted to us when we have a representative democracy. When people are standing up and saying, hey, we don't want this. When you have thousands of people signing petitions. People here on a, is today Wednesday? On Wednesday night, I got work tomorrow. I had work today. I called in to work so that I could plan around this entire event. It's that important. I paid money to be here. I have rent to pay. I have to put food on the table. All of these people do. And it's really impossible to think about how we're even going to get food from local farms when they don't exist anymore because the data centers have destroyed them. So I don't want to come off as I'm angry to you all because I know you're not the ones voting. But we got to get the board to say no. Or we're going to replace them. Linda Sazale followed by Amy Roach. No Linda or Amy. Amy. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Amy Roach and I am a lifelong resident of the Shenandoah Valley and I live two miles from where the proposed data center is going to be. I live at the foot of the cross at Open Door Church. My husband is the pastor. And I'm here tonight to talk about the data center. I'm here to talk about the open door church. And I'm from the town of Shenandoah. And I'm from the north county of Shenandoah. And I'm from the west county of Shenandoah. And I'm a former resident of that area. And I want to express my gratitude to you all for your help and the support you have given me to create this project. And I'm here to strongly oppose the proposed Virginia Technology Park data center. This project would transform 220 acres of rural Frederick County land into an industrial complex consisting of ten massive data center buildings, three substations, and up to 288 diesel generators. That alone should give us all pause. But what concerns me most is the enormous demand this facility would place on the state. And I don't want to act on them. I just want to say thank you to all of you for your support. I'm going to close by saying thank you to all of you for your support. Thank you. would place on our community's water and electrical resources. According to the application, this campus would be permitted to use up to 120,000 gallons of water every single day. This represents a noticeable portion of the county's total water demand. That is over 43 million gallons of water every year. While the applicant says they will not use groundwater directly, that water still has to come from somewhere. It comes from resources that serve our residents, our businesses, our schools, and affects our future growth. As our region continues to experience extreme drought, population growth, and increasing pressure on water supplies, it is difficult to justify dedicating tens of millions of gallons annually to a downfall of our community's water supply. The data center operation. The electrical demand is even more alarming. Data centers are among the most energy-intensive facilities ever built. They consume vast amounts of electricity 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The reason this site was selected is because it sits next to major transmission infrastructure and a planned substation. That should tell us everything we need to know about how much power this project will require. The result will be more pressure on our electrical grid, more transmission, infrastructure, and potentially higher costs that ultimately affect residents and local businesses. These facilities consume enormous amounts of power, but create relatively few permanent jobs compared to the burden they place on local infrastructure. We must also consider the quality of life impacts. County staff have already acknowledged that even the proposed 60 decibel noise limit represents a significant increase over current ambient conditions. Residents, who chose to live in this rural area, should not be subject to constant industrial noise and the regular testing of hundreds of generators. Frederick County has long valued its rural character, agricultural heritage, and quality of life. Once this land is rezoned and developed, there's no going back. They aren't making land anymore. We will have traded open space and community character for a project that consumes extraordinary amounts of water and electricity, while providing limited benefits to the community. The idea of having a residential apartment is no longer the goal of our local residents. I urge you as the Planning Commission to vote no and reject this rezoning request. Thank you. Thank you. Elizabeth Moran, followed by Cynthia Miller. No Elizabeth or Cynthia. Cynthia. How many are we at? We're at 35. Good evening. I first wanted to say thank you for your questions that you asked the applicant last time. I was pretty impressed with your quick knowledge and care that you showed about this project. I have lived in Frederick County since 1988. I'm in the Gainesboro District now, but I also lived in Stonewall and Redbud. And now I'm back out in the rural area, which I like a lot. I moved here to go to college at Shenandoah University. I have a couple degrees from there. And I love it here. My family I raised here, and my daughter has raised her family here. And we like the way it is. And not that things are going to stay the same because people keep moving here, not that we have to respond to housing demands from other counties, but I do believe that we need to maintain the rural character. In fact, in our comprehensive plan, we talk a lot about that. I'll just read you a short quote. Frederick County's rural character is a key component in its identity and one of the key aspects that draw visitors and new residents to the area. Historically, these rural areas have supported a wide array of agricultural uses, which at one time was the primary industry, and now are the primary source of income for the county. Today, these agricultural and forestry activities generate roughly $33 million per year and preserve close to 110,000 acres of rural land. In fact, we gained 9,000 acres between 2012 and 2017 in farmland. They provide some, out of the 266,000 acres, 240,000 acres of rural land. That's a lot of land. That's a lot of land. That's huge. I mean, most of our county is rural. The census determined that there was a 9% increase in farmland. No environmental impact study has been done to compare what's going to happen when you change this farmland to what I would consider heavy industrial. It's not light industrial. It's not technology. It's heavy industrial. I've been doing a lot of research. Like, many of my other resident friends and neighbors, and we're finding that there's a lot more to this than we know about it. When you look at the comprehensive plan, there's no mention of data centers, and I know that's because, you know, it's been a few years and this has been a big onslaught that's occurred very rapidly, but with the current plan that's being developed, maybe that's where we can set some ground rules and slow this thing down a little bit. Maybe by then we'll learn a lot more about data centers so that we can prevent what's happening. I'm going to submit my comments in writing to you just because I don't want to repeat everything that everybody else has said. Can I give that to you, Mr. Stone? You can give it to Mr. Pearson. Lenny Sweet, followed by Casey. Shelton Helm. Thank you. Hey, Planning Commission. My name's Lenny Sweet, and I'm here in support of the data center. The reality is data is modern infrastructure. We use it to communicate. We bank. We keep records. We conduct business. The list goes on. The bottom line is data isn't a luxury. It's an integral part of life. I'll be the first to admit I love data. It changed my life. Previous generations built airports, highways, power plants. Our generation's building data infrastructure. With that being said, there's a few concerns. There's the noise. There are emissions. Truth is, this site sits next to a major highway corridor, a service center. It is going to produce just a fraction of the noise that's already coming and an even smaller fraction of the emissions being emitted. Is it going to increase? Significantly? What's already there? No, it's not. The water, all the plans, they should be judged on their engineer qualifications, regulatory oversight. I'm sure everybody can get along. That's kind of out of my hands. I'm not exactly the water engineer. VDOT's 2024 figure for Interstate 81 near exit 317 is 66,000 vehicles every day. 300 generators, that's like .75% of the 66,000 engines that are already passing through that location. So it's going to make noise, but not much more than what's already. It's very negligible. Emissions, not even close to what's going. Water needs to be drainage runoff, also needs an engineer's consideration. I love data. Love my prime membership. These are also integral parts of life. Now, the bigger question is, what are we going to do with this land? Frederick County's plan is to industrialize this stretch. It's already on the east of the highway. It's coming down. They want to best case scenario, this land's never going to be farmland again. Unlikely to be a residential. It's not going to be a nature preserve or a municipality or university. It's going to be a city campus. Best case scenario is a factory. Maybe a truck terminal or a data center. We've got to ask ourselves, what's going to make the least amount of traffic? And what's going to generate the most revenue? It's projected $300 to $500 million over the course of its lifetime. You've got to think about the 6th, 7th high school, the roads, the aquatic center, parks and rec. Future county investments. Beyond direct revenue, future industries. Artificial intelligence, cyber security, cloud computing, software development, digital media, all on the rise. All depend on data. Now, not only will the data center generate substantial revenue, but all the adjacent industries it attracts will generate more revenue. I can't believe I ran out of time. Thank you, sir. But if we want to think about investments for the future where our kids and grandchildren might pursue careers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Casey Shannon, followed by Jennifer Smith. Hi, guys. My name is Casey. I'm a 31-year-old single mom who is currently a refugee, a new refugee from Shenandoah County. Sorry, from Shenandoah County to Frederick County. I just sold my townhouse in Strasburg because they're planning a data center right across the street. So I moved to Stephen City. And luckily, found somebody to buy my house. before, unfortunately, they realize there's also a data center going to be there. Which I think I want to point out a point which I haven't really heard anybody talk about, which is the fact of the heat also that these data centers generate. They are running 24-7, 365 days. And factories or even like houses, the sun goes down, everything kind of cools off. That doesn't happen when you have a data center running all the freaking time. And the heat goes up. The local data, I think it was surface temperatures around areas where data centers are, have risen 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit to 16 degrees Fahrenheit locally around those areas. Like your kids playing outside. I have a 10-year-old son, and he loves to play outside. He gets all red-faced and stuff like that. And that's with the temperatures as they are now. So if you're raising the local temperature anywhere from 4 degrees to 16 degrees, in July, when it's already 98 degrees outside, I don't know any 10-year-old, I don't know any adult who can stand outside in that temperature. That's just insane. And we're talking about raising the, of the electric bills, like maybe even indirectly. If it's 100 degrees outside, 105 degrees outside, I'm going to be blasting my AC. I'm going to be hot. We're all going to be hot. So even just usage, yes, my usage is going to go up because the temperatures are going to be up outside. The efficiency is going to be up. So I think that's a big part of the data center. And I think that's a big part of the data center. I think that's a big part of the data center. It can have effects of heat on your body when it is that hot. It can have effects on your cardiovascular system, your lungs. It's just also not great in general. I think that, like, I've seen a lot of, like, generations older than mine here. There's not many people my age here. But I think that's not, I just want to say that's not to say that we don't care about these things, but mostly just that I talk to my friends all the time about it. I'm a dental hygienist. I talk to patients about it. And I think the general theme, the general theme that I get from people my age, people in this area, is that, like, people just don't feel heard. Like, it's nothing that I say is going to matter anyways. They're going to chase the money. They don't care. Everybody thinks it's just about the money. And I feel like we have an opportunity to, like, inspire people. Like, hey, it does matter. Like, you can go out. What you say, what you show up for does matter. But that's not going to happen if we just keep ignoring people. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Jennifer Smith, followed by Ron Harrison. So I'm Jennifer Smith of the Stonewall District. I did enjoy the gentleman talking about the lack of increase in noise and how wonderful data centers were. I take it he doesn't live in my neighborhood. So I'm at the end of the cul-de-sac at Jolene Drive. I didn't recognize our house. So. I'm kind of taking the pictures, the information they're providing as potentials, what-ifs, maybe flexible, future need. And there's no set guidelines. You all put more guidelines on homeowners remodeling their homes than you have with these folks. Why are we held to a higher standard for less impact than a billion-dollar, corporation? That's just mind-blowing. People stood up here and told you all kinds of reasons to deny this, to say no. They gave you plenty of evidence. Some people have degrees. I don't. But I live there. I know the noise. I use an app called Merlin to listen to the birds. Twenty-two birds in my neighborhood one day. Do you think I'm going to hear that once that starts? How many years of construction? Oh, it's 81 traffic. I don't hear the truck stop. I don't hear that. Maybe the traffic sometimes. But I don't hear it. What they're talking about is not definite. There's no definite to what they're giving you. They're not giving you the information. It's there's articles all over. You can get your information there. Virginia is losing like $1.8 billion to data centers because of the benefits they get. It is not coming back to us. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. If you say yes to this, all you're doing is getting money from them and forcing the cost on us and not taking responsibility for it because you didn't raise taxes. That's what's happening. You will raise our electricity. You will cause water shortages. You guys can look at your website. How many times have you put drought effects in warnings? Lower your water usage to 15%. 25 for businesses. Are they going to lower their water usage? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What if they need more in the future? Once you say yes, there's no saying no. Do you think they're going to care if they're fined? Fining affects the people. When you fine a homeowner, fining doesn't affect a billion-dollar corporation. Okay? They can pocket. That's pennies. Pennies. And they can do whatever they want. They can make all the promises they want with flexibility. That's unfair to us. If you can't come with definites, if you can't come with facts, like we have to provide when we remodel a home or build a home, if there's no evidence, if you are not looking and doing your due diligence, say no. It doesn't meet our comprehensive plan. Wait. Do a new comprehensive plan. Set strict guidelines. Allow us to have a voice. This is not what we want. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ron Harrison, followed by Lisa Frank. Good evening, Ron Harrison, Shawnee District. Let me say at the outset that I am not against rezoning. In fact, I'm in favor of it. In certain instances, for example, I would like to address missing middle housing with some rezoning to allow higher density housing because that brings value to the community. It helps solve a crisis that we have. It helps solve a crisis that we have in our community. That's important. When it comes to rezoning, I'd like to point out an article in the Wall Street Journal today. It pointed out that, according to the J.P. Morgan study that was done a month ago, 60% of the data centers expected to come online in 2027 have yet to be started. And another 7% are being delayed. Now, if I remember my fractions, that's two-thirds of all the data centers that are under contract right now, they're not even there. And you are considering making a zoning change for something that is years in the offing and may never happen. And I'd like to point this out to you. By doing so, you are eliminating the opportunity to do some rezoning for an applicant, who actually brings value to the community and to the county. Now, who am I talking about? In the interest of full disclosure, I'm an Apple shareholder. Now, some of you might say, Apple's an AI company. Well, they're really not. They're the laggard in AI because Apple is a manufacturer, first and foremost. They make stuff that people want to buy. It adds value to their lives. That's the kind of company, if you want to make a change to rezoning, when somebody like an Apple comes along, and they also provide jobs, if you're going to make a zoning change, do it for the right reasons. Not for this type of stuff. This is insane. I would also like to point out, I spent 40 years in IT. And I developed a lot of money. And I developed a lot of money. lot of cutting-edge technology, leading-edge technology. I would dare say that some of the stuff I've been involved in has affected everybody in this room, okay? But I've seen what the consequences are, okay? Sometimes great ideas and the technology that's developed for them ends up being a disaster. I helped develop the very first telemarketing center in the United States. It was done so for a really good reason. It was done for, because it was done for MCI Telecommunications, a company that changed long-distance service in this country. And that became part of the telecommunications revolution. But I'm pretty darn sure nobody here likes getting a telemarketing call at five o'clock when you're trying to have dinner. So don't do it. Thank you, sir. Lisa Frank, followed by Leslie Spencer. Good evening, folks. My name is Lisa Frank. I own a thoroughbred breeding farm and foaling facility in Stephen City, Virginia. I'm not sure what district that is. I'm so sorry. I've lived in Frederick County for the better part of my adult life and have nearly 18 years in federal IT management. I chose to build my farm in Frederick County and also have an intimate understanding of the data space, including data analytics and the newer agentic AI and other AI capabilities. In addition to the data center issues that most of the data centers in the state of Florida have been dealing with, I'm also a resident of Pennsylvania staying home in compact. In addition to those I will go through with playovers back to when this turned out. Okay, so, moving on. What modernized data centers can do to be better? And what does this exciting technology coming from? Right. And I have no deer. I'm asking capacity voters came to us yesterday on this call. This information has definitely been extremely beating out leftists at the時 staple when they death or beat downção have been calling for this. Ow ybye, heck, it's way too early to talk about this kind of money. The question your asking is the right to make a public question on the ground if we knew that the governor asking for that option, just at this moment? Yup. And that's what I'm doing. Okay. Thank you. Okay. C questions. Let's get going. immediate financial or other penalties in the zoning ordinances, such as mandatory operational shutdown to violations of the county guardrails or proffers under operational use or even mandatory purchase of adjacent properties that are impacted seriously. As a former senior federal staff, I would encourage you to reconsider any decision to approve anything under this new designation as it is currently written. I would encourage you to consult with not only county attorneys, but also personal attorneys to understand any risk you may be open to should you approve a designation which poses such a high risk to your constituency, especially with so many saying they don't want them here. As public servants, we serve the people. We are not only professionally, but personally liable for our decisions, which may seriously impact the health, safety, welfare, and property values of our constituency. These data centers are only being proposed in drought-stricken areas. Why? And why Virginia? Because it's cheap and there are no penalties for violating citizen sanctity. Virginia has the most data center development of all states with the exception of Texas. Someone else has mentioned that and is considerably less land mass than Texas. I have been faced with drought-related issues on my farm now, let alone having to compete with water for my animals with data centers tapping the same aquifers. Data centers are built to lease rack space to others. That is how they make their money. The company building will not be the company owning or using it. Proffers only govern the building of these data centers, not the leasing of the rack space inside the data center once it is already built. We keep talking about the data audible decibels and gallons and electricity and taxes which are critical to our citizens for the very reasons already shared i encourage you to encourage others to vote no on this we need to be asking for penalties on uh these proffers thank you thank you leslie spencer followed by joel faust my name is leslie spencer i'm from gainsborough um someone i just first want to say someone told me that sometimes officials need to think for the county and not always hear the citizens and i don't agree but i do try to understand what many citizens facing losing their precious home like feels like i home birth i homestead and i home school if i ever leave my home i'm going to be a home birth i'm going to be a home birth i'm going to live near this area my school's daily life would be affected i try to think and research the most i can for my community because if i was about to lose all that i love i would be devastated and frozen in fear and grief i wouldn't know what to say we need to amend the knee area and help protect stonewall the citizen surveys never said this i read them these wiggly ideas likely came from a lobbyist and our former eda director good evening thank you for your dedication and thank you for all the voters you for showing up for your county tonight. Frederick County deserves clarity, foresight, and strong leadership. As you consider this massive project, I want to pose five critical questions. First, do we truly know the value of what we risk losing? Our comprehensive plan explicitly states that a rezoning request may be turned down even though all fiscal impacts appear to be addressed. It leaves the power in your hands. Noting that approvals must benefit the public health and safety and welfare and not be determined to uses of property in the immediate vicinity. Second, under Virginia's Senate Bill 94 just passed, are we properly evaluating the cumulative long-term impacts at and beyond the immediate property lines? Because the adjoining areas is our state entrance, which is an important perception kind of viewshed. This brings me to my third question. What will help visitors see, what will you help visitors see at the gateway to our state? Parents will say often for the first time, look kids, we are in Virginia. This is a part of our Frederick County legacy of care. Regarding tourism, Aaron said it, our comprehensive plan says protects us with first impressions often set the tone. This is, we need to benefit the, they will come back. This brings me to my third question. What will you help visitors, oh sorry, will a 900 megawatt industrial load undermine our county, valley, and state historical and agritourism? What will you help visitors see at the gateway to our state? This is a part of our Frederick County legacy of care. Regarding tourism, Aaron said it, our comprehensive plan says protects us with first impressions often set the tone. This brings me to my third question. What will visitors see at the gateway to our state? This is a part of our Frederick County legacy of care. The plan explicitly states, once land is converted from agriculture use, it is likely that it will never be reclaimed. Our farmers and American food security need more support through agritourism, not less, and now more than ever. Fourth, does this project move us towards our original economic vision or towards an unsustainable demand for endless energy infrastructure? Consider the staggering scale. This is 900 megawatts, the CVS, the valley, and the state. This is a part of our federal policy. The federal government uses 265 megawatts today. And REC serves 22 counties with 1,150 megawatts. This single-use facility is a load that dwarfs our local grid. It will introduce a heat island effect that severely strains everybody's energy bills as well as our watersheds and farmlands. This is the time to use SB 94. Thank you. Thank you. Joel Fowler. Mr. Chairman, commissioners, my name is Joel Fowler and I live in Gainesboro District. I want to start off by thanking this planning commission for hearing citizens' feedback over the past several months and expressing significant concerns and firm boundaries to this applicant during last month's working session as well as here tonight. I also legitimately want to thank Mr. Pearson for his comments during the recent community info session expressing a commitment to following the legal application process regardless of how the community might feel about it, because of the fact that this is a very important and important process. I want to thank the committee for their support. I also want to thank Mr. and Mrs. Perry for their support. I would like to thank the committee for their support for this project. I would like to thank the committee for their support for this project because if we are to be a country governed by the rule of law, we must follow the law's protections for our fellow citizens whether or not we favor their ideas. Principles matter. If I had a project proposal that I knew would be unpopular, I would very much like the opportunity to at least make my case to the best of my ability and let it be considered on its merits, same as anyone else. That's only fair. Now, this applicant has now submitted their revised application, including, by the way, a recurring change from the word noise to the word sound. This is a very important change. It's a very important change. It's a very important change. I thought that was cute. And they've made the best case they can make for their project. That is their right. And tonight it's our turn on the record. I went out to Rubeck Lane this afternoon to see for myself what it sounded like out there currently on a summer afternoon for the folks who have lived there for the past 10 or 20 years or more. Let me say first that just rolling down the gravel road at a crawling 8 to 10 miles an hour made me feel like I was in a place where I was disturbing the peace. That's how quiet it felt. I got out of my car and turned it off and used a basic sound meter on my phone, an app on my phone, to measure the background noise level. This is obviously not professional sound analysis equipment, but for a simple baseline comparison, it serves the purpose. I checked in a few different spots, and including the highway noise in the distance, which, of course, gets quieter at night, I saw levels similar to the initial polysonics measurement slide that we saw earlier. Especially when I was behind the tree line on Rubeck Lane, where the property lines would be, it only ever got above 45 when a bird chirped nearby or a good breeze was rustling in the trees. That's slightly louder than a refrigerator hum or a low conversation. By comparison, turn it up a little bit. Okay. My little noise machine over there is a little bit louder than the original one. I'm going to turn it up a little bit. Keep it on. Up a little bit. Low 60s. So, given the size and the additional distance to the diodes should mean you're hearing somewhere in the ballpark of 60 decibels, which might not sound like much in the context of this room and such a little noise source. But just listen for a moment. Imagine stepping outside and hearing this constantly. You would not hear any crickets, any bullfrogs, any tree peepers at night, because this would be the soundtrack to your kids playing in the yard, your barbecues, et cetera. And it's just a simple comparison. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Be sure to pay Bill well. Thank you. Darla McCreary and Mr. Chairman, that's the last one on the list. Good evening. Late evening. It's almost 1030. Just as a point of reference, I'm number 48 on the sign-up list. So, I think we're getting near the end. Thank you so much for your time and serving on the planning commission. I am Darla McCreary. I'm in the Back Creek District. I'll be brief. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. should be deeply concerned about future access to clean water. The combination of massive daily consumption and the discharge of chemically laden water into local quarries in the Opecan, our primary water sources, poses a direct risk to the safety, reliability, and long-term viability of our water supply. It is my request that you deny this application. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, that completes our list of everyone who signed up. Is there anyone that feels like they need to speak that hasn't had the opportunity? Sure. Tim? State your name, Magisterial District, limited to three minutes or less. Yes, certainly. I'm Matthew Jackson. I actually live about 10 miles, roughly, from the proposed site in Clearbrook. Just to give a little background on me, I graduated from Hanley High School here in Winchester, Virginia. Lovely school. Love it. Went down to James Madison University and got my bachelor's and master's in computer science, which should tell you something about how I would probably feel about data centers. You know, as a... Well, he's gone now, but as he stated previously, you know, data infrastructure, very important, very big deal. Unfortunately, you might be surprised, I'm very much opposed to this proposal. It doesn't make sense for the region. It is speculative, at best, how long these data centers will be running. Okay. It's not going to be that scale. And that puts into effect a risk to the tax revenue that would be coming in. That entire proposal, the pros of this entire proposal was tax revenue. But if these data centers, their hyperscale, the AI and all that goes away, we'll use a nice light term, you won't see that tax revenue over the years because that data center will sit empty. I am not trying to fearmonger. I certainly understand that you all are taking in a lot of data, hearing from a lot of people, hearing from a lot of sources. And so I'll cut myself all short and just say that from a technical perspective, even from a technical perspective, I would be proposed to say no to this proposal. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to do this under a minute. On the sign over there, it says 280 or 260 fire marshal, right? Yes. Only one person in this room was for favor of data centers, just so you're aware of that. My question to you, take a ride, bring lunch, go down to Loudoun County, sit next to a data center. I've done it. Sat there for two and a half hours. Didn't see one bird. Didn't see one fox, one rabbit. Didn't see any animals whatsoever. And I was right next to a set of woods. Just keep that in mind on how these things destroy the area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Then I shall close the public hearing. Mr. Minshew, do you care to respond to any of these comments, sir? I'm sorry, I've closed it. I'm sorry, sir, I'll close the public hearing. I was supposed to be on that list, but that's all right. Mr. Chairman, we appreciate the Planning Commission and the members of the public speaking tonight. This public hearing, I think, has entered its fourth hour. I'm not going to go through and give you a long rebuttal list, but we will stand by the veracity of the application. And with that, let me yield back the floor to you, sir. Thank you, sir. Okay, Planning Commissioners, this is our opportunity to discuss what we've heard here this evening. I'll look to my right. Any comments, discussion? I'll say something. I'm sorry, Ms. Kozell. My thoughts and opinions right now are mainly the fact that, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Ms. Kozell. I'm sorry, Ms. Kozell. The fact that I'm not confident because of, there's not enough meat, there's not enough detail, and there's not enough enforceable items within the proffers that we can dig our teeth into and enforce it. And I'm just not sure what that looks like. I personally don't feel confident in the materials. We have enough in here. So I'll start off with that comment, come back with. Mr. Whitaker? Yes. In support of our beautiful ag land that we have here in the valley, food is a national security. So I can't see having something like this drains our resources and hurts our ability to produce food. This valley is the size of a valley in China and they feed 1 billion people. We should not give up an inch of it. Mr. Crane? Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to thank you folks for being here. You're good citizens. And I want to thank you for all the emails I've received. I apologize for not responding to each one because I need at least four hours of sleep a night. But I will do my best to circle back around. I have spoken with folks in Loudoun County. I've spoken with staffers in Fairfax County. I have spoken with a lot of you and I've attended many citizens' gatherings regarding the center. I've listened to experts on both sides of this debate. And the bottom line is there are several concerns that I have. The first one, believe it or not, is that the value of your homes, the second that the Board of Supervisors approves this, if they approve, I'm not saying they are, your values drop. The second you put a for sale sign on your house, you've got to provide the material fact that, yes, there is going to be a data center in my backyard. Now, the council wouldn't mind having a data center in his backyard. None of us here, we don't want that. And therefore, you're either going to be stuck with the house, you're going to be underwater, you're going to foreclose. So there's just a lot of bad things when it comes to that. The second thing is the noise. And we've beat that horse to death. Water we beat to death and pollution. So those are my comments. And so I can't tell you what my vote is now, but I want you to know the why before I do the how. Thank you. Any other comments from our left? To our left. Any comments? Discussion? Yes, ma'am. Ms. Burr-Beck? Yeah, I mean, I think we need to figure out what we're doing a little bit. I don't think we know enough about all of this. Like Liz was saying, we have one tiny little data center in Middletown, correct? And then to go from one to, you know, 10, 12 more. 10, 11 more, however many. I think we have a lot more study we need to do on it. And, you know, there's too many concerns. And I think the public has really brought out a lot of that. And they've been very eloquently and knowledgeable in that. And I think we need to take those concerns to heart. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. LaMana? I just want to repeat what some other commissioners have said. First of all and foremost, thank you for being here. And the involvement that I've seen throughout this, what's it been, six weeks, two months of citizen involvement. And the information that I receive from citizens. And the passion that I saw. The commitment to our county is, well, it makes you proud to be here. So thank you for that participation. I will say also that, you know, we want to have a public debt. We want to have companies come to us. We want to have businesses here. And I appreciate the company coming here. Let me say, too, on a more personal note, if I might, I worked with Mr. Muncho as a delegate when I was on the school board. And I give him much respect and support. He is an honest man, and I appreciate his representation to us during that period of time. But with that being said, I think there's much more that we need to learn. And I think to protect our county is what our job is. And I think that's what we should do. Mr. Marcus? Yeah, I think the reward that comes with a data center is not quite worth the risk, and it's not quite worth the intrusion. And on top of that... The location of our valley doesn't make logic, logical sense for a data center. And the other part of location is near people is a problem. So we need to deal with a setback that's a whole lot bigger than what we're dealing with. So we need... As a community, as the board, to come up with better guardrails, regardless of the outcome on this project. Okay. Okay. Can I... Ms. Cozell? One more note. Development, I mean, we're not against... Development's going to happen. It's just the right development, the right time. And with this... Project not being in conformance, like, it's in general conformance with the comprehensive plan, general. This type of project, this scale, needs to be a slam dunk. And we're just not there yet. So, again, it's not in conformance. Okay. Thank you. I'd also like to thank you for being here tonight. You've stayed here until almost 11 o'clock. I realize the seats get hard after... Eight o'clock. And I commend you for hanging in there. Your concern for Frederick County and its condition and wanting to maintain quality of life that we all enjoy and came here for is admirable. And I want to certainly commend you on that. I agree with comments commissioners have made. I just don't think we're well prepared for a project of this size at this point. I advocated... I began advocating six months ago. For us to come up with policy statements dealing with data centers. And I promise you, I will continue to work on that with the board and advocate for that. It's hard for us to make changes to the rules when we're in the middle of a rezoning. That's the challenge that we have. So, this one will move forward. And we'll see how the board of supervisors responds to it. So, this is in the Stonewall District. So, I'll call on my Stonewall Commissioner to make a motion. Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to thank everybody that's here tonight. Taking time out of your schedules and from your family to come participate and be part of this. Those of you out tonight, those that came to the information sessions, those that send us emails. Thank you. Stay engaged. I'd also like to thank the applicant. The team, through the process, has been willing to engage with staff and with commissioners. And with residents and answer questions and respond to concerns and make changes to their proposal. And I think that type of work together is important. I think our county benefits from a mix of land uses, residential neighborhoods, commercial development, industrial technology, agriculture operations. Each of these contributes to the economic vitality in the community we live in. The challenge before us isn't so much do those have value? But, do they have value? But, do they have value? But, how do we manage and mitigate where those different land uses come together? And I think that's a real challenge before us here tonight. I appreciate the economic benefits that this project might bring. But, in its current form, I don't believe that the application sufficiently mitigates the potential impacts to the neighboring residential uses. There's too many noise questions. And the buffers don't seem adequate for this highly intensive data center campus that's scope and scale. It's a problem that we're facing. And I think we need to move to a more holistic approach to this. And I think that the project that we're working on, as well, isn't properly mitigated. Therefore, I move to recommend denial of rezoning 0426 for the Virginia Technology Park. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Whitaker, can you start? Let me pause. Okay. The motion is for denial. If you vote yes, you're agreeing that you want to recommend denial. If you vote no, you're saying no, I don't want to deny. Okay? Clear? Mr. Whitaker, can you begin, please? Okay. Yes to denial. Yes. DeHaven, yes. Kozo, yes. Markert, yes. Steddon, yes. Pothorf, yes. Brumbach, yes. LaMana, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on July the 8th with the recommendation for denial. And do we need to do anything else, Mr. White? No, Mr. Chairman. Just a reminder, work session June 9th, data center. Next Tuesday. June 17th, work session for comp plan amendments. We do have six that were filed this year. Joint work session with the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'd like to just thank the Board of Supervisors. And thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second? You guys be careful going home. Oh, yes. All agreed. I still need signatures, please. I missed my key bidding. But. We're good. Just like Toby forgot, at the anatomy. I'm sorry. That was a new question. I'm sorry. Are you going to do the next one? No. I just want to ask you, what would you do if you had two people on your board?
