Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-11-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=305
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you We're sorry, your call cannot be com- Every day. Every day. Yep. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey Jason, sounds like we got you. I'm not sure what happened either. I'm just glad we were able to get in touch. Just tell him to stand by. Just stand by for a few minutes please. Yep. you you you Hi. We have Pastor Kyle Hunter from Waypoint Church in Winchester to lead our invocation. Pastor? Well, thank you, sir, for the opportunity to give the invocation today. I consider it an honor and a privilege. If you all could stand with me and join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we just come to you giving you thanks for you are the creator of the universe, and we understand that it is by you, for you, and through you for which all things exist and subsist. Even this board of supervisors here tonight, Lord, we understand that government, is created by you and ordained by you. So we thank you for these men and women who have been appointed to these positions. We thank you for their service. We thank you for their sacrifice that is in the same spirit as your son who came and said that he did not come to be served, but to serve and lay down his life as a ransom for many. So we thank you for the servitude. We also pray for their wisdom here tonight. Your word says that if you're lacking wisdom, then we should ask, or if you're seeking wisdom, then we should ask. So we come now asking for wisdom, not just for tonight, but that you would grant this board of supervisors wisdom in all things and in all situations. Lord, we also pray a blessing over them, Lord, that you would be with them, watch over them, protect them, provide for them, Lord, and just allow them to be able to serve you with honor, serve you with integrity, and serve you with all of their heart, all of their soul and all of their mind. We thank you once again for tonight. We pray that your will would be done here tonight. Amen. And that you would lead each and every one of these board members. So we thank you in all of these things, and we pray it in the matchless name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Let us remain standing for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. The next thing on our agenda is remote participation. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors approve remote participation by Supervisor Jason Aikens for personal business reasons. Second. Okay. We have a motion and we second. Voice, we can do a consensus voice. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Mr. Aikens, you're on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next up for the agenda is adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Saga. All right. We have a motion and we have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Okay. We have an adopted agenda. Citizens' comments. This is for agenda items that are not subject to of the public hearing. Do we have anyone signed up, Ms. Phil? No one has signed up. Okay. No one has signed up. Do we have anyone that wanted to speak? Let's see. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Phil, please state your name, magisterial district. You know the routine. Leslie Spencer-Gainsborough. Good evening. I'm in full support of item 14 C, especially to have a conditional use permit and more design collaboration for all substations and I'm super grateful to see this come forward. Our rural areas are the heart of so much here and in the future could save more farms through agritourism. have so much history here including rural history as well I know we are a place of beauty and all my new ideas and research always hone in on even more beauty and greatness for our County more green verdant infrastructure and how those ideas could help attract innovation and smart headquarters Frederick County is a beautiful place and that is definitely a part of our success story I want to help build upon so making sure big utility projects have a conditional use permit just makes sense it gives us a chance to place things thoughtfully so we to protect that what makes this place special for all of us thank you very much for taking this step thank you thank you anybody else all right I'm gonna close citizen comments next up is a consent agenda mr. chairman I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented okay we have a motion we have a second and this is a roll call roll call vote okay we have a motion we have a second and this a roll call roll call vote and I'm gonna start with mr. Aikens okay supervisor Lira hi vice chair I supervised Wells hi supervisor done hi chair votes aye okay we have an agenda beautiful for two supervisors comments are there any comments okay mr. Aikens do you have any comments no sir all righty we're moving on all right county officials we have an appointment to fill the board for vacant back Creek district seat madam vice chair mr. chairman I would move for the appointment of dr. Albert Orndorff we have a yeah all right we have a motion we have a second this is a roll call vote since we have mr. Aikens remote I'm gonna have him start mr. Aikens supervisor Aikens aye supervisor done aye I'm gonna move for approval of the consent agenda as presented by mr. Aikens supervisor Wells aye vice chair aye supervisor Lira aye the chair votes aye okay then we have an appointment here thank you 9b LWCF grant award acceptance approval for old Charlestown Park mr. chair I'd like to make a motion that we table this item until our December 10th 2025 and then we'll move to the next item that we're going to be doing in addition to the planned agency Aye. Any that... Aye. Okay, you got an aye and no opposed, so we're good to go. All right. Approval of draft 2026 legislative agenda. Mr. Tibbs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this item was before you at your October meeting. Staff had proposed a draft legislative agenda for the board's consideration. At that meeting, the board chose to postpone action on this item, to have an opportunity to review the agenda and provide feedback. In your agenda, there is an updated legislative list of initiatives that do have some of the feedback received from board members. But at your place tonight, there is a clean copy and a red line version of the most recent updates to the legislative agenda. I received some items from Supervisor Lero over the weekend, so I've incorporated those. Again, like in prior years, we have identified four priority areas for the board to focus on, those being, land use regulation and development, funding for transportation improvements, education funding, and mental health. Those are the four core items on this legislative initiative. And then we've outlined some additional positions that the board has taken on certain items that we will share with our legislators. So what staff is seeking tonight would be adoption by the board. And then once this is approved, we will then forward a copy of this to our delegates and senator down in Richmond. So with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions you or the other board members have. Thank you, Mr. Tibbs. Any questions for Mr. Tibbs? Nothing left? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. So we've done this before, and I'm going to suggest to the board, as you go through this, determine what you really want to get done, because somebody's got to draft a bill in the General Assembly. And so there's certain things, there's five items that I'd like to point out on this that I think merit real consideration. The first one is number three, which is education. Funding. Mr. Fly. While Mr. Fly is getting ready to put up a screen. Schools cost money, and I think this board needs to consider, you know, money for additional items. We've raised real estate taxes as the primary way to pay for this. But on this screen is a comparison between a 1% referendum and the current $1.5 million. And the current real estate tax. So first, last year there was a 1% referendum. It was not a tax increase. It was a referendum in which you, the citizens, could decide whether you wanted to go and have a 1% additional sales tax to pay for schools and or debt reduction, as opposed to having an increase in a real estate tax. On that screen, you'll see that the bottom 25% median in this county, which is $233,000, was raised. The neutral rate last year was 42.4 cents, which would have gone a tax of about $989. The board raised the rate to 48 cents, which is a $130 increase. If you continue to look through the 25%, 50% median, the 50% median was a $215 increase. The top 25% was a $347 increase. If you see this, this is the number one rate. Mr. Fly. If you spent less than $10,000 per year on purchases, not including food, not including medicine, the total tax would have been $100 or less. That tax also would have raised more than $20 million. The tax increase that we had last year raised about $10 million. So as we look forward, I suggest that this is a more effective way to go and raise revenue for schools, schools. Schools. So that's a good thing. I think that we are having a better opportunity now to look at the benefit of construction and our debt reduction than to continue to raise real estate tax. It's an alternative. But you, the citizens get to decide, no one else. And if this becomes a referendum, then citizens can make a choice. Is this a better use of their money or not? So I just put this out here as a thought. This bill probably will come up next year. And as you consider this, decide how you want to spend your money. I would strongly support this over a real estate tax increase. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong. tax increase because it brings in more money and it costs less. But you, the voters, can decide. But that's going to take legislation, which this board will then have to consider. So that's point number one. Point number two, election integrity. I think that basically the board ought to consider supporting a method so that people that vote have to prove they're a U.S. citizen with the same method you get a U.S. passport. It's easy to do, but it takes care of election fraud. Number three, unfunded mandates. The state often says, Frederick County, do X, Y, and Z, but don't provide the money to do it. So I would strongly encourage this board to go and say to the General Assembly, if you, the General Assembly, ask us to do something, provide the money for it. Don't say we have to do it without providing the revenue source. We have to do it without providing the revenue source to do that. Number four, school choice. I grew up in a public school. Public schools are good, and this county's public schools are good. But I think the competition makes the school even better. And finally, election day. We ought to have an election day, not an election season, where everybody has the same information on the same day to make a decision. So those are five items that I would suggest we emphasize when you go to Richmond and say, this is what we want to do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Do we have any other comments? Okay. Well, I will entertain a motion to accept the legislative initiatives that have been put forth by Mr. Tibbs as presented. Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion that the information provided by Mr. Tibbs be submitted for the board to support going forward to the General Assembly. Okay. We have a motion. We have a second. And this could be a consensus vote as well. So, all those in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Anybody opposed? There we go, Mr. Tibbs. We've got a legislative agenda. Look forward to talking to our delegates and our senator about that here. Okay. Appointments to the boards. 10A, we have a Planning Commission appointment for the Gainesboro District. Mr. Aikens. Uh-oh. Did we lose him? We may have lost him. Madam Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I would move for the appointment of Joseph Crane to the Planning Commission representing the Gainesboro District. Okay. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Again, consent. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Second. All those against? Aye. Second. All those against? Aye. Aye. Second. All those against? Aye. Aye. Second. All those against? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? All right. Mr. Crane, congratulations. You're on the Planning Commission. 10B, Planning Commission at Large representative. I'll entertain a motion for that. Mr. Chairman, I would move on the Planning Commission Chairman at Large to appoint John LaMala. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. We have a motion. We have a second. Again, consent agenda. All right. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Any opposed? No. I mean, no opposed. I almost said no. All right. John, Mr. LaMala, Dr. LaMala. Welcome to the Planning Commission. Thank you. Hanley Regional Library. We have a four-year term for Pamela Lamb who expires on November 30th and she is willing to serve. Do I have a motion? Mr. Chair, I would make a motion to reappoint Pamela Lamb for a second four-year term. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. I would like to see her reappoint. All right. Do I have a motion? Mr. Chair, I would make a motion to reappoint Pamela Lamb for a second four-year term. We have a motion and do we have a second? Second. Dr. And she does a wonderful job on that board. So, thank you. All right. Consent? All those in favor? Aye. Dr. Anyone opposed? There we go. We're good. All right. Mr. Chairman. Yes. Would you like to? I'll be happy to, Mr. Chairman. The board is seeking applications for the following vacancies. The Extension Leadership Council Red Bud District representative, there's an unexpired term ending in October of 2027. And the Board of Equalization has two four-year terms, vacant terms beginning January 1. We are seeking applications for those as well. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. And we appreciate the community coming out and volunteering for these committees and these boards. So thank you. Okay, we have no committee business. All right, the next thing up, we have a public hearing. And the public hearing is in regards to an ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code and the Commissioner of Revenue's office is handling this one. So, board? Mrs. Seibert is in the back. Does anybody have any questions for Mrs. Seibert regarding this? I'm looking to the right. I'm looking to the left. We're all good. Okay. Did Mr. Akins make it back? No. Okay. All right, this is a public hearing. So, I'll open up the public hearing for anyone who wants to speak regarding 12A, ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code, Chapter 155, Taxation Article 2, Special Assessments for Agriculture, Horticulture, Forests, and Open Space Real Estate. Do we have anybody who wants to speak on this subject? All right, I will close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code, Chapter 155, Taxation Article 2, Special Assessments for Agriculture, Horticulture, Forests, and Open Space Real Estate. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. This is going to be a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Chair votes aye. All right, we're good. All right, Mr. Seibert, you're good to go. Planning, Commission, Business, Public Hearing, we have none. All right, next thing up is Planning. Commission, Business, 14A, Rezoning 0825 Eastgate Commerce Center. Hello, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. As you have noted, you do have before you rezoning or proffer modification, minor proffer modification to be specific, 0825. 0825. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the Eastgate Commerce Center, which was originally rezoned back in 1997 as rezoning 002-97. Now, at that time, the application, I'm sorry, I'll not get too far ahead of myself here. There you see in the red dot the location within the scope of the entire county right there where Tasker Road comes into 522. But as we come into the actual parcel, which once again, right there we have the intersection of Tasker Road and 522. Back at the time. So, in the original rezoning, it encompassed parcels north and south of Tasker Road, which were in turn rezoned to B2, B3, and M1 uses all with proffers. Now, you have Walmart, you've got Home Depot Distribution Center, and a number of other uses out there that were all part of that original Eastgate parcel. However, tonight, we're focused on remaining 30.40 acres of B2, which as you can see on the map there is outlined in purple. And it's along the... North side of Tasker Road. What is being requested in terms of comprehensive plan conformance, this is part of your South Frederick Area Plan, which views this as part of the Route 277 Triangle Centers of Economy. This is a business land use designation that is not being proposed to change. This proposed minor proffer amendment is otherwise in conformance with your comprehensive land use policy. And there you see once again your long range land use designations, which are not proposed to change. In terms of transportation and site access, back during the original rezoning, street intersections were limited to Tasker Road to a total of five. A number of those are already existing, of course, in the form of Rainville Road, Marcel Drive, etc. That would create three intersections. The proposed rezoning seeks to enable one additional. Okay. So, we're going to go ahead and get started. I just want to add that we're still seeing Datewood and seldom using state traffic Sodell婬 and Proffer assassin's area workers without commercial interest. These are large line 선� Multiело합 connecting and able in six total with four of them being intersections with Tasker Road. as I'll get into momentarily. So we have two items here. We're increasing the street connections, however, to address the item I just alluded to regarding the 105 feet, the applicant has added language that would note prior to the approval of the first site plan that they will provide a right-of-way dedication for the half section, 52.5 feet from center line of the ultimate 105 foot right-of-way along the entirety of the subject property along Tasker Road, Route 642. Go back, John. Sir. Go back over that one again. You bet. Because it's one of particular interest to me. So I'm sorry. Go ahead. I'm just, the 30 foot, it won't stick out the 30 foot road efficiency buffer. So in essence what we're doing is we're swapping. Typically today you would not actually have a road efficiency buffer on a commercial parcel. You would have your standard setbacks and everything like that. What this is doing is swapping that road efficiency buffer for the actual 105 foot dedication. Which was the commercial, what we used before, the 105. Yes, sir. That's been kind of standard. Am I correct? Yes. Okay. Back in the day, the 80 feet that's there was kind of the standard. It's come up. Okay. Just as VDOT standards and change and all like that. So yeah, they're modernizing this from my perspective. Okay. Got you. In terms of a summary, the positives are the proposed rezoning doesn't amend the use or density or anything like that of what's already allowed. It does make that swap that I just referred to and it does offer the potential for an additional access point which was previously restricted. However, I will note that the board adopting a proffer that would allow that potential does not guarantee any sort of VDOT approval. They would still have to meet all of the VDOT standards and approvals to actually get that entrance. In summary, the planning commission discussed this item. As I noted, we dug into the 105 feet dedication a little bit there and the applicant agreed to make that change which you do see before you. And those revised proffers were provided and dated 11-6. This item is an action item due to the fact that it's a minor proffer revision under state code. We don't have a required public hearing and staff at this time is seeking a decision by the board of supervisors on this proposed minor proffer amendment. We do have representatives on behalf of the applicant here to answer questions if needed and of course I can take any staff level questions you may have. We have more backup over at the table if I need it. I want to make sure I note that Tyler Klein has actually done the vast majority of the heavy lifting on the staff side for this application. We're just spreading out the presentation. Thank you. I know he's got some presentation duties a little bit but I want to make sure folks recognize his work. Appreciate it. Appreciate it Mr. Bishop. Okay any questions for Mr. Bishop or Mr. Klein? How about the applicant? Any questions? All right. Look at that. So I'll entertain a motion then for this. Mr. Chair, I make a motion that the board approve rezoning 08-25 Eastgate Commerce Center with a proffer amendment. Okay we have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a second. This will be a roll call vote. We'll start with Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Aikens. Aye. Yeah we lost him. Chair votes aye. Okay we're good to go. Thank you Mr. Bishop. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. If I may interrupt. Would the board like us to try and get Mr. Aikens back on the phone? It would take just a minute or two. We would. We would if we could. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. You are good. Okay. Let's give them a chance. Absolutely. Thank you. Mr. You gave me a cold. Are you there? Hello? Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Can you hear us? Hello? Mr. Akins, can you hear us? I can. I'm not sure exactly what happened, but I'm glad to be back. Welcome back, Mr. Supervisor Akins. Okay, we're currently on 14B. We're in the Planning Commission business stage. This one's for information discussion regarding ordinance amendment, RP district dimensional requirements. Hello, Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the board. This is a request that you all see where we are seeking board direction on if you all would like to move forward with an ordinance amendment, sending it through the committee process, and then bringing it back for public hearing. So what you're seeing this evening is incredibly preliminary, and staff has not dug into all of the details, although we are quite familiar with the proposal, of course. So this is a request from a local engineering firm to seek an amendment to Chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to amend the dimensional requirements contained in your RP, your residential performance zoning district, to allow for a modified or a new housing type, which we're calling a rear load townhouse. It would fall within that townhouse category, but it would provide an additional option, for those seeking to develop townhomes in their community. This last bullet should say RP, but it says R4. The district standards were last comprehensively updated back in 2013. So again, we haven't really revisited our housing types in a number of years. The current standard for townhomes is contained in that RP dimensional requirements section, and notes that townhouse units may be attached by a garage or connecting permanent architectural unified structures, such as a breezeway, carport, or wall, where structures continue the design pattern and or materials of the facility, in line the individual characteristics gotta be respect for both food systems devices, all servers need to be manually grayed out IL780. Second part of our units 가장 applied 크리 corrosive also benefit families quickly withills. All accounts have a recognition of residential and social street features and lack of use tour, so as Shitara has indicated that the other buildings and facilities should be provided with a clean Maisel clear or urban council money算 safety and marking in什麼 using Toy Irrigation Monitoring System. As the electricity supply for our adds to Adair is made seeking the ordinance amendment did include a number of images. I think this one best encapsulates what we mean when we say a rear-load town. What you see on the image is that there is a private alleyway between and behind the units where the garage is accessed from, and then the front of the unit would be on the public street with the sidewalk. So you get this kind of effect where you don't see the garage, and the garage is actually at the rear of the property, which is where it gets the name rear-load town from. In some cases, there's a driveway with a deck on top of it, and then the cars pull under the deck into the back of the townhouse. And there are a number of standards and examples from around similar localities to ours that we can pull from in addition to those materials supplied by the applicant. So at this time, this item is presented this evening as an information discussion item. We'd be seeking any feedback you have on this proposal, and we're seeking your authorization to send the item to the Development Review and Regulations Committee, which for the public here this evening is a subcommittee of the Planning Commission, which advises the Planning Commission and the Board. We're also looking at the development matters and changes to the ordinance, and then we would schedule public hearings thereafter on this item. I'm of course here to answer any questions you may have on this proposal. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Does anybody have any questions? Well, I do. I have a couple questions. Mr. Klein, do we think that this model or this design is going to bring prices down? What's the benefit to Frederick County of approving this? I can't speak to if it'll bring prices down. What it does is provide a differing housing type that they can, you know, develop. We have seen and received requests over the years to diversify our housing types, including rear-load towns. This is not the first time we've been asked to do this. This was by far the most complete submission requirement we've seen where they've provided enough detail for us to go forward with it, and we've had some support and informal conversations with the Planning Commission and the Board for this item. You know, it just provides another option. Another housing type that may be desirable, driven by market forces, and the development community is telling us that the market is looking for this type of unit. We certainly want to try to accommodate that, recognizing the need to provide housing types that meet the workforce and the jobs that we have in our community. Just another question. I was wondering about parking. It looks like maybe a one-car garage in the back. Is there street parking in front as well? There would be street parking. You can see in some of the images, some of the units, it appears there's actually a two-car garage. So our parking standard for townhomes requires two and a half parking spaces per unit. That could be accommodated by a garage space and a driveway space, two driveway spaces, on-street parking, parking lots. So we'd have to get creative, and that's one of the things that we have flagged as an item we need to explore, because the proposal included the option for a single-car garage and a driveway, so we still have to accommodate that half spot per unit somewhere else, whether that be on-street parking or otherwise. So those are all things we'll look into. Obviously, they provided some standards that they'd like to see, but we will certainly do the code comparison with other localities that are doing these types of homes and provide the committee and the Planning Commission Board with the full range of options that you have within that housing type. Another question I would have is, do we anticipate this causing an increase in demand on parks and rec due to the fact that there doesn't seem to be much space outside for these folks? We don't foresee changing the housing type amending other sections of the residential performance zoning district, which require 30 percent open space for development and also the rec unit contribution, so we would still anticipate that they would provide those standards consistent with our other housing types. And certainly, you know, the unit doesn't really add any density or anything like that, because it's mostly the same. It just allows for a rear-loaded garage instead of requiring a garage from the public street side. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I heard. Oh, go ahead. Is that Jason? Yes, sir. Go ahead, Jason. Mr. Akins, go ahead. Thank you, Bob. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to touch on Supervisor Leroux's comment. These are, as a developer, pretty in touch with what these products are, and they're a more modern product. They actually look really nice from the front, so you don't have that unfortunate, that negative feeling that you're having with the new technology. I think that's a good point. And I think there's a lot of things that we can do to make sure that we're not going to have these types of problems. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. Yeah. And so, as a developer, I'm pretty in touch with what these products are, and they're a more modern product. They actually look really nice from the front, so you don't have that unfortunate, that big 12-foot garage that's 12 by 10 in front seen from the streetscape, and they're actually, they do yield from a resale price. It's not going to check your box potentially on lowering housing prices. These are actually more desirable homes, because they are more attractive from the front. streetscape side of things. So these are a higher end product that in turn will yield a higher real estate appraised value in time versus a traditional townhome. So it's a nice product, but I wanted to at least make that statement. Thank you, Mr. Akins. Supervisor Well. Yeah, thank you very much. So the engineering firm contacted me. They need a supervisor to move it forward to planning for planning to even bring it up to us. So I was the fellow that did that for them. And I've seen this design and I've talked with them about it and talked with planning about it. And the general consensus was that it was a good idea for Frederick County that it would, I like the look of the front. And it, it, it, it, it takes cars off of the driveways and so forth and so on. So I think it's a good change and we should at least offer it. It doesn't mean everyone's going to look like that, but it's a, an opportunity. So I would be in favor of it. Thank you very much. Thanks, Supervisor Well. Anything, anything, Supervisor? No, I think the proposal is a decent proposal. I want to say, Mr. Klein, the same thing could be done today in R4, correct? That is true. If someone were to pursue a resale, if someone were to pursue a rezoning in the R4 district, they could modify the design standards that were allowed in that district and accommodate this type of housing. For example, in Stoneman Bridge, there are a couple of housing types in the, particularly the older sections that utilize the housing type that's not otherwise offered in our ordinance, but was put forward as part of the rezoning. So what we're doing is pulling this into RP and Mr. Lero's comments on, you know, Parks and Rec. The county though in RP can also have condos or apartments, correct? Which are higher density than what we're seeing here. That would be correct. Yes, sir. So for those reasons, Mr. Chairman, I think this is something that we ought to consider. All righty. So entertain a motion to move this forward. So move. We got a motion? Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second. Ms. Phillips, consent vote okay? Okay. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody that opposed? I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, we did have a resolution in the package to send that to public hearing. So it would be a roll call vote. Okay. My apologies. No, no. Please, you're trying to keep me straight. Okay. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McDonough? Aye. Chair votes aye. Now to move forward. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Okay, next up is 14C. Mr. Klein, boy, you just really moved fast, didn't you? It's going fast and quick this evening. This is another ordinance amendment. We're calling on the public utilities, transmission and distribution facilities. And this actually comes to you by way of your planning commission. They discussed this proposal last week at their regular meeting and made a motion and a recommendation that staff take this item forward for the board for immediate consideration. And this is again a proposal to Chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to evaluate modifying the use permissions for public utilities, transmission and distribution facilities in the R.A., rural and urban areas. This is a proposal to the R.A. rural area zoning district. And changing that permission from a permitted use, which would be by right to a conditional use, which would require the approval of a conditional use permit that obviously has a public hearing component and or consider regulating this use in the manner through the performance standards, which we call additional regulations for specific uses for public utilities. And again, this was requested by the planning commission. So this is your current standard again. Okay. Thank you. So the recommendations contained in the R.A. rural area zoning district, public utilities, transmission and distribution facilities are listed as a permitted use. They have been a permitted use. Power generating facilities for public utilities and utility scale solar facilities, which is your solar farms, require a conditional use permit currently. So this one is again a by right use. And the consideration would be to consider moving that to a conditional use. We also have existing performance standards for public utilities. And to be frank with you all, they're quite. Bland. As far as what we can do as far as public utilities. It really gives the zoning administrator the ability to determine what the setbacks would be. But beyond that, we don't typically see other performance standards regulating how these are cited, where they're cited and how they are screened. So this is pertinent to consider further evaluation. So the planning commission requested that in consideration of those performance standards, the board consider directing staff to consider things like additional. Or enhanced buffering and screening. Enhanced and significant setbacks and providing a value and not relying on the zoning administrator to make a determination on each case. Consideration of an earth and berm. And then citing policies on where these utilities could be located, particularly in relation to existing rural residences. So we are seeking following discussing this evening authorization to move forward with this amendment to the committee and also to schedule public hearings. We would. Of course, welcome feedback to you all and the type of things you would like to see so that when we start to actually craft an ordinance, we can. Not only take into account those comments raised by the planning commission, but also those raised by the board. Go to committee, give them kind of a menu of options of things they could do that may address some of the concerns that have been stated in regard to this type of use. Evaluate the requirement for conditional use permit and then come to you all with a recommendation from there. So I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you, Mr. Klein. I'll look to my right this time. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions? Right. Okay. Look to the left. I really like the idea of the additional regulations route and be where we can be very consistent on what we're doing. So. Okay. I'll entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval to move this forward to the various committees and to all the committees. I would also like to ask that the board and the board members be present to authorize staff to hold the public hearings. All right. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right. We have a motion and a second. We're going to do a roll call. Public hearing will be down the line here. Mr. Akins. Aye. All right. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Chair votes aye. There you go, Mr. Klein. We've got work for you guys. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Lero. Planning Commission met last Wednesday, November 5th. There was an ordinance amendment taken up to Frederick County Code making modifications to supplementary use regulations for outdoor lighting contained in 165-201-0.07 to modernize outdoor lighting standards. That was approved unanimously by the Planning Commission. That will come to this board on December the 10th. Second item, ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code modifications to amend design requirements contained in 165-501.06 for the R4 residential plan community zoning district to remove the minimum size required and amend the residential density requirements. That was approved unanimously as well. We'll also come to the board on December 10th. And lastly, the ordinance. Amendment modifications to amend dimensions regulations dimensional regulations contained in 165-705.04 for the traditional neighborhood design business overlay district to modify maximum height in feet and habitable floors allowed. That was again approved unanimously by the Planning Commission. We'll also come to the board on December 10th. That's all I have for you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Supervisor Lero. Any other reports? Okay, I have one. Extension agency. Actually, earlier we mentioned that we have an open position for Extension Leadership Council for Red Bus District. And this is an example when you go to the meetings. The report that we 4-H youth development focused on highlights 2025 4-H year, same as federal year data. 204 Frederick County youth are enrolled in our 4-H clubs. 214 attended overnight camp at Nova. 214 attended in-school enrichment programs such as robotics, youth horticulture, and things like that. Also, for family consumer sciences, because everybody, when you think of Extension Leadership, it's more than just the 4-H. It's more than just the ag. There's a reach out to the local office for anyone that needs help regarding food safety with your holiday meals. You can reach out to the Extension. We have a 4-H office for that. Also, we had a forestry tour throughout Frederick County on October 17th. Approximately 60 landowners and natural resource professionals spent the day touring diverse forests and farm locations around Frederick County. A lot of people don't think, I don't think realize that forestry is, depending on who you talk to, it's the third, it's number three on export for Virginia. And we have a lot more forestry here. It's a lot more forestry than people think, especially like up in your Star Tannery in your North Mountain area. And I had the honor of being able to speak at the luncheon. And I just want to also point out that our Extension Leadership here is phenomenal. It really is. So I just want to, you know, that's a good report to give for the year. They meet quarterly, and I appreciate all that they do. So, Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, and I'm going to ask Mr. Bishop, since he's been working very hard on the CEA, the event that's coming up this month, just to make sure that everybody is aware of that. Would you like to touch on that, Mr. Bishop, for the audience that's watching? Yes, thank you. We do have upcoming, it's going to be at Apple Pie Ridge Elementary School on November 20th. That's actually next Thursday already. An educational event for those who may own property. That they're considering putting in conservation easement or just would like to learn more about the program. Or frankly, any Frederick County citizen who has an interest in conservation in the county and would like to learn about one of the ways that you can support conservation. Because it's not just about, you know, selling a conservation easement on your property. It's about supporting the program. So we're going to have a number of resources there, various agencies to share the information. We do have a flyer that's out there on the county social media page. And I know it's been popping up in other places. It has a QR code for those who might be interested in donating to the cause of spreading education and potentially helping fund conservation easement purchases. So we're hoping that anybody who's interested can come out and join us. It starts at 6 o'clock. Should be done by about 730. We're going to have some cookies and waters there for folks who are sugar motivated. And hopefully a lot of people there. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. That's awesome. Okay. That completes board liaison reports. Citizen comments. Do we have any citizen comments? Anybody sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All right. Nobody signed up? Anybody that would like to come up and speak? All right. Closing citizen comments. Board of Supervisors comments. Yes, sir. Supervisor Welch. Thank you very much. Last Tuesday was Veterans Day. And I had the honor of representing Frederick County at several ceremonies for the veterans. And I had the opportunity to say thank you very much for your dedication to the United States and dedication to us. And thank you to the wives and children that put up with all the things that veterans know about when they're moving around and being shipped overseas and don't get to see their families. So I just wanted to take this opportunity while we have a TV audience to say, please, remember our veterans. They call it Veterans Day. It should be veterans for life when you see a veteran out there. Please say thank you. Thank you. Thank them for their service, whether they were in a war or whether they weren't in a war. Their dedication to the United States should be taken into stead. And we should thank them for it. So, vets, on my behalf and this board's behalf, thank you very much. Thanks. Thanks, Supervisor Welch. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, I just want to take five to seven minutes just to issue. We're going to be under the hour. Okay. To take some issues on some issues that are going to be coming up before the board. And for the new supervisors, Dr. Orndorff, Mr. Oates, and Mr. Gumerant, you'll be dealing with these issues, but I just want to raise them. On the budget issues that we've had for the last two years, we've had a $15 million deficit, meaning the revenue coming in and expenses going out have had a $15 million differential. And we've paid for that through taking money from a capital fund. Which I'm now calling a slush fund. In the next couple of years, we're going to have another $11 million of interest on this fourth high school. In addition to that, this county will spend someplace in the neighborhood of 3% to 4% per year for salary increases, et cetera. And that's another $9 to $12 million. So, this board needs to go and figure out how to go and raise revenue to address the issues that we're dealing with. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But those new businesses right now are not bringing enough revenue to take care of the expenses that are occurring. The population growth is far exceeding the businesses. We can have legislation that have impact fees. I've talked about that before. But at least there, the cost of people moving in is born by their additional impact, $37,000 per house, versus the county having to pay for it. Right. And, you know, the cost of moving in, the cost of moving in is born by the additional impact, $37,000 per house, versus the county having to pay for it. As a whole for those that say cut the budget I've heard that comment multiple times this county is well-run and a year ago We had a 15 million dollar deficit and the former chairman did not come up with a plan to close that gap and for those to say Cut spending and I've gotten emails on that. My question is how don't just make the political rhetoric cut spending show us how a Year or so ago. I laid out earlier this year. I laid out some options on that that include cuts to fire and rescue Emergency services etc. So just recognize this is a well-run fiscally sound County Yes, you can find a hundred thousand dollars of savings, but not 15 million As an alternative to a real estate tax you can consider a meals tax Winchester City has a meals tax Winchester City restaurants do well But if our rate was the same as Winchester City that brings in 3.8 million dollars as we talked about on the legislation a referendum a referendum on a 1% sales tax Could bring in 20 million dollars So you the public can decide whether that is a good situation versus having an increase in real estate taxes or not Other issues that we're dealing with a roads and infrastructure 25 years ago this county had 60,000 people today. It has over a hundred thousand people if you go into Stevens City to redbud parts of Shawnee You see the traffic on those roads and go to Druber early in Pleasant Valley You can see the long lines there we need to put money in for roads and if we put money in the state will put money in But I would suggest that you might consider having even 5% of the budget Put in for roads that will alleviate some of this road traffic. There's something that we need to do schools This county just put forward money for a fourth high school and reconstruction of two other schools but either of them should support we don't want to give many of the process we have ofauto switching facility out of e Advisors WSewood ESway Visit City Trust WSewood Eng urgent work that is seen everything answer supported you, uh, they're bled to be kicked after larry long about okay, Farmers and average at that point in time this board needs to go and consider building into their operating budget other elementary schools, middle schools, and a high school. So recognize that we're gonna have an increase in population that's gonna have an increase in schools and start to address that issue now as opposed to three, four, or five years from now. Two more items. One is data centers. Last month I went to a presentation by the Piedmont Environmental Council. They did a good job and saying here's the concerns of data centers. But what was not there was somebody from the transmissions and generators of electricity, people that knew water, and people that built data centers. If we in this county are going to consider data centers, they need to see all sides of the issue and that means that this county in my opinion needs to have a presentation where you have those that support data centers and why, build them and why, deal with the water issue, deal with the electricity issue, and then you can have a conversation with them. And I think that's what's gonna happen. Have the Piedmont Environmental Council there with their concerns and try to find something that works. We can also have a discussion on large campus type data centers. I'm talking about a square mile or a lot of smaller ones. Those people from Prince William County and Loudoun County that said no we don't like data centers are coming from a different legislative environment. In this county today we have rules and regulations that would go and prohibit some of the things that occurred in those two counties. So the policy question becomes are you willing to give up 1% of the square miles of the county, two square miles. This county has about 240 square miles in exchange for potentially 90 to 100 million dollars. The residential tax that we got this year was 89.6 million. Two data centers brings in 100 million. One data center brings in 50 million. For those people that say I want to preserve my view, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it. I understand that. But you can't say that if you're living in a house that was built 5, 10, 15 years ago. So we as a county need to go and figure out how to go and raise revenue. I think that if you can mitigate some of the downsides with data centers, we want to have an in-depth conversation on that with those that are supporting it, those that build it, have equal time for those that are opposed to it. And finally, transfer of development rights. Right now, we're one of three counties in the state that has transfer of development rights. If you have one house in a rural area, that equates to one house in an urban area or one and a half townhouses. But if you have one house in a rural area that has good agricultural land, that equates to two houses or three townhouses in a suburban area. I had a conversation a number of years ago. With some farmers and landowners. So not all landowners are farmers, not all farmers are landowners. And the question became, right now, by right, you can go and build a house on a five-acre lot. I raised the question, well, if you want to preserve areas, why don't you build it on a 10-acre lot? And the person said to me, if you do that, you've decreased my ability to go and raise revenue, borrow money from my farm. However, a farmer there is a farmer there. And he's going to go and do a transfer of development rights. And he's going to go and do a transfer of development rights. He's going to go and use that money for transferring those development rights into the eastern part of the county. And in the eastern part of the county, I've seen more than one farmer who said, I will never sell my land. Let me rephrase this. I know more than one landowner that said, I will never sell my land, but then use development rights to go and raise money. I asked you as a taxpayer, if I gave you $10 million, what do you do with it? Do you use it on the eastern side for roads and infrastructure? Or do you say, no, I want to spend that money to go and preserve land? I'm for preserving land, but I think we need to have an in-depth discussion on transfer of development rights and how they work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your comments. I appreciate it. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Anybody on the left? Okay. This is our only meeting in November. First, I want to thank all of you. Thank you. Like Supervisor Wells said, I want to thank all the veterans for your service, for your dedication, and I appreciate everything that you have done for us. Secondly, I hope everybody has a wonderful Thanksgiving, safe travels, and we will see you in December. With that, Vice Chair? Mr. Chairman, I move for adjournment. We are adjourned. Second. Thank you. Second. Second. Second by Vice Chair Czajkowski, Another uwDM project, by Regent Jessi Watts. Second by Vice Chair Czajkowski, other key DB студents and hotel staff. Again, goodbye, and good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.
