Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-10-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=297
========================================================================

Oh you you you you you Good evening ladies and gentlemen. I call the October 1st 2025 meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission meeting to order If you're here tonight and you wish to speak in the public hearing for the next year's substation There is a sign-up sheet if you haven't signed up I I would ask, where is the sign-up sheet, Mr. Bishop? Okay, if you haven't signed up, please come up and sign up. We will begin with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Thomas, will you please lead us? Please stand and join us. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Item 3 is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption of our agenda? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, likewise. We have an agenda. Committee reports. Do we have any committee reports to my right? Yes, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Good evening. The DRC. Committee met on Thursday, September 25th. We actually had three things to look at. First thing was a proposal to amend Section 165705.04 to revise dimensional regulations in the traditional neighborhood design business, or TNDB, overlay district, notably increase in minimum building height and feet and an adjustment to the number of habitable floors permitted. We looked at a proposal to amend Section 165705, which is the number of habitable floors permitted, and we looked at a proposal to amend Section 165501.06 to revise design requirements in the R4 zoning district, notably removal of the minimum size requirement and elimination of the maximum residential density requirement. And finally, we took a look at a proposal to amend Section 165201.07 to update supplementary use regulations for outdoor lighting, notably revised standards for outdoor lighting installations. And that was all. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports to my right? To my left? You want to go first? Go ahead. Ms. Brannon? The Transportation Committee met on September 22nd, and we discussed the Exit 317 interchange project, and their study showed there would be a backup of traffic pretty bad at Welltown and Crown, so they proposed a solution to make those a one-way pair. Okay. And that that would solve a lot of the problems with the diversion diamond. And then we also discussed some projects. Correct me if I'm wrong over there. For the, what were these? No, that's the one I just talked about. The CTP, the county funding for some of our alternative projects, we had three, Warrior Drive, a multi-use pass, and then Inverleigh Way pedestrian upgrades and Valley Mill Road pedestrian upgrades. Well, from the time they proposed to now, they have jumped up exponentially in costs. So we've decided to put a hold on the Iverleigh Way and the Valley Mill Road, but we're going to keep the Warrior Drive multi-use path. And that's it. Thank you. Mr. Baltar? Mr. Baltar. Mr. Baltar, I want to congratulate you on completing your certification as a planning commissioner. This is a multi-month course and you just graduated Tuesday, Monday. Yesterday. Yeah, yesterday. So congratulations, sir. Well, I wanted to thank Mr. Pearson and also the county for supporting it and Chairman Stowe for pushing me to go down there. It was an interesting event. I met 45 other people that are basically doing the same thing we're doing. And so there was a lot of interaction and we got a lot of names and people we can talk to. So I appreciate it. And you have a Frederick Water Report? I do have a Frederick Water Report. We met on Tuesday the 16th. We actually had two meetings. The first meeting was an hour and a half meeting with a representative from Wiley-Wilson that presented the 20-year water demand projections with water supply planning. We got an update on the Swielinski design project. We got an update on the Swielinski design build project to address the dissolved solids in pit two. Also, we talked about the Apecan Creek pump station and the line to pit two. In addition, we were notified that the sewage line from Lake Frederick up to Parkins Mill is in operation. The contractors put in temporary pumps since the pumps, the original design pumps are on six months delay. That seven-mile line is in operation now. Very good. Thank you, sir. We are privileged to have with us this evening Mr. Beau Correll from the city, Winchester City Planning Commission. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chair. The Winchester City Planning Commission met on September 16th. Sir, if you can push the button and turn your mic on, we'll all be able to hear you. There you go. There you go. The City of Winchester Planning Commission met September 16th. We consider a residential conversion and we recommended approval of that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We also recommended amending the city zoning ordinance to align with the state code regarding, and that also included short-term rentals, resolving that conflict. We also handled several matters related to the neighborhood design districts. We agreed to remove a requirement for indoor amenities in new multifamily housing projects. We recommended allowing existing M1 businesses to expand more by the end of the year. We also recommended adding a large area of undeveloped land to the Cedar Hill NDD. Thank you, sir. We're always glad to see the smiling face of Mr. Liero representing the Board of Supervisors. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Board of Supervisors met last Wednesday, the 24th, took up rezoning 0525 of Firestone Complete Auto Care. We also submitted papers for the 50-� and 50- Gallाs Jews Village Center to rezone 2.96 plus or minus acres from the B2 general business zoning district to B3 industrial transition zoning district with proffers. That was approved 5 to 0. Took up rezoning 0625 of Herra Properties, LLC D&M Container Service to rezone 13 acres from M1 lead industrial with proffers to M1 lead industrial zoning with modified proffers. That was approved 5 to 0. and we took up ordinance to amend Frederick County Code Chapter 165 of zoning. That was approved with revisions 5-0. Basically, the revisions boil down to receiving TDR areas were limited solely to residential areas only, and that is all I have for you there, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Okay, that completes our committee reports, unless there is another one that I missed. Are there any more? Okay, then we'll move on to Item 5. This is our citizen comment time. If you wish to speak to the Planning Commission about anything that is not on our agenda tonight for a public hearing, and that would be the next area substation. So if you wish to speak to us about anything other than that, this would be the time for you to do so. I ask you to come to the podium, limit your comments to three minutes or less, and tell us your name and magisterial district. Would anybody like to speak to the Planning Commission? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comment. I'm sorry. Excuse me, sir. I was a little quick. I was quicker than you. Please. Hello, Chairman, members of the board. My name is Jan van Ooten. I'm the co-owner at the NAD Valkyrie Spring, and I just wanted to express my gratitude of being a part of this community and being very happy with people from the community to reach out to us, and we're still on track to open up. So it takes a while. We work with a lot of individuals, but we're very excited in 2026 to finally open the restaurant so you can all come and eat. And I am very excited to work with the local community and farms and educational, you know, bringing staff to our property as well very soon. So, yeah, that's all I have to say. Thank you again for approving the CUP two years ago. But we're still working every day on it. It was. It was. It was. It was. It was. Yeah, it's wise, but that shows my commitment to this county. I could have done it somewhere else, but I choose for this county. So very excited, and thank you again. We look forward to you opening, sir. Would anybody else like to speak to the plan and commission? Seeing none, I will close the citizen comments, and we will move forward. Mr. Bishop. I'm sorry. I don't know if this is the time to do it, but I figured I would ask. So my name is Jen. I'm Jennifer Herring. I've lived in Frederick County my whole life. So I'm not specifically here for the substation, but I am here to be an objection of the MAR power lines that are going out in Gore, Virginia. So I know it doesn't affect a ton of people, but it does affect me and my family. I've lived there for 30 years. I want to raise my children there, and I don't want to look out my back window and see power lines, huge power lines, when there's already two to three power lines already in the surrounding community. So I just want that to be heard, okay? And this is the proper time to do that. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you. I figured because it wasn't. All right, thank you. Okay, I'm going to go slower. Would anybody else like to speak? I think that would be good. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Good evening, ma'am. Good evening. My name is Amy Goodyear. I actually live just over the Hill in Loudoun County, and I'm a Loudoun County school teacher. I'm a single mom of three children. One of my children has a chronic disease, and they're all special education students. My two boys have autism. I am also here to object the power line. and the substation for your community because it inherently is going to lead to those power lines coming up to Loudoun County. Ma'am if you want to speak to the substation we're gonna have a separate public hearing for that. Well I want to speak tomorrow and I need you to say no. The impact is ginormous to me personally because it would make it where the power lines already border my property. They're there but the additional moral power lines are going to make it so when I walk out my front door they will be right there if it doesn't take my house. Like I said I'm a public school teacher I can't afford to go and buy a new house or to move. It's gonna these power lines are gonna cause thousands or hundreds of acres of property to be lost. It's huge environmental impacts. But beyond that there are newer technologies that would allow this extension cord because that's what it is as an extension cord to the data centers for the data centers to get their power. It's not providing any power to the residents or reliability. It's merely adding cost and taking away from our beautiful properties. So thank you very much. I appreciate your consideration. Please understand we are the Frederick County Planning Commission. We have no jurisdiction outside of Frederick County but thank you. But you do have the power lines coming through here. But anyone else like to speak? Okay seeing none I will once again close the citizen comment period and we will move on to public hearings. Item 6A 2232 review of 01-25 for next-year energy transmission Woodside substation. Mr. Bishop good evening sir. Thank you Mr. Chairman and members of the Commission. As you have noted this is a 2232 review. We are talking about a by right use on an RA parcel. However, state code 2232 does have the Planning Commission review this item to determine if it is in substantial conformity with your comprehensive plan. Just a little reminder on your 2232 policy. The last review done in Frederick County was in 2011. There are some key exemptions to the policy. Those are as follows. Maintenance, Frederick water projects within the sewer and water service area. Most new or expanded Frederick County Public Schools facilities provided they already are showing in your capital improvement plan which would basically indicate that they've been through a vetting process. And finally telecom towers for the specific reason that you have a separate conditional use permit. Process for telecom towers. So that's why those are exempted. This review as you have already noted is a public hearing item. The Board of Supervisors after your action is not necessarily required to endorse that action. They can if they choose take it up and overturn it. They will be through written methods provided with an update of what has taken place at this meeting as well as the justification for your eventual determination. So there you have that. Some important notes. As I already alluded to this is a by right use. I'm saying this specifically because I've seen a number of other information. We've received many questions in the last few days. This is not a rezoning. So as such there's no discussion of proffers or that sort of thing. Likewise it's not a conditional use permit where you may have a condition. The site plan which is included in your packet. I've actually provided a larger printed copy of the dice tonight because it is quite tiny. It's not a specific proposal. The parcels in question which are notated in your packet total 72.01 acres. They are zoned RA or rural areas. There's no requested zoning change because this is a by right use. Current transportation access is via Thistle Lane. This is in Clearbrook and of course the Stonewall Massive Magisterial District. The parcels in question are shown on the screen to your left. Just to help orient you a little bit just off the page is the exit 323 which is the Flying J. You have Zachary Lane that comes down. And access is the Caterpillar Dealer. This parcel right here immediately to the north is the one where you previously considered the Fruit Hill rezoning. So just to give you some orientation there. This is the existing zoning of surrounding parcels. As you can see it is surrounded by mostly current rural rural area zoning with the exception of the Caterpillar Dealer there shown in blue immediately along the north. And of course you do have two different zoning options. One is the Caterpillar Dealer and the other is the Caterpillar Dealer. So you can see that the Caterpillar Dealer is located in the north of the area. And the other two subdivisions nearby most most immediately Jolene Drive. Your Northeastern land use plan your future land use designations from your comprehensive plan adopted just under two years ago in September of 2023 are as follows. You can see the parcels in question are comprehensive planned for industrial uses as are the parcels to the south. The parcels to the north are comprehensive planned for mid- to late summer. And the parcels to the north are comprehensive planned for mixed-use office and industrial. Once again on your screen you have this is the conceptual site plan provided by the applicant. I know that you can't read the text on this on the screen you do have the the copy but once again this is conceptual in nature only they would have to go through the county's formal site plan process. Specific to comprehensive plan conformance. So the urban area section of the comprehensive plan is quite specific in terms of designating this area as urban through its in future urban of course it's comprehensive plan long-range planning. Designate this area as urban through its inclusion in the urban development area and sewer and water service areas and directs readers to the Northeast Frederick land use plan for future land use for future land uses which I've already reviewed that Mielep does designate this property as well as the boarding properties to north and south as a mix of industrial and mixed-use office and industrial. The Mielep further notes that the Martinsburg Pike and I-81 corridor continue to be predominantly planned for commercial industrial uses. And finally the Mielep also notes that the uses outside of the EDA identified targeted businesses should only be considered if they are secondary and complementary to those targeted businesses. The proposed substation is immediately adjacent to the existing transmission line and as I've already noted current access is from Thistle Lane and the site plan would also be required to accommodate a comprehensive plan road through the parcel. In summary as I've noted this is a request to determine if the proposal to construct Woodside substation is compliant with your comprehensive plan. Potential positives are as I've noted adjacent to and supports existing infrastructure as well as planned future infrastructure meaning the future land use designations in your comprehensive plan, as well as the future land use designations in your comprehensive plan, as well as planned future infrastructure meaning the future land use designations in your comprehensive plan. facility supports the development of surrounding parcels and incorporates comprehensive plan roadway One potential concern is that a portion of the property is a former preservation parcel That Jolene Drive subdivision was what most of you should be familiar with as a rural preservation subdivision That's a portion of your ordinance which allows our a lots to be as low as two acres Provided you have a 60% rural preservation lot This is such a lot. However, since that designation is when The Planning Commission and board has adopted the comprehensive plan that shows that as industrial Which is why in your staff report the current recommendation is that it is in comp plan conformance So the requested action this item is presented for public hearing Staff is seeking a determination from Planning Commission on whether the application is in Substantial accord with the comprehensive plan that substantial accord language is specifically from the 2232 state code section With that I can take any questions you have now. We also have this evening. Mr. Robert Beeman Miss Caitlin McCormick and mr. Brooks Klingman Representing the next era application. They also have a presentation Thank You mr. Bishop any questions for mr. Bishop to my left Miss Brandon It's my understanding because this is a 2232 But we're solely here for if it's in compliant with the comprehensive plan. It's that's that's your sole determination It's not do you like it? It's right. Does it need to be this way or that way? Does it meet your comprehensive plan as a land use and that's the law. Yes, ma'am The other questions Yes, but um, so the the road The collector Road, yes, ma'am Initially or on our knee lip, it's we show that kind of in the middle of this property that because Fruit Hill didn't happen. We're just kind of Pushing that aside or well, we're not although specific alignments We don't tend to stick to within a comprehensive plan because we do try and work with all the individual landowners So they're still accommodating it as they're showing it on their draft right now We do have some issues with however We're in comp playing compliance review and not specific site plan review So we'll get into those issues with the applicant as we move through the site plan assuming they're Some successful with their request. So definitely not walking away from that connection It's actually something why and I have emphasized in multiple mediums with the applicant already Other questions, can you elaborate a little bit on the rural preservation tract and how that works? It may have understanding is that the Development was put in with the intent that that stayed there. I mean if we're getting rid of that, how does that work? If we're getting rid of it that's based solely on the fact that that's how it's been comprehensive plan by the Planning Commission and board with the update of the comprehensive plan back in 2023 So it's not So much that it's staff saying oh, you don't need to do that anymore It's just part of what was determined as the best use for that land along the i-81 corridor during that comprehensive planning process Although typically That would be exactly what we'd be saying It's usually a little more in the into the rural area But part of part of your comprehensive planning is each time you're updating your comprehensive plan Oftentimes you're looking a little further out To encourage a new projection of future growth and that's a little bit of what took place when the NELA was updated looking at these additional Parcels for potential future growth and the decision was made at that time to give them this designation and Isn't that part of the rural preservation that after ten years they can Pull those reservations on or something like that something about the tenure if you're inside the UDA Which this is yeah beyond ten years potentially that could come back for a rezoning or something now in this case If someone brought that in for say an RP rezoning we'd be saying it's not comprehensive plan compliant based on how you're Current plan is currently drafted Anything else to my left Moving to my right question is to my right. Mr. Thomas. I was just gonna add it it stays RA even with the New use So with this particular use that stays RA because over my right you said so we're not rezoning it out of being an RA you are a That's correct Mr. Kearns, I understand that this is just a conceptual drawing But could you go into a little bit of depth on on what? This type of a project would require buffer wise on on the property Technically no buffers based on the current ordinance and the specific use. However, there would be a 50-foot setback requirement from the residential lots Which in this case are mostly along the west side of the parcel. Okay, so no buffers, but they would have to set back 50 feet Yes, sir. Okay now as a public utility Technically under the ordinance they can request something less however We've already spoken or in the process are speaking with our zoning administrator and have had good discussions with the applicants that that is Not something that we would be Favorably looking upon through the site plan process. The zoning administrator has that ability to say something less is not what's called for here So yes, thank you. Just want to be fully transparent on that Any other questions to my right? Yes, mr. Dehaven Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Bishop for being here tonight I know this is a bit of a different process than we normally look at so I want to thank you and your staff For putting together all this information and answering a lot of questions since it's a little out of the ordinary for us you mentioned the Rural preservation portion of this. Yes, sir. What did that would that normally mean for? restrictions on what that could be used for Normally it would mean because because normally We're talking about this outside the UDA and sewer and water service area and normally when you're looking at a rural preservation track It's already met all of its potential for residential development Inside the UDA as as we got into with with miss Brown back a minute ago beyond a certain number of years That can come back and potentially be rezoned as even a particular an RP residential typical subdivision Now if we were to be requested that here as I noted earlier, we'd be saying that's not comprehensive plan compliant But your ordinance does allow it to come to be considered But outside the sewer and water service area you're capped out now potentially someone could come in for Any number of CUP s anything that doesn't necessarily include more residential units? There are other uses that could end up happening on that parcel But in terms the focus of that is usually more Residential development in terms of what it's trying to control Okay, we mentioned I think buffers and setbacks are there height restrictions in the RA there are height restrictions You're looking at 35 feet for the building now for something like a tower That's it and and there is some gray area here because we don't get to regulate For example the height of the actual transmission line towers and that sort of thing But obviously with a use like this you're transitioning from those towers to this use so We'll have to get into the deep we would end up having to get into those details once again at the site plan However for us a standard tower if you will Every foot that's above 35 feet is another foot. They have to be back from the property line Okay at any point does it require an additional review or a CUP? So I'm assuming in this proposal they state that they've got some static poles at 110 feet dead end structures at 105 feet So I'm assuming that's part of their proposal not part of a transaction But they say there was a camera handle with the setback of a tower type structure that that could end up back in front of the board i believe those board waivers for height quiet might need to correct me if i'm wrong on that specific detail but no i think that's right and and uh i think john's reference to our ongoing conversations with the zoning administrator given that it's a gray area for where the actual electrical connection transitions from a transmission regulated activity to the substation regulated activity is how we'd have to delve into those details the other thing i would add as a relates to mr dehaven's question about the rural preservation tract is and john touched on this but i want to make it abundantly clear the rural preservation tracks are only restricted from being further subdivided that's the only real restriction that's on them otherwise there are a properties that are owned fee simply by whoever owns them they're not common space like you see in other subdivisions where the other lot owners have some like stake in it they're just singularly owned pieces of property that can do anything any other ra property can can do um thank you yeah one one other question yes sir um so in my understanding the 2232 review process we're looking at kind of three main factors location character and extent of how that fits with the comprehensive plan is that accurate i'd say that's fair yeah um in the knee lump that you'd referenced earlier specifically in the interstate in the industrial area section um it says you know while there are are residential um residences that are near where these are residential uses are planned in the transition future high intensity and development applications should seek to mitigate their impact on these residences near term so is that not part of the comprehensive plan that we would also be evaluating whether this fits with or not um part of the challenge there is when it's referring to applications it's typically referring to a rezoning applications whereby you can um have to evaluate in most cases resale securityled accounts in a location okay a reporting process on an expensive patient and go and look tell them there's always a costCOVID and saying look can i go to your service for a unit and uh you know what to thanks process file definitely is what i would be hoping to go with and as let me i wasiy think um this is common jakob action is final the board can overturn it if they would so choose if it is in and are the record of the meeting where the where the Planning Commission would say it's an essential conformance with a comprehensive plan would be all that's needed as far as a documentation however if we would go the other direction and say it's not in substantial conformance with a comprehensive plan my understanding is we have to write up a brief on while how we consider it not in substantial conformance with a comprehensive plan with a detailed explanation and detailed reasoning something so that if it did go to the appeal process whether it went to the board and it probably wouldn't go to the board it probably just go directly to court it would have to be substantially it would have to be substantial enough to to withstand the scrutiny of the judicial system is that correct yes sir that's my interpretation if I can add a little more color I guess to to your description there yeah staff would likely if you're in a situation where you're motioning to deny and seconding we would likely be asking that the language you give for your denial is fairly specific because we would in turn be capturing that in our minutes and everything for transfer of the court or to the Board of Supervisors and and that all of course lived throughout the process depending on wherever it may go yeah and my memory might not be the best but I think we had one back in the 80s or 90s where we went through the process and we were required to sign a statement at that point that said we felt that it was not in conformance with a comprehensive plan is there any requirement now that the Planning Commission members would have to sign a statement Not that we're aware of. If I had to hazard a guess, and it would be merely a guess, and I'm stealing this from Wyatt from an earlier conversation, it would be that that may have been a preference of a county attorney at the time. Okay. But we've seen nothing that says that at this point. Although I will comment that sometimes I'm reminded of how long I've been here, and I always appreciate you, Mr. Thomas, for reminding me how long it's not. Yeah. Any other questions to my right? Okay, Mr. Steen. So Mr. DeHaven brought up some good points here. So this is a private company, right, NextEra? Yes, sir. But they're basically acting as a utility. So therefore, being that it's by right, I mean, that's this gray area that we're talking about, that, you know, Tower Heights and things like that may not necessarily be limited to the county. But they're not limited due to the fact that it's a utility. Is that correct? Yeah. I believe very many, if not a majority, and I believe the applicants may be able to speak to this a little better than me and perhaps even correct me on the specific points. So forgive me if I end up being corrected on this. But my understanding, such as it is, is that the vast majority of companies like this in the United States are still privately owned companies or publicly in the form of a stock ownership or that sort of thing. Cooperatives, of course, are something that's not in the United States, but they are still private. They are something different. And we're familiar with those here, too. However, they receive certifications through state and federal level, basically certifying that they are a public utility since they are, of course, provided in public service. But like I said, I expect them to be able to answer that somewhat better than me. But that's my understanding. Thank you. Thank you. Mark. Yes, Mr. Craig. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Bishop, one more quick question. In the NEILUP or in the comprehensive plan, is there anywhere, I know some utilities are called out in locations. But. Is electrical anywhere in there? Does the NEILUP make any suggestion to where something like this should go? It does not. Short of identifying what your urban development area is, your sewer and water service, for example, sewer and water service area is simply that. It doesn't go into detail where your pump stations are and all like that. It's the same with electricity. Out of, frankly, curiosity and, once again, questions coming in, I try to do some Internet searching to see. What localities in Virginia, if any, do go to that level of detail with their comprehensive planning. And short of some fairly recent actions, for example, Loudon has a comprehensive plan amendment that is in process right now. They only just finished the public comment portion of that on September 19 of this year. It's virtually non-existent. It's just not an area to go to. Largely because you're not typically learning about what that's going to look like in the future. So. That's the point. So. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. That's the point. We got to tough to get there. That's the point. Yeah. Every now and then the BCCA has a little more actionable program. Right. And that was discussion that you guys had asked me about doing. We're working very hard on Android. And Apple is working very hard. And it comes in two different venture plans that we are working towards. Like Do complex. Or, like the Inter . Or what was the title of? That was. Let's see. We don't actually even have a say. There's separate public hearings to which the county, in terms of planning, commission, and board, are not party to. So it would only be substations if it was before it dates back beyond our research. But that does kind of make a case that it maybe is in substantial conformance. And our NELIP says that reasonable proximity of significant electrical transmission capability. And if it's through the site, that would seem to be in reasonable proximity. It's immediately adjacent to the current major transmission line. There was a portion of the NELIP, and you may have actually just quoted a piece of it. I highlighted it because I was thinking it may come up. And it's on page three of the Northeast Land Use Plan, second paragraph. It should be noted that areas north of Hopewell Road, and exit 321 to the West Virginia line, are within reasonable proximity of significant electrical transmission capability. Of course, that refers to the existing line. In turn, these areas may be well-suited for energy-intensive development if the other necessary utilities could be provided to sites, and the development provides benefit to Frederick County. Thank you. Yes, sir. Okay, any other questions? Am I right? Am I left? Mr. Bishop, aside from... I just planned this before us tonight. Who has the opportunity to review this after this body? Is that going to go through the process with your department, where it gets reviewed by multiple agencies, or how does that occur? You mean in terms of their overall work and everything? Of course, the site plan will go through our department for your normal county approval process. I'm going to have to defer to the applicant in terms of the other entities of the world that they have to satisfy, because I admit, I do not know. In your process, there will be other county departments, and I guess Virginia Department of Transportation. Yeah, VDOT weighs in on a site plan. We have a number of contributed agencies that review, as you're well aware, that also contribute to site plan review. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Yes, sir. Ms. McCormick, your turn. Here we go. Good evening. Am I good now? Thank you, Commissioners, for the opportunity to speak here today about the Woodside Substation Project. And thank you to the members of the public who took time out of their evening to be here tonight and to speak as well. My name is Caitlin McCormick, and I'm the senior director at Dextera Energy Transmission, working on our Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link project. I'm here tonight representing Dextera Energy Transmission Virginia. Dextera Energy Transmission Virginia is a subsidiary of Dextera Energy Transmission, which is one of the leading competitive transmission companies in the United States. We specialize in developing, constructing, and operating high-voltage transmission infrastructure that strengthens the regional electric grid. The Woodside Substation is part of the Dextera Energy Transmission Project. The Woodside Substation is part of the Woodside Substation. The Woodside Substation is part of the Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link Project, identified by PJM, which is the regional grid operator, to address critical reliability needs located across the region. The Woodside Substation will serve as a critical connection point, essentially an on-off ramp on the electricity highway that strengthens the electric grid and enhances the reliability for homes and businesses in Frederick County and in the broader region. The Woodside Substation, which is also part of the Dextera Energy Transmission, is a new and existing substation that will be used to supply the existing infrastructure to the community and the community. The Woodside Substation can be energized to provide immediate benefits independently from new transmission lines by connecting to existing transmission infrastructure. This site was selected because it connects directly to existing infrastructure while aligning with local zoning and the long-range industrial development along the I-81 corridor. The existing Dominion Transmission Line is physically located on this site. The existing first energy stonewall substation, which is the one that was selected, is located close by. The site does not contain any wetlands, water bodies, or archeological sites. The site aligns with Frederick County's planning goals in multiple ways. The property is zoned RA, which permits substations by right. The location supports the long-range industrial development contemplated for this I-81 corridor. We have provided a conceptual site plan included in your packet. This does include a landscaping buffer that is approximately 50 to 75 feet wide along the western and southern property line where the site abuts residential properties. If approved tonight, we would work through that process to make sure that that's appropriately designed in accordance with the site plan process. Additionally, our conceptual site plan reserves an area for potential future north-south collector roadway, I think, to be used as a potential site plan. Thank you. Thank you. Great job, thank you, Dr. Antrim, and I ask that keeps that thought complain very to the curb too, and hopefully I think described in the best way possible. Thank you very much, Ms. Teague, and I looked forward to listening to all of you. I do think that the이나i specifically is an area under the depending title of the site plan, for the site. the Commission. Good evening. As Caitlin mentioned, my name is Rob Beeman and I am a Virginia land use attorney with the Troutman Pepper Law Firm here tonight on behalf of NextEra Energy Transmission Virginia. Caitlin gave you a good overview of what the proposed use is, but I'd like to speak a little bit more about the specific reason we're before you this evening. Section 15.2-2232 of the Virginia Code states that before a public utility facility can be constructed, the County Planning Commission must determine whether the location character and extent of the facility is substantially in accord with the County's comprehensive plan. With respect to the proposed land use in this case, it's important to note that the Comp Plan places a heavy emphasis on the attraction and expansion of industrial uses within the County, which the Comp Plan states are necessary to provide a thriving economy, a broad selection of employment opportunities, and lower residential real estate taxes. On page 29 of the Comp Plan, it goes so far as to state that the County's fiscal survival is not a concern for the County. The Commission's plan is to ensure that the County's fiscal survival is not a concern for the County. The Commission's plan is to ensure that the County's fiscal survival is not a concern for the County. The Commission's plan is to ensure that upon recruiting office and industrial occupants. According to the comprehensive plan, and as also noted in the staff report that Mr. Bishop prepared for this evening, improved electrical infrastructure within the County is necessary to support additional industrial growth. On page 29, the plan states that with regard to electrical infrastructure, manufacturers will require adequate supply and availability, but will also be interested in quality and service reliability, and that's exactly what the Woodside substation is intended to provide. The plan states that with regard to electrical infrastructure, manufacturers will require adequate supply and availability, but will also be interested in quality and service reliability, and that's exactly what the Woodside substation is intended to provide. As Caitlin highlighted just a few minutes ago during her remarks, the substation will provide key upgrades to the capability and the reliability of the grid serving the County, which will help to facilitate continued industrial growth. It is the case that a portion of the site is classified as rural preservation tract, and although the planning, sorry, although the comprehensive plan generally states that rural preservation tracts of this type can potentially be used for agricultural purposes or for preservation purposes, the plan is not necessarily a good fit for the community. As Mr. Bishop indicated, the Northeast Frederick Land Use Plan specifically identifies the subject property as being suitable for industrial uses in the future. This is likely due to the property's location along I-81 and its adjacency to other parcels that are also designated for industrial land uses. This is very significant for purposes of the 15.2-22-32 evaluation that the Planning Commission is asked to do this evening, as the comprehensive plan states that area plans, such as 7.2-10-10- gallons would be jewelled six or more Mits before first building the ground, and luego se constituase a coeur degrasse a helioel of water and sea and for vehicle throughout the existing reply areas. This type of planning indicates that the today's��� Mortal G hepser plan isужuea to account for non- parachute leaving economic risks to families in the future. S internor Sanisugή Dhi 가능n lhite the engineering department a long-term patina to deposit the water at the導чY floodinder Wir connecto.ulaamientos pojawPadhr Santiago Municip cambio Kylie semblen that the commission adopt the recommendation of its planning staff and find that the Woodside substation is substantially in accord with the county's comprehensive plan. And with that, we'll certainly stand by for questions and we thank you for your consideration of this application. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. We have lots of questions for you. Don't go away. I'll start to my left. Okay. Ladies. Um, my question is, did you look at other sites? Um, particularly there's a, a, a little substation, I think on Branson Springs that, uh, did we look at that area to maybe expand that since there's already one there? We looked, uh, throughout the area. Um, we needed to get a site that was adequate for the size of the facility we had, obviously screened for environmental constraints, um, and then proximity and as close as we could possibly be to minimize any additional lines. Um, and then we looked at the area that was adequate for the size of the facility we had, but we needed to get a site that was adequate for the size of the facility we had, for that substation were key. Um, in addition, we needed willing, uh, landowners that were willing to engage in that part of the process. So we did, uh, look throughout the region, uh, but there's quite a bit of other development happening and other, uh, infrastructure happening over in that vicinity. Okay. For the comprehensive plan that you're talking about future and where it will help, but it's also to stabilize, the current use of the region, correct? Yeah, please head. With regard to the energy use, this is part of the upgrades that PJM is the regional grid operator, and they make sure that the electricity goes from where it is being generated to where it's needed, keep the lights on here, homes and businesses throughout the region. Our project was awarded in 2023, and we responded to a solicitation from PJM earlier that year identifying needs based on existing needs and interconnections at that time, and it's needed to accommodate what was already identified at that time to support the grid and its needs in the coming years. Thank you. Any other questions to my left? To my right. Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for being here this evening. Just a couple questions for you. The application states, it talks about subcontracting several different transmission lines that are in that right-of-way there, some of which I don't think have even been through the approval process. How does that change the scope or size of this substation? Yeah, so we are going to connect to the existing 500 Dominion transmission line that crosses that site. There is an existing 138KV line that crosses that site that interconnects to the Stonewall substation. We'll be interconnecting to that substation through that substation. We'll be connecting to that network there. In addition, there is an additional line that is under review and was awarded by PJM that would potentially also connect into this substation. And that is all designed as the substation is laid out at this time. So what we have here accounts for all of those? Yes, sir. If there were additional projects that came through that right-of-way that were to come to this substation, does this substation then get bigger? Right now, we are not aware of any other potential projects that could interconnect into this substation. I recognize that there is another project that has been discussed in this county that is not planned to interconnect to the substation. Okay. Any other questions to my right? Mr. Kerns? Thank you for being here this evening. And excuse me, you know, we get so much into the rezoning mindset because that's what we get all the time. So I'm trying to walk within that. And obviously, you know, there's no proffers, nothing like that. This is not that kind of a question. This question is just, what do you plan to do? I know this is just conceptual plan, but for those property owners that immediately abut this, that this will be basically in their backyard, it's not a lot of space in between kind of where, what are you thinking? Do you have some ideas of what you would do there? Or if you would go above and beyond there, like, do you have, what would you do for those property owners? Yes. Let me pull up the map so I can talk from that. Appreciate that you acknowledge that that's not formally part of this process, but we want, recognizing that, we want to make sure that we're giving you all the information you're asking for. Looking at this map, there's two shades of green. There is a little bit of a grass area that is located around the outer periphery, or sorry, the light green around the substation layout, and that's to make sure that they have access. There's clear if they need to see that to meet the safety standards. Around the exterior area in the slightly darker green is a proposed landscaping buffer, which would be 50 to 75 feet. It would be a mix of evergreen and deciduous vegetation, and that would be designed by a landscape architect, and then that would be maintained by us as part of our operation of the site. Okay. Had you considered any sort of a berm or anything like that, or fencing or anything like that, or are you just thinking planting at this point? So we are required to have fencing around the substation facility, and then we have to have a lot of other things that we need to do to make sure that we're able to do that. So we're going to be looking at the construction of the building, and then we're going to be looking at the construction of the building itself to make sure that we're adhering with the safety standards and the requirements that we have. We'd be happy to take any of those ideas back to the team as we're evaluating this. Mr. DeHaven. Thank you. Looking through the application. I'm sorry. Looking through the application here, under your character and extent section two, talks about the project is set back at least 100 feet from the eastern property line nearest I-81, and at least 40 feet from the property lines of the eastern property line nearest I-81, and at least 40 feet from the property lines of residences. So you have a significantly bigger setback from 81 than you have from residences. And I believe that 40 feet is under what the buy-right ordinance is of 50 feet. So is that the intent to be under the ordinance and request a waiver? Our intent is to work within the requirements that are there, and I will take that feedback back to the team and confirm the 50 feet, because as I noted before, we are looking at 50 to 75 feet of land. Okay. So we're going to have to make sure that we have a landscaping buffer in that area. And one more question. So in reference to the NELIP, which I think we've kind of understood as part of the guiding document here, in a section that specifically talks about the higher and more intense uses in these areas, it also says the projects and proposals should mitigate to the best of their ability the impact on residences that border them. Would you say that 40-foot buffer meets that? I don't know. I think it's important to understand that we're at the front of a long process, and we intend to work with the planning staff throughout the site plan process. We're committed to providing adequate buffers and working with staff in terms of exactly what that looks like. I know there's been some additional ideas discussed, but it's very conceptual at this stage. We just haven't entered that site plan approval process, but we are committed to making sure that buffer is meaningful. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. You mentioned the buffers. I noticed there's drain fields on the edge of this property. What kind of buffers are we talking about that would not interfere with these drain fields? If I may ask a clarifying question to make sure I understand your question. There are a couple of easements for septic. Are those the areas you're referring to? Yes. Yes. So we'll work with the landscape architect to better understand, one, the design there and the restrictions there, and as we work through that process, we would make sure that those are being maintained or if we needed to adjust them on our property to accommodate those uses or come up with some sort of a solution there, we would work through that, but we'll work with a landscape architect to make sure that we don't have any effects there. Also, does this put out any kind of noise, humming, or anything like that? or anything like that? So we have conducted a sound study on the property and have preliminary results from that. The full report is not yet complete, but that found that the noise after the equipment is on the site is consistent with the background noise that is already occurring at the site from I-81, and at I-81, some of those peak noise levels are later in the day and in the evening hours is when that noise is more audible from the interstate. Are these uninsulated lines? Yes. I'd have to get back to one of our engineers and confirm that, but we're going to adhere to all of the safety standards and all of the appropriate standards there. I'll confirm. Yeah, the reason I brought that up, it's been known that uninsulated lines produce a third O. Thank you. Any other questions? All right. To my left? I've got several for you, because I knew you were anticipating my questions. Your application item two talks about independent utility, the independent utility portion of this, and how it's going to benefit us. Can you paint some more color on that for me? Because, as I mentioned earlier, we represent Frederick County and we're real interested in, what is this going to do for Frederick County, as well as what does it do to Frederick County? Yeah. So I did get a sheet from PJM that they passed along for the commission, so you should have a copy of that from Wyatt. But what I'd like to share from there is that, in their words, the Woodside substation is an integral required element of a PJM board approved project that encompasses new transmission facilities, including our project, the Mesa project, and the Woodside Substation Project. So I think that's a great point. And I think this is interesting, and I feel confident that the City is participating in the bosonoting project we're reveal this to virtually every, because you know Phil's talking. This is OK for ordinary residents. So if our community is sharing, we're going to necessarily be shredding some proporesty for this and keeping some of the masculacy in a reasonable period of time. So that's more like all I have later because so let's move on. To then go to the next slide. This one supports, this Dusk project, which is 15 Shine State glands, and you'll see that at that time every component is prof devient, provide, and this is located on the second and third major bullets under that first section. It's also going to include voltage support over the power network through the addition of a stat com, which is an extra piece of specialized equipment that would be included here. It's going to provide the ability for voltage along the system to be better regulated. In addition to that, so that's some of the electrical benefits, and it's going to serve customers here in Frederick County, Virginia. In addition to that, we will be paying taxes on this facility that would be assessed and determined by the SCC at the appropriate rate to come here, but we would be expecting somewhere in the vicinity of $150 to $200 million in tax revenue to be coming into the county. Over what period of time? Over a 40-year period of time. Over 40 years? Okay. Okay, so you're going to connect up the existing transmission lines to the substation first? Yes. Is that correct? Okay, so that'll be Dominion's 500, and is there 135 there as well? The 138 that interconnects the Stonewall. Okay, and you've done environmental studies on this property as well? Yes, we did. We had biologists out to do wetland and water body delineations as well as a cultural resources study. And what did those studies show? There were no archaeological sites located on the parcel, and there are no wetlands or water bodies located on the site. There was a lot of Civil War stuff that went on around here. It seems like every place you dig, you can find relics, and I'm surprised you did not. Yep. Shenandoah Valley Electric is our co-op that serves that area. Are they going to get connected to you somehow in this substation? So this system and interconnection is going to feed the overall system, so electricity that moves onto the grid and comes through the 500 system to the 138 system will continue moving through the system and into the cooperative system in the grid as well. The electricity is going to move where it's needed as it's moving throughout the system, whether that's to the 138 system or from there elsewhere into the electric grid. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm not sure you answered my question. Yes, it will feed in and serve the Shenandoah Valley co-op as well. Okay. All right. Mr. DeHaven? I guess we're going to tag team you. Follow-up question since we've gone down the thread. In the paper you passed out from PGM, it talks about the installation of a STATCOM to provide voltage support to the power network. Is that the local power network, or is that more to provide voltage regulation on the transmission lines that are transmitting power to the east? So I will caveat my comments. I'm an electric systems planner or engineer, but that's designed to serve the system as a whole. It's going to affect how that moves throughout the entire system. It's not just isolating moving in one direction. It serves the overall grid. Including controlling the voltage on the transmission lines progressing to the east? As well as going in all directions. That is part of the full grid. On the transmission side? Yes. Not the local delivery side? Because we're talking about transmission substation, not a local substation, correct? Correct. Okay. Mr. Whitaker, do you have another question? Yes. So this is really just allowing more hookup and routing. Are you generating any more electricity? This project is just to serve as a highway for electricity. We will not be doing any generation and any power source that is on the grid that could come on and off the network could serve as the electricity moving through. Okay. So this increases demand and does not increase energy production? This is... By allowing... By allowing additional hookups. This is to serve the current demand and help the electricity move from where it's being generated throughout the system to better serve customers. It will not affect the demand. It's simply a conduit allowing the electricity to move through the system. Okay. When was the last time that a station like this was used? Okay. When a substation like this was upgraded, developed for our area. Do you have a feel for that? I don't off the top of my head. I can't speak to anybody else. I don't have the date. We could certainly look that up and get back to you after the fact. Okay. All right. Well, thank you very much. I will give you an opportunity to respond after the public hearing. And thank you. Thank you. Okay. This is a public hearing. And I will open the public hearing for the public to consider. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right. All right. I will open the public hearing for the public to comment. Address your comments to the Planning Commission, please. Limit them to three minutes or less. I will need you to give your name and your magisterial district that you live in, here in Frederick County. And with that, I will open the public hearing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We did signups this time. So, I'll go ahead and read off the names as we go. First is David Dixon. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good evening, sir. Hello. My name is David Dixon. I live in the Stonewall District. And after listening to all this, we've been talking about this substation or power station that they're planning on building. We have four sections of land that four different families live in from 34 over in the Clearbrook area. Tax map numbers, tax numbers. It was from 34A, 124E, all the way down to 34A, 124C. It's four different families living there. And my question is, I'm hearing about... About the substation. Is the substation going to take more right-of-way from our property? We got the transmission lines right behind our house. And my son's building a house right now. And we're under roof right now. And we're at a standstill because we don't know if they're going to be taking more land off of our properties for these transmission lines that are going to be coming off of this substation. My question is, if anybody knows anything what's going on here, with the transmission lines existing right-of-ways right now, with this substation coming in, are they going to take more right-of-way property from the existing landowners for wherever land or wherever power they're going to be sending this? It's more an information session than it is me complaining about what's going on. Because the situation is, nobody can tell us anything until it happens. So, the question is, maybe, can you answer that, young lady? With the substation going in, is that going to have to take more right-of-way property? Mr. Dixon, I need you to address your comments to the Planning Commission, sir. If you could answer the question, sir. Is the substation going to be taking more property from... The right-of-way of the landowners within the Frederick County? The substation that's proposed is what she presented, which is on the west side of Interstate 81. Yes, sir. And there are other projects she mentioned that will have public hearings at a later date, but that is not what we're considering here this evening. We're only looking at the substation to fulfill this question that has been posed to us. So, still a possibility of more right-of-way property? Yes, sir. And we're looking at the property from the transmission lines being taken from the landowners, and we don't know that yet, right? We do not know that, no, sir. Okay, because my son's under roof right now, and we still don't want to build it anymore if we're going to just have to tear it down. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, next on the list is Kurt Krieger, and he also provided an information packet that I'm passing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if I can pass it to the question. Good afternoon, members of the commission. Mr. Chairman, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek Magisterial District. I have three primary concerns, which I enumerated in the handout, and I'll speak to those briefly. I'm involved with a group called Hands Off the Valley. We're not just concerned about what happens in our immediate backyard, but since substations appear to be, you know, we're not just concerned about what happens in our immediate backyard, but since substations appear to be, on the docket for expansion nearly everywhere in North and South Frederick County, we wanted to go on record with some concerns. I have three concerns. Negative aspects on residential home values by the proposed action. Negative impacts on the quality of life by the proposed action, especially because of inadequate buffers. And that Frederick County's current standards in enforcement of buffers are inadequately and insufficiently enforced. Just to summarize, there are five residential properties severely affected. I'm sure they will speak to it themselves. But I quickly pulled the database of those land sales, what people pay for those homes, and what they're currently valued at using the current Zillow estimates. I think they're low. Zillow doesn't include any improvements that you have made to your property. But nonetheless, everyone purchased these homes in the last five years. Some purchased them just in the last two years. They've paid nearly every person has paid over half a million dollars. And they're currently valued between $535,000 and $680,000. What you're doing here today has real effects on real people. The buffers proposed on the westerly boundary of 40 and on the easterly boundary of 100 feet, I think are inadequate. And I'm particularly concerned about the fact that the number of people who are living in the area are not being paid for the property. And I'm particularly concerned that they show you a plan view. They don't show you an elevation view of what this looks like from the freeway or what this looks like from somebody's backyard. So they are very rudimentary plans, not at all detailed and insufficient. But what I'm concerned about is a visual blight, especially at night, because these are fully illuminated. They look like airports from a distance. And they will have a lot of light and glare, which will disturb people in the immediate area. As I note, I'm concerned about the lack of commitment to a buffer. I did my own calculations using the angle of repose of 30 degrees, the width of the buffers as proposed. And they could get a minimum of about 12 feet of a buffer in that area up to about 30 feet in that area. They're proposing coniferous trees mixed with eastern hardwood forest. I have some pictures of what an eastern hardwood buffer looks like. They're actually looking at the area. And I'm concerned about the fact that they're absolutely worthless in terms of visual screening. So I think they should probably all be coniferous. And they should be irrigated with a survivability guarantee. In other words, you have to water these trees for the first three to five years for them to actually survive. So I've included photographs of existing substations and existing buffers to illustrate my points. I'd be happy to respond to any questions you might have. Thank you, Mr. Craig. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next speaker is Peter Mielke, to be followed by Teresa Georgie. Good evening, Board. Good evening, sir. My name is Peter Mielke. I had mentioned it's Back Creek, Gore, Virginia. I'm directly impacted by the power lines that are intended to go from the Pennsylvania location to Gore substation. And basically, they're planning on moving to the Pennsylvania substation. So I'm going to go ahead and go ahead and talk about that. So I'm going to go ahead and talk about that. So I'm going to go ahead and talk about that. I'm planning on taking about 26 acres of my property for the last of two stanchions that will go to the substation, which I understand will grow by about four times its current size, and of course traverse an Indian burial ground, which I'm assuming they will bulldoze for the process. I find it pretty illogical to do it. High tension power lines are ancient technology at this point in time and very inefficient. The project is supposed to go across 100 acres of land. And to my understanding, this has so far been your stretch of the And to our expatriate agreement, one point comes to our back that the Tennessee government's plans to go a separateざ hundred and thirty four. A 100 miles and that's a tremendous amount of loss as far as power. It's a one percent lost per mile of transmission line. So you have to produce 100, thirty four percent more to make impres 단erne and finally gets to gore. And also in doing so they're planning on destroying resc ändxxx잣 Loudoun County, I'm sure Empower will end up in Loudoun one way or another to feed the 200 data centers in Loudoun County, is NVTC, which is the Northern Virginia Technology Council, and I would suggest anyone who is interested in stopping the process to contact them and make other suggestions. To give you an idea of how much data centers use, five data centers equals one district of Columbia in power consumption. So Loudoun alone will be using as much as 40 district of Columbias in power. That's a, you know, think about how much power that really is, considering D.C. has a coal plant and a nuclear plant feeding it currently. I only see one real solution to doing this, and this is part of why I'm here, is I would like to see you, Frederick County, actually offer Loudoun County suggestions, strongly suggest to NVTC. Absolutely. In addition to power production, how did Loudoun County come up with the idea that toim painful ice being yogurt Ban podría causar o tipo. Well first of all, I just said that because a lot of all these other, you know, later on, I think this is something more than 65, they were still trying. I think we were talking to letzten years about. They're not sure if we want to get to 50 percent on the dir changes an hour because we have to go back through all of that stuff.記roy of Local Substitutions andımızı consultants and yesterday actually in my feedback I'll share This is a quit severe, where I find that is congenial and deja vu. So now it seems like the ones who work in all these other media centers are of a plane direction with the Web and Internet. But let's you know where, and I've and the result states that earlier the government mission lines, would save all of the trees, will save all of the heartache of having, you know, again, like my land taken, other people's land. There are hundreds of people affected by these lines. And again, it's ancient technology. The cracking and noise that you hear, that's all the EMF pollution that they're producing. And I know they've been arguing for 20 years of their toxicity, but EMF is a potential health hazard. So, I'd like you to consider pushing the nuclear reactors instead. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next speaker is Theresa Georgie, followed by Karen Newman. Good evening, Ms. Georgie. Good evening, Planning Commission. Can you hear me? Oops, no. No, you turned it off. Okay. Good evening, Planning Commission and neighbors and friends. My name is Theresa Georgie. I actually am in Loudoun County. I'm on the other end of the Mount St. Louis River. I'm on Storm Dobbs transmission line. We fought with you guys years ago to get the 765 KV path transmission line declined. And I'm here supporting my neighbors who are also rural residents. So I don't live here, but I have friends. And like my family, they've lived and raised their friends, their families in a rural country setting for decades. Even though your transmission, your comprehensive plan is not going to be as good as the one that you're talking about. I'm going to tell you a little bit about that. So the comprehensive plan was passed in 2023. It's now three years and the substations are not the same as other industrial uses. So once you have a substation, that's not the end of it. So this one is here and it will be in place for the existing transmission lines. And then there will be another two that will be connected to it. Much like Ashburn. Ashburn is now home to hundreds of data centers. Substations are being added like on a weekly basis almost it seems. There's two 500 KV lines that are now being pushed in Circle Air communities. And out here, you are located between the thermal base load in Western County in West Virginia and Loudoun County's energy appetite. So at this point, you're going to be crisscrossed by the two transmission lines. The one that you're aware of, the 500 KV Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link and the 765 Valley Link. In the new 2025 Window 1 proposals, PGM is evaluating a proposal to modify the Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link Gore-Dobbs Goose Creek project to add another 500 KV line. They have not approved it yet, but that doesn't mean that they won't approve it this year or next year or the year after. this transmission line is, once this substation is placed here, it's going to be a magnet for additional transmission lines. So the siting and the location of this line is going to be very important. The siting of the substation is going to be very important for the rest of these communities. They're going to be sandwiched between 500 kV lines, 765 kV lines, the substations, and these data centers. So make no mistake, if next error prevails and is granted, um, conformity, they will, they will use that area to its maximum allowed footprint per the zoning ordinance. This is the wrong location for a 30-acre substation. You should find a location that's already zoned for industrial use and not co-located by the residences. I would, in conclusion, I would say, I will just let you read the last paragraph on here, that I would like you to preserve the rural preservation tract from the Ridgeway Estate subdivision on, along Jolene Drive for its original intent, which was for agricultural purposes or to preserve natural and environmental features for the residents and homeowners. Thank you. Next speaker is Karen Newman, followed by Alfred Ghiorzi. I guess this is on. Yes, okay. Good evening, everyone. I'm Karen Newman. I'm from Jefferson County, West Virginia. And I'm a regular attendee at PJM interconnection meetings, the transmission expansion advisory committee meeting, where they plan these things. So I'd just like to go over a little bit of PJM history about this line. Um, PJM's interconnection planning process approved, this is not a new one, the new one, it was first approved by the county council in 2018. So this is the first time we've seen the project be approved. The project will continue to be approved for the project to be approved during the next 5 to 6 months. this substation and a number of new high-voltage transmission lines through Frederick County because of new data center load in Loudoun County. There was no need for additional electricity supply for Frederick County's needs. In February of 2023, this was one of PJM's slides at their planning committee, and it has a purpose for the Morrow line and this substation. And I will quote it for you. It says, to address reliability needs in the Dominion and APS zones primarily associated with data center load forecasts up to 7,500 megawatts by 2027-2028. It's not Frederick County that is adding thousands of megawatts of data center load. It's Loudoun. The substation and transmission line are nothing more than a gigantic extension cord from West Virginia's coal-fired power plants to Loudoun County. We are nothing but flyover country that will be impacted by Loudoun's out-of-control data center boom. Loudoun doesn't have the resources to power what it's building, and it's not using its tax revenue received from the data centers to build new power. Instead, Loudoun is demanding that we end up paying hundreds, sorry, Loudoun is demanding that other counties and states sacrifice to enable its further profit. The transmission lines and the substation are cost-allocated to every customer in PJM, although the beneficiary of the lines is Loudoun's data center industry consisting of some of the wealthiest companies on the planet. Virginians and electric consumers in other states will end up paying hundreds of millions of dollars to plug in Loudoun's golden goose. The Woodside substation would be part of the new 500 kilovolt circuit that begins in Greene County, Pennsylvania, and travels approximately 160 miles to an existing substation called Goose Creek, which is right in the heart of Data Center Alley. The Woodside substation was planned to connect an existing 500 kilovolt transmission line from Dominion's Mount Storm Power Station with the new 500 kilovolt transmission line in order to feed even more power to Loudoun's data centers. The substation was not planned to serve Frederick County. PJM only plans infrastructure that is used and useful. It does not build substations or transmission lines based on economic speculation of future needs. Thank you. Thank you. Alfred Giorzi, followed by Jennifer. My name is Alfred Giorzi. I live in Loversville, Virginia, Loudoun County, northwest Loudoun County. I owned a home in Shawnee Land, so I'm not a stranger to Frederick County, and we often came back to Frederick County to pick apples in the fall. The vistas out here are spectacular, and it would be a crying shame if people came to Frederick County for any reason to look at the data center. I'm Alfred Giorzi. I live in Loversville, Virginia, Loudoun County, and I am the director of the Novel Point Department. And I enjoy the great opportunity of distances weeks will be several times a year. And it has come up on the toxics Consumer One, so earlier this year, it has come out on the top of our website a large hill range in Washington County. 368 outright왈 threat, 1963 roadwi she just reported experiences at home being , and this one is still nothing of their have not allowed. We're going to have to call episodes about it today. We hope we come back at just now. If I could keep going here, you have to make it right and see what kinds of future matters there is going to occur. These lines are needed for one reason only, to subsidize the budget of Loudoun County. 50% of Loudoun County's budget comes from data center revenue. Right now there are 199 data centers in Ashburn. 117 more are somewhere in the process. There is no way to meet this demand reasonably. There is an alternative. We don't need these overhead power lines. Since 1967, first in England and then spreading across Western Europe, Eastern Europe, HVDC technology. It's buried underground, six feet underground. It could go in the air. It could go through the air. It could go underwater. Projects have been approved and built 67 miles long. Other projects, one up in New York. 300 miles. 840 miles. Above ground, underground, underwater. From the Canadian border to Long Island. The technology is here. And all these projects were funded privately. The rate payers up there did not pay a penny for these billion dollar projects. The Hudson River power project, $6 billion. Not a penny of rate payer money. Amazon, Google, Microsoft. They should pay for undergrounding every single power line that goes to data center. Don't be lured in by false promises. I'm just going to then submit the list. I'm sorry I don't have one for everyone. But as you know, technology caught up with me and my printer failed. You can give it to the gentleman right over here. He'll be glad to take it. Thank you, sir. Jennifer Smith followed by Leslie Spencer. Hello. My name is Jennifer Smith. I'm actually one of the people who live against this proposed location. It's a little shocking, I have to say, to see how large that facility will be. I feel like we should have been notified prior to the land being purchased. This should have been discussed before we got to this point. And this substation is not for Frederick County. They have told loud newspapers and everyone that this is solely to fund energy down to the Northern Virginia area. So our property values are going to be down. We are going to have this horrible view outside of our property. And we, it's already in the works. And it's not to benefit us. We're not going to get anything from it. Except to lose our rural area. We have beautiful property where we're at. We have lots that are very quiet. We have wonderful neighbors. And it is a place that people continuously bought into when the housing market was in a boom. Who's going to want to buy next to that? What are we supposed to do with that? It ruins our community. I mean, that is absolutely ridiculous. And it's not even for us. It is for Loudoun County. It's not for Frederick County. It is for Loudoun County. It would be different if it was something for us. But they could have looked at other areas. But they're backing up to a neighborhood that has wonderful property values. And they're ruining it. Some of those houses at the peak sold over $700,000. Those houses will not sell at that price again. It will be ruined. The noise that comes from those lines that are already existing there is loud. I can't imagine what the noise volume will be with that. They say they've done testing. I live there. I live right up on that back end. I know the noise. I know the lights. I know what is out there. They're not being honest. And we don't want this. Nobody in that neighborhood would want this. And this is a problem. And we're not going to let that happen. This is unacceptable. Something like this should not be allowed to be bought up. They should have to come before they purchase the property. And they should have to come before everybody. And explain what they want to do with the land. It should not be this far. You should not be voting on this. This is not for us. It is not a benefit to us. And it will ruin our values. It's not going to be something we want to live near. And health-wise, wildlife-wise, it's horrible. And I hope that you guys do not vote for this. I agree with you. I agree with you. I appreciate your time. Leslie Spencer followed by Brian Hockman. And Leslie has a handout that I'm passing along to you all. Good evening, commissioners. My name is Leslie Spencer and I live in Gainesboro. Tonight I want to share why this proposed substation, although zoned for future industrial use, does not comply with our comprehensive plan. The plan is designed to protect the resources of the residents of Virginia, including our community. And it will protect our most important entrances. I provided you with the exact text from our overall current Frederick County comp plan. The choice you made tonight is huge. When a mom or dad says, welcome to Virginia, we're in Virginia now, their children will look out the window with curiosity. Well, they see a wall of heavy industrial or a thoughtful landscape that tells them that they have arrived somewhere truly special. Visitors come here for festivals, history, farming and nature getaways. And they come to Virginia to see the nature and the nature of this region. I'm going to have to ask a few questions. I'm going to be asking you a question in the chat. This is a question we have received. This question is for a long time. And it's a non-existent question. And you have to answer it. farming, and nature getaways. Tourism touches every household in our county. It lowers taxes, provides jobs, and contributes to our higher quality of life. The comprehensive plan is clear. First impressions often set the tone for a visitor's experience. The character of entrance corridors is a key factor in their decision to stay longer and hopefully return. Placing something this overwhelming and visible at our front door does not align with the vision outlined in the overall comprehensive plan. That vision is about protecting entrance corridors, welcoming visitors, and balancing growth that uplifts our rural and tourism assets. We are not anti-development. We are pro-excellence. Business leaders also visit here. Our gateway could mix in small cafe or even industrial office headquarters, such as our Trex or American Woodmark, bringing high-wage jobs, softening our entrance, and reflecting industrial innovation and pride. By protecting our wealth and property, we can build a new world. We can build a new world. We can build a new world. We can build a new world. By welcoming upscale brands and image to millions, we send a clear message to outside investors and developers. When they come here, they should know we believe in doing our very best, and we expect the same level of care, intelligence, and sophistication from those fortunate enough to build with us. Let's help create a stunning entrance. This will be remembered as one of the best decisions we've ever made, a lasting choice with positive impacts, ensuring we continue to have a great future. to shine for generations. Thank you. Thank you. Brian Hockman, followed by Janice Dixon. Good evening. I'm Brian Hockman. I'm from Hampshire County, but I was raised in the Stonewall District, and I'm kind of on the other end of this project because my property is being impacted by the Morrow Line. So, you know, just to give you a brief history of what I went through, when they came to me in April and said that this was going to be for Hampshire County, and this was going to, you know, help not having any blackouts or brownouts in my area, and I thought, oh, wonderful, because I have already got transmission lines on my property. I think, great, more wires. So I go to the open house because I have cattle on my property, and I wanted to know what the process was going to be erecting these giant towers. So I asked just to find out because, you know, what am I going to do with the cows while they're doing all this? I wanted to find out how long all this is going to take. So one of my last questions I asked them after they answered all those was, I said, what substations are you guys planning on hitting on your way from Greene County, Pennsylvania to Gore? And in May, they said none. So I was like, okay. So that tells me that that's not for Hampshire County at all. Well, then I find out later that they decided to tie into a Cumberland station, but I too monitor PJM's TIAC meetings monthly, and I found out in June that they were looping into that substation because of what they called a voltage violation. Voltage violation is under voltage. So they're going to tie into, loop into Cumberland's 500k grid, and they're going to tie into a Cumberland station. So I'm going to ask them to juice this line up just in case the voltage drops before it gets to Gore. So my only thing is here, when I saw this substation going in, I feel like you guys didn't even realize you had an energy problem until Marl came through and wanted to put this in. And now, of course, this is what they say it's for. I just don't want you guys to fall into that trap. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Janice Dixon followed by Michael Sproul. My name is Janice Dixon. I live in Clearbrook. I just wanted to comment that I'm opposed to the substation being built and the overhead large-scale, the transmission lines. I know the study's been proven that the radioactive and the electronic energy is not going to be able to go through the radios and the radioactivity. The electromagnetic field produced by these mega-scale power lines will cause cancer and leukemia. And I have private property built and created to suit me growing old there. So my animals live in the backyard. And I will not accept the destruction of the land, be it with the animals and the crops. And also, the environment I live in, it has many trees, and I don't want to give up my peace to my animals. And I have a sense that it's not going to go well. I'm going to have to make some changes. I'm going to have to make some changes as well. We'll see how long it takes to make that transition. But I'm going to have to make some changes. tranquility for the corporate gain. I also need to protect my private property from the greedy millionaires that if they need it then they should go buy their own countryside. And I also will not allow the greedy to trespass into my life and property and I want to protect the quality of my life and not have these mega power transmission lines destructing my property and loss of my property value and the right to my health and safety and also the environment. And I do got some questions in reference to the map over here. It says it reads that you have buffering but I don't see how any buffers can work for 185 foot mega tower transmission lines. They don't make any buffers big enough for these power lines that they have scheduled and it looks to me that the country road is that a bribery for the county to buy their plan. I don't think country road, we have plenty of country roads we don't need any others put in and the buffers aren't going to work for these transmission lines. So. I would also like to question the plan that they had with the drain water and the septics. They didn't have any plan on that did they? They said they had to make that up when it came when the time came. Is that what I heard? Did y'all hear any answer on that? I think that's something they're going to work on. They didn't have any plan for that? We're here to determine if this complies with our comprehensive plan. So we don't have that detail at this time. So I think that's a major problem that they need to figure out before they try making the plans. Thank you. Thank you Ms. Dixon. Michael Sproul followed by Amy Goodyear. Good evening sir. Good evening chairman, vice chairman and board. I found out about this this morning about eight o'clock what I was going to say has been changed from what everything else has said. I agree with the nukes, I'll talk about that a little bit. Can you tell us which district you're in please sir? I'm in Gore district, I live out by Gore but I'm in the Gainesboro district. Okay thank you. Okay I've lived in Frederick County for 20 years now. In 20 or 2009 I was in the Gainesboro district. Okay thank you. I've lived in Frederick County for 20 years now. In 2009 I was in the Gainesboro district. I'm in the Gainesboro district. Okay thank you. Okay thank you Gov. Governor Nielsen thank you. Thank you Senator theology. Gov. Attorney General Gov. President... around nuclear reactors for one-tenth of my life. I'll be 70 here in four months. I have been for 25 years, one-fifth of my life, managing and supporting protection of nuclear weapons. The problem with nuclear weapons and all that is a lot of BS. By Mr. Thomas' comment that you are not approving the power lines, but you are by a fait accompli of doing this, contributing to the delinquency of those people that don't want to manage their own power. Those people in Loudoun County know what they need to do because the state of Virginia passed a law that no more fossil fuels, nuclear power is not fossil fuel, it's hot rock. They can do it, put package nukes in it and not have a problem. We keep pushing the problem down the line. Two months ago I asked Nextera two questions. What cyber standards are you gonna use to protect the equipment that's gonna manage the power? What is the end-to-end power loss for this power line? It's more than 1% because it doesn't take into account all the transmission changes as it goes to a substation. It's a lot greater than that. And moving it from all the way in Pennsylvania, all the way to Leesburg, and we are going to be paying for some of that in Frederick County because we're not getting any benefits from it. If this is part of your plan, comprehensively, we're gonna be paying for it. If this is part of your plan, it's not gaining you anything unless we have a major power loss within the PJM coverage area. PJM has mismanaged for years what they're doing because they don't tell everybody what's going on. I've asked questions about what's going on. My house is one of the houses that was gonna get destroyed basically when PATH came through. If not this plan for the 500 and the 138, that goes through, I just have to look at a 150-foot tower, right? I'm gonna have to look at a 150-foot tower, an eyesore all the time. If the next one goes through on my property, my property's gone. I thank you for your time. I've aggravated about this because if I lose my property, I have built a facility to teach Wounded War Kids, First Responder Kids, and Homeschool Kids trades. That power line will destroy what I'm about to finish. Thank you and have a good evening. Amy Goodyear followed by Steve Goodyear. I'm back. Thank you very much. And I apologize for jumping the gun earlier. However, I've appreciated the presentation by Ms. McCormick and her partners there. Can you please state where you're from again? I'm sorry. Amy Goodyear, Loudoun County. My kids and I have spent a lot of time here in Frederick County. We love it. However, I think her words, she said it herself. As I was sitting and taking notes, she made it very clear. It's not a local substation. Those were her words that I wrote down. More to move electric through and a highway for electricity. There is no production here. There's no value for Frederick County. It is an extension cord to go to Loudoun County for their data centers. And Loudoun County has other options. I'm sorry. They have a bigger pipeline and a larger outflow. They have a lot more power lines. They have small nuclear reactors. They can put diesel generation on there, although I know Virginia doesn't want that. Furthermore, I can tell you as a land owner living next to power lines that they have to take care of, they don't take care of their buffer. They came through and trim the trees. I've seen beavers do a better job of trimming the trees. They spray pollutants all over, underneath the power lines, to kill the weeds and the grass, and that's what they come into a problem. So I think they have more power lines than they have any. grass that are killing bugs. Now, some of them, I mean, we don't miss the stink bugs or the lantern flies that they kill, but they're killing a lot of other bugs as well. They're hurting the wildlife because they don't want to do the right way of taking care of the property. They want to do what's quick and easy. And that's what they're going to do. The noise pollution, I've stood under those high voltage power lines. They're obnoxious. You can hear them humming. That substation is going to be a huge noise pollution for our neighbors there. And they don't deserve to lose their property just like I don't deserve to lose mine. Finally, light pollution. I told you before I'm a teacher. I'm a science teacher. I have multiple master's degrees. I work for NASA during the summer working with students. And these students do extensive research projects. Do you realize that light pollution is a big problem? Do you realize that light pollution is a big problem? Light pollution destroys the environment through the upper atmosphere layers. Every single night when the sun goes down, the atmosphere regenerates. And when you have huge amounts of light pollution, it destroys that process. It creates more microplastics in the air. These are all things that go on. They're just above and beyond what everything else everybody has said here. I thank you for your time and your attention. And I really hope that you will vote no to this substation. Thank you. Thank you. Steve Goodyear followed by Jennifer Umps. My name is Stephen Goodyear. I'm a Loudoun County representative for homeowner also. We bought our piece of property about seven years ago. The boundaries, one of the boundaries was next to the power lines. We hear them talking about the mishap that could happen. Our homeowner, my dog, told us that we had made best of our potential by Michaela's deliverables last year. He told us that it would be nice to enroll us in the Poor's Real Estate Project because of a lot of great unique取d and associations. Today, I would like to sanding off everything that's the drivers and irrigation decisions from the townspeople of piano, Irving County, Central virtually every day with those ofinks who have received signatures that UK will have this piece of land run-up into this project. I NOO Если U agree we will known it will be useful if we are who I talk with잼 not to give my абсолютно randomسم behavior and give it b laquelle exemption by my utilisars perm بدant Fergamentivstandardрафs coy and an darling Lidldrian by 2009, some I cantaffect to. On the other side, they have a few branches. I agree with several folks here that have talked about an alternate power source for these data centers. I've seen people write stupid stuff that says that they can't generate the electricity. I worked in nuclear power also. I worked for a long time. I'm still standing here, and I'm 78. Everybody tells me I look pretty good. I don't look my age. You do look good, sir. Okay. Thank you very much. The thing that is, there are several ways that they could power these data centers. It's not only the power, though, that I think we need to be concerned about. They use a lot of water to cool these things. So we need to really look at all this stuff. And for Frederick County, don't let them tell you some tall, made-up story that this transmission station isn't going to just let the power continue on to Loudoun County. We don't want the data centers either. We're stuck with them. So anyhow, thank you very much for your time. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Jennifer Holmes, followed by Janet Mueller. And Janet Mueller is the last. Speaker signed up. Good evening. My name is Jennifer Holmes. I live in Stonewall District. My house actually backs up right to this awful site. I live on Jolene Drive. My backyard is right in the middle of this field. A little bit about me. My husband and I have worked really hard to purchase our home, to build our home, to make our home a home for our family. We have two kids, two children, who have the privilege of growing up with our neighbor's kids. You can often find our kids outside, in the street, in the backyard. Playing together. Playing baseball together. You can see families walking the streets together. I am absolutely terrified for my family, my neighbors, our friends, and our community, and how this is going to impact them. Mentally. Physically. I worry about our health. And my favorite thing about my life is that I'm not alone. I'm with my family. I want to help my family. I don't know why I'm with them. I don't know why I need to help my family. My favorite view is sunsets with my kids in the backyard in the morning. At night. When you can see all the stars shining. And I hate to make this personal and I feel very, very selfish in mentioning this. But to be with my family and take in those sites, it means something. It's something that we've built as a family, as a community. This would completely take that away. That is so disheartening. It's sad. I'm sad. I'm hurt and I'm disgusted. I truly hope that you vote no. Thank you. Thank you. I misspoke earlier. There's one more person signed up. After Janet Mueller, who's next, it's David Dixon following her. There you go. Good evening. My name is Janet Mueller. I live in Clearbrook, which is in the Stonewall District. I have lived in Winchester since 1976 and in Clearbrook since 1986. The lines that connect Woodside will be probably, maybe, I don't know, half a mile from my house, north of my house. I don't feel like I am directly affected by those lines. I have neighbors. And I've seen the maps of the lines and they are basically in their backyards on the eastern side of 81. My brother, who he actually lives with me now, he asked me to tell you guys that when he lived in Culpeper, his now deceased wife and her first husband, they lived close to power lines in Culpeper. They both developed brain tumors. And these very high tension, the high transmission lines, the high voltage lines have been known medically to cause all kinds of problems. And I think that it is not very responsible if you are looking for a way that this is going to mesh with a comprehensive plan, the quality of the health of the people who live in and around Woodside. I don't think that that is something that has been talked about. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, I think David Dixon was our first speaker. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I thought it was. Another David Dixon. I thought he had signed up twice, but it turns out there's two of them. So sorry about that, sir. Yeah, you met my dad. All right. I'm David Dixon, Stonewall District. And here we go again, fighting for our families and farms, which are being put last on the priority list. This is just a gateway. This is going to open up for the new data center that's going to be over by flying jet. It's going to bring the new power lines through, and it's all going to fuel Loudoun County. And one small data center, the smallest one, equals 250,000 homes and the same as for the water. And so this is then it will open up for the multiple power line projects and ultimately take my property and house and guarantee to raise everyone's electric bills. And I'm not going to back down without a fight. We have got to unite and stand together as a community and a group voice for the county. Monopoly of projects the power companies are tied to and stop them in their tracks for the county's future and most importantly for my daughter. I don't want to be up here again telling you guys, all y'all, that I'm right when we just have lost our whole county, just like the quarries swept away. We're switching the property from rural to industrial. And look at all those acres we lost and all the water they're feeding. This county can only afford to lose so much water. And let's put it to our families and farms instead of to the industry. And let's see. I think that's about it. Thank you, Mr. Dixon. Sandalus, Mr. Stowe. Would anybody like to speak who did not sign up? I live next to Power Lines. Can you give us your name and address? My name is and I'm in the Back Creek District. We bought a property, 44 acres, and we live next to Power Lines. And they make noise. So I want to make sure that they make noise when you walk under it. It's a very crackling noise. It's not pleasant. It feels very strange walking close to buy it. And, yeah, I just want to make sure that we live close by to that. And I can confirm that as well. So thank you. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening. My name is Allison Harrison. I live in the Stonewall District. My family and I bought our house in 2020, and our yard does back completely up against this. A little history about my family. So I have two children right now, one on the way, actually. And my oldest daughter, I adopted her to give her a better quality of life. She had a terrible upbringing when she was a young girl. And I brought her to our home. We selected our home based off her needs. Lots of complex health conditions, disabilities. I'm worried about what our backyard. That's her oasis. That's her happy place, our back porch, her swing, her playground. It's where she goes to get back to her baseline, to regulate. I'm worried about the noise. I'm worried about the lights, how it would affect her mental health, how it would affect her overall seizures, her epilepsy. And we really just, our neighbors, our community, we want to keep our space our space and somewhere that we enjoy to go. So thank you for your time, and I really hope that you vote no. Thank you, Ms. Harrison. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening. Good evening. My name is Shannon Robine, and I live in the Stonewall District. I am also right behind this horrible jungle that's going to be back there, or not going to be back there, because I hope that you all vote no on that. That it will affect our health. It will affect our vision behind our house of looking at horrible, horrible towers all over. And the light that will affect us as well. And I would say to vote no on it. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else? Anyone? Then I shall close the public hearing. Thank you very much to those of you that did speak. Ms. McCormick, do you care to respond? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe Kaitlyn has some additional information to share, but I wanted just to sort of start by indicating that there was a lot of discussion about transmission lines and current transmission lines and possible proposed transmission lines. But I wanted to clarify that the application that was filed, and it's before the Commission tonight, is for the substation only. And so I think a lot of the discussion on transmission lines is a little far afield of the kind of information that we have. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. And I think that's why I'm here today. So I just wanted to clarify that the application on transmission lines is a little far afield of the 2232 review before the Commission this evening. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. And Commissioners, I appreciate the opportunity to share a little bit of additional information. Some of this is outside of the specific 2232 review, but we want to make sure that we're doing our part to answer questions about the project. First, Mr. Whitaker, the transmission lines that would interconnect into the city. Are they going to be connected to the city? Are they going to be connected to the city? And then, of course, the other two pieces that would interconnect into the substation would be uninsulated. The second piece is regarding the STATCOM. There was a question earlier about how the STATCOM and the power voltages would be balanced. So the STATCOM is going to benefit initially, at first point, the 500 KV line. But that balances that line so that power is able to flow without tripping a switch and to think about your home electricity. And preventing power from flowing to the 138. Which would then in turn prevent power from going to the 138. And then, of course, the power will flow into the distribution system. Additionally, without this transmission and these upgrades at the substation, that may cause issues that are preventing the distribution system to operate properly. PJM, as part of its award and its analysis of projects, is proactively managing for issues. The goal is to not have an issue and then try to be solving it on the back end. And the projects that have been awarded by PJM, including the substation, as part of their overall solutions and long-term planning, are to prevent the future adverse impacts that could potentially include a brownout or a blackout in the region. And that applies to their holistic review of the area. We've heard a lot of feedback tonight on landscaping. We are committed to working with a landscape architect to either preserving the drain fields as they exist on the property or adjusting them so that they continue to serve their function while still being on our property. And we would do that through a combination of shrubs, trees, or other vegetations in accordance with the landscape architect. We are open to exploring the idea of fencing or other measures as part of a site plan process that we would pursue after this. There were also a couple of questions related to lighting. And it is not the intent to keep this substation lit at all hours. It is the intent to keep it lit while there is maintenance or a need to be servicing out there. We'd evaluate that through a lighting study. And in accordance with the security procedures and requirements, we do need to comply with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation standards as well as other safety standards that are required for the adherence of this. But we would certainly be willing to explore that as part of the lighting study and provide that information as part of a site plan process. I believe that hits the major points. And if there are any further questions, Chairman, I'd be happy to answer those. There were four ladies that came in. They're from the City of New York. They came forward with legitimate concerns about the loss of their backyard, where their children play, where they enjoy the aesthetics of the vacant land behind them now. And I understand that that's somebody else's property. I get it. But is there a way to help mitigate the impact on their backyards? I mean, we understand the landscaping, but maybe there's a way you can go further. Maybe there's more you can do for them to help them with their concerns. Do you talk with the neighbors about these types of things? Do you have people that are meeting with them? Early in this process, we'd be happy to meet with those neighbors along Jolene Drive and get their feedback. And to hear that, we do have a hotline that any of them are welcome to call. I'm happy to pass out that information to them here tonight. That's my team that responds to those. It's not just a call center. And then we have an email address, and we'd be happy to reach out to them if they would like to share their information. And that email address is MARC. The email address is MARL at NextEraEnergy.com. And that information is also on our website. Do you have a card you can give Ms. Smith and Ms. Umtz and Ms. Harrison and Ms. Robine tonight? Yes, sir. Ladies, if you will please get with her afterwards. Oh, you can get with her now. You can get with her afterwards. That'll be fine. Okay. Any other questions for Ms. McCormick? Come here. Ms. Brannon? Yes, ma'am. It sounds to me like the citizens did a lot of research, and they're indicating this substation is not to service Frederick County but to service Loudoun County. So how much power, like I know they have a great deal of data centers, and I know that they're not, they don't all have power, and they're required by law. And they're required by law to give that to them. But I don't know that, like, how is it going to benefit us? How much power will stay? Are they going to eat it all up? That question is a little bit beyond the scope of the 2232 review, but I'm happy to give a little bit more context on how PJM approaches their process. So this is what's called a reliability project, and it was awarded as part of a whole portfolio of projects that are designed to keep the lights on, to keep the electricity out of the city, and to keep the power out of the city. So this is a very important project. And I think we're going to have a lot of people that are going to be interested in this. And I think we're going to have a lot of people that are going to be interested in this. I think we're going to have a lot of people that are going to be interested in this. But I'm happy to give a little bit more context on how PJM approaches their process. So this is what's called a reliability project, and it was awarded as part of a whole portfolio of projects that are designed to keep the lights on, to continue to serve customers throughout the region. And they look at changes in generation mix and location, as well as additional load growth. And that all comes together. And they're going to need to make, you know, the right kind of customers, right? as they're balancing where power demand is and where changing generation sources are to help make sure that power is getting to where it needs. This project is designed to serve the region. It would interconnect to the Black Oak substation as well in Danville, Maryland, networking into the system there as well as at 502 Junction, and that's part of the broader Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link project. But it is designed to provide electric reliability benefits and to serve the broader region. It is not just to serve any one consumer. But does PJM look at, like, is there any point the power company says, Loudoun County, you're a hog and you need to stop, you're affecting the region? That would be a question that would be better directed to PJM or perhaps to the electric provider in Virginia, which is not us, but there are requirements that come through that, and I'd be happy to follow up and get you a contact at PJM if you'd like to reach out to somebody. I would. I think we need to make sure we keep our questions specific to the 2302 process in our comprehensive plan. I'm sure Ms. McCormick will be happy to give anybody that has questions on where the power is going, how much generation and all that, if you want to get her phone number and talk offline, but we don't want to confuse what we're doing here tonight. Well, here's my, because I honestly, while we're in talk mode, or do I need to wait? Just wait. Okay. Okay. Any other questions? Tell me. More? Mr. Bishop, thank you very much, Ms. McCormick. Thank you. We appreciate your time. Would you like to summarize for us, sir? Thank you. As noted, this is a 2230 review, which is to determine whether this application is within the confines of substantial conformity with your comprehensive plan. That is the question before you this evening. Thank you. Mr. Bishop. As I understand the statute, which is the state law that we're working to abide, to comply with this evening, this body has 60 days from the time the application was filed to act on this, and if we don't act on it, it's automatically approved. Is that the correct understanding? That's correct. Unless the Board of Supervisors were to take an action to extend that. And when was this application filed? Was that around the beginning of September? Let me see. It was prior to the cutoff for this meeting. Forgive me. Okay. I don't know if I have that specific detail printed out. Do you know when that was, Ms. McCormick? September 5th. September 5th. I don't dispute that date. Okay. So this body will not meet again within a 60-day window from the date? No. Okay. Thank you. I don't know when that was. September 5th. September 5th. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Bishop. Yes, sir. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. This discussion brought up a couple of questions. What is the noise, what would the noise ordinance be, do you know, off the top of your head for this type of a project? That off the top of my head, I don't think it applies. Yeah, there's no noise ordinance in that case. Okay. Okay. So, what would the noise ordinance be if you were to apply that to the project? I'm sorry. I don't know what you mean by that. I don't know what you mean by that. I'm sorry. I don't know what you mean by that. I don't know what you mean by that. I mean, if you were to apply that to a project. That off top of my head? I don't think it applies. Yeah, there's no noise ordinance in the RA Zone in District. There is not. Okay. Second question, light ordinance. I know we're going through some potential revision to that, but what are the lighting standards right now for this, or are there none in the RA? Once again, it's the RA, so it's not going to be a factor. Okay. Okay. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Okay. Can I ask you a question? Yes, ma'am. In the RA, a substation is allowed by rights? It's a specifically allowed use in your list of allowed uses for our RA zoning, yes. And just to, we may still be able to apply the commercial lighting standards, even though it is in the RA, because there's a site plan required and require a photometric plan as it relates to lighting. And I'll talk with the zoning administrator about that tomorrow to confirm that. Thank you, Wyatt. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Okay. This is time for discussion among commissioners. Mr. Thomas. Yes. I want to just make sure that we focus on the one specific mission. We have tonight. Whether we, I mean, this is a 2232 process, much different than what our typical rezoning process is. And everybody has a lot of good questions. I have a lot of good questions. But they don't apply to whether it is in accordance with the comp plan or not. There's been a lot of very good comments, a lot of great concerns by the public here tonight. But unfortunately, we have to focus as planning commissioners. On the process and how this is submitted and whether it's in our only one question to answer. Is this in substantial conformance with the planning or with our comprehensive plan? And it's very specific in the state ordinance on what we have to consider as whether it's in accordance with our comprehensive plan or not. We it's not whether we like this project, whether we dislike this project. Whether we like the location, don't like the location. It has nothing to do with the transmission lines, whether we agree with the transmission lines, disagree with them. That's not in our purview tonight. Our only purview is whether it meets our comprehensive plan. It doesn't matter how much power they use. It doesn't matter how much where the power goes. It doesn't matter if we think the power is all going to be used. And. Like. It. Is going to be used in the wild and county or not. I mean, it is going to have a benefit in Frederick County from the stabilization and smoothing of the power for Frederick County. Whether that's going to increase the amount of power used in Frederick County or not. Our only function is whether. This is in accordance with the comprehensive plan and our vote tonight. We cannot be influenced by outside. Likes or dislikes or. You know. Outside discussions that don't relate specifically to our comp plan. And this is not a simple yes or no vote. If the planning commission would choose to decide that this is not in accordance with our comprehensive plan. We just can't vote no. We have to essentially have a dissertation that is defendable in front of either the board of supervisors or a judge where we can justify how this is not. In accordance with the comprehensive plan. Now I think that's going to be extremely difficult. Since we have a 500 KVA line. And 138 KV line running through the site already. So. You know. I don't. That's up to each individual planning commissioner. But please be aware. That whatever you vote tonight. If you vote yes. The planning commission minutes serve as the. The. Requirement to meet the. Yes vote. But if you vote yes. If you vote no. We have to come up with a. Dissertation. On why we feel it's not in accordance with the comprehensive plan. So I. You know. I'm not saying whether I like it or dislike it. I'm just trying to set the field on where we are tonight. And what are the boundaries and what we can. Talk about or not talk about. And what our decision has to be based on. And we want to be very careful on our discussions. Because if. We vote no. We don't want to be. In the way that we would like to. Because if. Our decision would appear to be. Capricious and arbitrary. It will get overturned very quickly. If it goes to the judicial system. So we would have to be extremely specific and detailed. On whether we think this. It meets the comp plan or doesn't meet the comp plan. Can I. And I. I'm sorry for cutting you off earlier. Molly. You're fine now. But. That's a question. It definitely. Metes it. And all the other questions that we have. That don't relate to whether this relates to the comp plan or not. I'm sure Mrs. McCormick would be happy. She probably won't be. But she'd probably be happy to meet with everybody. And talk with your concerns. On things outside of the comp plan. Okay. No. But here's. Can I? Okay. We don't have an attorney here. Not a single person. Sitting up here. Is an attorney. starts talking about the safety and well-being and the betterment of our community, not Loudoun counties, but our community. So I don't understand the legal ramifications. You know, that industry zoning is for an industry and for us. And without an attorney here, I can't just vote yes and I can't vote no because I don't know the legal ramifications. I mean, the comp plan is all about our community, serving our community. If there's another way to get power, is it legally responsible to serve other? I don't know the answers and nobody up here is an attorney. I will say, I think the NELIP is very specific to this area. And I think it clearly, and Mr. Bishop read that earlier about the area between Hopewell Road and West Virginia, is what the NELIP says. A document that was just developed two years ago was certainly reviewed by a legal counsel and that the board took action on. So I understand what you're concerned. And I think the NELIP is very specific to this area and I think the report is very specific to this area and I think the board took action on that. I think it's already addressed. I think it's been addressed and the NELIP and I think that's something that I don't know that we need an attorney to help us interpret. Mr. Markert, did you want to share something? I did. I just want to clear up a misperception that a substation is not for the benefit of Loudoun county. I've got two degrees in engineering. I know I just don't live here. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. little bit. And the point is, it's a big hose that's going to Loudoun County. We drill a little hole in it and tap in, take some water out. That's all the substation does. It takes a little energy out of that 500 kW line for local use. We need a way to attract business to this county to get our budget in line. I don't like the idea of data centers, but I do like the idea of manufacturing because we can tax their equipment and machinery and pay for our fourth high school. But we just have people coming in to the county. It's a drain on our resources because nobody... Nobody pays the impact fee or what the cost of a residential house is. So we're gradually sinking because we're being overcome by the cost of fire, roads, schools, all that stuff. So I just wanted to make it clear, we're not feeding anything. It's a hose that goes through and we're just tapping into it for something that we can make use of in the way that we want. That's just a misconception I wanted to clear. Thank you. To my right, Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think as a community and as a county, we go through this comprehensive planning process for a couple different purposes. One of them is to encourage smart growth and development to help support the economics. A second one is to try to avoid conflict between different land uses. And rightfully so, the chairman and the vice chairman pointed back to the NELIP, which is really guiding our discussion tonight. And I want to read two sections that are specifically in the NELIP, referencing the Hopewell, Cedar Hill road areas that we are discussing tonight. And the first one says, these areas are intended to further enhance the commercial industrial areas and to provide focus on the county's regional employment centers. I think that's important, developing that aspect. In the same section about the same areas. It also... It also notes, existing residential uses are located in close proximity to areas planned for more intensive uses. While many of these are planned to be transitioned to future high intensity uses, development applications should seek to mitigate their impact on these residents near term. That's in the comprehensive plan and in the NELIP. And the application of proposal before us has setbacks that are lower than the ordinance would require. And I'm sorry. In this Xó chir mark I don't think that's fit as well as I would like for this item to be. I think that that would be perfect, if only even if it was part of the Я choreography, something like one in the protectorate of residential individuals that does have an impact because this fix of the NELIP is Fucking iba all right there. 방법 combat. And I'm actually a little bit not抱. I think para tip here. Thanks, Richie. about rezoning in the, or I think Mr. Bishop may have, about that's kind of aimed at, that verbiage is aimed at rezoning and CUPs, special uses, and this is not either of those. Basically, yes. When you're talking about mitigating impacts, that's literally always our discussion when it's a rezoning because we're looking at traffic generation and many of the same issues folks brought up tonight, but that's usually in a rezoning situation where they're making proffers to mitigate those impacts. In this particular by-right situation, we literally are not in a position that we can have that type of a conversation to outright require or compel the applicant to do over and above the ordinance. They do have to meet the ordinance, so if there's a waiver requirement and all that sort of thing, we have to work through those items, but I'm not sure if that's a good way to put it. We're just, frankly, staff interpretation, legally not allowed to do a compelling type conversation, so we have to take, frankly, the applicant at their word, and I think they did make a number of statements about working with the residents and looking at a number of the items that were brought forth as concern, and while even staff would also love to have a heavier hammer, if you will, in a by-right situation, we do not. Mr. Whitaker? I know of no by-right to do harm to the community and health and safety of the community. Thank you, sir. Is there? Anything else? Okay. Planning Commissioners, this is Stonewall. What would be your pleasure? Thank you. I want to say to everybody here that I've heard you. I live in the Stonewall district. The tourism portion, I actually helped write this, so I understand it. I hear you with all of these things, but as Mr. Thomas keeps coming back and staff keeps coming back is that this is completely different than, anything that we have dealt with. And I think the majority of the people on this, and probably most people in this audience, have had to deal with. We do not have the tools at our disposal to make the changes to this or deny this that we normally would with any sort of a rezoning or any sort of a conditional use project, any sort of CEP, anything like that. And it's not, you know, this has to be in substantial accord, not perfect accord. And substantial means the majority. You know, is this the majority in accord? And based off of the NELUP, which is our guiding document that we have to follow as the planning commission, as much as some of these things on here, I wish we could talk more out and that do that. I think the community has great concerns on, I think that we are bound to have to say that it's in substantial accord. So I'm going to move that the application is in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. That is my motion. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Whitaker, will you please start our vote? Whitaker, no. DeHaven, no. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Sneddon, yes. Bothorf, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannison, since we're supposed to give a reason, I say no because I'd like to talk to an attorney on if it truly has to be passed. Chair, but just an emotion passes. I want to thank everyone that came out tonight. I will say there are public hearings that will occur later on the power lines. Please keep an eye out for those as well. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Nothing new to report on current planning applications. The October 15th meeting will be canceled for the. Planning Commission and worth of note, we did receive the fourth high school site plan and that's currently under review. Other than that, Mr. Chairman, I don't have anything to report. With that, our next action is for adjournment. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Mr. I like to make a request. I'm sorry, Mr. I am sorry. You did ask me if you could make a request quickly before we get out of here. Yes. Whitaker, please proceed. I like me make a request to the committee that we have a prayer before we start our meetings. Sir, would you lead us in that prayer? Are you willing to lead us in that prayer? Yes, I am. Okay. Everyone good with that? Yeah. Thank you very much, sir. We'll look forward to you doing that when we get back together in November. Okay. Thank you, sir. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
