Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-01-28
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=313
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you take them. If you ask the opinion, is it okay? I'm going to tell you no every time. Are you? I'm good. I missed you in church. They didn't have church. No. Look on your face. Got you on that one. I got you. There have been times when they canceled stuff and I went not paying attention to emails and stuff. And I pull on them and they go. Wow. Nobody's here. I look at my phone and go, that's the reason nobody's here? Yeah. There you go. And then you hope nobody saw you do that. Yeah. I barely. Because they'll never let you live in town. So I pulled up in the parking lot on your last Sunday and didn't you know church was closed? Yeah. Thanks a lot for calling me. All right, Mr. Bolhoff, are we ready to begin? We're ready. Let's get this work session going. I was going to hand it over to Cheryl. Okay, so we gave you some handouts in front of you. The first one looks like this. This is information that the county administrator provides. There was a question on our fund balances at the end of the year. And behind it is all the documentation explaining those. In his presentation, he will touch on the fund balances now, like at December 30th. So this is June 30th. We also provided you, the last time we met, we had discussion on vehicle replacement and what qualifies. And we talked about we had a model that. The county administration goes through to see what vehicles qualify. This is a list of that. These numbers have not been verified yet. It was just given to us. So our purchasing department looks at those and says, yeah, that's good. Or no, that one's already crashed. Who gives this one to you? This is provided by Jay. Okay. Last week after the school board meeting, I sent out the school's presentation. And I indicated to you that I would give you a copy. It's easier if you look in your notebook. And then last is the county administrator's presentation tonight, which he'll do after the parks does their presentation. And before we end with questions. Thank you. Are we all good? We're good. Okay. Thank you so much. Yes. Thank you all. Thank you for giving us an opportunity to talk about our budget. I'm happy to. I'm happy to answer any questions at the conclusion of my presentation. So our fiscal 27 budget request is guided by our mission and vision. And it provides the financial framework for us to offer parks and recreation services to the citizens of Frederick County. Some of our accomplishments over the last year have been renovating and improving on our existing infrastructure, as well as offering new amenities and expanded programs to our growing community. There's a lot of people coming in. There's a lot of need for activity and places for people to go and recreate. So that's been sort of our focus over the last couple of years. Our overall budget is divided into four areas. I'll start with our administration. I'll start with our administration. I'll start with our administration. So we have a portion that pays for the administrative staff, the leadership team, and support staff for the entire department. We have a customer service technician that answers the phones, helps folks get registered, administrative assistant, our marketing manager, and our operations manager. And again, those folks support all of our divisions, not just the administrative team. Some of the expenditures in that portion of the budget are a variety of registration software, and we have a variety of other resources. So we have a variety of resources. We have a variety of resources. We have application softwares, ticketing software, Adobe that our marketing manager uses for print materials and things of that nature. We have a variety of resources. We have a variety of resources. We have a variety of resources. We have a variety of resources. Just different technologies, trainings for staff to include things like CPR, lifeguard recertification. Resources for the folks that work in the before and after school care program, MAT training, behavioral resources. And then for our park staff, things like certified pool operators, pesticides. pesticides applicator and playground safety inspector turf management things of those nature just to name a few and it pays for an annual background screening for all of our staff and volunteers annually we don't do that every two years anymore we do that annually now the largest portion of our budget is the recreation division it accounts for 18 of our full-time staff as well as our over 300 part-time staff as you can see we offer 200 plus programs every year in 2025 we had 112,000 people register for programs we have a really nice scholarship program we were able to offer 75 scholarships so that children can participate and cost is not a barrier for their parent to be a part of our services our largest recreation program is the before and after school care program we're at all 12 elementary schools during the school year and that funnels down to eight or nine locations in the summer you know last summer we had eight locations we also had 200 plus people on a waitlist I think this year working with the school system we're going to have our ninth site so that'll get help get a few folks off of there but that is you know our largest program and space for that is really a premium we offer 23 special events some of our big signature events are July 4th winter wonderland ,we have a really nice summer concert series out of the Bowman Library hours, state Universityни Currently you have 970 information meetings based on service ок let me introduce the some of our big signature events are July 4th,ata Opp gamma soap lady讓 la t Averaged almost 300 people every week for that. So it was really popular. That concluded in October with the new bluegrass barbecue events. 21,000 people at the pool. And that's just people coming to the pool. That's not our swim lesson programs, swim teams, private rentals, or anything like that, or our own camps that we take to the pool. Trips are continuing to be popular. And you can see the numbers for our races. That's the participants. And of that 5,000, over 4,000 were new registrants this year that had never raced with us before. So that's a pretty neat stat. Some of the new programming that the rec division has, outdoor adventures, some hiking, additional special needs programs. We've been trying to offer more therapeutic rec the last few years. And every year we can add one or two more things. We've spent a lot on renovations for the disc golf courses. And a lot of that has been donated to us. And so we're going to offer some expanded programming there. And then the enhanced Halloween happenings. We've kind of outgrown what we're offering now. So we'd like to build on what we're doing. Our parks division, that's Clearbrook and Sherando Park. Clearbrook is also responsible for Stonewall and Frederick Heights Park. Sherando is responsible for Rose Hill and the area around the Bowman Library. And what we're doing is we're creating a trail in addition to all the schools. We do all the field maintenance, athletic field prep at all of our schools. Those are divided up between the two parks. Our trails. We have the youth sports partners, soccer, baseball. As well as the top of Virginia hockey. And we're in 2026 we just partnered with the Sherando Valley Youth Lacrosse League to bring that program into our parks. Our parks. You know. are growing every year. We have traffic counters at Clearbrook and Sherando, and in 2025, we had 251,000 cars and are just those two parks. That's not counting Rose Hill. That's not counting Frederick Heights, the trails around Bowman Library or the Northwest Sherando or any pedestrian or bike traffic. That's just those two parks. So that's, you know, people are coming into our parks. They're using our amenities. And so, you know, that's really good. We're trying to provide for them. Some of our, in our expenditure lines for the parks, some of the maintenance we're looking to do, some ball field light replacements, additional asphalt paving, trail repairs, door replacements at the pools and concessions. That doesn't sound like a lot, but they're big, heavy metal doors. So they are kind of costly. Electrical upgrades and then repainting of the pickleball court lines out at Clearbrook. So our overall operating budget, you can see we're projecting to recover 47% with revenue. Revenue is generated through program fees, facility reservations, donations, and gifts and kinds. When I show that metric there against national average, we provide all of our budgeting data to the National Recreation Park Association, and then they measure us against other localities of similar size, similar budget to see how we kind of rank. So we are doing really well there. We're also doing really well with revenue recovery. We look at capital as operating capital and then CIP capital. Our number one need for operating capital is the playground replacement at Sherando Park. That's the main playground. The existing one is 22 years old, and we're starting to spend a lot of time in repairing it. We're struggling to get parts for it. So it's just kind of reached the end of its useful life. So that is really our number one need right now. We do have some vehicles. Is that the one behind the ball field? Yes. Yes, sir. We do have some vehicles in there. The bus, our trips are really popular. The bus we're asking for is a non-CDL driver bus. We struggle to get a CDL driver consistently. So this bus would be used for that. I spoke earlier about our customer service technician and the administrative division. We previously had two folks in that role, but with our current software system, it's driving more people to the bus. So we're trying to get more people to get to the bus. So we're trying to get more people to get to the bus. So we're trying to get more people to get to the bus. We're trying to get more people to get to the bus. So we're trying to get more people to get to the bus. to the internet to do their own registration. So we took one of our customer service technicians and put them in the park system. We retitled the position. It's a lower range. So there is a cost savings to the county with that. And that just helps us with our growing maintenance needs from a staff perspective at Clearbrook. So that pickup truck and trailer, that is so we can have an additional mowing crew go out of the parks, take care of the school grounds. Playground replacement for Frederick High School. We're trying to get more people to get to the bus. We're trying to get more people to get to the bus. We're trying to get more people to get to the bus. Park, a couple pieces of equipment for Sharando, a replacement truck for our park ranger out at Sharando, and then our school ground maintenance equipment fund. For those that are kind of new to that, we build the schools for our outdoor maintenance work, and a portion of what we recover in revenue is set aside to replace the equipment that's taken to the schools, mowers and things of that nature, trailers and things. Our CIP items, our rec center. We've said for years we need a recreation center, our own standalone facility. We currently use the facilities at the schools, but they have space needs as well, and we're kind of dependent on them to be able to offer programming to the community based on what they're able to allocate to us. A standalone recreation center would allow us to branch into other types of programming that we don't really offer a whole lot of preschool seniors. It would be a great location for a summer campsite, just things like that. So it would be really helpful to our own programming needs, as well as giving us an opportunity to expand and generate revenue with a rec center. The spray ground for Sharando Park, we'll be opening a spray ground this summer at Clearbrook, so we try to keep some of our amenities similar on both the ends of the county, just to help citizens out. Softball complex, as you can see from the little picture there, the north side has always been designed to have four softball fields. We currently use two of those areas for soccer, but over the past couple of years, we have kind of relocated those two soccer fields, one along Warrior Drive there at Sharando, and we're working on building Soccer Field 5 at Sharando Park. So it kind of just goes hand-in-hand with the past couple of years' projects to expand that, complete that part of the complex, that provides an opportunity for tournament rentals. It allows us to move all of our adult softball into one location, which, unfortunately, we have a lot of problems with adult softball behavior and things of that nature. If you could just kind of house the adults and get them away from the kids, that would be helpful. Plus, that frees up other fields then for the youth programs, which are growing, and that's a good thing. The Abrams Creek Greenway, we're, you know, Phase 1 is getting ready to go out to bid. It's a great ground there. There's grants in place for Phase 2, and then, of course, Phase 3 just stays on our CIP. The indoor playground at Greenwood Mill, we had a very underutilized weight room at Greenwood Mill. Our Parks and Rec Commission last fall voted to surplus that equipment. We use the space now for basic rec, but the idea behind the indoor playground is for small people, preschool age, it would be a rental option for folks, as well as give us an opportunity to do a little more with preschool programming. The lake trail around Sherando Lake, we have a little portion of it paved now, and it would just kind of tie into the entire trail system. Trails are the number one desired amenity for the community, so that would just kind of add to our inventory there. The playground at Bowman Library, it's been a very receptive area for recreation, and a lot of folks using the trail, of course the amphitheater, and the playground just kind of ties in nicely with that area. The next two items, we're requesting the design dollars for a multipurpose space at Clearbrook Park. We have an existing storage facility that we are looking to repurpose into a space that we can use for indoor programming, as well as a rental space. We refurbished the old ranger station a few years ago, and that thing has been very popular for rentals, just gives people an indoor option in that part of the county, as well as provides a space that's not going to be rained out, basically, instead of your shelter. And same with the boathouse shelter. We have a spray ground opening up in that area this summer. We just like to provide a shade option for folks, and again, something closer to where kids are going to be having birthday parties and things like that. And then finally, the north end of the lake renovation. Our staff did a really nice job of renovating the dam side of the lake. We had a lot of tree roots, uneven ground, trees that were dying out. So they've done a nice job of repairing that side, and this would be the other end where we have a little walking bridge, the dock, the fishing pier, and where the water feeds into the lake. That's really all I have, and I'm happy to answer any questions. Yes, sir. Out of all those projects you had listed, which ones in your opinion have the greatest prospect for return on investment? Probably the... Which ones would generate the most revenue back to the county? Probably the rec, the community center, and the softball complex. They have potential for revenue rental. Just not a question for you, just a comment. The folks who deal with businesses coming to our area, Patrick and EDA and all that kind of thing. For years, we found out and it's still true, that people come here to parks and recreation for their employees is number one. That's number one. Not the hospitals. Not the schools. Recreation. Because if you have a happy employee, they stay employed. Hospitals, schools they can deal with, they really are looking for. If a person moves here to work in a business, then they've got to have something to do other than work in their business. And it's played a big role in bringing in a lot of companies. I've met with a lot of those guys. They said absolutely. It plays a big role. People come down here to look around, see where they might be living, and they see all the advantages that we offer. And so it's a big plus for Frederick County. Just letting you know. Yeah. I'm going to piggyback on that because I spent years working with Stacy when I came to the swim league. And there's hidden gems there that the Parks and Rec do for this community that they don't even realize. Like running the summer swim league, which is an opportunity for kids to participate. And it's honestly worked nicely for kids to go on and learn how to swim at the same time. So it's a real appreciation. And it's a large program that's been run for years. So that's an example of several hidden gems that our Parks and Rec does for this community. So just thank you for that. Stacy, I have a question. And this gets into dollars and cents on the contract or the MOU with the schools. Has that been adjusted since we entered those MOUs years ago? Yes. Because your equipment is Right. We do. We adjust that. We sit down every year. We have a year annually and look at fees. Good. What is your driving costs from over Trando? The repairs and maintenance has dramatically increased over the last three years. 2024, 78,000. 2025, we were 277. Budgeted wise for this year, we were on 400,000. So. We've almost decreased 400%. What is driving that? It's maintenance and like renovation. We've refurbished the outdoor pools at both parks completely, buildings. This spring we'll be doing the white coating tile work of the pools themselves. We've had some light pole replacements, roof repairs, asphalt. We've asphalted all the parking lots with exception of one, which is in this budget cost. Say that one more time. Like parking lot paving, striping, that type of thing. We've expanded the parking lot out at Rose Hill, which falls within Sharando Park's expenditures as well. You did some work out, you call it Sharando Park, the one on Warrior Drive? Right. Is that the one you're talking about? Yes. I know you've done quite a bit of work there. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And you said the plan for this year was what exactly for that year? We have – there's one more parking lot that we'd like to pave up at the front part of the park. We have a light pole we need to repair, doors for the concession stands, and the back of the pool building. There's just big heavy metal doors, striping of existing parking lots. That's some of – that's probably the major – major things that can be repaired. That's the part we actually badgered with. But it's also badgered with things like the taps. maintenance costs that we're asking for. Your team does a really good job of grants, you know, going out there and getting like Charleston. Is there anything in here that would be in jeopardy that you've done, that's grant funded that really we should be paying attention to to fund that would cause a problem? Not this year. Just a comment, Mr. Chairman, about some of the programs. The basic rec program is an outstanding program. And it does so much to help our parents that need to go on to work in the morning, bring their kids, drop them off at school, know that they're in a safe place. It also, they can participate in the breakfast program. The afternoon, same way. Summer program, various programs, a park and rec run, greatly contribute to the safety of the community by keeping kids involved in positive things. And the key is adult supervision. A lot of our kids in the community are going home to empty houses. And so it's hard to measure those positive aspects. But I think it's important. And the MOU, the advantage for both organizations, also a piece of it is managing liability. And having appropriate supervision, having the appropriate inspections, one of the most dangerous areas for children, particularly elementary age children's playgrounds. And so having equipment that's, you know, having equipment that's properly installed, it's really important. And I can tell you firsthand to have all the record keeping so that when there's a suit that you're able to defend yourself. And so those things are hard to put on a spreadsheet. But I do think Frederick County, the forethought years and years ago, the cooperative use agreement through and MOU has benefited both the school system, particularly in the grounds maintenance, but also working together on projects that save the county and funds. But also it's the hidden protection. It's not easily seen on spreadsheets. Thank you. Thank you. Councilor Haynes. Yes, please. Thank you. Ms. Payce, how many school rec centers do you have at the left? They used to have one at each school. How many do we have now? We have well we have five, but we used four. We have an agreement with Sherando High School to let them use the space right now. You have one at Sherando High School? The rec center. That one? It's still there and it's still under, I guess, our review. But we do have an agreement where they are using it for school space. Okay. So you're using that now for classroom space? Correct. But the other 4 are still in effect. Okay. I would kick the horn's nest, but I'd say the next time we get a school that. Like the old dealer that needs to be. Replace, maybe we need to keep it and use your parts and wreck. The other thing is, we've been sitting on sunny side for 8 years. Was that envisioned to be a wreck space or is that strictly offices? Is there a plan? Doing a good job to sit in there rotten, but. We need to talk about that at some point and figure out what we're going to use that space. John, I might talk about our meeting that we have about sunny side. And we definitely think it's worth keeping for the county to. Do what they can do with a final use for it and put it to use. So. I think we need to plan. I agree with you on the user. Don't. Got a piggyback question. On that Stacey, the 10Million, I believe it is for the. Does that include the cost of land or is that assuming that we have. We're going to put that building on a piece of land that we already on. I think it's got the cost of landing. Okay, I'd have to check and I can confirm that. The other thing that centralized rec center has got to be in a central location. And not advocating for sign side, but that is a central location. Yeah. And that's us about central. As you're going to get. Yeah. Yeah. It's got water and sewer. I think it's good. It's a good idea. We certainly need to look at it. We've had it. It was good investment, still is a good investment. We just need to. This board needs to work on it. We've gone a long time without working on a lot of things. So looking forward. Looking forward to doing some major work and getting things straightened out. So what does it take to make that to make that. Happen. What do we have to do to move your idea forward? So, okay, we know we need to do something. Who do we task to say, let's look at the feasibility of it. I think we need to get together and decide what we want to do. I agree. So then task somebody with getting plans drawn up, figure out how it's going to work, what we need in there, how much it's going to cost. It's got to work. But we need to get together and agree on what we want to do with that property. So it's got to work. We need to get together and decide what we want to do with that property. So then we can do that. I think there's a lot of work to do in there. We can do more when we can. I think we can. Is there any other questions from the board? No, I don't have any other questions. No, you're not to ask questions. Okay. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to leave it at that. I think there's a lot of work to do. And I think we need to get together and decide what we want to do with that. I agree. Sounds like the. The sooner, the better. It sounds like a look at the rec center is worth the conversation. I mean, I could be completely off base here. The only thing that's moved over there is the tax. I mean the registrar's office. That's the only thing that's moved over there. But was that the original plan? It was. Those plans kind of got set aside. Got it. For what time period? For five years. I think the building just needs to be taken down and replaced. I think it's to the point where it's hard to operate. I don't think you can use the structure. I think you're going to have to take it down and put what you want. That's my opinion. And I've been through it several times. It doesn't lend itself, you know, food line building and that kind of thing. It just doesn't lend itself to rehab for anything. Well, we can put a two- or three-story building back in its place in that same footprint. But, you know, we had talked about a lot of things. Talked about the older school and moving the school board office over to that. Using that as part of the recreation center. I had a brand-new gym in a little bit that went south. And, you know, it was given away, but it's all over the dam. Can't do anything about it. But we do have the, we do have Sunnyside. And we should certainly look at that. Well, maybe something for the strategic plan for us to batter. That's what I was thinking too. Exactly. Yeah. I think that would be a good discussion. And, Gary, you're absolutely right. You know, this whole bit of kicking everything down the road's got to stop. We just had to come up. You've got the right group here that's willing to make decisions. So we will. We do. Would you mind bringing up the slide? You had a slide that was before your future capital items. I just want to make sure I've marked all my little things on here. That one? Yeah. I'm assuming that is your biggest wish list. Yes and no. Like I said, we look at capital differently. Operating, you know, that's just the things we need to get our daily tasks. Keep moving. Right. And then there's kind of the CIP, which is our big, I guess, ticket items. Wait, owning, everything, there's not very much in one, but okay. If you're headed into the labor market, and you've got public debt, you're not coming if it's that simple. Yeah, that's fine. I would just like to ask a quick question here. If it's crazy, you know, it's ideas as far as pouvait in that. Dos I see y'all? Me what you're talking about? We are on one. Yeah. But why don't you say with the focusing? Which one? I think so. And then do you have any other money? We could do the national. Please? I was going to say some of the money of the 800 is obligated to the parking lot at the expansion at Clearbrook Park already. So we could look at that. We also have that school ground maintenance fund that we could utilize as well to purchase the vehicles and things that we need for taking ground crews out. We couldn't for the bus, no. Okay. Stacey, what about the new truck and trailer, since that's an additional? I would have to check on the rules with Proffer. But like I was saying, we have the school ground maintenance equipment fund that we could utilize for that type of purchase, because that is to create a ground crew to go out, an additional mowing crew to go out. So, yes, that one would qualify. So our Proffer policy defines capital as $5,000. That really should be upgraded to $10,000 because we just changed our other to $10,000. But for items under $100,000, especially if things aren't on the CIP, it's a low threshold of $5,000 and $5,000. So that's a lot of years used for light. We have used it for school buses. That helps. Everything helps. And then if you can proceed to the next slide then. And then so, and this might be piggybacking a little bit on what Mike's question was, but is there anything there liability-based? Not necessarily rate of return. Your rate of return could be a big difference. A rate of return without having liability is huge. Anything on that list that you're like, you know what, we really, it would help us? Shut it off or close it up? Yeah. Say that again. Either it needs to be fixed or closed up. Oh, it needs to be fixed or closed up? No, no, no, no. Okay. Okay. Any other questions? This is really helpful. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for, please pass along all of you all do. I absolutely will. We have a great staff. We do. We do. Very fortunate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Nice following the Parks and Recreation, all the great stuff, and then coming and talking about the budget and the kind of shortfall we're in this year. I'll tell you, early on in this process, before we even started the budget, Cheryl came to me and she told me, we're going to have a very, very tough year. I don't think that's the words you used, but you said it's going to be one of our toughest years we've ever faced when it comes to the budget. And when you see the numbers, that's obvious. There's some big holes that need to be addressed. I will tell you this as an overview, getting to this point took many years, so trying to solve it all in one year could be very, very difficult, if not impossible. So there's some big challenges ahead. So one of the first things I want to go over for everyone here is the question, is your primary revenue sources? I emailed you out a list of all the sources. I emailed you out a list of all the sources. I emailed you out a list of all the sources. I emailed you out a list of all the sources. I emailed you out a list of all the sources. I emailed you out a list of all the sources. These are the smaller ones. Those are things usually you look at when you're fine-tuning. These are your primary sources of revenue for a local government. In the state of Virginia, we are a Dillon rule state, so we can only charge the taxes that the state allows us to charge. So a lot of people, I've seen some emails, they've come up with ideas, but most ones we've seen are just things that you're not legally allowed to do because the state has not approved it. First item on here is always your big one. It's your real property. If you increase that one penny, it's $1.8 million. The second item on there is the personal property. You increase that one penny, it's $143,000. Mills tax, one penny generates $1.9 million. It's currently at 4 cents. You can go up to 6 cents on that, so you can increase it two pennies. CEDAREC tax, where's- Mike, what's Winchester's mills tax? Six cents. Winchester. Oh, there you go. Next slide's going to cover those. I think there's six. I have the- yeah, I'll follow the next slide. And I did send you all out the Weldon Cooper. It has a list of the taxes for most of the jurisdictions in the state of Virginia. I've got six and a half. Yeah, six and a half for Winchester. I've got a spreadsheet I'll send out to the supervisors tomorrow that I went through the Weldon Cooper and pulled out, in finance, pulled out our local jurisdictions and what everybody's covering right now, including the- Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'll send out the different sales tax and the cigarette tax. I'll send that to everybody. Well, mills tax, I thought we couldn't go above Winchester. But we're capped at six? Well, maybe 6.5, but I'll verify that for you. Yeah. The reason being is in the state of Dakota, Virginia, cities, towns, and charters can go higher. There's some cities in Virginia that are 8.5, like Richmond. Sure. But because we are a county, we are limited to go up to 6%. So it's not related to Winchester at all. We're just capped as a county at six. Winchester City is considered- Right. That's a city. But the county's capped at six. So we're not tied to Winchester. That's correct. Correct. All right. You've not always heard before, we couldn't- we were hog-tied to Winchester. We couldn't charge more than what they charged. I was actually told that same thing. That was what my belief was. The cigarette tax, this one's a big question on this one. We calculated this. What I did is I contacted the city of Winchester and found out what they received in revenues last year. Last year, they budgeted $600,000 for revenues. It actually came in at $465,000. I think probably because less people are smoking would be my assumption on that. And so based on those numbers, by extrapolating by population, I calculated that that's about $6,000,000. I calculated what the estimated revenues would be for Frederick County if it went to the max you're allowed by state law for a county, which is 40 cents. And it'd be approximately $1.4 million. Now, that's also assuming there's the same amount of smokers per population in the county as there is in a city. And who knows that? So that's how we came up with that $1.4 million. Is that after cost? Excuse me? That's after cost? Well, I'm going to- Okay. But I asked- I did talk to the city. I asked- I did talk to their finance director. He told me their direct cost to collect that was $10,000. And her commissioner of revenue said that there were no FTEs required or such. So from their perspective, there wasn't a lot of cost. Now, I have heard anecdotally through Clark County, it was a little different for them because they had issues with counterfeiters and they had to hire someone there to do audits. So if this board wanted to look at a cigarette tax, I think we should have to do further review. And contact other jurisdictions to get an idea of what the actual costs are. Just thinking outside the box a little bit, where we sit with 81 and North-South corridor, Freddie County has a large portion of that corridor. So we have Wawa and Sheetz and all those things, one on every corner of every place. You do get sales tax off of that from people going through. I was in there and it was a guy from Pennsylvania. He bought two cartons of cigarettes. It was $160, two cartons of cigarettes. So it's not just people smoking at Winchester on that cigarette tax. It travels through. You get a lot of people out of Maryland, West Virginia that come over here to buy cigarettes. Exactly. So, you know, it probably would be a little bit more than what we're anticipating if we're basing it just on smokers. It could be, matter of fact, this morning when we were calculating this. It certainly would be more than Winchester gets because they don't have a lot of cigarettes. I think it's the same. I think it's the same. And it's the same with the other ones. I think it's the same. I think it's the same. I think it's the same. I think it's the same. I think it's the same. But if the board wanted to look at this, I would say that it's really a little bit more than what we're anticipating if we're basing it just on smokers. It could be, matter of fact, this morning when we were calculating this. It certainly would be more than Winchester gets because they don't have that traffic. But if we were calculating it, both Wyatt and Jay both came up with that same statement saying because of the highway there and those kinds of places, you probably would sell a lot of cigarettes. Yeah. Yeah. People pack it in there. It's crazy, but whatever. But if the board wanted to look at this, I would say that it's a little bit more than Winchester and reality particularly what friends are away. I believe on all of you will also get that one. So, I think it's on a lot of different smaller cities. I don't need to factor this into another, but I think all of us could get those Porterville reduction if we were all인�nt to hold them – Yeah, I think what I mean – Pump up some of the transparency. Transparency if we're short on time, right. Yeah. Yeah, I gun s do you do to AII in general as Nobel Prize was an array of these ? Yeah. The other one is, I had heard that, if there's a tech-based quarter package, come here, make the test in the city center and be backwards. Yes. Last year round, there were rumors that an outright teenager would be on the left of ενesterol. pack and last year was their first year they collected less than a hundred thousand and that was from their treasurer they got ninety four thousand so it's something to think about too. Has there been any updates to the rules to account for vaping and the transition from cigarettes to capture them? As far as the vaping Dave it's just sales tax there was something put into the Virginia State Code in regards to that and they changed like their formula was. The state gets $2,000. We have no way to collect anything so that's where it is right now. Your state's kind of hovering over the marijuana thing right now. I'm sure it's gonna happen. Well we need to get on that also. Virginia Beach set a marijuana test for two years. I feel like we can get 5 to 6,000 people there, if there's any way we could just run, you know hit. If it's happening we're not gonna be able to control. I believe Jay is watching the state to see what kind of legislation and if they are did you give any of the local jurisdictions or try and take it all themselves I'm not sure if that's We'll try and take it all themselves, but what we have to ask it's like John said if you ask you don't get anything. May I make a comment. We did check with Harrison for marijuana insecticide, so we got that trying things. similar size to the city of Winchester. They're in the high 300, less than 400,000. They have a Costco. I checked with their Costco. At one point they sold cigarettes. They got out of the cigarette business. So that was a big exit for that particular tax. The localities, I don't know what impact it would have. I think doubling the amount of revenue based upon population is probably not a good calculation. It was a methodology that we had to use. It's a starting point. Once again, if the board wanted to look, it would take further research to get better numbers. I'm going to add in here, because I did not include in here the tourism tax. Our tourism tax is at 3.5%. Generally, if you increase that, that goes to has to be spent on tourism. So, we're going to have to increase that. That goes to have to be spent on tourism. So, we're going to have to increase that. That goes to have to be spent on tourism. So, it would not help you out with this budget. However, when you were talking about recreation and a recreation center, if you can demonstrate, I believe it was, I think Stacy's gone, but Rockingham just recently built a rec center for $15 million and they financed a significant portion of it using the tourism tax. But what you have to demonstrate is that you'll have out-of-town visitors used in that facility. So, it has been used as a source of income for recreation centers and such. Can you explain to me why, if, I don't remember, I did the math, but I can't recall what it was. Thank you, Bill. I think you helped me out on this a little bit. Why could you not raise the lodging taxes? Okay. And the money generated by that lodging tax that's above 3.5% go to funding tourism. And so, right now, I think we're funding, tourism is asking for $546,000, I think. It would free up that $546,000. Thank you. And that's right. Okay. If you're in a liquid state, then what you'd need to fund is 3.5% incentivization. I don't even know what the definition of that is right now. But that's in place five years from now. Wow. And evenộre that dollars right. And I heard, and I remember it were a little bit more money that was transferred. Yeah. I was soiled. And I'm a little bit worried since I can't directly imagine what you were going to be hearing. Can you tell me how this works and where the funds can be added to the budget? I do have We raised our lodging tax back in 2015, and the portion above the 2% goes to the locality. Two to five goes to fund tourism. I think we did a half a percent, a percent and a half. That's what we used to fund our share of the tourism request. I'm sorry. From the research I did, and obviously you know a lot more about this than me, but I thought it was anything above three and a half had to go. So it's two? I think it's between two and five goes to tourism. So if the county wanted to capture any revenue for budget purposes, you would have to go beyond the 5%. But 2% comes to locality. Two to five would fund tourism or tourism-related activities. All right. Thanks for that clarification. And we'll probably put together a little. We'll put together a little information and send that out just so everyone has the actual facts on that. On the sales tax, currently our sales tax is at one cent, which you're allowed. One cent generates $24 million. As you know, there are bills going through a legislature now where they're considering allowing local governments to use a one cent sales tax to fund construction and debt for schools. It would have to be done if they approved that. The local jurisdiction would have to have a referendum to decide whether or not it wanted to do that. One of the key things in both those legislations is in the House version, they will allow you to use any of that funding to pay for existing debt, which is if indeed this board wanted to move forward, that would give you a little leeway going forward using that funding to pay for debt you've already incurred, for example, on the fourth high school. The Senate version, my understanding is, allows you to pay for any existing debt that was done through a referendum, which none of our debt was. So if indeed they passed the House version, if it was a final and this board wanted to go that direction, the board would be able to use some of that money you would generate to pay for existing debt, which would reduce your burden on your other revenue sources. But both of those are in the legislature. Mr. Chairman, I think we ought to go ahead and get consensus among the board members if we want to do that. I think we ought to go ahead and get consensus among the board members if we want to do that. I think we ought to go ahead and get consensus among the board members if we want to do that. We need help. The only way we're going to get it is to ask. I just picked some local ones. I will tell you in the Weldon book, they do not have Page County or Clark County. So I'm going to contact them separately to get those numbers to add. This just gives you an idea of what other jurisdictions are charging. That Weldon Cooper list jurisdictions throughout the state. So that's for you all to take a look at just to compare yourselves where Frederick County is compared to the jurisdictions. I just want to clarify. I just want to clarify. I don't have to send my own. All the budget information that you've given us so far in terms of how much in the red we are, different categories, that's based upon the current. Correct. Let's talk about the debt for a minute. Mike and I talked earlier. So one of the pictures I want to see a clearer picture of is if the one cent sales tax is approved. If it does go to reference. Yes. Yes. Yes. And if it's what difference is it really going to make for us by giving us a picture from a financial perspective on how much of a relief it will. So that's the one thing we talked about that I'd like to see. I know it's in the book, but, you know, I think for all of us, you get a better picture of, okay, if we get this thing approved, then we're going to be in this position versus what we currently are. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's the one thing. And I think we need to go back and look at the school lunch. I know it's 24 million, that's basically the additional one of elementary schools. I agree. I agree. Or we can go back. Or we can go back or we can go back and help pay some of the debt and reduce this, what we're seeing now, going backwards to high school, we can pay off some of the debt. I think we need to go forward and get the kids out of trailers. Well, yes, there's no doubt about that. So, yes, I wouldn't go back. I'd use it to fund additional. I'm just looking at whatever. What's the next one? What's the next one? What's the next one? I think we need to go forward get the kids out trailers. Well, yeah Yeah, I wouldn't go back I'd use it to Just looking at whatever Just give us give us the picture so we know what we're you know That's part of the game plan here if we're gonna plan this the good right and then we then we know we can Clearly tell our constituents what we're trying to do A Good basis for it quick question Cheryl the You don't know your sales tax until the end of the year. Is that correct? So we have an amount budgeted and then I sent out that revenue amount showing how it's increasing or decreases It thought it's two months behind, but we keep up with it. Yes Is that answer Yeah, I just How much of a gamble what I was thinking Well, the questions was how much money is left in the capital fund This is a sort of finance and just shows you the number in the capital fund when you take out the construction cost for the fire station to put a for a Charlestown Park grant and radio something for our radio project The county has 14 point 6 million dollars And the capital fund is There any future Items we need also worry about from this 14 million dollars Not really unless for some reason you wanted to use it to fund them and then you'd have to strap it out Does that include the 7 million for transportation no no That's over in transportation Yes, and there's I think There's a balance in there now 11 million, but that's for money for the pledge for several projects Yeah, they're all spoken. That's all spoken for it. Right? It's all the old money set aside If we were successful I get all smart scale projects that are supposed to I think that 11 million is for all the smart scales I've been approved The general fund balance first I'll go over this real quick I'm going to go over this real quick For your reading pleasure. You don't have to read it this little sheet This shows you the fund balance has this calculated once a year in the audited financials The real benefit of this is just if you want to learn this and understand it better There's a little explanation here explains what all the different line items are in the fund balance I'll quickly go over it up here on our fund balance Conservation easement that's some funds that they have in their balance. It's a small amount the peg grant is funds we have that have to be used for Audio visual for this room for meetings and such that set aside parks and rec that comes from donations and Various other funds as Stacy was saying they can actually use that I think to repair parks and such So that's set aside for the parks and rec The non-current loan is kind of unusual I have my understanding is there was a loan to the sanitary district many years ago that phone was forgiven sir Frederick water Does the balance doesn't interest? On that line from 40 years ago that's just still sitting there So it'll either sit there for a long time or one day the board can take an action just to clean it out of the records But that's what that numbers for that's the 657. That's a 657 Yeah, we traded at Frederick water That loan exchange we gave I think we spent about 1.8 million on all field lights For Stonewall Park above me on what we agreed to build Yeah, I'm surprised yet still in there I thought it was taken care of it just needs an action from the board some type of vote to Otherwise will have to be explained every other way that's The courthouse they collect fees to work on the courthouse building and maintenance that money set aside Yo boy, that's from all those lawsuits over the opioids that set aside and that has to be used for very specific type items related to opioid use The animal shelter that's donation for you on that Could that I'm not saying that we should or could but any of the other agencies asking for money Could that any of that money go to other agencies if if another agency qualified under that bucket? Absolutely I've talked to the other agencies. I've talked to partner social services. I've talked to the FCPS It can be used on any of those agencies plus a few of the other outside agencies have talked about that We'll need a workshop one day to figure out how to spend that money. We're gonna be collecting it over 20 years So the answer the short answer is yes We've already had two workshops that we're trying to get scheduled to add a third That's on the last part of this today is workshops Proffers are you all know what the process are? He summons is through the sheriff. They're required to have that set up by state law their funds and The rest is the unreserved That's them Funds that you have available What they do is we multiply that time 17 percent, which is Two months revenues two months expenses, so you would set aside 49 million would be your reserve fund you would have for emergencies the e summons money that goes into the general fund and I'll get you more details Really? It's a sheriff that uses it when they need to use that money they go to the department who gets appropriated so that's two wheels see that could buy two vehicles right and I think it has to do with electronic summonses and I'm not sure if it qualifies but we'll get you the we'll find more detail what can they use that money for is don't if we could use it to produce things anything that happens associated with that electronic summons upgrades to that process yes and on the unreserved you know that 17% that equates to 49 million that's the minimum about you can have per your policy policies in place for financial prudence but also for bond ratings it's a recommended good practice it's not really there for emergencies the difference between the four terms is the union based on the final process in which it's related to the 49 and the 56 would be for your emergency piece. Say that one more time, the difference between the 49 and the 46? The 56 that's listed as your unreserved and the 49 million, that's what you could use for your emergencies. Your 7 million there. Correct. And for a GFOA policy, when you have that reserve, you can use it for emergencies. The standard rule for general practices is if you use your reserve for emergencies, you should have a plan in place to pay it back within three years for the standard GFOA policy for some communities. As you stated, it's 17% is for the bond ratings generally with, I believe it's with Fitch. That's what they require you to have if you want an A rating for your bonds, different over the different rating agencies, have different ways of measuring that. But it's one of the most common measures used by local governments, that percentage. I brought this up because after there, I guess there was a meeting at school last week and supervisors contact. Excuse me one second. I'm sorry. And you may have said this and I missed it. The 1.5 million for the animal shelter. Stupid question. That just has to be used for the animal shelter. Yes, it does. It's either donations. I believe part of it's in a trust and it's for the animal shelter. Just for the animal. Yes. Yeah. They've got, they've got a sizable donation fund. Yeah. Nice. That's right. That's right. It's from wills. Pardon? It's in someone's will. It's kind of like, you know, you give it to the church and it can only be used for. So, so is there any reason why some of that money can't be used towards their allocated budget? The animal shelter? Some of it. We'd have to look at it. Some of it probably could be. Okay. Some of it is designated in the donation. It can only be used for fan neuter. It can only be used for this. It can only be used for that. But there is any of that. But there's some, there's some loose change there. That's one thing. And Joe Wilder can charge that. Animal shelters and public works. And John and I, we met with that. So we were talking about that. I agree. Yeah. I believe one of the larger amounts, one large trust and it has specific items you can use it for. That's right. But there are, you know, they are one of the biggest problems we have out there is nobody knows where it is. Yep. Uh, it sits back behind the jail and really kind of out of sight, out of mind. So, we are putting a sign out there, um, with the electronics in it that we're open and we're accepting this, that and the other. We, we just so you'll know, we had a real overrun of dogs this year and we did, I had to do a lot of euthanasia, what nobody likes to do. Um, but it covered everybody. When I got a dog and then the dogs got sick and they couldn't afford to get the dog fix. So they just take them to the shelter and drop them off. And we can't say no, we're not taking it. So we take it and do the best we can, but it was a tragedy just waiting to happen. And the girls out there and women out there really done a fine job. It's a tough job too. It's been tough this year. It's been a very tough job for them. I mean, it's just that they're animal people, love animals, or they wouldn't work there. And then you have to put animals down. Tough job. Tough job. There was a discussion last week at the school. They were tough schools. They were talking about, you know, pay raising increase. I will tell you, I met with Dr. Hummer early on in this budget process and I hadn't bored them. I said, I remember it's going to be a very, very tough year this year. We have to all do what we can to cut back as much. And you know, as in our budget for pay raises this year, I put 3% because you look out there as opposed to what the national average is and it meets, uh, it's pretty close to what the cost of living is. And the last thing I really wanted to see if our employees just start going backwards. However, we're in a very tough budget year, so it's hard to justify more. If you look at this graph, uh, the, uh, orange line, this comes from the economic policy Institute. They gather, get this data from the department of labor. You know, I don't know how great that that is. I'm sure they get it through surveys and such because not every company reports what they have in pay raises, but I've used it as a guideline each year. We look at ours. So the, uh, orange line shows what their pay, pay raises have been since 2020. Uh, speaking of the green line is there as the orange line is Frederick County. And as you can see, Frederick County has been right with the national average when it comes to pay increases. Um, but the schools have been significantly higher over all these years. I will tell you, they've been adjusted and they've had clustering. They were years when they were behind in salaries. So when they come in front of this board, they've made the argument. And I think rightfully so that they're trying to play catch up. However, we are in a very tough budget year. Uh, and, uh, and when Cheryl and I were discussing this, we were trying to come up with ideas. What do you do in a budget year? And Cheryl, Cheryl came up with an expression that I liked the, the terms you use, which is cause this is almost a reset here. You're getting hit very hard this year. There's a lot of challenges. There's a big hole. So it's almost, you have to stand back and figure out what do we do in the short term? And what did he do in the long term? Because you, I don't think it's possible to fix this kind of financial hole in one year. So I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's, I think it's hard to get to that in the long term because you, I don't think it's possible to fix this kind of financial hole in one year. I just wanted to show you a comparison of wages. This is actually just taking numbers. These aren't recommendations, but trying to make the numbers work by looking at big chunks, because when you, this is putting in all the items that have been requested this year, as you saw from your book and I sent out a spreadsheet that lists the actual payment. So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, this data comes from I've forged you an updated one but when you add in all the items your shortfall is 42 million dollars you'll see up there two items I'll go from the bottom additional health insurance I believe we budgeted it 8% it could be as high as 30% I believe we may get some numbers very soon on that but so I added an additional two million dollars cost to cover that additional health insurance costs transportation fund in the years we're doing smart scale revenue sharing and such we like to put seven million dollars this is an off year so in the off years at times we've done less yeah I would make the argument you want to continue to fund that every year because that's one of the biggest complaints people have had is a transportation infrastructure and if you get out of the habit of putting money in there it's very easy to end up not putting money in and getting behind again you if you were to put two million dollars this year I talked to Wyatt he said this would meet their needs they would use this kind of funding for their smaller projects in the off years they wouldn't use for matching smart scale they look at intersections and other small projects to do any project they would want to do would have to go through the Transportation Committee and then the board would have to approve it the 1.395 fire equipment the fire department and the five-year plan which you have not seen those were was the PlanO where they brought relative stars is by bringing all of the rain from enthusiastic seen records but unfortunately there is a lot of road and시간 in need this is 78 the head those numbers show article those numbers say that there are about hundred people hanging out from the 45 charge well if they pick the age of 55 then there would be a profit on 180 it describes for the fire area percent per one million yards what we're saying you flying and saying you'll listen you don't want to call anybody she'll see you hit these people you didn't have enough you don't want to build this and But the five-year capital plan, I thought sometimes they're not going to include in that. I think part of it is because they would call that, as Stacey said, operating capital versus CIP capital. Well, yeah, when you put that list out, it had for 27 to 32. I was just wondering if that was something where a past board said, all right, starting in 2027, whoever's in the seat, you're going to have to deal with it. Or if this is something that has just been pushed off over the years and you just don't want to get to it now or where we're at. So we started the conversation during last budget discussions, and Steve Moshak was here giving us a list, which I think Mike sent out last week or Monday or something. It was kind of tabled to discuss what we're going to do at a later date. You know, where are we going to get into buying volunteer companies? Equally. What were we going to spend for it? What was going to be our ratio? Who was going to own it? It's not really an insurance issue because we reimbursed the insurance. And then it wasn't rediscussed since then. So it's settled on who owns what and what the share is? It never came back for another meeting. This is kind of my bailiwick a little bit. I don't want to take too much. Last year at the end of the budget for those that were here. Remember, this list was put together and given to the committee. And at that point in time, the board said, well, we got to figure out all these logistics, ownership, things of this nature, insurance, which companies process. So it was the logistics that was supposed to be a committee to be formed. And that just has not happened before. I would believe that you get into something that. Based on 26.3 million dollars at this point, and you're out to 35, that cost is going to more than double probably with the cost of. This particular specialized equipment. From that perspective, there needs to be a clear understanding. How and what that process is going to involve for. Getting into non county or county owned equipment. We. We really. We really. We really want to know what those costs are. And. But I understand that. We really don't know. At this point, the direction. So do homework. Or that process has not been done. It's a big number and it will continue to come back to you. And if you piecemeal it together, you're going to have a mess. It's been my experience over the years. That needs to be, I guess, maybe another work session. Number four. By understanding. Sorry. No, that's fine. I was just getting ready to ask. We're back. We've got a good public safety committee. It's going to be meeting February 12th. If that's something the board wants us to take up and study that, we'll take that up and study that and bring it back to you. Okay. Yeah. If you want to run it through us, we'll do it. Yeah, if homework hasn't been done yet, then we need to do it. I'll get with Mike and Steve and we'll start bringing those things together and we can get started on it. I would just ask that I would assume that we're probably not the first county that's had this problem. No. And just to try to not recreate the wheel. Right. We'll do that. The plan that they were using was borrowed from Loudoun County or something. That's how we faced it. Real quick. We'll get started on it. You got everybody in agreement on that? Yeah. Okay. We're good. Okay. Just shaking heads. Okay. Since we're talking about fire and rescue, is there anything we could do to research when we do mutual aid from the county into another state? Right. So it came out at the meeting the other night, the volunteer fire and rescue meeting, that 50% of their calls from rental store are going into West Virginia. That's a lot of expense and we're paying for our staff to do that? I would, Steve, if that was actually discussed at a previous meeting, they have a lot of information and data. So I would have Steve perhaps meet with you and get you that data and then perhaps bring it back to this board if it wants it. To look into how we can recoup those costs. Yeah. They've researched that and I forget the details of that meeting. Rental store. Rental store. It's at 50% and that's a huge chunk of. You've got Star Tanner and Ron Chandler. Yeah. They've done a lot of research and I could bring you everybody that information. There might be something else for the public safety committee to digest. You're going to have a long meeting. No. I'm just kidding. I'm sure I've been every month. We'll have a productive meeting. We'll get things going. Well, before we move forward with that, with the work that's going on. I think it's associated with this equipment. Should it even be in the budget? Because it's going to take a while. I think before you ever come up with an agreement or MOU. Do we try? I'm trying to save a couple of dollars on the body. Definitely. One of the one that was showing up is called sharing. Do we or do we not already have a mixed bag? Excuse me? I'm sorry. I'm not that familiar with public safety. Do we or do we not already have a mixed bag of stuff that county owns? We have a mixed bag. Okay. We have a mixed bag. We have. Do we have? Okay. Give me one second. But if this is a true liability, I mean, I'm not in favor of taking something out of the budget that if we've got potentially somebody's house burning down and we can't get a tanker to it because we don't have a tanker. You know what I mean? And we need one. So that's the only thing I would put as a word of caution to all of us here. And Steve will be coming to this board to make his presentation. We're going to be bringing the. We have three departments. Other ones that were discussed were fire, the sheriff and public works. Sorry, Stephanie. Is that the second week in February? I'm not sure. I'm going to get to those meetings. So working on this. Remember, this is just my model trying to knock out big numbers. It's not recommendations. So in my model to get this number down, manageable, I reduced the school request at 18.2. So the school requested to reduce it to 18.2. So I think that's what the board is trying to get. I think the board is trying to get that number down. And I think that's what we need to do. We need to get that number down. And then the board is trying to get that number down. So it seems like we have a way to get it down. But there's no way we can do it without the school request. $2 million. I reduced that $12 million. $700,000 is actual savings. We got our numbers in for a retirement plan. So it's $700,000 less than we thought. So that actually helps us out. I've had discussions with our fire chief. He's been on a 10-year plan to hire eight firefighters every year. And we've been doing that for several years. Over the last 12, we've hired 100. And I asked him, I said, look, it's a tight budget year. Would it hurt as a reset year to wait one year? And he said he could make that work. And I will tell you the most unusual thing. I got a call from him on Tuesday. They were 100% staffed. I mean, I won't last forever, but that's the first time they've ever been 100% staffed in the fire department. So that was pretty impressive. But he said he could live with that one year just if we need to make the budget numbers work. And the top up there, I added in the school capital, the $4.7 million. That's their level one ordinary capital. They do HVACs and such. I actually pulled it out there. Once again, I'm just pulling out big numbers to try this to make this work. And then I have the detail I can send it. I believe I did send it out in a spreadsheet yesterday. I reduced the county capital. And I will tell you the majority of that is all out of recreation. I did sit down and have a long talk with Stacey. And she understood, as you may or not know, over the last four years, recreation has just seen those increasing costs. It's been a lot of money, has done a lot of parts, and they've repaired a lot of equipment. And she understood for one year backing off just to make the numbers work because this number is so big, the sacrifices will have to be shared by everyone. It's just not one giant number to get you $40 million. Going back to Mr. Aiken's comments about liability on that school capital, since a lot of that's repair replacement, $4.7 million. They've got about... $4.4 million of property. I'd be interested to see how much of that could be applied to that $4.7. And maybe it's something where it's a small amount we need to make up the difference. I hope so. And I think what I should do, as it makes sense, is get everybody here a full reconciliation of all the properties, just so we can see what those are. Right there. With the numbers and what they can and can't be used for. So I did all those cuts just to show you the magnitude of what you have to do here. Even with all those cuts, which were significant, you still have an $18 million hold. And I took the use of capital fund and reduced that $14 million, took $10 million of that to reduce it. Now, generally speaking, they tell you not to use your capital fund to pay operating expenses, but you can. It's an option. It's usually recommended not to. However, there are governments that use capital funds to pay operating expenses. So I did all those cuts just to show you that. And I think that's a good point. They do not use their excess revenue in their fund balance. They call it bridging, where if you're having issues with revenues, you can take that money to bridge from one year to the next. Those are all policy decisions this board has to make. There is no legal, there's no rule saying you can't do that. I think that's a last resort. I agree. Yeah. I think that's a last resort. We've got to the habit of doing a capital withdrawal every four or five years. We've got to quit it. That's going to start. Yeah. And you should have a deficit next year before we even talk about the 4.4 for their service and where you're at on your elementary additions and operating costs for those. So have it highcendo. And I do have. Got to figure out a way to remove that crutch. Yeah. Period. Yeah. I like what I'm hearing. But we're talking about the FY 27 budget, and you couldn't possibly increase it. And FY 28 budget could not do that. I'm with you on that. And that's what we can also going to look at. Yeah. the different other revenue streams if it's meals tax if it's this if it's that to try to abate that because we're because we're looking at another I think it's 4.4 million in debt service next year for schools and I think is what it is and so but if we if we keep dipping in the capital it's just a lot like a line of credit eventually your line of credit is gonna run out and you're gonna be in a bad spot and so we can't I just feel passionate that's not a good idea I will tell you my primary goal for this exercise is to let you see the big chunks what it takes and there are some real challenges here you're gonna see there are not a lot of easy answers wait if not only that gives us talking points as we're talking to again talk to the public instead of constituents here's where we are and here's where we are and here's how severe we would have to go so folks need to understand we're trying to make smart decisions here based on providing the services that need to be provided in funding them so you know this is good and the last slide just sorry just one comment in addition to the debt service what 2009 you'll have five six million dollars jump in operation cost opening that for cost of living soil system 16 choice of the rules that will be our health lessons I didn't read them site the last class company concepts yesterday East Pittsburgh Save My Lending andyear public rating science companies' numbers 판صJunior Hunters and James Peck as well as that's usually good as much I'm never gonna to be an expert in the real trade alright but anyway in the back office of Descartes if anybody just these two goals tax that's 3.6 million I put a 2 cent increase in the mills tax that's 3.8 million so by doing those with all those other cuts it gets your shortfall down to six hundred thousand dollars. I said this exercise just to get everyone looking at the big numbers that are going to have to be thought of going forward. Put 3 cents on real property tax you do away with the six hundred thousand. Yes but there's several options there you go from here all the way back to that first side when you start looking at your revenue sources. And since we only raised taxes once in 16 years and lowered it 4 cents in 16 years I don't think that's a bad deal for the people of Frederick County. 3 cent tax increase. That's my final opinion. That's when it's nice to be staffed and I don't have to make policy decisions. And that's just the budget overview please ask questions send me comments I know I'm still working on for a supervisor 8-5 year projection I haven't got that done but I do have that on my list. Last item I know we're running out of time was workshops and first on our list I think was the first one brought up if this board is able I talked to Wyatt we could do the TDR workshop next Wednesday at five o'clock. Assemblyman przedtemper드�ある니 aber betten hat es categories responden 혜 DESVARIEK Narus ar flyld board member rj I'm okay with that, but I was thinking Planning Commission had a work session in February for the zoning ordinance. Was that on the 18th? Or was that on the 4th? I don't know on the 4th. That's the 18th. That's the 18th. The 18th, okay. Yeah, I can do the 4th. 4th. Everybody good for the 4th? I'll need to call in because I'm flying back. But I can call in. I might not be here in time at 5, but I'll be rolling in after we start. I'm here. All right. Let's schedule for the 4th. You got two that are calling in? Yeah. So for the other workshops, the list keeps growing. 530. I was thinking 5 o'clock just because I have planning to make sure I have enough time. 5 o'clock, okay. Number two on the list was the Joint EDA Board Workshop. And you can see up there on the Wednesdays we have our meeting on the 11th and the 25th. I think. I think both those nights we have budget workshops before those meetings. So you're going to have to use an off Wednesday. And I have a feeling we will probably need an off Wednesday for an additional budget. And if not, I'd like to keep one in reserve just in case we need it. Well, you only got one left. Yeah, there's not much. In February. Yeah. Yeah. You only got the 18th. So, if you want to move it to, can we move it to March? When do you want to move to March? Can I ask you a question? Sure. So, I think that. I mean, I think our strategic planning is happening. What's the date on the strategic planning? 19th. 19th of February. February. That. And I know this is back-to-back stuff, guys and ladies. You guys might not appreciate me saying this. But, I mean, I'm available on days other than Wednesday. And I think that there's been a significant amount of discussions amongst. Or that I've heard. Amongst all of us here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Many of us here. But many of us here that of the concerns of our direction of where we need to go with the EDA long term. And I think that it's important that we have that conversation because I feel like it could be coming up at the strategic planning conversation. So, if there's any way that we could fit it into our schedules on the 12th. That's a Thursday. I'm speaking for everybody here. But I would just propose that. It's the second Thursday. It's the second Thursday. That's assuming. staff can do it. Staff and EDA can do it. Are you available for February 12th? I'll put it after noon. Mike? I'll check my schedule. I think I have three things that day. I'll check one out. And you could do it at, what, six in the evening or seven or whatever the will of the court. Five-thirty or six. Take a pick. I'm good any time after one o'clock. Yeah, a couple still work. Mike, five-thirty or six? Six. There you go. I'll check. February 12th, six o'clock. And if I could, with those two scheduling, I'd like to wait a little bit to schedule the other meetings so we can look at all our schedules and probably do that by email. Sure. I know we need a meeting. There's going to be a meeting that's been requested with a joint work session, I think, with Frederick Water and our board. And so some other meetings. But I'd like to go back and look at the calendars. Yeah, Frederick Water, we'd like to do that one either the last week of April or the first week of May. Perfect. Because we'll have the bid in or we'll have a lot of information right after our April meeting. Don't mind meeting as long as we get things done. That makes it easier. We'll get that scheduled. Well, I appreciate everybody willing to do the Thursday. I just think it would be prudent to have the conversation before the strategic plan. Yeah. We need to work. So on the 18th, are we keeping that open in case we leave on the 11th and need another budget meeting? Because you're going to be running out of time. March? Yes. February 18th. So we'll need the February 18th as a possible budget workshop. That's what you were talking about. We're not doing this running to the last minute. I think that meeting will help you. Okay. Thank you. Anybody wants to, any other board members want to come in and be in there, you can certainly come in and sit in the gallery and listen. Same with finance and transportation. All right. We're adjourned. Perfect. How are you? Better? Better. Better. Better? Okay. This is Frank Sopala. Audience Member alarmed. No comment.tic-ść, topic margin off.이�ryw hacker layout travelling happened. We'll evaluate your argument itself as I understand it. Questions? Any? No. Any? gaps?
