Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-09-24
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=294
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you of Yeah, so my daughter's all, it's her turn to do it. And then, it's like a cat. Were you traveling together? We had a lot of fun. One person's with, it's in Culpeper. I don't know if it was. No, it was my family down right from the zoo. Oh, traveling. Okay, that was good. So I was in Paris. I'm just a tour guide. Yeah, okay. Oh, I have mom with me. I got a school. I got a school. I got a school. I got a school. I got a school. I fly everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. Keeping you solid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It seems like one place. Yeah. I don't know. I'm just trying to get the check. Yeah. Yeah. Great. It's the morning. I'm just getting tripped. I'm tripping to Cincinnati. Brothers and sisters. I'm getting a good sense. So you go up to 70, up to 76. We were in the middle. Yeah. Take that across. And then, take it to Ohio. And hop on the 80 turn. And turn to the . We went to that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They both got . Since it ends on . Yeah. Yeah. I remember looking at a map. And this is what it was like a very. Yeah. The life . I mean, the geography. What I learned. You realize that. Yeah. Since the . Although Jessica was . Oh, yeah. Like if you took route 53. Take it. I wouldn't be the fastest route. I'd always go. Like as a kid. You know. You see the map. You don't like see the map. I know. We got . That's kind of like harder. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Now. Go do something a little easier. You're lucky. You got to do your own thing. Yeah. It's kind of neat. My kid. My youngest is senior year. Oh. Oh. Oh. That's . Yeah. The campus. My wife. . Everything on campus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. It's North. It's not. It's not my devil. . So. , my . instead of walking around and worrying about it. It's just different. We'll try to get him to go down. Yeah, we'll try to get him down. Yeah, I think we'll get him to go down. Yeah, I think we'll get him to go down. Yeah, I think we'll get him to go down. Yeah. I'll start Cedar. Yeah, Cedar points like another hour and a half. Yeah, I think we'll get him to go down. Yeah. We were a big amusement park. We were like grown up. I don't know how many points. That's it. I think Snowden is saying he's going to have a millennium. Right. We're a couple. A millennium is probably well known. I was there in the top of the top of the top. Top of the top. Top of the top. Right outside the summer check site. Yeah. I heard about it. It's pretty cool. Yeah. Yeah. It's a really cool park. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right actually. I We had to park a at some area.抓 accelerators in the area. and . talking about laughing talking about Isn't the I don't on the pixel. to arguing I Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, Lord, we just thank you for your mercy and your grace. Thank you that we live in a country where we are free to assemble like this and discuss the policies and concerns that we have in our community and county. Just pray for the decisions that are made here today that you will give all wisdom who speak here today and make decisions. And we just thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you. The next item, Vice Chairman Wells. No, no. I'm a pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle the agenda? Madam Chair, I move to adopt the agenda as written. We have a motion. Second. And properly seconded by Supervisor Jewell. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Next item on the agenda is citizen comments for agenda items that are not subject of a public hearing. Is there anyone? Madam Chair. No one has signed up. Is there anyone who wishes to speak? Seeing none, we will continue on to the next item, which is the consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Madam Chairman, I would move that we accept the consent agenda as approved, as presented. Excuse me. We have a motion by Vice Chair Wells. Second. And a second by Supervisor Lero. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. We have a consent agenda. The next item is Board of Supervisor comments. Are there any? Seeing none, we will move on. County official, none. The next item is the appointment to boards and committees. And there is one appointment. This is the first appointment this evening to the Economic Development Authority, for which I serve as your liaison. So I would make a motion to appoint Christine Kriz to the Economic Development Board to fill the vacant or resigned position of Mr. Crockett. Second. And a second. Okay. Let's see. We can do all in favor. Aye. Aye. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Aye. Aye. And he opposed. Motion carries. And I just would like to thank Stan Crockett for all the years he has served on the EDA. His advice on that, as formerly running the inland port, has been invaluable to the EDA Board. So I just thank him for the years of service that he has generously provided. No committee business, non-planning, public hearings, none. hearings none so we will move on to the first public hearing which is rezoning 0525 or a Firestone complete Auto Center and Mr. Bishop will be presenting. Thank You Madam Chair, members of the board. As you have noted this is rezoning 0525 for a Firestone complete Auto Care Center to be located in the Rutherford Farm Shopping Center. For those who may not recall what the Rutherford Farm is that's where the Target, the Lowe's and everything just up north of exit 317 is. This is a rezoning of 2.96 acres existing B2 part of the overall Rutherford Farm rezoning from from back when the proposed requested zoning rather is B3 industrial transition. However to be a little more detailed in that they're not asking to take on all of what the B3 industrial transition would be they are seeking basically through proffer to add the ability to do automotive repair as part of their facility. What you can already do in B2 would be like an oil change like a Valvoline if you're more familiar with that or a Jiffy Lube this is simply adding the component that's only allowed in B3 which would be the tires and the repairs and that sort of thing. On the screen to your left you see that tiny red dot on the overall county of where the facility would be located once again just north of exit 317 I-81 at Route 11. Parcel is highlighted on purple. You'll note that it does have frontage out to Route 11 that's a right in right out access per the previous proffers or the once again original Rutherford Farm. It's one of the last two out parcels for development in that development. The original rezoning 1706 does include a number of transportation proffers which have already been completed and as I already referred to a little bit access to the property is established through two existing entrances both that Route 11 access I pointed to previously and also internal through Rutherford Farm itself. The proposed rezoning will not have a negative effect on the current transportation system as already allowed that is per VDOT. Permits this does continue to permit what's already allowed today all the B2 uses are already allowed prohibits all B3 uses with the exception of the specific intended use which is auto repair which is done to maintain the intent and character by and large of the B2 zoning district of which that shopping center is made. You see your future land use categories that are planned for here this remains business as shown there. In terms of comprehensive plan conformance Northeast Frederick land use plan or NEELUP does recognize the need for these type of commercial uses particularly in the vicinity of interchanges but all along the major roadways such as Route 11 as a primary highway. The intended use of auto repair along with the currently permitted B2 use is not required. The use of auto repair along with the current B2 uses does limit the property to uses typically associated with that business highway commercial type of use land use designation and the rezoning is in general confirmation with your plan as adopted. In summary this is as I noted a request to rezone the 2.96 acres of Rutherford Farm with some additional proffers which I'm going to jump into in a moment and I've already referred to partially. Positives as staff determines that the property is not required to use auto repair and the property is not required to use B2 offices الرport to use in large scale does not count. Supporting the sash videoтоe is that the intended use of auto repair will generate fewer trips than many of your orady allowed B2 uses and that the end of the offerares uses typically associated with the business land use designation still perserves the intent and character of your B2 district. Any concerns the main one that we point out that planning commission have say that bay doors should be closed, those activities should be taking taking place inside. I'm sure all of us are very familiar with it's actually rare to pass through an active garage and not see that those doors open particularly when it's hot outside and that sort of thing. Less so in the winter of course. So the Planning Commission did review this item on September 3rd and they recommended approval following discussion. Items that were dealt with in the discussion and have since been addressed and updated proffers which are before you are hours of operation limitations. Frankly the Planning Commission had no issue with the applicants proposed hours of operation and those are what are proffered 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Saturday at 9 to 5 on Sunday. Like I said they didn't have issues with that it was more worried about if the use may turn over in the future. So that's now been memorialized in the proffer. Orientation of bay doors away from the hotel. Now aside from potential noise impacts to the hotel which that has addressed the nearest residence was a good 400 feet away out on Martinsburg Pike. Kayla who was handling the case up until her recent departure actually did hear from that property owner when the signs went up but not in concern with noise. She was a little concerned we were rezoning her property. So that was the only issue that got brought up at that time. She was fine when she found out her property wasn't being rezoned without her knowing it. And finally once again as the applicant was already going to do anyway they did go ahead and ask him to moralize that a proffer is that that is that the tire storage would be in an enclosed outdoor building during the Planning Commission. It was noted that at any given time they probably storing a thousand tires out there. So that is an enclosed masonry sprinkled building and they've memorialized that in the proffer as well. As you've probably already noted this item is presented for a public hearing and staff following this is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors. I will note Mr. Todd Hamula the developer is here to represent his application available to answer any questions you may have. Yes sir. Could you go back and show me the proffer sidewalk? Yes there is a proffer sidewalk. So could you but where does that show up on the purple line there? I may have to defer to Mr. Hamula but the point of the sidewalk as I recall is to make it so folks walking around not so much from Route 11 within are able to get to the building without coming straight across the parking lot. So walk around the building? Okay gotcha. That's fine. Are there any other questions for Mr. Bishop? Supervisor Dunn? Yeah Mr. Bishop I have two questions. Number one Monday through Friday and Saturday was there any discussion on on holidays that's question one here the wall. Second question is was anybody concerned about noise? I know you mentioned the comment about 400 feet away but are there other people there that potentially could be affected and was there any reaction pro or con on that? We've received literally like I said that was the only person that contacted us through the purpose. So both at the public hearing and at any other time we've not received concerns about noise. The only potential noise concerns were brought about by planning commissioners who are thinking up through potential impacts of the rezoning. Okay thank you. Yes sir. Any other questions? Yes Mr. Chair. Can we go back to that map again just for a second? Oh I didn't try to do that sorry. So Mr. Bishop you said the the bay doors would be oriented away from the hotel is that? Yes Sir. So that's towards a restaurant and emergency care facility? Right? So the hotel would be oriented to our located area. over here. The bay doors where you would pull in your vehicle are oriented back toward the target the Lowe's and I-81. Okay thank you. Appreciate it. Anyone else? Thank you Mr. Bishop. Yes ma'am. Mr. Hamula did you wish to present sir? Thank you madam chair. Todd Hamula from Zaremba. I did have a site plan just to answer your question if I could approach. Sure. I'll pass down. Madam Chair. The only thing I'll add is the public hearing at the planning commission was very collaborative a lot of good discussion. The proffers that we agreed to were easy to agree to the hours of operations that did not consider holidays. My understanding are they're open most of the holidays but there might be Christmas or maybe Easter that they're not going to be open but I think that's all dependent upon the or you know the the operation and the operator manager of the store and then the tires the tire closure enclosure the building is a small buildings like 6,000 square foot their main business is repairing cars light light light repairs but they do install tires so they have about a thousand tires in the building use tires come off the cars and there's a little out building right next to the dumpster enclosure that has a roof on it and those will go in there and then some third-party recycle company will come and take those periodically to empty it out so the proffer was to just make sure that used tires new tires were always in an enclosed structure so that was another easy the thinking was 20 years from now and maybe this operator isn't there and it's you know it's Ted's auto body or you know automotive repair now tires are gonna be sitting out in a parking space or something like that so we just kind of agreed to that that was something that we agreed to. kind of the intention of it but I appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight and if you have any other questions of me I represent the developer and you know we're looking forward to building a terrific a terrific store next year and filling up the shopping center thank you. Are there any other questions from Mr. Hamula? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Hamula would you mind coming back to the podium so everyone can hear you please thank you. So Mr. Hamula the reason I raised the issue in holidays if there's no objection that's fine but if there were people that were objecting to a holiday so that was I was the question how far does noise travel etc it's nobody who cares at this point time I don't care but if in the future it becomes an issue that I have a concern related related question is if you sold the property 20 years from now and somebody else comes does this Monday through Friday Saturday and Sunday hours stick with the new property does anybody know that? Yeah my understanding are the proffers will run with the land regardless of ownership of the property. It's it's the under it becomes the new underlying zoning and conditions of zoning for what could happen there. I'll just have a conversation like my questions are you open to saying we won't operate on holidays but I don't want to necessarily impose that if there's nobody that's being bothered by it so that's that's my my concern. Yeah I am my my my initial thought was just to kind of caution the restrictions of holiday hours when the rest of the shopping center is likely open. Okay good point. So you have a retailer that can't operate when the rest of the shopping center around it does have bustling and cars and people so I would just kind of ask that to be considered. I appreciate that thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Hamula I know one point that was brought up and it was an excellent point at the Planning Commission meeting was that marketing of tires and in various developments where they're put a display outside the building the proffer that that has been addressed here that all tires would be stored in it enclosed storage facility that would incorporate any marketing that you would do as far as tires as well. So the proffer is written and I'll ask staff to clarify this is the storage of any tires now they will from time to time run specials and they have a grand opening and you know they go over the top they bring a monster truck or whatever they do flags and banners and that kind of thing and they will from time to time have tire specials, and they might display something, but it doesn't stay out overnight. It's just during the day. Okay. Yeah. So my understanding is the way the proffer was written is there would be no tires on the outside of the store when the store is not in operation. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions? Okay. Thank you, sir. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, to Mr. Hamula, or Mr. Bishop, I should say, the proffer that Mr. Hamula just spoke to as far as displays and such, do we have anything memorialized? Yes, ma'am. The proffer's statement amendment, which is included in your packet, the strict language is tires must be located within an enclosed structure. And that would be it, but the displays would be allowed as needed for marketing. So there's no problem. There's no alibi, as Mr. Charron would say, for an outdoor display or something like that. Okay. Very well. Very well. Thank you. All right. No further questions? Okay. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone here that wishes to speak to this item? Mrs. Spencer, if you'll state your magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes, please. Good evening, and thank you for the opportunity to speak to this item. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I live in Gainesboro. I would like to share a neutral comment, neither for or against this rezoning. Firestone is an auto care and tire shop, which will naturally bring new sounds, chemical smells, and increased early morning activity to the site. Given the proximity of a nearby hotel and residential homes, I urge the supervisors to request a comprehensive and strong landscaping plan as part of this rezoning. Large shrubs in the early morning activity area will be used as a place to stay. The large driveway leading into the property presents a great opportunity. Lining it with trees and shrubs would help absorb odors, buffer sound, and create a more inviting entrance. Shade trees along the parking lot could also provide comfort and cooler temperatures for Firestone's waiting clients and staff. Thoughtful landscaping will strengthen this rezoning for the businesses in the future, for the neighbors, and for agritourism, and for Frederick County's long-term health. It also would help protect our high-quality lifestyle. Thank you very much. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this item? Is there anyone else who wishes to speak to this rezoning? We will close the public hearing. This is Stonewall, and I know that one of the things that was talked about at the Planning Commission is that the buffers which are in the facility would be adhered to, and so there is substantial amount of screening and buffering that goes along with that. So, with that being said, I would make a recommendation to approve rezoning 0525 of Firestone Complete Auto Care Center. Second. And we have it properly seconded by Supervisor Jewell. There should be a roll call. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Vice Chairman Wells? Aye. Supervisor Vero? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. I also just want to thank the Planning Committee for their support. I appreciate it. Thank you. And I also appreciate the Planning Commission for the thoughtful work that they did on this rezoning. I really appreciated the depth that went into it in the discussion. So, thank you. Right, we will go then to rezoning 06-25 of Harrah Properties LLC. And Mrs. Feltner will be presenting. Thank you, Madam Chair and members of the Board. This is an application to rezone 13 acres from M1-1. I'm sorry. This is an application to rezone 13 acres from M1-1 with proffers to M1 with modified proffers. The property is located at 1290 Fairfax Pike in the Opaque and Magisterial District. The previous rezoning was approved in October of 2024 with proffers that limited the development to specific uses. The modified proffer statement seeks to include solid waste management as a specific use and add clarification on truck and fleet maintenance facilities. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The property locator map identifies the property in red. It is located east of Interstate 81 and south of the City of Winchester. The property is outlined in purple and is just west of Ridings Lane. The South Frederick Area Plan provides guidance for this area. The plan identifies the property as light industrial. The subject property is listed under key policies and iswa within the 6-4ist regulation. But this is not a new property. is within the Route 277 triangle center of economy which is designed to be a significant area of commercial and industrial opportunity that is fully supported of the Frederick County Economic Development Authority's targeted goals and strategies. As stated previously the modified proffer's statement seeks to include solid waste management as a specific use, the right-of-way dedication for the expansion of Fairfax Pike and the development in general conformance with the generalized development plan remain unchanged. This is a cleanup item from the original proffer and previous approval. In summary this is a request to rezone 13 acres from M1 zoning with proffers to M1 zoning with modified proffers to enable the solid waste management. The positives, the modified proffers clarify the initial intent of the previous rezoning by adding solid waste management to the modified proffer. The proposed rezoning is to include solid waste management as a specific permitted use and clarification was added to reflect the additional regulations for specific uses for truck and fleet maintenance facilities. The Planning Commission discussed this item on September 3rd and recommended approval. The item is presented for public hearing and staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed rezoning. Thank you Madam Chair that's all I have. Staff is available to answer any questions. The Board of Supervisors is available to answer any questions. The Board of Supervisors is available to answer any questions. The Board of Supervisors is available to answer any questions. The applicant does not have a presentation. Very well thank you. Are there any questions for Ms. Feltner? Thank you ma'am. Thank you. Mr. Franks did you wish to speak or just to answer questions? All right are there any questions for Mr. Franks? Okay no? All right this is a public hearing is there anyone who wishes to speak to this rezoning? Seeing none we will close the public hearing and this is the Opecan Magisterial District. Vice Chairman Wells? Yes Madam Chairman this is as was stated this is a clean up from the last one and I think a positive move so I would make the motion to approve the rezoning 06-25 Harrah Properties LLC DNW container services. Second. And a second. Excuse me DNM I said DNW. DNM. Very well. All right and we have it properly seconded by Supervisor Jewell with DNM. Right all right so we will start on Supervisor Liero? Aye. Vice Chairman Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. So moving on to item 12 C ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code chapter 165 zoning. Thank you Madam Chair. Thank you. This is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance to clarify the TDR receiving property criteria provide some additional flexibility to the transfer process for TDRs and to modify TDR development. Yes. All right so we have a motion to approve the zoning ordinance to approve the zoning ordinance to clarify the TDR receiving property criteria provide some additional flexibility to the transfer process for TDRs and to modify TDR development approval procedures to better align with our comprehensive plan. I won't go over the transfer development rights program in any amount of detail but if at any point we want to talk about that program and if the board doesn't see it very often because it's administrative in nature and staff runs that I'm happy to answer any questions about it. So the first change is to the receiving property criteria the current standard as summarized requires one of the elements of the criteria to be that the property is identified in our criteria the current standard as summarized requires one of the elements of the criteria to be that the property is identified in our comprehensive plan for residential land uses through implementing the program and through a challenge to the Board of Zoning Appeals it became clear that this was a difficult statement to ensure was applied across our mixed-use future land use designations those be your urban centers neighborhood villages that contemplate both residential land uses as well as commercial being mixed in with it so to clarify that we rewrote the section specifically reference those comp plan land uses where you can use TDRs and the relevant zoning district so if the property zone residential performance it's already zoned for residential doesn't matter what its comp plan you can use TDRs there you already have the right to build residentially in the R4 district it should be identified as planned unit development and then in the RA district where it's most common to utilize TDRs it needs to either be identified as residential urban center or neighborhood village. For the transfer process one of the current standards does not allow for the applicant who is using the rights to submit a master development plan in advance of having rights on the property for those who are not familiar with the program to get rights on the property it is essentially a real estate transaction where you may end up paying a couple million dollars to purchase the rights from a rural landowner and then go through a closing process to get them transferred on to the property. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If the county won't review and approve contingently a master development plan that shows a general layout of the property and somewhat vest them with how many rights they could actually construct. So this would allow for the submission of a master development plan to show a layout generally of the property the number of units that are hoped to be achieved by the developer on there and give them some certainty about how much they need to go to market for prior to actually purchasing and transferring. the rights. And then for our approval procedures, right now we don't have a strong link between implementing the standards contained in our in our adopted area plans. There is a state code section that allows us to require developments using TDRs to more align with the standards contained in our comp plan. This could include dedication of rights-of-way for planned roads or trail systems and then if a traffic impact analysis warranted it, the construction of those roads and or trail systems. Alongside of this ordinance amendments, we felt it was prudent to update our traffic impact analysis standards. They haven't been touched since 2009 I believe. The current standard right now sets a threshold of not requiring a TIA for anything other than a rezoning and when it is a rezoning, they have to be projected to exceed 5,000 trips per day. As I mentioned, there's no threshold for TIA's for anything other than a rezoning and when it is a rezoning they have to be projected to exceed 5,000 trips per day. As I mentioned, there's no threshold for that. threshold or requirement when the project is being pursued by right with a site plan, subdivision, or master plan. So we're proposing a modified standard to have the threshold not focus on trips per day, but on peak hour trips. In our opinion, the issues we have are during our peak hours with transportation. So using peak hour trips is actually a better metric for mitigating impacts. And we would propose a threshold for potentially a rezoning site plan, subdivision, or master plan. So applying TIAs to buy-write developments where residential trips exceed 100 during the peak hour or commercial trips exceed 250 during the peak hour. That would look on a trips per day calculation to be more like 500. So 5,000 trips per day is equivalent to 500 peak hour trips, roughly speaking. So we're lowering the threshold from about in half as it relates to the peak hour trips. So we're lowering the threshold from about in half as it relates to the peak hour trips. So we're lowering the threshold from about in half as it relates to the peak hour trips. So we're lowering the threshold from about in half as it relates to commercial trips and then by down to a fifth of the current threshold for residential trips. And to give you some context on what that might look like, a 100-unit subdivision, 100 single-family homes would be likely to just exceed 100 peak hour trips. So that's a general ballpark of what we're looking at for when a traffic impact analysis would be required. The Development Review and Regulations Committee reviewed this proposal on July 24th and recommended approval. Your Planning Commission did the same. And we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new proposal on July 24th. So we're looking at a new Amendment and the TIA policy update. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. Are there any questions for Mr. Pearson? I've got one. Mr. Pearson, are peak hours defined or is it the staff's determination? So how do you define peak hours? The traffic impact analysis proposal as a whole has additional statements in it that reference the existing VDOT 527 process, which has a broad set of standards that would provide the definition of peak hour. It is a widely accepted practice across traffic engineering as to what that is. So the time is a set time where somebody can't come in and just say, well, I want you to change the time. I mean, it's a standard. Yeah, I'd look to Mr. Bishop on what is peak hour exactly. Yeah. Typically in the AM, you're talking about between like 7 and 9 AM. In the PM, you're talking between 4. And 6. When we're in TIA scopings, there are isolated incidences with a unique area or unique use that sometimes what's defined as peak hour in that instance will get modified a little bit, but that's your general range that we're discussing. That's fine, Mr. Bishop. I appreciate your comments. I just want to make certain that a developer doesn't say, well, you know, I'm going to change the hours, et cetera. That's what I'm trying to avoid. So if there's a standard that, yes, everybody understands these are the peak hours, just move one way or the other. Yeah. And the existing TIAs are currently run through that same rigorous VDOT scoping process that can take many months to get through and get an approved TIA. And this new process will go through that same exact approval. Thank you. Appreciate it. And one other comment then, Mr. Pearson. I appreciate the work that you and your staff have done. I mean, you've put a lot of work into this. I've seen the whole thing. So I just appreciate the time and effort that you and your staff have done. Sure. Are there any other questions for Mr. Pearson? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Is there anyone that wishes to speak regarding the TDR changes? Seeing none, we will close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this request? Madam Chair. Yes, sir. I'll make a move to approve and after I make a move to approve, then I'm going to make a move for an amendment. So I'll make a move to approve this request. Do you want to amend? Yes, I do want to amend. So could you make your motion to include what it is you're seeking? Sure. So I'll make a motion to approve with the following revisions. I'd like to, on the 165-303, .02 Development of Approval Procedures, I'd like to go and on number six, remove the items that were listed in red. And then add a number six after the first five. And that would say, number six would say, identify the Frederick County Comprehensive Policy Plan as a future land use that is solely residential in nature. That's my motion. And I sent you all a copy of that yesterday, so you should have a copy of that. So your motion is to eliminate all the redlined information in the work that staff has presented. Only on number six. So if you take a look, Madam Chair, at 165-303, .02, which I think is on page five, the bottom of page five and the beginning of page six, that's the only redlining that I would be looking to. Remove. And then I would add a new number six, which I just stated, identifying the Frederick County Comprehensive Policy Plan as the future land use. This is solely residential in nature. Okay. I'm trying to find the number six. That's fine. So you want to eliminate number six. Correct. But all the other redlined information, there's gonna be a Laia estate sale rule they said, you have to build by the deadline. So, act on it. We'll meet at six. And all, under three, at six, those things are locations only. But, all those things that are important are h resolver원이包括 moratarek exceeded смากу haareaticsuawest вW-toowman redlined information above where we have the R4 and identified in Frederick County Comprehensive Plan as a PUD or item C, all of that redlined information would stay. You just simply want to eliminate number six. No. So if you take a look at number six, we're just talking about this one section. Yes. I'm eliminating the red lines on one, two, three, four, and five. Okay. So the current standard would be left alone. Then I'm adding a number six. And everything else redlined in this document stays, but on this one section here. Okay. So Mr. Supervisor Dunn has offered an amendment to what has been presented by staff. Is there a second to his motion? Second. Then we'll have discussion. Second. Supervisor Dunn. Lero has seconded, properly seconded. So we will have discussion then. Are there any questions in the impacts of how this might happen? Are there any questions from the rest of the supervisors? You're asking me a question or you're asking Mr. Joyner? What is the purpose? What is the purpose? Okay. So the purpose here is that... Thank you, Madam. The purpose for this amendment is to go and limit TDR use for solely residential. We've had situations where it's been a mixed use and this would then limit TDRs until we as a board can have a workshop to go into more TDR use. Mr. Pearson, if you want to just... We can walk them through and have an explanation here. Okay. So the purpose is to go... And in the comprehensive plan, we have some mixed use items. This would put it only on residential items. And by doing that, it limits the use of TDRs to some degree. And Mr. Pearson, if you want to go and elaborate more, that would be helpful. Yeah. If I understand Mr. Dunn's amendment correctly, the program, if you look at what's on the screen and forget about all the red lines, that is built right now and how staff interpret it before we got challenged at the BZA. Okay. So the first thing that we did was really focused on number six, which said, identified in the Frederick County comprehensive policy plan for residential land uses. So when we look at our comp plan, there's residential, industrial, business, urban center, neighborhood village. There's probably 12 different land use designations. And for a while, we had thought that TDRs could only be landed in those areas that we had designated as residential. We had since proposed a modification to that to include those mixed use items. So we've got a lot of land use items. And we're going to go ahead and go ahead and go ahead and go through those. So the first thing that we did was identify residential, residential, business, urban center, neighborhood village. We identified those as the land use designations that are identified here under item C, urban center and neighborhood village, which would have broadened the receiving area a good bit because it includes those. And that's also kind of the exact circumstances that we lost that a challenge at the BZA. So it clarifies that and makes it clear. Mr. Dunn is, as I understand it, proposing an amendment to go back to how we previously interpreted it and make it even more clear with the BZA. So we'll do that tomorrow. Okay. Thanks. addition of the word solely residential in nature, which would bring us back to just saying only those land uses in our comp plan that are residential are the ones where you can land TDRs. They won't be allowed in the urban centers or the neighborhood villages. Is that right, Mr. Durham? Yes, sir. So I have anyone else have a question then? Mr. Pearson, when I look at 6B, those are residential in nature, right? I mean, 1B? I mean 1B, excuse me. Yes, sir. Yeah. So, so would we need to eliminate to Mr. Dunn's motion, would we need to eliminate ? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the R4, I mean. No, the, and it's not clear here because you're cut off across pages, but that number one is a criteria that establishes the zoning districts you're allowed to use TDRs in. Okay. And then it lists those zoning districts. So you're allowed to use TDRs if the property is zoned RP, R4, or RA. And then I had went and added and, and through my amendments, eliminating number six and clarifying if you're in R4, you need to be planned, planned to be planned unit development. If you're in RA, you need to be planned for residential, urban, or neighborhood village. But if, if I understood Mr. Dunn's motion correctly, he's striking the red lines that are in A, B, and C. And so then all these go back to just being their original qualifiers of saying you can only use TDRs if you're zoned RP, R4, or RA. And then you have to also be designated in the receiving areas map, served by public water and public sewer, served by state maintained roads, or have the ability to use private roads. Be within the urban development. So, you're not going to be able to use TDRs if you're in R4, or RA. And then you have to be in the urban development area and identified in the Frederick County comprehensive policy plan for solely residential land use in, in solely residential in nature land uses. I'm sorry, I don't remember the exact wording. Correct. Okay. Correct. So, if, if we were to accept this revision, what would be the pros and cons of us doing this? And, and I guess I'm a little concerned about, when I'm looking at, when I look at 1B for instance, I mean, those essentially would be residential. I mean, so, it's a little more descriptive of what you have in there. So, I'm, I'm just asking what would be, where would we be if we approve this as far as the negatives and the positives? Yeah. So, the reason we proposed to broaden the receiving areas, because the TDR program is a market-based program. And, so, it's a problem that we have to sort of, you know, we have to have a general concept of what is a market-based program, and if you don't have a place to land the rights, then they're worthless, essentially. Our concern at the time of writing this proposal was that under the interpretation of solely residential land uses, you have a pretty small receiving area. Most of what we've designated as pure residential in the comp plan is already built out as residential subdivisions. There's not a lot of unbuilt land left that's designated as solely residential. In my conversations with Mr. Dunn over the past couple days or so, I think his intention, and maybe it didn't come through clearly through this amendment, was that this would be a temporary change to the ordinance until such a time as the board could have broader discussions about the TDR program. Is that fair? That is correct. Okay, yeah. Under that, with that understanding, as a temporary measure, assuming that the board comes back and finds a way to provide an adequately sized receiving area, is that a temporary change to the ordinance? I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. If I look at some of the issues that we've had with our Board of Zoning Appeals and such, your attempt is to clarify this to give us, you know, so we don't end up back at the Board of Zoning Appeals. So in the interim, between now and the Board having this discussion, do you see any problems with us leaving this? Under either my proposal or Mr. Dunn's, I think it's abundantly clear and there's less likelihood of challenge. It was a fair challenge to be made when it only said for residential land uses, because as articulated by opposing counsel at the Board of Zoning Appeals, our urban centers and neighborhood villages, while they do have commercial uses in them, they also have residential uses. Some of our most intense intended residential uses, apartments, but they're intended to be mixed with commercial. And so their argument was. You know, it doesn't say solely residential land uses in number six. Urban centers are residential, so we can use TDRs there. But with Mr. Dunn's rephrasing of it, it would say solely residential. And in turn, staff would have to interpret that as only those comp planned areas that are pure residential with no mixing of uses. So there's less risk of going back to the BZA and having the same issue and there being confusion there. But it does greatly narrow that receiving area. And so we're going to have to do that in the interim. Do we have. Have you had people come to you and are there things in the process already based on some of this information as far as people wanting to move forward in this area? Yeah. Under. Yes, ma'am. Under the proposal I have written, there are certainly people who would plan to use TDRs in the urban center areas more than likely if it were adopted. Yeah. And that's why I would stress that under this as a temporary measure, I don't think there's any long-term consequences to the program. But if you don't address it in the long term, you might as well not have a TDR program because it's going to dry up with how limited the receiving area would be over time. And what would you see as being accomplished in the process of having a temporary versus what? I think that's kind of up to our decision makers. I know Mr. Dunn has some ideas of what he wants to discuss with you all in a work session context. I have my own ideas about broader long-term changes to the TDR program that I think could be considered. But, yeah, I think that's a discussion for another day. So, Madam Chair, unless Mr. Wells, you want to make a comment. I just have a little concern. I'm sorry. I don't think we've got a lot of time. I think we've got a lot of time. I think it's time to go ahead. I think we've got a lot of time. I think we've got a lot of time. I think we've got a lot of time. I think we've got a lot of time. I think we've got a lot of time. I don't think we have the jest to have any short-term changes to the TDR program that I think could be considered. But, yeah, I think that's a discussion for another day. So, Madam Chair, unless, Mr. Wells, you want to make a comment. I can't. I'm getting a little bit confused. B, R-4 in red. That stays. That doesn't have a red line through it. Oh, only the black stays under Mr. Dunn's proposal. All of the proposed red text in A stays. You have to of course pass that under Mr. Wayley, all of that is inside of that plan, cameoing to Mr. Munnam. A, B, and C would go away, and you'd be left with just the black text. Six is the red line through. So anything in red should have a line through it. Correct. It once was black. Now it's red, but not red lined. Am I correct? The stuff that's red that doesn't have a line through it is text I added. That's how the track changes works in Microsoft Word. And the stuff that's red with a line through it is stuff I took out. What Mr. Dunn's proposing is under A, B, and C, get rid of everything in red, only keep the black. And then for six, it gets rewritten to be, as he said, identified in the Frederick County Conference of Policy Plan for solely residential uses in nature. So I'm looking at C, R-A, inference, rural area, district, and it stops there. The and takes you to number two. And then for A, B, and C, you have to step to also meet the criteria for two, three, four, five, and six. If you don't meet any of those six criteria, you don't qualify to be a receiving area in the TDR program. Okay. All right. So this is... I think Wyatt has... I'm okay. Okay. I don't know. I think that we need to have this full discussion here on what you're... Okay. I mean, if you have questions, I'll be glad to answer them. Mr. Pearson's laid out items, and I just think that at some point in time, we ought to have a workshop to go through the TDR's programs, how they've changed from 2009 to now. This is a temporary situation that will go and then give us all time to try to address that. If that's... Look at census among board members. And that's the purpose for this. All right. Thank you, Mr. Pearson, for the clarification. I just want to make sure we understand as best what we're voting on. All right. So we have a motion and a second. We will go to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Vice Chairman Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lear. Aye. And the chair will vote aye. Motion carries. Thank you. All right. That will take us then to... Planning Commission, business none. There are board liaison reports. Are there any? Okay. Citizen comments. Anyone signed up for citizen comments? Is there anyone who wishes to speak? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. My name is Ken Dunder. I'm in the Red Bud District. Yes. I just want to understand what I just saw happen. Did you close the public hearing for that last item? I didn't hear that happen. So... I thought I did, but maybe I didn't. I don't want to speak out of turn. Yes. We wouldn't have had a motion and a second if I hadn't. But I want to make sure that I did properly. No one came forward. No one came forward. Okay, so that cancels it right there. That's my mistake. I'm sorry. I was waiting to hear the board's opinion on that before getting a chance to speak, and that would be my mistake. Am I still allowed to do so or no? We've closed the public hearing, but under citizen comments, you are welcome to serve. If there's some comments you wish to make, since we are going to have a further discussion, if you could limit those to three minutes. Happily. Yes, sir. So what I saw when I sat here last week, when you were all here, and I applaud all the work you do. You guys do great work. Supervisor Dunn asked for a work study session and did not get a second for that. He found a way to do the exact same thing tonight, but this time he got it. So before making any comments, Supervisor Dunn thanked the staff for all the work that they did, because they did, they put a lot of work in this. And I know this because this affects me directly, how that works. But what actually happened tonight was it kind of negated everything that they did. Everything that was put up there that was changed and red is now back to black. It's always temporary. Every decision you all make is temporary until another point where it comes up again. So to say that this is being done as a temporary thing, it's all being done temporarily. So the staff here went through a ton of work, hours and hours and hours, to put up a plan that they were directed to do so, and now it was just all put back to absolutely nothing. And everybody who has property, who was waiting to hear what was happening here, is still stuck. They're stuck in the same limbo that we were before, with no plan for a date or anything else, or how this is going to move forward. I would love an opportunity to participate in a plan or in a discussion like that, but I'm not sure how that's going to happen from here. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Right. So last item then, Board of Supervisor comments. Are there any? Madam Chair. To address Mr. DeNiro's comments and some others, on the work that the staff did, it's multiple pages, so this is one section. There's other work in there that is included in there. If you go through the whole document, there are other changes that we did approve in the first two sections of this. So it's just this one section that was changed. Number two, I'll be glad to have a conversation with you or anybody else on TDRs, pros and cons, what it was. In fact, I'll be glad to have a conversation with you or anybody else on TDRs, pros and cons, what it was. In 2009, what it is today, et cetera. So it's not trying to limit debate. It's trying to say, fine, in Redbud, we've had two situations right now where TDRs were used, which is bypassed planning on housing development. And I think that as a public body, we ought to be able to have a control on how we plan, have a discussion on that, not just have it unilateral, and that was the purpose for this. And we can talk later if you'd like. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Anyone else? All right. Vice Chair Wells? Yes, Madam Chairman, I move we adjourn. We are in a second. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you to Mr. Amery and Ms. Becker suit man fez. You urging a second Tabish Slack, Ole parece que bonhomme le Magn அм. Vielleicht у вас есть вообще Earlier мы говорили painful Punkink. A popped up American magazine Paper America�한데 уже clinical to report that ugh $iY-W-O sixth mete credibility. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you
