Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-05-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=344
========================================================================

I'll be just up. All right. I'm not going to sit there. I'll sit back here. Hey, John, how are you? Wow, good to see you, man. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bishop, good evening, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'll jump right into it and apologize in advance if I repeat any of the information you just shared. As you have noted, this is a work session for those who are trying to learn about county processes. We don't always have work sessions. It's something. that is fairly specific and done at the discretion of the chairman and the planning director, depending on the complexity and size of a proposed land use action. So this is one, obviously, that calls for a work session. It's an extra opportunity for the planning commission to hear from staff, to interact with the applicant, and hopefully come out of the work session, hence doing the work with actionable items as the applicant works to get their application in a state that's hopefully better than it is when it's first filed as it moves forward. There is a flyer at your seats that talks a little bit about the process which an application follows. It addresses two items. It addresses rezonings, which this is a rezoning. It also addresses conditional use permits. That's intentional because in order for a data center to be approved in Frederick County, depending on what zoning district the proposed property is already in, it will either need to be rezoned to the technology manufacturing park district, or a conditional use permit would have to be approved. Those are similar but not exactly the same. So as you review that page, if you have any questions, please feel free to direct them to the planning department. As Mr. Stowe has noted, we do expect, provided the applicant continues on their current trajectory, there will be a planning commission post. We will have a public hearing on this application on June 3rd. That will be your opportunity to come to the podium and say what you like, what you don't like, etc., etc. The planning commission will listen to you. They will take everything into consideration. And depending on what they choose tonight, they will make a recommendation to the board of supervisors. It's possible on June 3rd that they say, no, it's not ready to go forward. We're going to table this. We want you to work on it some more. And that's it. Thank you. In that case, it would not go to the board of supervisors on July 8th. That would get pushed out further to a board of supervisors public hearing once the application has made it through planning commission. It doesn't go forward to the board of supervisors until the planning commission has made a recommendation. Now, the planning commission has 90 days from tonight to make that recommendation. So it will happen at some point within that window. So assuming it is July 8th. Once again, the board of supervisors will have their public hearing. The board of supervisors has one year to act from the date of filing, which I believe is April 10th for this application. Forgive me if I get that wrong. I'm going off my off the cuff memory. So so they've got a little more time to go back and forth with the applicant if they need to. It rarely takes a rezoning that long. That's just the statutory requirement. As I've noted throughout, these dates are easy, easily influenced by actions of either the applicant by choosing. Not to go ahead and go forward at a certain meeting. They can request postponement, et cetera, et cetera. Or depending on what the delivering body may do. For example, July 8th. If the board of supervisors does see this that night, they could table it. They could say it's not ready for approval or denial yet. So that could stretch out still further. Final item to address is I don't want to belabor this any any worse for you. We do have a QR code on the screen there. That QR code will direct you to the. County's meeting portal on the county's meeting portal. You can see the upcoming meetings when they are. You can review the agendas once they're posted all the application materials and attachments. Pay attention to as an application as it goes forward, because what's in the application today may not be in the application by the time it goes on to the board of supervisors agenda. Because part of the reason for this process and this ongoing feedback is the applicant make may make changes, improvements, et cetera, to their package as it goes forward. So I wouldn't want anybody to be surprised by the fact. That it was one thing on June 3rd and another thing on July 8th. That's that's part of the the overall process. When you go to the meeting portal, you'll see a screen that looks like this. And as I said, it lists out all the upcoming meetings as the agendas are posted. You're able to access those. You'll notice the middle column there that says e comment. Maybe there's a meeting schedule that you want to comment on something at and you can't be there physically or you have a friend that can't be there, et cetera. You can use that e comment. And to still submit your feedback and of course, directly contacting planning commissioners, staff, board of supervisors members is also a way for you to be heard on your opinions on these matters. With that, I'm going to jump into the actual application. Thank you for putting up with that, Mr Chairman. Um, we are talking about Virginia Technology Park. Uh, folks may be familiar with it from a past application for Fruit Hill. It's the same property minus, I think one parcel. Um, at that time it was a different land use request. They are requesting, uh, TM or technology and manufacturing Park District from now on. I'm gonna say TM and I hope you remembered that it was technology and manufacturing Park District located roughly 1420 rest Church Road in Clearbrook. That is for those who don't memorize addresses as I don't. That is immediately west of the Flying J truck stop at exit 3 23. Um, next to the caterpillar and all that. If you happen to go down Jack Zachary and Lane, uh, in the Stone Valley. Stonewall District and they are asking to do a data center park. Uh, the map of the overall count County. You can see, uh, roughly a red square. That's not the entire entire parcel. That's just pointing out roughly where in the county it is. But as we zoom in here, you will see we are now at exit 3 23. Uh, the existing zoning, uh, to the east of the property. That's where you're flying J is. That's where your caterpillar dealer is. The red is B three or industrial transition transition district as we call it and M one, which is our, uh, one of our main, uh, industrial districts. That's where the caterpillar dealer is there and outlined in purple are the parcels in question. Uh, you may be asking yourself, where is the third parcel? Because the application does lift three parcels. However, if you look very hard at the north east corner, there's a very small parcel right there that that's your third parcel in this application. This is your long range. Uh, land use plan for the part for the properties. Uh, the designation in your long range land use plan for these properties is mixed use industrial and office. What's on the screen now is a page out of the applicant's GDP or generalized development plan that shows a general layout of the property expected layout of the property. Um, as you can see on here, it does have, uh, 10 buildings, depending on which resource material from the applicant you're looking at because it has sort of progressed. They're either 10 or 11 buildings. If I can switch, jump ahead to my summary here, 10 to 11 data center buildings, tolling 2.275 to 2.350 square foot of data center. There are three substation pads identified that are about six, six acres each with up to 288 generators. Once again, that's somewhat dependent on how many buildings they end up with and what type of buildings. Um, but that's once again from their materials and finally 24,000 square foot of office space in terms of comprehensive plan conformance. Um, in, in frankly, uh, to be quite blunt in some ways it conforms and in some ways it doesn't, uh, in terms of, uh, the land use itself. Um, it is in conformity. Um, these, this part, these, uh, parcels are identified as areas that we're trying to put, uh, EDA targeted, uh, uses such as technology sector items and data centers, uh, as, as one of those, uh, similar industries supporting industries. Um, however, it also notes that uses which significantly contribute to air noise and light pollution as well as businesses that create large volumes of truck traffic are discouraged. Um, and obviously one of the key concerns with data centers is noise. So you're trying to sort of balance the scales there as you consider the application should also be noted that areas north of Hopewell Road, um, and exit 321. So that's just to the south of this application, um, are within reasonable proximity of significant electrical electrical transmission capability. Uh, in turn, these areas may be well suited for energy intensive development if the other necessary utilities could be provided to sites, uh, and development. Notice these are specific quotes from your comprehensive plan on the case of this particular one. Of course, uh, we do have a major transmission line there and a coming, uh, substation that's meant for high electric, uh, electricity use, uh, potential in that in that case for this application that sort of smiles on it because you know where the power is coming from. However, um, in terms of other utilities such as water, there's more of a discussion to be had. Moving on. Um, there are notes, uh, also in the comprehensive plan that the high visibility of these areas as well as the, uh, uh, proximity to residential uses, uh, means we need to be careful, um, both in how they look to folks entering the state and the county, uh, via 81 or be arrested, research road as, as it may be. Um, but also that as you look, if I can jump back here, um, to our comprehensive plan, some planned land uses, you don't quite see it here, but there's an entire strip, um, from your comprehensive plan of properties like this one that are slated for industrial uses, mixed use office industrial all down the western side of I 81. Um, this, if approved, it's going to be kind of the first one of those to developed in all cases. Um, they are sort of your, uh, gateway, if you will, uh, to the more rural west and what they do with their, with their buffers and their screening and that sort of thing. Um, uh, just in general, transitioning will be important, uh, in terms of how these land uses can mesh and work together. Uh, moving into the proffer statement, I apologize. This will, this will get a bit tedious for you. It's not intentional. It's just, there's a lot to lot to get into there. Um, I've tried to summarize them as best I can. Um, proffer one, uh, which covers development and use of the proffer. Uh, they do proffer the GDP. Uh, the GDP is several pages, two of which are in the, uh, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the GDP. Uh, the GDP is several pages, two of which I've shown on the screen to you today. That's not all of them. Um, actually I didn't show you the second one yet, so we're going to get there. Um, prohibits, uh, the no, a number of uses such as food and food and beverage, furniture, paper product, plastics, aircraft, and guided missile manufacturer. I'm not sure why we're missing out on guided guided missiles, but there you go. Um, proffers in pharmaceutical and medicine, electrical equipment, battery, and miscellaneous manufacturing, uh, computing infrastructure and data centers. You, utilities, power generating facilities are currently all, uh, proffered in or allowed specifically. Um, it also allows support office accessory uses, substations, water storage and cooling communications, air handling, cooling equipment, and all critical infrastructure for a data center. Um, it also proffers a traffic impact analysis or TI, a feel pardon the acronym, uh, and associated improvements. If uses are proposed that exceed what was studied. So what that means, is there was a traffic impact analysis that was done that contemplated a data center use. There are uses that are still allowed under the zoning, which could potentially, uh, generate more traffic than that. The proffers currently state that if such a use were to end up coming, they would complete another TIA and implement the recommendations of that TIA. Moving on to building and site design. Um, there is perimeter landscaping and keeping with the GDP. And use of indigenous species native to Virginia for the landscaping, uh, preservation of existing woodlands as part of the buffer area for 75 feet and an eight foot berm along Carrollton and Ridgeway estate subdivisions. That's an eight foot landscape berm. If the does a distinction, uh, matters to folks. And this is the second page from the generalized development plan, uh, which I referred to earlier, just to sort of highlight a few things, this blue line, which you'll see, uh, inside that is the 200 foot, uh, building setback, which they have implemented. You'll kind of notice how the corners of all these buildings, uh, not all of them, but a number of the buildings come up to it, but do not cross over it. Uh, there is a little more difficult to see, but there's a green line just inside that that's your 75 foot, uh, landscape buffer. And they have not yet located the proffer regarding the berm does indicate that that would actually be located at site plan. Uh, so that's not yet on this graphic. Uh, we did ask, uh, our GIS person to try and do some, uh, some meshing of graphics, if you will. So what we have here in terms of the aerial and the underlying map, um, is, is your County, uh, your County GIS layers. And what she did was, um, she overlaid on top of it, uh, that, uh, that, uh, that layout, which you see there to try and get a better idea of what the, uh, the actual buildings are to the actual residences. Um, and the smallest ones, uh, were a couple, um, up here on rest church road. I think the houses on the other side of rest church road are right up, uh, pretty close to the road. So you do see some smaller ones there, but beyond those couple, the closest one I want to say is I, I thought I'd be able to read it better from here, but it's about 360. And obviously some of them are quite a bit more depending on where you are in the buff, uh, in, on, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the boundary. But, uh, there you have it. I'm moving, continuing rather, uh, with building and site design. Uh, the applicant is currently proffered tier two generators with what's called selective catalytic reduction systems. Uh, they have a proffered a limitation of generator testing, uh, to Monday through Friday, eight to five and no holidays. Uh, they proffer to 70 decibels where the property, uh, butts, uh, B three or M one. So basically on that flying J caterpillar side or public utility, which is where the, the next era, uh, substation is going to be going in, um, and 65 decibels where property abuts residential. So that's all those areas that we were just looking at, uh, where, where they'll have residential property on their borders. I would note that your current ordinance, uh, max for the zoning district is 70, uh, requires the use of low noise fans, acoustic, acoustical wraps for compressors and oil separators and acoustic perimeter, and requires a supplementary environmental noise impact assessment based on the specific equipment proposed for installation, um, to try and make that make more sense. And I'll, I'll look to the applicant to correct me when it's their turn. If I say this wrong, but basically this is, um, if they're working with a specific user, we don't know about that yet. So we are not able to predict today. What? We don't know what specific noise attenuation equipment they would be putting in until they're actually working with that user. So what this proffer says is that at the time that they know the actual equipment, they will perform that environmental assessment and make sure they're still in compliance with what they've proffered. They'll do that before actually building the thing and finding out we have a problem. Um, additionally, the proffer lists is significant, um, list of building features such as fenestration, using glass or glass, architectural panels, changes and changes in building material, accent materials, a main entrance feature and design elements of which some will be used. Um, and the terms of, of transportation, uh, they are proffering the relocation of Zachary and Lane. It would move it a little bit further, uh, to the west, um, frontage improvements to the southern portion of rest church road upgrades, the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and rest church road right of way reservation for future widening of rest church. Um, and the construction of the new road, uh, the construction of the new road, which I would note happens to be also a comp plan road, which is eventually expected to connect all the way down to Cedar Hill. Um, abandoning of Rubuck lane where it extends, uh, into the property and no access for the property to rubuck lane. Those who study the county maps would see that while they're used to rubuck lending lane ending basically where it does. Technically, it continues into this property and they're saying they're not going to use that. They're going to cut that off. And additionally, they're proffering to, um, give rubuck lane an additional 25 foot of right of way, um, and pave it and construct a turnaround, um, at the end of the current roadway. Um, also all deliveries, uh, for the development of the property are to take place outside of peak hours. Um, you may have noted, I, I think I made a mistake. I made a mistake in my staff report where I said that was something that hadn't been addressed. It's something we've brought up with the applicant. One of the things about data centers as well, they don't necessarily, uh, result in a lot of long term traffic generation. Uh, there's a fair amount of traffic when you're trying to construct them because they are obviously, uh, significant. Um, the applicant has dealt, has addressed that in, in the proffer. So apologize for that mistake in the staff report. Um, proffer for, uh, signage, uh, they are limited to a single monument fine sign, rather for the TM portion of the property at the rest church road entrance. That does not mean that individual users within the park might not have signage within the park, but in terms of out there on rest church road, that's all they would have, um, lighting no more than 25 foot above grade and any lighting within 50 foot of any property line shall be oriented perpendicular to and faced away from that property line with no more than I should have put the zero just to make it more visible. 0.1 foot candle onto a residential use. Um, enforceability of proffers, uh, for different uses as well. Um, fire and rescue. They are proffering $150 per 1000 gross square foot of constructed building for water and sewer. They are proffering to design construct all onsite and offsite improvements necessary to provide service for the demand generated by development on the property. A number of potable water use minimums. Uh, water use minimums. Minimization strategies are also outlined in the proffers. Um, no groundwater to be used via private onsite wells for cooling of computer or mechanical equipment systems. Uh, proffer eight cultural resources, investigation and preservation. Uh, this is a response to their, uh, historical resources, resources, dividers, or eboard comments. Uh, they're going to do an architectural resources study of the property prior to MDP approval for the Lewis Sullenberger and the Cather houses. Uh, uh, uh, uh, and also an archeological assessment of the property proffer nine. Um, they have proffered 200,000 a minimum rather two of 200,000 to fund an endowment at Laurel Ridge for the enhancement of the cloud infrastructure program at Laurel Ridge Community College. And finally proffer 10 is a little bit boilerplate, but that's the CPI escalator. So for Pat, for cash proffers that are, uh, for any number of items that are not, uh, paid within 12 months. Um, the urban consumer price index, uh, multiplier would be applied to us. So that would ratchet up a little bit. So it keeps pace with inflation, um, to try and boil it down a little bit to, uh, positive and concerns. It doesn't mean we've, uh, captured everything. This is a very long and detailed, uh, application. So we're very open to listening to anything additional you may have, um, in terms of positive, um, it is comprehensive compliant for the actual land use, um, lower overall traffic generation. Uh, I admit I go back to the fruit Hill, uh, uh, consideration and the big discussion then was traffic. That's not necessarily the discussion today. Um, proximity to major electrical transmission lines is a positive. You're not, you're not located away from them to where they're having to pull additional lines across the county, uh, accommodation of comprehensive plan roadway, um, and also enhanced buffering of nearby residential property properties. The 200 foot setbacks, uh, are within our ordinance. Um, but some of the additional items they've done such as burning, um, is over and above. So that's why I point that out, uh, in terms of concerns, um, of the use staff concerns, uh, regarding onsite power generation. Uh, that was one of the, uh, allowed uses. Um, there's a lot of unknowns with that in terms of potential impacts without. So to allow onsite power generation as sort of an open use without have been able to hash out the potential impacts. Um, so to allow onsite power generation as sort of an open use without have been able to hash out the potential impacts. Um, uh, so, uh, AS PART OF THE BEGINNING OF THE IMP börjar IةE, AND TRAFFIC THE IMP bocar WITW Isg cheeks residential neighbors. Now that falls off the further you go away, of course, that's how noise works, which technically in layman's terms, that's an approximately four times increase in noise. So that's meaningful. It's about 45 to about 65. Generators and air quality. The applicant has proffered tier two generation. As I noted earlier, those are the diesel generators tier two. However, with updating state legislation, that sort of thing, and our conversations with Department of Environmental Quality, the applicant could proffer a tier four generator, which is still cleaner than the tier two with the catalytic technology, and also proffer that within their permit, they would not seek to have those for non-emergency use. That is an enforceable problem. So they could go that direction should they so choose. Equipment upgrades for noise attenuation should be proffered to keep the facility as up to date as possible and maximize mitigation to neighbors. And not to go too much into it, but the fact of the matter is, as we've continued to research these issues and tried to learn from what has happened in other localities, one thing that I think is important is that we've been able to do a lot of research on this issue. And what I think does stand out is how rapidly these different technologies are advancing. So what staff would hope for or potentially recommend, should this be something that is even desired to be considered, is that there be some sort of proffer that basically guarantees that as technology advances, so will what they're using in their facility. So you're not kind of stuck with today as things advance. Now, I don't know what's a reasonable time frame for review, et cetera, et cetera. But I think that's something that we're going through the details. Implementation of water system upgrades and max water usage to clearly define impacts and define limits. What I'm referring to there specifically is to proffer to a maximum water usage based on what they think they can do so that it's enforceable by the county and by Frederick Water. But also, it's fairly obvious that the existing system, if you review the Frederick Water comment, is not correct. And so, exactly what was mentioned as an existing concept, it is to advise STOP water use, stop water use, stops they will use and keep. So, the research that we're working on is brilliantly University an투 nice Cathy the Secular Apprenticeship System And in line with Australiareponder condiciones, that makes sense to first of all, to ensure that if there's any inspection had air pollution it doesn't pass, it isn't taxable. It simply old unwell staff would certainly be aware that water . Sisin Collie Knight And c7ppeceate się heute WVU M Angel woods and we're months in city pilot of operation capabilities that That needs to be made clear to decision makers and finally Transportation improvements if other uses develop Right now as already referred to there's a proffer That talks about should they end up with uses that end up projecting I'm sorry generating uses Trips that are greater than what they've already studied studied, that they would do a TIA or traffic impact analysis and in turn do the improvements within it. Staff just feels like at a minimum there's some additional probably stricter language that is needed there to make sure that we don't inadvertently end up into an enforcement quagmire when that comes because sometimes that can frankly get contentious. With that, I can take any questions you may have. I threw the anticipated schedule back on the screen QR code in case anybody wants to take advantage of that. And I'll pass it back over to you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Any questions for Mr. Bishop to my left? Seeing none, any questions to my right? Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Just a quick question. If I'm looking at this kind of the planning package also identifies we send notice to those adjoining landowners. Yes. If I'm looking through that and counting that right, there's over 20 direct landowners that are residential. Yes. Adjoined directly to this parcel. That's not counting the other lots in those neighborhoods, but over 20 that directly adjoins. That sound about right? That sounds about right. I think it's in the 20 to 23 range, something like that. Yeah. Does Frederick County, we were talking a lot about decibels and levels here. Does Frederick County... Yes. Does Frederick County have a noise ordinance when it comes to residential areas? So if I were in an RP zone or residential performance zone, is there a noise ordinance that Frederick County has for those areas? In terms of the RP generating the noise? Right. If I was in a residential neighborhood, is there a noise ordinance that covers the noise that comes and goes from my property? I believe it actually only refers to the commercial district. No, there is a general residential noise ordinance that applies to RP, R4, and R5. Give me a minute while I look up the decibel levels. We generally only deal with it relative to loud parties and music and things like that. It's typically, I think it is enforced by the sheriff's office. It's not enforced by our department, but let me look it up. That's about it. I think it's chapter 118. If I'm looking at the right one, chapter 118, and if I'm reading this correctly... Oh, sorry, I just lost it. I believe it's 60 decibels in a residential performance area. Does that sound right? Yeah, it is chapter 118. Yeah, it is. So long... Yeah, it is. So long... Yeah, it is. So long... Yeah, it is. So long... It's a long sentence, as you're probably seeing, but the tail end of it refers to a manner to be plainly audible or exceeding 60 decibels as heard. So it's an older phrasing that we don't use anymore in our modern noise ordinance. Now we have the DBA scale and typically refer to that more specifically. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mr. Crane. So they mentioned the decibels would be about 65. Pardon me, I've had a procedure done in my throat today. If you can't hear me, I'll do what my doctor told me not to do and I'll yell. So 65. My understanding, that's a continuous noise. Is that correct? I believe it is a continuous noise, yes. So the folks that are adjoined to that property in Ridgeway, they're going to be subject to that continual noise from those data centers. Is that correct? That's... That's my understanding. I'll ask the applicant when it's their time to speak if there's more nuance to it than that, but that is my understanding. Okay. And then with that, I'm going to put my real estate broker hat from years past. If the rezoning is approved, then the folks that own homes would have to disclose even before the data centers are built material facts. And a material fact is... There's a lot of data centers in that park. Do you believe that the value of the homes would drop with that material fact? It's subjective, I know. I mean, that's... We're often asked that question in this position, and absent a study to try to identify any sort of impacts, we tend not to comment on what impacts could have on adjoining property. And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... We aren't experts on the disclosure laws either. I know in the past, in my dealings with the real estate profession, the adjoining zoning of what's enabled underneath of it doesn't technically qualify as a disclosure. Some of those actual things are like buried things on the property or things like that, but an approval being on the books and unbuilt, and I have seen not be disclosed as part of real estate transactions. But you're probably more educated on that than I am. Well, it's been a while since I've dealt with the real estate. I just know from my experience, there was material fact. There's no end user identified from what I've read. I went through 300 pages today. Not that's been identified to us, no. So that's not to say that a nonprofit couldn't come in. We wouldn't recoup the tax dollars from a nonprofit if they ran any one of those data centers. Is that correct? I'm not that familiar with the idea of a nonprofit running a data center, but I believe with the banking industry, there are some exceptions like that. Obviously, I'm not an expert on tax revenues and that sort of thing. We're focused on the actual land use, but that's worth investigating. Okay. And my last concern or question is there's going to be a berm that's eight feet high, which is two feet higher than what... That's required. Still with the offset, in my military career, I've been behind a defilade or two, and I understand what an eight-foot berm is. And now the folks from behind the residential, that eight-feet berm, even with trees, is not really going to cover things up, I don't think. That said, you know, I'm concerned about the beauty of our... Valley. We had a royal visit last week. They didn't go to Loudoun County to look at data centers. They came to the northern Shenandoah Valley... Because of its beauty. Now, not to say I'm against data centers. I think if they're put in the right place. But destroying, really, it's going to hurt the value of the homes at Ridgeway. And right where that... What the proposed data center is going to be set is the beginning of the northern Shenandoah Valley for Frederick County, for Virginia. Right? And I think that needs to be taken into consideration. So I've asked questions. I've given comments. Yes, sir. Thank you for my time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Minchu, I'm told you want ten minutes for an opening statement. So... Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bishop will help me bring up a short presentation. I assume, Mr. Chairman, you'd like me addressed from here. I'm kind of old school. So I'll do it from the podium. That'll be fine, sir. Thank you so much, John. For the record, I'm Randy Minchu, representing the applicant for Virginia Technology Park. It's good to see the Planning Commission again. This is a work session that what we want to do is talk about the application, field any questions. We'll see if any homework assignments from the Planning Commission that we can address when we come up to the public hearing. I'm going to go through the application. I appreciate Mr. Bishop going through the proffer package. He spent a lot of time doing that. I'm not going to reiterate and go through all that. But I will go through some points of that. Let's see. John, to push this forward, do I use the arrows? If you grab that little toy to your left. Okay. Or you can click there. Or you can use the other clicker. Oh, this one? The clicker right there on your left. Okay. This might be better. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to introduce everybody that is here tonight from the development team. That would take too long. But what our plans were to bring every conceivable discipline that is related to this application, civil engineering, electrical engineering, obviously law, fiscal impact analysis, economic impacts, traffic. Power infrastructure, MEP engineering, and of course, acoustic engineering. I'm not going to introduce you personally to all the members up there. But that's the name of the development team who can answer any questions. And depending on the nature of the questions that any members of the Planning Commission may have, I may, with your leave, Mr. Chairman, pass the ball over to someone who can answer questions that I didn't learn in law school. The property, well, before I go through there, I'm going to note one thing. There's one group up there that you don't see listed. And I'd like to address that from the start. There is not an end user that we have on board. This is a quality industrial developer doing a rezoning for a data center. There's no user on board. And, Mr. Chairman, I'll share this. I've represented. Three different kinds of data center rezoning. It's option one where the end user is the applicant. The guy knows exactly what he wants to build, has specs from the home office, does not like to accommodate local zoning controls because he wants to do what he was told by his home office out in Seattle or whatever to get. I've also done the kind where the end user is a contract purchaser. And it becomes kind of what we call a zone to suit. You say, Mr. Developer, you're the applicant. You're the applicant. You're the contractor. But this is my spec sheet. You work with the county staff. That's what I want you to do. And this is the third kind, what we have tonight, where we don't have an end user on board who has given us the spec sheet from his home office. I would rather represent the third kind. I'll tell you why. Because we can address staff issues. We can address citizen issues. We can address planning commission issues without worrying about the end user saying I've got to check if that's okay with my home office. Now, what that may do. Mr. Chairman is create a scenario whereby there may be some end users that say I don't like the zone product. You had too many setbacks are too high. The noise restrictions are too great. I'm going to pass on this. That's fine. That's fine. I would rather represent a quality industrial developer who wants to work with the community, work with staff, work with the planning commission, except conditions, except proffers. And if the marketplace forces a few potential users to drop off. Because they don't like those proffers. That's fine. So I want to get that out and why we don't have on this list the end user listed. Now, we don't have a broker currently hired. But we anticipate that there probably at some point will be an end user coming on board. We are not going to be the end user developer. Mr. Bishop identified the property. The property shown in the green lines there is adjacent to. The flying J up near the interchange and the Carter cat machinery property. It is all within the SWSA. You've got RA property, B3 properties and M1 properties circulated that Mr. Bishop showed. Mr. Bishop also went through the NEELUP, the Northeast Frederick Land Use Plan. This property is all zoned the mixed use industrial office. And note that in the. In the NEELUP. There is language that basically says what kind of uses are suggested here. And Mr. Bishop put that into his staff report. Quoting from the NEELUP. The NEELUP identifies a number of areas designated as future mixed use industrial office. These areas are intended to develop with targeted growth areas identified. And the county's economic development authority as well as similar industry. So even though the EDA plan is not. Part of the comprehensive plan. Basically the NEELUP says look to what the EDA has listed for targeted industries as being ones that are appropriate for this area. And I note that this is a slide that the Planning Commission probably remembers from last October. That is the Woodside substation. The next sub station that was approved by the Planning Commission and that property is due south. J. And adjacent to the substation. So that's going to be a next era substation that the Planning Commission approved back in October the 1st. The Board of Supervisors had the opportunity to bring that up for review. Even overruled the Planning Commission on the comprehensive plan conformance call. And they chose not to do that. So that if everything goes according to approvals. That's going to be what is going to be due south and adjacent to this property. I mentioned the key. In. J. This is from the EDA's website. And they mention six target industries. And you can. Font's a little small. But you can see what they are. And information technology is one of the six. Some of those six target industries are ones that produce a lot of truck traffic. Other vehicle trips. Biosciences. Corporate headquarters. The one. Of those target industries. That produces. The lowest number of vehicle trips. Is the one that's proposed here. Information technology. Also called data center. And that is also from the EDA's website. Saying that. Frederick County. Is an area where. There are good electrical. Connections. Improving. And that would be appropriate. So. The EDA called out information technology. As one of the. Key areas. And. The EDA. And. Our thought is. With this language in the kneel up. The fact that we're adjacent to the next drive substation. Put together. Suggests this is a good location for data centers. There's the application property. That Mr. Bishop went through. It is to the west of Interstate. 81. And I'm glad he showed that slide. Showing some setbacks from residential homes. Now this is the. Generalized development plan. I'd like to spend a few. Time on that. You'll note that. All of those buildings. Are kind of long rectangles. And the short end. Of those rectangles are the ones. That face the residents community. That was not an accident that was on purpose. The short ends. Are the ones. That produce the. The less amount of noise. The gray areas there. The side areas those are where the generators will be. So we did not want to have the broad side of the barn if I will. The broad side the buildings. Facing. Any resident stories for two reasons. First of all. The broad side of the buildings. Where the noise seems to come from. Also for aesthetic purposes. Having the short in the buildings. Being a. Pointing toward the. Residential area reduces. That visual impact. I also want to mention. That down in the. Lower area I guess that being. The south side. You see substations. Those are substations that will be. Owned and operated. By the incumbent utility provider. That provides power to this area. Shindle Valley electrical co-op. So from the standpoint of the flow electrons. Mr. Sherman. The big next era. Substation. That's really part of the grid. Is due south. There will be a connection. That's not a very long run. Going into those substations. To be operated by. Shindle Valley electrical. Cooperative. Is a meter on the outside. And will be the retail. These data centers. Will be the retail purchase. Quite often you see. You have to have long transmission line runs. From the grid. To where the incumbent utility provider. Can pick up. In this case where it's literally right next door. Bring it in for a landing sir. Okay I'm getting close. I want to mention. Briefly the fiscal impact we can dig in. Deeper into this at the public hearing. But. Data centers do produce. A lot of money. In real estate tax. Personal property tax. Machinery and tool tax. I want to mention that. Because we're bringing this technology. To Frederick County. We also partnered with Laurel Ridge Community College. To create a cloud. Infrastructure program. That we're funding. To basically support some training operations. Also Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bishop hinted at that. When we filed this application back in April. We put together what we thought was a. Solid application. But we didn't go to sleep at that time. Ever since we filed that we've been working on. Addressing impacts and improving this application. So what we are our plans are what to do is. We're going to after the public hearing. Give you another proffer package. But I want to share with you. These are changes that we are going to do. I can state for the record we're going to do. We we've not filed revised proffers. That wouldn't be fair to Mr. Bishop's staffing process. But no groundwater shall be used. Also. We're going to address water uses. We've been working with Frederick Water. We are going to put in a proffer that caps the water usage. Of this facility and not more than one hundred and twenty thousand gallons. A day. That's roughly twenty thousand for regular potable water uses. One hundred thousand for the. Data use. There will be no on site power generation. I know you've heard about people doing that. The only on site power generation will be those emergency. Generators that will only be used for emergency use. Also Mr. Bishop also hinted at that. We have we will be proffering that these generators will be the tier four. That's where the technology is going. The General Assembly has encouraged that. And we want to basically be one of the first applicant of Virginia to proffer the tier four. Also on noise. We're going to lower the noise beyond what the zoning ordinance proposed. Cap it at 60. So we're going to work on it and. Projenez continue the tenant on model its south side and lower to 70% at the size of that Metal strip mentality. This is all, all very shine in somebody in the Inland Reef region. That's what this. I we're unable to quantify what some of these impacts are going to be. So we have a whole series of questions for you and your team, and we'll jump into that right now. So, and we have you set up. You're welcome to stand, or you can sit at the table. We'll see who you call Mr. Criminal Comment. Just so the audience knows what we're doing. I've broken this application down into seven different categories, and I've appointed a planning commissioner to lead questions in those areas. That doesn't mean they'd be the only one asking questions, but we want to know about water and sewer. We want to know about energy. We want to know about noise. We want to know about the building architecture. We want to know about the fiscal impact. We want to know about the traffic impacts. And we want to know about the siting, the residential impacts, on the residents that live up there. What's the impacts on them? So we're going to jump into the questions now, and you're going to hear us ask things that we don't know about the residents. And I'm sure that you may think, how refreshing, somebody finally asked that question. So I'm going to start off with our water man. Our water man is Vaughn Whitaker, and he's passionate about water, and I'm going to ask him, Mr. Whitaker, can you please lead our questions on water and sewer? Yes. Can you turn your mic on first, sir? Pardon me. I would like to start off, question, answer, and I'll give you more questions. I have a question about your closed-loop system and how often that is flushed and who cleans it up. Let me introduce John Knott to answer that question with the applicant. And I'm going to pass that to Joe McGillian, who's our MEP engineer. Hello. Hello. Let's go up to the last chair. Would you press that? So the closed-loop system has an initial fill. There's a domestic water connection through a backflow preventer that provides pressure to that system. But unless there's an issue and that system has to be drained, it would stay as a closed loop and it does not require domestic water beyond the initial fill. You're saying it never needs to be flushed? Not intentionally. Not intentionally. Not intentionally. No, the system does not intentionally need to be flushed. So there's treatment. It's a closed loop. There's going to be glycol in there. It would need makeup water occasionally. Okay. In the case that it would have to be flushed, where does that water go to? That would go to the sewer system, to the sanitary sewer system. So one of our facilities that dumps into the OPEC and then that gray water, yeah, that gray water is treated so do you do any pre-treatment of that before it goes into that system? So there would be a continuous chemical treatment system and there would be a chemical treatment vendor that would monitor the quality of that water. Okay, and then it would go to the OPEC facility and then that gray water from that facility as is is dumping into the OPEC. But so this is a completely closed loop system? I'm talking about the water after you clean it. Okay, so you clean it out. Understood. Okay, and it'll go to the OPEC facility to be furtherly cleaned, right? After you did your pre-treatment. Sorry, the OPEC facility is the sewer system? Correct. Right, it would be discharged to the sanitary sewer system like any other waste. Okay, so after, I'm going to explain to the community what happens. It'll go to, after that, it goes to the OPEC center. Okay. Clean it, dump their gray water into the OPEC. We have two wastewater treatment plants doing this. And already they're diverting, I believe it's 10% of that gray water creek, OPEC creek, into the quarry, which is basically an open well that's never been grouted. And it back feeds directly into the aquifer. Contaminating the aquifer. Okay. Can I ask a question? Can I interject a question? Yes, sir. Because I'm confused. If we're not blowing down the system, where's 300,000 gallons of water going every day? There is no, it's not. Sorry, how much, first of all? I think we're. 100,000. Okay. We're down to 120,000. 120,000. I just want to make sure we're talking about the correct. Yep. And say the question again. Where's the water going? Because he said you're not blowing down your cooling system. Right. And you're not using that for domestic uses. I mean, you'd have to flush your toilet quite a bit. Because we're proposing an air-cooled system, a closed-loop air-cooled system. Here, let me set it up, and then you can get the details. So the chillers that will be located on the roof are air-cooled chillers. So I think what you're suggesting on the traditional blowdown, Joe, correct me if I'm wrong, but that is for a water-cooled chiller with a chilling tower. That's right. We're not using that. In our proffers, we are saying we will use air-cooled chillers. Okay. Okay. So water-cooled chillers and chilling towers are not part of our system. Correct. Okay. So that's the equipment that's on the roof, the air-cooled chillers. And then interior to the building would be the closed-loop. Am I good so far? That's exactly right. All right. And the closed-loop system gets an initial fill of water. The closed-loop system also has glycol in it. That is needed to handle the cooling component that is required. At that point, the closed-loop system, as we have all discussed, on our team at least, is closed. It is not intended ever really to be flushed. That's correct. You know. That's correct. If you had to replace a piece of equipment, you would have to add to it. But that's an atypical, that's a failure mode scenario. So we're using water for cooling somewhere? Is that what I heard you say? Chairman, we arrived at the 120,000 number, which I think is what you're getting at, or maybe is creating a confusion. There's a certain amount of domestic use, meaning restrooms, sinks, toilets, et cetera. And we anticipate. That's a lot of coffee, brother. Chairman, that's about 20,000 over the entire site. The other 100 was, in speaking with Frederick Water, we were talking to them about where they felt comfortable. That was a number that they felt comfortable with. We anticipate using significantly less than the 100 on a daily basis, but we put that number in there as a placeholder to provide some flexibility, as we may need to tap off the system. There's some humidity additives that need to go in during dry, or months during the winter. So it was really just a flexibility issue. But we anticipate on a daily basis significantly less than that, and about 20,000 of the 120 to be domestic use. Okay. Got it. The problem is we're in a severe drought here, and we have been for about three years. So I'm going to yield back to Mr. Whitaker. I apologize, sir, for interrupting. Mr. Whitaker, can I ask one question? Yes, sir, please. If you do have to maintain the system and you flush it, what would, what chemicals would be in the system? Yes, sir. So what would be the most efficient solution? Well, the answer is the cooling. The cooling is the only solution that we have that is in the closed loop cooling product coming out of there that needs to be treated by Frederick Water. Is it just water contaminated by metal going through a system? Or is there a chemical additive that is in that system that would then have to be treated by Frederick Water? I don't know the answer. Yes. Yeah, I mean, so the cooling is most efficient for freeze protection or for boil protection. Traditionally, especially for liquid-cooled servos, there would be like a 20 or 25% propylene glycol. It would be an additive as a boil protection. And then any kind of chemical treatment that was done to that, just to maintain the quality of the water. Okay, the chemical you said you were adding, that sounds like an antifreeze, which helps the water cool down quicker? It prevents it from freezing or boiling. Freezing? Right, okay. So antifreeze, you definitely don't want it in your water supply. So how is Frederick Water, the treatment plant, going to remove that? Are you going to remove that before that goes to the wastewater line to Opec and facility? I can't answer that. If you can answer it, answer it. I can't answer that. Oh, you can't answer it. Yeah, sorry. We'll look into that for you and get back to you. Okay, thanks. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Sorry. We will look into that. Well, like I said, we're already having a very serious problem of gray water being discharged into the Opec, and already 10% of that is backfeeding directly into our aquifer. So we really can't stand no more of this at all, plus we're just not getting the rain. I mean, and our aquifer is like several across the nation where we have impertinent water and shell overlays that prevents it from regenerating quickly. So as low as we are now, if you got average rain for the next 10 years, it would not bring it up to where it was. And we're only 15 years away from critical mass. Thank you, sir. May I ask... Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Minshew, I believe what you said is that you were going to modify the proffer. There's a proffer that says you won't use groundwater for cooling. Would you be willing to modify that to say you won't use groundwater for anything? Yes. Is that what you were planning? I believe you said that up there. Yes. Correct. Okay. Will there be blasting during construction? Blasting? You interested in blasting? Blasting. Yes. So, I mean, Frederick County, we got rock everywhere. There's a lot of... Like you and I, we've developed here quite a bit, and there's a lot of limestone, and there could be blasting. Yeah. So, how will that affect wells in the adjoining residential areas when you're blasting? What's the plan for that if we cause a well to go dry? What are we thinking? I don't know how to answer that question exactly other than the fact that in our experience in Frederick County and development over the last 15 years, we've never impacted anyone's well that I'm aware of. I'm sure we would have been made known of it. Would there be a way to install some monitoring wells to monitor groundwater while you're doing construction to make sure you're not affecting somebody's... Well, okay. Let me ask it this way. Can you please explore that for us? Sure. Yeah. We can explore that. Because we do not want the neighbor's wells going dry as a result of construction. Right. We do not. We require them in their blasting plans to have groundwater monitoring systems where they also monitor local wells and local residents depending how... And some of these residents are pretty close, not just the water going, the wells going dry, cracks in residents. I know the quarry south of town, there was a considerable monitoring plan because there was cracks in local residents from blasting. With the limestone base... When you blast in that, the shock waves go pretty far and they can be pretty severe. It's just like minor earthquakes. Back to the water question that Mr. Whitaker was addressing, I didn't see in your proffers where you proffered that you would only allow data centers with closed loop systems. You talked about it a lot, but I didn't see a proffer. You keep talking that you're going to have closed loop cooling systems on your data center or your data equipment. So, you're not going to have that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, you won't need water cooling. I would really appreciate seeing a proffer that is enforceable where you say you will not allow anything other than a closed loop system and will not allow water to be used on a daily basis to cool the data center equipment. Mr. Thomas, we do plan the closed loop systems, but technology seems to change at a very fast rate. For example, Mr. Dudley went to a data center that doesn't have a closed loop system, doesn't have an open loop system. It has an immersion system with a low, it's really a low-grade vegetable oil that the dialectic fluid that the servers actually are immersed in. It's like taking the servers on a rack and putting them in into this fluid. That fluid just is like in an aquarium, big, really big aquarium, not water. But this dialectic fluid. And that's used for cooling. Well, not to cut you off, but then you could do a proffer that just says you will not allow any data center equipment other than the chillers, or not any data center equipment that uses water from the Frederick water system as a cooling medium. We don't care what the medium is as long as it's not water from Frederick water and ground water. Well, if I may. Yeah. The initial fill of a closed loop system does require water? And the proffer could state that. Okay. But not a repeated usage every day. One more question on water and sewer, and then we're going to move over to energy. Your proffer, and I'm on number seven, water and sewer, it talks about some of the improvements you've obligated. You know you've got to make improvements. You've got to make improvements. Frederick water's communicated with Dan, I know, and I've seen some of that. If you need easements off-site, how are you going to acquire those for lines, for upgraded lines, lines on private property? What do you think in there? Have you got a way to acquire easements if they're needed for water or sewer facilities? I mean, I've worked on projects before where we have needed off-site easements, and we approach property owners and negotiate easements. There might be some property owners who aren't real happy to see you. They rarely are. Just a hunch. They rarely are. Okay. All right, but if you're counting on Frederick water to do that, we need to know that they're on board with doing that for you. That would be my point. Yes, sir. Could I add one thing, Mr. Chairman, about water? Real quick, would the applicant be amenable to putting in a proffer to guarantee that any sort of discharge water? Should it be? Yes. Yes. Be required. I know you're saying it won't typically, but should any discharge water occur, that it be collected and managed off-site and not be handed over to Frederick water? Is that a potential? I would say that we could look into that. I don't know specifics about how discharge water could or, you know, with these glycol mixers, could or would be handled. So we would just need more information about it to be able to evaluate that. Okay. Thank you. If that's okay. From another project that's going concurrently, we did hear from them that that is a potential option. Yeah. All right. Let me just state the obvious. This is the beauty of a work session is we get to have this dialogue. You go back home, do your homework, and come back and say, well, this is how we took care of it. So we're not trying to, as I said earlier, this isn't an 18-12 overture where we're going back and forth with the cannons. This is. This is how we move forward. So the concept of the question, I appreciate that question. We'll look into that. The concept would be, if I heard it correctly, is that rather than discharging the glycol cooling fluid when it's flushed into the Frederick water system, it's put into a truck and taken somewhere off site. That was the concept. We'll look into that. Okay. I want to change gears and go to energy. So the big E are obviously the generators of the big E, the substation and everything that goes with it. Are you guys aware that the DEQ has an air quality monitoring station close to your project? No. Okay. Not aware of that. Okay. I just wanted you to be aware. I'm glad to hear you want to go to tier four generators, that you only want to operate them during emergency hours. We would look forward to seeing a proffer to that end. Mr. Marker? Yeah. Hi. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Relative to the emergency generators that the chairman just mentioned, I am glad to hear tier four, make it tier four or better, in case there's improvements to come along. Because you also said there's 288 generators. How often do those generators get cycled so that you're sure that it's going to work? It's going to come on when the emergency hits. Do you want to address the testing and cycling? Yeah. So the standard practice for generator testing is about 15 minutes once a week. 60 minutes once a week? No, 15 minutes. One-five. 15 minutes once a week. Okay. So if it's weekly, according to my calculations, let's see. Okay. That means you'll have 58 of them. You'll have 58 of them each day. Because you got 288. If you do it weekly. Yeah. If we split it up into a certain number per day, yes. For 15 minutes. It may only be on for 15 minutes, but it's going to be 58 of them tested each day in order to make that weekly. So I just do the math. That's all I ask. That's going to put some generator somewhere on site on every day. That's going to put some generator somewhere on site on every day. That's going to put some generator somewhere on site on every day. I think that's the limitation that you said. That's the limitation, correct. Yeah. So using that limitation, that's how I come up with the 58 generators every day being cycled. That's pollution. That needs to be... How are you going to deal with that? I guess it's tier four is how you're going to deal with that. Is that right? Well, yeah. Go ahead. It doesn't have to be one generator at a time. It could be all. It could be all. But I'm sure, you know, there's a lot of things that can be done. I'm sure there are a lot of things that can be done. So you can say, okay, I'm going to talk about this. I'm going to talk about this. Okay. All right. Thank you. that i guess it's tier four is how you're going to deal with that is that right well yeah okay it doesn't have to be one generator at a time it could all it could be one building it could be half of the building we have complete flexibility with how the generators cycle so you can start a dozen of them at a time yeah for that 15 minutes yeah and i you know i believe you were about to say i mean the tier four is the you know the most advanced technology that there is we understand with generators right now now that's the um the pollution aspect of the generator but now with all those generators running the noise aspect becomes significant i think so you're going to be generating it isn't that uh once a week you'll you'll hear a little bit of time uh this that these generators are on uh you're going to be hearing that in that neighborhood every day am i right we have an acoustic consultant here rob miller sure i can address that so uh the generators will when they run it'll be often like a truck noise but um they can in terms of the noise that's incident to any adjacent property owner um the the testing generators that are distant from each other uh won't additively contribute to the noise that the a neighbor would hear versus multiple generators that are distant from each other uh won't additively contribute to the noise that the a neighbor would hear versus multiple generators and a cluster being tested at the same time that might increase noise levels so there could be some strategy put in play by the the end user to minimize uh noise to the neighborhood if if there's any strategies that you can specify or or have them do we would appreciate that because everything adding to the noise is an issue on on all the citizens part can you also give us more information on the enclosure sure that's going to be around the generators three-sided fully enclosed i don't know if you can exactly so separate from the word tier that you've heard for tier four the generator that has been modeled as part of our exercise is a level two walk-in generator so it has a weather enclosure generators start as an open engine and then you have a weather and sound enclosure over it this is actually the the the highest grade of a level two walk-in so even when it's being maintained it's covered and the maintenance person is that a sound insulated enclosure it's a sound insulated enclosure for the radiator the the intake and the uh and the exhaust uh muffler okay i have another question um unless someone else had a generator that's different than what i heard a few moments ago that you were obligating yourself to a tier four generator is that correct so i i'm not addressing the tier i'm i'm using the word level as a sound andメ then i'm asking the Floridaï can also change the level if there are no places where there are like replacement walls especially blanks sound does that remark out on part of our device Sure. So the generators, as modeled right now, they're modeled in the yard outside the building. There is not a further fence around it beyond that. In our report that is available, and this copy is not in color, but the figure five that has this sound map is with all generators running in an emergency. You can put it up if you'd like. We probably have that map, Mr. Chairman. This is emergency mode, not testing mode. Keep going. Go on, generate. Next one after that. There you go. So this is in an emergency mode where all generators are being used on the property. And you can see the thermometer legend on the right, and then at the sort of the bottom right, you can see the generator legend on the left, and then at the top of the topo lines of noise, five decibel increments each have some markers as well. So starting in sort of the southwest, you can see that we are at 60, close to 60 at the property line, and then towards the north end where the buildings are closest to those adjacent property lines, the levels are between 60 and 65. Perhaps, you know, the midpoint 62 as you cross the property line on Rubeck Lane. Now that's a computer model. That is a computer model. How accurate is that computer model? It is according to the ISO standards that all consultants who do this type of noise use. Plus or minus how much? Probably. Good question. Good question. But. I believe the standard you would say is plus or minus 3 dB, but I'm reasonably certain this is appropriate for our, for the hypothetical scenario we have set up. Now does that take in humidity? Because humidity, low humidity, the sound travels way farther and more clear. It does over long distances. It's probably not a consideration. It's probably negligible. In this particular. In the short distance. In the short distance, yeah. If I can add. We're going to get into noise next. Okay. Yeah, one more. Energy. One more on energy. How are you going to have them pay their fair share of the energy cost? Because that added demand, supply and demand raises energy cost. Another is the infrastructure, the substations require operations and maintenance that we wouldn't need to have that as part of our cost of we as residents in the county to that provider are going to be, as you mentioned, your retail like we're retail. Is there a way that you can help us by not causing our rates to go up just because of the increased demand and the increased infrastructure that you put in? Yes. Irrespective of the first cost. The three substations that you see on the GDP, which will be owned and operated by Shenandoah Valley, will be paid for by the developer in full. The initial cost. In full. Shenandoah Valley has also indicated to us that their distribution rates will not increase at all due to this project. Okay. As a nonprofit, they have said to us that that is the case. That their distribution rates will not increase. Can we get a statement of that? Can we get a statement of that from Shenandoah? Pardon me? Can we get a statement? And not just somebody repeating the, what they told you? We can certainly ask them and I'm sure that they would provide it. They've been very happy to say that to us many times. You're welcome to bring it to the public hearing as well if they want to say it to us. Okay. And the power is a regional activity. It's not really localized power generation and distribution. But if you could get a statement from the supplier. Okay. From the supplier that says that this will not have any impact on their overall utility costs to Frederick County residents. And include that as a proffer. We know the electric company is in business of selling electricity and making money off of it. So the more they can sell, the better. So we want to have a look inside, some transparency. So that we can somehow be assured. Assured that we're not going to be suffering from the increases they might go to this state corporation commission and request. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Marker. Yes, sir. If I can just interject. And I know Mr. Thomas was making a joke regarding the proffer relative to generation and transmission. But just as a reminder of the commission as we talk about the associated impacts and what could qualify as a legally binding proffer. Keep our enforcement capabilities. As we won't be contacting PJM if they were to raise transmission and generation rates, Roger. But just a reminder about the context for what we can accept legal proffers within. So thank you. Yeah, you should have seen Mr. Minchu starting to sweat over here. Yeah, he was taking furious notes over there. Let me ask real quick. Will the generators be powered by diesel or natural gas? The hydrogen. The hydrogen. The hydrogen. I think because of the isolations we've had previously with celleges. I can't hear you, Tom. The hypothetical layout we have done is based on diesel generators. Would it be practical to bring gas to the site to power them? I don't think so. I don't know. I don't know. Okay. That's why I'm asking. Say it again. The lower emissions is appealing. That's why I asked. Okay. So would that be propane or natural gas? It could be either. Yes, sir. Your generator man can help you more on that than me. Okay. I'll see what other questions. You are the commissioner. Okay, any questions on energy? Mr. Whitaker? I'd just like to make a statement about the electricity use. New generating facilities, as far as I know, will not be coming online until about another five years. So any increase in use increases demand, which will raise everyone's electrical bills. Because you're not generating it. Yeah, just to be clear, there's three parts in every electric bill that you get at your house. One is for generation, one is for transmission, and the other is for distribution. Shunda Valley Electric is the distribution company here that's going to own these. So the other two, we don't have any control over their rates. The State Corporation Commission does. They'll be here for a public hearing later this year, and you can talk to them. With that, Mr. Kearns, can you guide us through some questions on noise? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, noise is obviously a big issue here, and it's kind of hard to really understand all the different complexities of it. If you guys can, and I think I have a question first for staff. Do we know what the ambient noise right now is on that property or close to that property? Depends on which side you're talking about. The applicant did do an ambient noise study as part of their package. That's separate from what was put on the screen a moment ago, but that is what you see on your screen now. Right, we got this. Right. So as you look at those readings on there, and I'm sorry, I should actually let the applicant's sound engineer speak to this. It's his work. So I'm going to shut up now and let him describe what's on the screen. Thanks, John. I'm going to turn it over to Rob in one second here, but just to clarify what we have agreed to proffer to is on the sides that are adjacent to the residential is to the 60. We lowered that from the 65 that was in the original proffer to the 60. As Rob was stating, that is only in the event of an emergency. So that's in the event of a blackout. So the vast, vast majority of the time, we have another chart. Randy, if you want to, I'm sorry, flip to the next one. This is the one that is kind of the, you know, day in and day out. Throughout the day, including testing a few generators at a time throughout the day. This is this is what we would typically be hearing to or listening to with the next page. You don't need to put that back up from before being the in the event of emergency. That's what we're proffering to the 60 in total, which is only in the event of the emergency. And the vast majority of the time, this is what the sound looks like, which is much closer to the ambient sound. But go ahead. I'll let. Yeah. So this is this is our noise plot with only the cooling equipment running. That's the dominant noise generated by the site. There are some battery packs on the roof that are quieter than the chillers. Just for point of including everything. Those are included as well. But the primary noise here is the chillers on the roof. And so the buildings are the gray rectangles. And then you see all of those magenta. Pinkish items on the on the roofs in about three rows. And those are the chillers on top of the roof. Those chillers have a 10 foot barrier screen acoustic screen wall around them. They're sitting just a little lower than than the screen wall. And we've worked. We've been working over the past six months, even seven, eight months on this selection. We have worked towards a getting away from the screw type chiller, which is very common in the commercial world. It's also the can create tones as part of its noise signature into the community. And we have worked ourselves away from that screw type chiller to this is a magnetic bearing chiller type comes from train. Four. For their data center market and is much more appropriate in an environment where there may be sensitive receivers nearby. So you can see the the the 55 largely hugs is is within the building neighborhoods. And then as you get beyond the buildings, particularly in the south west corner, it is 50. And it is is why am I seeing it's it's 50 across the property line. So largely between 50 and 55, we would say around all of the adjacent properties, which is lower than the residential noise ordinance that was cited earlier here. It's in the neighborhood of what the EPA list is as appropriate for peace and quiet. Does that include the ambient background noise? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is that you said one time you said that that's what's generated from your site. This is only what's generated from the site. This does not include any noise from I-81 or anything anything else. Okay. Is that noise is that cumulative to the decibels or is it. Yeah. Does it does does any of it drowned each other out? Yep. Or is it are we going to have 50 in somebody's backyard plus another 50? Or 50 from the ambient noise? Uh, you're you're right. You're right to ask that question because we are presenting the noise levels that the computer model is is representing as noise due to the data center. There is other ambient noise. And if you were to take a sound level meter, uh, an appropriate sound level meter out into the field, you would be measuring the sum total of both noise from the data center and from the ambient noise. And the data center noise is cumulative. It doesn't cancel out any of the ambient noise. So what I will say to that, and I'm going to talk about acoustics at a high level here in terms of when numbers start adding and when they are separate. If the ambient and the data center are within 10 decibels of each other, there will be some bit of addition up to if they are the same sound level. The the sum. Between the sound level meter would measure at that location is three decibels higher. That's what I've seen. Now if I'm sitting in somebody's backyard in that development there and I already have and I'm just going to pick a number for the ambient noise, have a 50 decibel ambient noise. You're going to generate another 50 decibels of noise. Am I going to hear 100 decibels of noise in that backyard? You will hear 53. That is the that is the 50 plus the third 50. Sums to. Three points higher than and it would be 53. So what if the ambient is 20 and the generator or in the site generates 50? Is that 53 or is that 70? It's 50. So because those numbers are beyond 10 10 points between each other, there is the lower level does not contribute to the noise level at all. So it canceled it out. It doesn't. It's not. It's not. It's practically not audible. The ambient noise. You but a sound level meter would only measure the louder noise. Okay. So with us talking here, normal conversation is between 50 and 55 decibels. If so, if I'm about yes, if we're unamplified and I'm about three feet away from you. So if I'm sitting in someone's backyard, are we going to be able to have a normal conversation or we have to yell at each other? You will be able to have a normal conversation. Okay. Okay. So take me to that side. So. It. Yes. That that does match what I research what the research I did. Yeah. Yes, it's what I didn't see. So anyway, I apologize. Just got this this afternoon. So kind of dig through the the altogether report. But. What I don't see in their is the frequency. And I know frequency is a big thing, so obviously 200 kilo is much higher. is much higher than a 50 or a 40 is going to travel through a lot and be much more disturbing. Right. Right. So is that broken down anywhere? If it is not, can we get that? Because I would love to see that sound profile. We can. We can slice the spectrum any way you want. And so I think it would be important to, if we do that, then provide the context for what that is. Because I did see that on the, whatever, page eight on there. But that doesn't, it's kind of hard to consume all of that. It's, you know, it's saying it's 63, you know, hertz, then it's, you know, 115 decibels, right? So like what, is that all averaged out? And to make that even more complicated, that's a power level and a pressure level. Because I think that's where we hear, I hear a lot of concern. Myself, that's where I see a lot of things in the news, is not that, you know, 1,000, 2,000. It's that 50, 60, 40, you know, it's that really low level that passes through your house and your pillow and your, you know, everything. That's what I hear. So I'd love to see that. I don't know if you can do that, but I would love to see that. We can. The most common way to do that is to do a sea weighting plot. That might be an appropriate, that might be a way to do. That might be a way to do that. We could provide plots based on the lower frequencies. It's just important to understand that in context because humans, while the levels do show higher, human hearing is less sensitive to low frequencies. If you have the radio on in your car and it's sort of at a low level, you don't hear the bass and music, but you hear it when you turn it up. So it could lead to something. It could lead to confusion in terms of what people would actually experience, but we'd be glad we could provide that if that's what's needed. Okay, thank you. Were you, no, okay. Another question I have. So you're showing 288, I believe, generators, and the polysonics report, I was just trying to read through it again, and it is show, it's using for the sound profile here, the Kohler KD2500. Generator, which I just looked up, and that's a tier two generator. So not a tier four, and I was just trying to do some quick research, and tier fours are approximately 50% quieter than a tier two. I would love to see this study with the proposed tier fours, not with the tier two, so that we have an accurate picture. Sounds like a good idea that tier four change has happened since this report was issued, at least as far as I'm concerned. Is that? Yeah. Okay. Is that? Okay. That's correct. So we can update the study. Tier four. Kind of, just so we can keep moving along, my last question, and this is, I guess, an energy and sound and all of that in there. I know generators are a lot of part of this sound. Have you guys considered, I know that energy storage has, it's really hard to have energy storage for the entire, to back up the entire, but I know there are hybrid systems out there to reduce the number of generators. Have you guys considered that? Have you looked into that? Is that cost prohibitive for this project? I would just like to hear if that's something you guys have considered to knock down the number of generators. I can say in terms of the sound study, we included some battery packs on the roof to hand over, to usher in the gap between the generators spooling up and power ceasing at the site. And so there's sort of that short-term UPS. I don't know how long they're intended to perform. I don't know. I'm not aware of anyone in our group studying alternative energy storage for longer term. And I don't know what other centers are using or what state of the art in that to speak to it. All right. We can look into that. Just to keep moving, I've got probably 30 more questions, but we can keep moving along and then we'll ask them at the end. It might be worth mentioning as well, and I think this was a point brought up before just about the noise study. So it sounds like we're going to incorporate a tier four. We're going to incorporate a tier four into an updated acoustic noise study. But also it's worth mentioning that once the, you know, I think the comment was this is a computer model. It is once the buildings are for real design. You know, if we get to that point site plan application, there would be yet another study. And then once construction occurs, there would be yet another actual meter out there metering what the sound is at the property line and holding us to the proffer. And actually, I do actually, sorry. I have one. Last question. This would be more a staff question. How do you how would you monitor them to make sure that they're complying? And what would be what would be the recourse if they were not if they went beyond that? As opposed to on in terms of an ongoing monitoring, as the applicant notes, they would they would have that sort of thing going on. We would need to procure equipment. We actually have our zoning inspector actually has having hired him from. County has some experience in this. So so that's, I guess, a benefit. But we would need to theoretically put in some sort of a schedule or checking on it, which typically it's more proactive zoning enforcement than we typically do. But basically, we would adjust to the scenario, so to speak. So that's how we would do it. We would be sending a zoning inspector out there with the monitoring equipment to check what's going on. And then from an enforcement standpoint, if they're not. Complying what what steps becomes a zoning violation, just like any other could end up in court. I I would propose that a an acoustic consultant, a member of a of a society having standing perform post construction testing. And I presume the applicant would. But I would I would I think would be appropriate for the municipality to do that as well. I believe Loudon does their own enforcement. Prince William is going under another scenario. As well. So there's there's a few models out there. I think John and the applicant are talking about two different scenarios. We do in the ordinance have the requirement for the post construction noise assessment after the buildings built. John was articulating if there's a noise complaint that our staff would respond to investigate the noise complaint with our own sound meter. But both of those things could happen in tandem. And then I'd add on that if there's any level of if there's any lacking of confidence in our zoning inspector is their ability to get a good reading. We. Keep a noise consultant on retainer who has been reviewing the majority of the materials that polysonics prepared and they could step in and assist as well. And then John was going to mention this, but I'll steal his thunder. Everything you're seeing that they're talking about that is handed out to you all that we got yesterday relative to their noise has not been reviewed by staff or noise consultant yet. We're not saying that there's anything inherently wrong with it, but it came through yesterday and we haven't had a chance to get a response back from our third party reviewer on that. We have discussed the previous draft, which and this is aside from changing the chillers largely the same information. Yeah. Can I add something? Could we request that like almost like a monthly reporting or some sort of reporting from the developer be submitted almost like a third party inspection report gets sent out and you have that in addition to. There's precedent for it in other arenas. But yes, we that's theoretically an acceptable process. Yeah. I think that's a good offer. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can yield back. Mr. Bishop, did I understand you in your presentation to say that the increase in noise from at the property line going from the 40, 41 decibels to 65 was a four time increase in the level of noise? Is that what you said? Yes. Admittedly, frankly, that's based on internet searches because this noise stuff is a mess. I can speak for you. I'll finish my answer and then you can. But basically, yeah, that was as when I was searching trying to find out the good way to articulate in layman's terms what an increase of 20 decibels was. And in the sample I put in was 45 to 65. It was enunciated as roughly four times increase. But of course, I'm going to let the sound engineer give his answer as well. But that's what I found. Please, sir. Tell us all about it. Yeah. So, you know, we have a lot of people here who want to have picnics in their backyard. And this would be a problem. Sure. So, on this screen right now, you're seeing I believe it was eight, no, ten locations that we measured around the property. And the top line level there is LEQ, which is equivalent level and the average sound level across a couple days measurement there. Do we know what time of day these were? This is the average across about 48 hours. So, day, night, it's all, it's as hard as, you know, as hard as it is to wrap a whole two days of sound into one number, this is attempting to do it. But the, you can see the areas most distant from I-81, the LEQ at meter nine is 41 and 41 at meter eight. And then the other areas, you can see the areas that are close to the ground. And then the other areas, you can see the areas that are close to the ground. And then closer to it ranges from there to closer to I-81, 63 at M1, 57 at M2, 66 at M3, 52, 51.9 at M6, sort of in the middle zone there. Presumably mostly due to transportation noise. Although we can't speak to all the noises that occurred. It was an unattended measurement. I would submit to you that Mr. Delilah has the engineering resources to make sure that the sound at the property line does not impose upon the neighbors. And we would encourage you to do so because if it does impose on the neighbors, that's going to be a real problem for us. And, Dan, you know the people to get it done. So, please, please do. Let me, we need to move along. Ms. Kozell is going to talk about the building architecture. She likes good looking buildings. I've got to tell you that right now. So. Yeah. Thank you. There wasn't a whole lot in the packet to really review for architecture and construction piece. So, we really need to provide more information, building types. I mean, you can't, you don't have a lot of flexibility with these, with the facade. I mean, it's a concrete tilt panels. You've got a little bit of metal panel or storefront in the front of it. But trying to tie that into, you're going to have to get really creative. How do you plan to tie that into residential on three sides of you? What's the plan? You can't plop a concrete structure times how many buildings are, 10 or so, and think it's going to fit within that area. So, looking for more information on that, do you have any details or anything to share beyond the couple photos? Yes. We can share renderings with you. I don't believe, Wyatt, that we had renderings in the application pack. I'm just checking because there's been a lot of information flying around. There was three renderings. I don't think we did. But not a whole lot to really dig into. Right. So, and I, you know, I mean, I think a couple of the things to mention. We have, you know, landscape berm, obviously, which is screening from adjacent properties to help with, you know, the visual. And we, you know, based on the verbal description in the proffer, we recently worked up some renderings. We can, you know, share those with the group. Yeah. And I would include the rooftop screening because 10 foot of screening, whether that's all four sides or what that looks like beyond the parapet height or what that looks like could really impact substantially. So, I'd like to see more details on that. Also, the phasing of it. There wasn't a lot of information about phasing of the buildings. But phase one really should be berms, buffers. If you're going to build it, you need to do that first because that can't come last. So, everybody, you know, that's going to take time to grow. Is there going to be a fencing, privacy fencing component? It's security. What does that look like? And where does that live within the buffer and the setbacks? And then the last piece of it is design standards. Have you guys considered or is there any potential to consider, like, what's the best way to do that? Yeah. So, I think it's going to be going with the LEED standard, green globes, using Energy Star standards, anything of that nature while you're designing. And if it's not being considered. I mean, we can certainly look into that. The standard on, well, it doesn't matter. I was going to talk about warehouses, but these are, you know, just slightly different. And then the last item is just consistency amongst the whole part, the whole development. I assume everything is going to look very much the same. So, like, if a different end user, they can't come in and completely change the look. Correct. Across the campus. We would expect the same. Yes. I note also that we do have in our proffers an attempt to have good quality design. For example, any building facades that are facing the primary roads have, you know, have required fenestration, a change in building designs to break up the massing, accident materials. And what we're trying to do there is, since we don't have architectural drawings to put up, we wanted to proffer these materials. But we also put in a proffer that at time of master development plan, we'll be submitting actual building elevations. And I think you're suggesting it's a good one to have some kind of design guidelines. That apply to encourage uniformity in the entire project. Either. That needs to be included as a proffer that you're going to have design guidelines to make uniformity or make it blend into the community. What you've said there is a lot of nice generalized statements. But there's nothing there in the proffer that I think can be really enforced by staff. So, if you want to have nice buildings, then state it in the proffer specifically and not generalities. Okay. So, the language we have, Mr. Thomas, says the design elements demonstrating conformance with this design proffer will be depicted on building elevations and drawings submitted at time of MDP. But we can strengthen that. Yeah. Because at the MDP, we don't, I mean, at that point, the horse is out of the barn. We need to know now what is going to happen on the site before the MDP. You know, if you want us to vote up or down on it, we need to know what we're going to get. Okay. Mr. Thomas. I've got a solution. I've got a solution to that issue. And it is bury the data center. Bury the generators. Get them out of sight. That has a big impact on the ambience and the view shed of Shenandoah Valley. And that's the standard that needs to be set. It helps with heat dissipation. It helps with noise dissipation. It helps with the view shed. That's my personal suggestion that we bury them. Thank you. Thank you very much, Liz. Mr. McKay. I'm sorry. How tall are the buildings? Proposed at 60 feet tall. And then the chillers are sitting on the roof, so chillers will be another 10 feet? Correct. Approximately. So that rest of the building is going to be in the basement? Correct. And then the other building is going to be in the basement? Correct. And then the other building is going to be in the basement? Correct. And then the other building is going to be in the basement? And right there sitting on the sun dies people.욱 Because that eight-foot buffer is really not going to hide a lot. Because that eight-foot buffer is really not going to hide a lot. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I've seen designs where the buildings are up, and then the chillers and diesel generation Oh, yeah. are all inside, so that the residents, all they see is the the noise generation is in the inside of the complex stanie and that back opportunities where these Mama's Al�� and all of the structures are on it So the noise generation is in the inside of the complex. No noise generation is in the forming of the basement. Yeah. Well,uth niet they maybe do that a couple of decades on that. Because, let me just correct me when I talk about validation, I hope I don't Section 12. complex um i understand you laid it out so that only part of the building was towards the residential areas but i've seen other layouts where just all the noise generating equipment is actually in like a common in between four buildings right right and i think for the most part we've attempted to do that uh in addition to the fact that generators are in the enclosure i'm just a little concerned with the rooftop chillers being up on the roof if you could get them to where because i mean i wouldn't want to be sitting out on my back patio enjoying a beverage and looking at a chiller sitting away from me i'm sure you plan for those is to have acoustic screen walls around the chillers so that's part of the sound attenuation as well and the visual i'm sure you planned on doing it but it'd be very nice with the final application to see some cross sections through the site and take uh four or five or maybe two right two of the local two of the ones that are in the back patio and then the other one is the one that's in the front patio and then the other one is the one that's in the back patio and then the other one is the one that's in the front patio and then the other one is the one that's in the back patio the hasn't had a one close residence and one a little close residence and one a little bit distance bit distance into a cross section through the berm into a cross section through the berm from their house or from their residence from their house or from their residence backyard through the berm through the backyard through the berm through the site to actually see what they're going site to actually see what they're going to see to see to demonstrate what they're going to to demonstrate what they're going to see on a visual basis on a to see on a visual basis on a cross-section uh and i'm sure you planned cross-section uh and i'm sure you planned on doing that but on doing that but it would be nice to see a number of them it would be nice to see a number of them agreed i believe we had three sections in the in the latter part of the gdp package but if for whatever reason that didn't make it in we'll make sure that they're in there we we have sections like that okay i'm going to keep us moving mr mckay uh one of the big benefits of data centers is the tax revenue they bring to the county you dug into the impact statement go ahead sir yes thank you mr chairman um you know the numbers are pretty speculative um you know depending on how long the build out takes mr crane over here commissioner crane brought up you know you you make it sound like it most likely be a multi-tenant type facility um you could have a non-profit you know using part of that facility which would mean you know that that negates some of that tax revenue right there um little concerned about the job number 440 jobs seems rather high i understand data centers are rather self-sufficient um you know that that seems rather high i think it's a good thing you know that that seems rather high i think it's a good thing you know that that seems rather high high for kind of a self-sufficient type facility and you know we talk about you know wage impact um that you designate here you only have 311 million in the original report but i think one of your slides showed significantly higher than that there's no guarantee that those those employees would live here in frederick county um most likely probably living up in west virginia central play close to the border um so you know i don't know if you want to comment on any of that we have uh the person who prepared the fiscal impact study commissioner mckay who can address that question for you uh what i can do is briefly talk about tax exemption i think you're asking the question if a 501c3 let's say owns real estate are they exempt from property taxes the answer is no there's two ways to be exempt from property taxes one if you have a constitutional exemption such as your church or two if you're exempted by the board of services and the other way around is if you're exempt from property taxes you're exempt from the tax exemption and if you're exempt from it you have a concerns about the supervisors so if you are just a you're the united way that's a let's assume the united way buys this property and once that united way data center they would still be in the tax rolls they may not pay income tax to the federal government but they would still pay property tax to frederick county how about the sales tax on the equipment they'd be putting in um that depends what the general assembly will do you know the general assembly discussing that as we speak but currently there is a sales tax exemption we'll see if that survives past July the 1st. And then just I'm going to turn it over to the fiscal impact consultant, but just on the clarification between the $300 million to the $700 million, we ran the study as a 20-year study, which is the $237 million in tax revenue. That $300 was based on 10 years of wage revenue, which slipped through the cracks, and then we adjusted it to the 20 years of wage revenue, which was the $700. So that's the clarification on that. In addition to that, I'll add as far as the – yeah, I'm sorry, perfect introduction. Stephen Pierce, McGuire Woods Consulting. You guys may know McGuire Woods Consulting, headquartered in Richmond. We're a national PR and site selection and incentives consulting firm. As it pertains to the wages, I'll address that specifically and where those jobs would be. For purposes of the model, we've assumed that most of the employees – actually, we've assumed to be clear that all the employees would be based here. Some augmentation of the model can take place to accommodate that some of those employees would be based elsewhere. How about the number of jobs, 140? Yeah, the number of jobs, there's a ramp-up period of three years, so it starts in year one with an estimation of 70 jobs, 188 jobs in year two, and ramps up to capacity. 440 jobs in year three. So that would be 440 continuous jobs at the end of the total build-out? That's right. That's 440 full-time permanent jobs that would be based at the facility. So they'd be working daily at that facility? That's correct. And those jobs are primarily folks who are HVAC technicians, IT technicians, networking engineers, operations folks, security folks. We're happy to supply. We're happy to supply. We're happy to provide. We're happy to offer. We're happy to provide. We're happy to provide. We're happy to provide. We're happy to offer. We're happy to provide. We're happy to provide. But the average wage we have assumed, starting in the first year, is a little over $70,000. For purposes of our model, we have assumed a 2.5% annual increase. And, of course, that is subject to what CPI looks like over time, but that's how we've modeled over the 20-year period. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are these jobs? 24-7? I mean, somebody's there on three different shifts, so it's 440 divided by three equals how many is there per shift, or how does that work? I think in general there is someone there 24-7. I mean, each specific end user is going to have different expectations for how they're going to staff their operation. What we factored in here is what we would see for a facility of this size, this many square footage, the typical number of employees we see employed full-time. That, again, would be an end user specific question about how many employees are working at each different shift of operation. So walk me through. So who would be the ultimate employer of the employees? Would it be who's renting the space, or would it be the owner of the facility themselves? How would that work? It would be the operator of the facilities, not the developer. We would not be the employers. It would be the tenant that is operating in the facility. Okay. So technically, you know, the tenant had... You know, servers or a certain cluster here in this building and some in Northern Virginia, that employee could potentially, you know, do some work in this building and also some work up in Northern Virginia. I mean, I would think not. I mean, given the technical nature of the facilities, they're going to want to have people here. I mean, the data centers that I've toured, you know, do have people who are on site and on staff. And I mean, there could be possibly like a supervisor. Mr. Kay? Okay, so I'd kind of go to that place, although, you know, you know, Mr. Medziotle mom Tthat good. I'd think that I know, you know, this is going to be a lot of different sorts, but typically the people who were there are there. Thank you, Mr. Okay. Okay. Mr. Minshew, you knew we would get there. I know you've been anticipating this on the edge of your seat, but I want to talk about your traffic. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Okay. I just happen to have access to the ITE trip generation website. And when I plugged in manufacturing for the amount of square footage that we're proposing, it tells me that on an average day, this facility would generate 9,714 vehicle trips. And I know that was not the intent. In fact, when we looked at this, Dan, for the warehousing, we weren't anywhere near that. So I would ask you to please look at some of these uses. And I think there's some you might want to proffer out unless you plan on building an interstate from 81 down Road to your entrance. We appreciate that, Chairman Stone. I'd mention that you might ask the question, where do we come up with which uses to proffer out? We had a meeting with Mr. Pearson and Mr. Bishop. We went through the TM uses. Some of them, such as someone mentioned, guided missile and space vehicle manufacturing. I don't know where they came from, but we figured that was one we could proffer out. What we wanted to do is proffer out those uses that are clearly impactive, obnoxious, if you will, and then proffer them out. And then in addition, that left the category of uses that could be appropriate. And we did not say that this is only one proffered use. That's data center. So we put in a provision that if we go with a use that does generate more vehicle trips, we could do that. But we didn't say that this was only one. We said that if it's a vehicle trip that's allowed by right in the TM zone, we'll do a traffic study. That traffic study will tell us what we have to do to address levels of service. That was our thinking, Chairman Stone. There are additional uses that we could proffer out if that's something that the planning commission would like us to do. But we saw those targeted industries, those six targeted industries. Four of them create a lot of vehicle trips. I see. And the one that's the lowest is the one that we're going with. But we most certainly could proffer out those uses that are high trip generation. If you don't like our concept that if we go with that high trip-generating use, we'll do a study, find out what we have to do to keep levels of service, then do on our nickel transportation improvements to fix that. But that's a long-winded way of saying, yes, we could add a proffer more uses. Yeah. I think some level of sensitivity analysis to figure out what's appropriate and what's not. Because we're not going to go up there and build a six-lane road, which is not the place to do it. Although the truckers might like it. It's not appropriate. How long will construction last? What are you anticipating for a season of construction? Two years? I'm going to refer to Dan and John on that. But I note that there will be, at some point, the building out of this next substation. And that will be a lot of ground disturbing activities. What we'd like to do is to, if we're going to build a substation, do our build out roughly concurrent with them so that the construction doesn't drag out for a long period of time. We don't know when they're going to be building. But let me kick it to John and Dan. And I might be able to answer more on that question. Sure. I mean, if we're just talking about the data center buildings themselves, I mean, it's approximately a one-year build for the site work and construction, maybe a little bit longer than that for each. As far as how long. You know. Are all of these buildings going to be built? Are they going to be built? Are they going to be built? Are these going to be under construction to be determined? Right? OK. You think a pre-stress tilt up? I mean, I realize that's probably more detailed than you've gotten into at this point. I mean, a little bit early on. But you've built so many warehouses, you know what to do. I would expect a concrete tilt up or a precast type of construction, right, with a concrete slab, definitely. Is that timeline considering a seven-day work week or a five-day work week? Don't know. We're typically, I mean, most of our sites are typically on a five-day. OK. I just know data centers. And it's critical they can work until it gets done. So that would be something we would want to avoid. If you could please have your traffic engineer take a look at construction traffic and what implications might result from that. Obviously, there's a truck stop there. And when we start mixing a bunch of concrete trucks and everything else that goes on with it, because you're going to have a lot of construction jobs on site. I'm sure you've talked to permanent jobs, but construction jobs are going to be there as well. Did you want to add something, sir? Yes. I'd like to hear from your traffic. I know VDOT recommends a 1% ambient traffic growth. Frederick County is projected to grow our population at 1.5% to 2% a year. So I'm not sure the average state VDOT recommendation of 1% growth really is applicable to Frederick County. If you think it is, I would like to see some kind of an analysis or some statement of why you think that the ambient traffic growth should be less. And what the projected population growth of Frederick County is. I certainly recognize that VDOT has an average for the state, and they don't want to do it by county. But since this project's going to be located in Frederick County, I think it ought to be more specific to Frederick County and not the average state growth. OK. Our last topic is the siting, residential impact site features. One of the questions that came up early on is, are we trying to put too many traffic jobs in our area? Are we trying to put too many traffic jobs in our area? I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. And I've heard that question come up multiple times. So Ms. Broomback's going to lead us through some of these questions. OK. So the GDP that we have currently in front of us is 10 buildings. But I've heard someone mention 11 also. Was it 11 and now it's 10? Or it's still under ? We had an initial plan that was 11, and we reduced it down to 10. OK. And then I guess what gets me, though, the most is all of these residential houses that have been there 20, 30 years, probably. And you're talking 60-foot industrial building with a 10-foot above. So you're talking 70-foot. These houses are probably 20-foot, 25-foot at most. I mean, is there any way we can? And I know you've maximized the site for a developer standpoint. But is there any way we can look at 30-foot buildings, 40-foot buildings, something that is more blending with the neighborhood than a basically 70-foot? I mean, I would offer that a lower building would actually be, from a noise perspective, worse. And our noise consultant can address that, because we've had many conversations about that. But that's actually a, I think, from a noise perspective, it would be detrimental. Because the noise would be at the same level? I don't want to get specific, Rob, because I don't want to describe it better than I can, I'm sure. We'll play musical chairs. Just the way the barrier effect would work is, depending on the barrier height, the more offset, the lower the receiver would be, the more barrier they would see versus the noise beyond. And so lowering the building and having a more even elevation, although there would still be whatever building height we choose, that difference, it would just change the geometry so that more noise passes over the barrier. They experience more noise than they would with noise at a higher elevation. So these noise studies. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. These noise studies that we did, that you did, that's based on a 60-foot building and these chillers at 70, basically at the 70-foot mark, or 65-foot mark, whatever. Right. And at what level were the receiver at? Was at the house level, at the two bedrooms, window level? Yeah. The standard measurement point for that you'll see represented in the map is a meter and a half, so about standing. About a foot. About a foot. OK. Head height. According to the topography of their hand. OK. The colored one. Yeah, that's fine. Just for. Yeah. So this is at a meter, meter and a half above terrain elevation all across the site. Data, topo elevation data from . Where is this? There's . There's . It pulls it in from Google. OK. Yeah. OK. This to address the. Randy, could you put the GDP? Sure. Please. Thank you. For this, the building, I will say that the building grades are per the civil site plan. So those elevations are correct. So to address your initial question, as we've talked about, we're adhering to the 200-foot setback. We're trying to get the buildings organized. We are trying to address what some. Are you just saying that this is a good area where the ground floor oscill 꾹ing the system Simon, that it's your side? You have just here. Sir. No foot which, although the ground floor coordination is good, the ground floor compressed, the concrete structure, it's. It's designed to be Angels that you need where does he get voice to walk back to reports lately. Are you aware that you have this one over here at the base, which is near the sub ты ares. He. Theseوت Kna Rosa. Yeah. Of course. Uh. our last reason effort when we had the warehouse effort uh to you know in which we think was much more uh you know challenging due to the the truck traffic which is not an issue and and bob has been leading point on on the local reach out and talking specifically with the neighbors and sharing information about the project so bob if you want to share some of that sure um like dan said back in 2022 when the warehouse was was being proposed we had sent out letters to all the adjoining property owners and at that time i met with most of them i think all of them i certainly made myself available to talk to all of them i got all their input their concerns and tried to address those in the plans that we have today we worked through those plans back in 2022 we ended up having a petition in support of it from some of those residents and we carried forward that same effort and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to do that and approach this time around we sent out letters to the same group of course some people had moved some folks were new i've met with a lot of them not all of them i've talked to most of them not all of them and i intend to meet more tomorrow met some today in fact i was in the field i apologize for not looking like my my friends here with suit coat and ties on but i was stomping around the fields today with some residents anyway um we have all their input i mean of course they're will be back they're ready to take action as soon as they have some action they don't have time okay but we assist them so they can help me with any of my concerns that's all that i would like to chance to tell them uh in this time that we're going into it for the towards the changeも plan nesta marchen theraphte so aescholfja is a reference to that to be very excused into it until the time that comes so i cross to Mohammed the vmbr guide said youroning party� señWoo noone thening trained rumi jargon oluyor ma r Vielleicht- address significantly with not just the eight-foot berms, but the trees that go on top of them and the cross sections that were suggested earlier. We're looking at that. We're adding some to our report to try to address some of the concerns I heard. But not everybody's going to be happy. There's still no data center signs along the road. But again, I think we'll have at least addressed or tried to address, at least understand their issues and we'll try to address those. Some folks may not be interested in talking, but I'm certainly willing to go out there, talk to them, meet with them, and again, listen and try to address it. And that's what my objective is, to hopefully reduce the concerns of them and also make our plan better for the neighborhood. Because overall, that's our objective. We don't want to be a bad neighbor. Okay. For the sake of time, I need to move us along. But Ms. Ramek, do you have any other? Just the cross sections that we were talking about. I know there are three of them, I think, in our past. I think we're back at three, four of them. But they're from, if we could have one from the House perspective. You want sight lines over the berms, yeah. Yes. We'll get those. I made that note. Yeah. Okay. Thank you to each commissioner who dug in and led us in those questions. I have two questions and then I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Bishop. Mr. Minchu, if we, have you done any public outreach prior to this meeting? Has your design team done anything? Have you done anything to communicate with the public in the immediate area of the project? Really, just what Mr. Dwyer mentioned. Okay. Has that been recent? I mean, he talked about when it was Fruit Hill. No, no. This time, we carried over that same format for 2026 and we sent out letters and I met with people as recently as today, yesterday, and tomorrow. Okay. The second thing I wanted to ask you, Mr. Minchu, and Mr. McKay hit on this a little bit, and that is, would you be willing to enter into a development, a proffer for a development agreement? Mr. Pearson and I talked about this, and that agreement would talk about you not leasing space to non-profits. Can we do that? No, you're the attorney, sir. I only practice law after dark, so. I think it's just to understand the intent that, I mean, if we were to lease, a rack inside this data center to a 5-1-C-3, that that won't affect the real estate and personal property taxes. Mr. Chairman, I think one of the other concerns, Randy, is relative to financial institutions and the ability for the bank franchise tax to govern over the machinery, the M&T rate in those instances. So essentially, I think what the chairman's trying to get at is some form of a proffer that ensures that the whole taxation benefit will be recognized regardless of the end user. I admittedly, in talking with the chairman, don't know a legal land use solution relative to that, and we investigated it when we did the white paper and included that in the fact sheet that we wrote up on that, but we'd be interested in if there is anything that your sharp legal mind can suggest relative to that and work with the county attorney, Mr. Fox, to that solution. We'll be glad to work with you. We'll be glad to work on that. I would not want to write a proffer that is either illegal or non-enforceable. Thank you, sir. We don't want you to, and we would not ask you to. Mr. Chairman, that issue is for the General Assembly as well. It was tabled this year. It'll be back next year, I'm sure, but that sort of loophole that Mr. Peersnick mentioned for banks, the bank tax, hopefully will be taken care of by the General Assembly. Well, hopefully the General Assembly will get a budget at some point, too. Mr. Bishop, we've run over a few minutes, but I need you to summarize, and then for clarity, we need to communicate to the design team what you heard, what you think it is that we're asking them to do, and we need to nod in agreement to that. Yes, sir, and bear with me. And if I missed something in my note-taking, we do have three of us taking notes, but also very open to correction by the Planning Commission. If I've missed a key point, but I will start listing, and bear with me. I've got about a little more than a page and a half here. First of all, no groundwater, more addressment of glycol removal should that situation arise, treatment of discharge, when and how it happens. That's somewhat related, obviously. Overall volume of water and caps, noise allowance compared to residential noise allowed, as Mr. DeHaven mentioned. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. DeHaven had pointed out there's some concern there, so, and I understand the noise is still under study. Monitoring wells during construction, as you brought up, Mr. Stowe, to make sure that the construction activities don't impact neighboring wells. Enforcement of a closed-loop system via proffer. Offsite water improvement details, easements, et cetera. Potential of onsite treatment was also discussed. Strategies of noise management for generator cycling came up. I believe that was addressed partly by they could be more spread out and testing different ones on different parts of the site at the same time. Diesel versus natural gas to power the generators. There was a good discussion of frequency versus just DBA and the potential concerns with low frequencies. Update the study to reflect Tier 4. Okay. So, Tier 4, as was discussed, is coming into proffer and what that would do with the actual noise. I'm sorry, that's update noise study. Energy storage and batteries was discussed and was a concern that we need more information on. Proffered monitoring and reports of noise. So, I guess we've had similar situations where on the traffic front an applicant was required to do counts on an annual or a specific day. Okay. And then, on an annual or sometimes more frequent basis and submit them. I would think something similar could happen on the noise front. Architecture, more information and examples. This was also something noted in the staff report. There's a nice list of potential items in the proffers but a nice little caveat as well that says some of them will be used. And I think folks are looking for more surety and certainty into what these facilities would and should look like in an enforceable manner. More information on phasing of buildings, screens, and berms so that we don't end up in a situation where you're looking at a building for some unknown amount of time before the actual screening comes into place. Design standards such as LEED, et cetera, were mentioned. Perhaps those are applicable to try and address some of those concerns. Consistency across the development. Okay. Okay. So it can be harmonious. Building height concerns were dug into by more than one planning commissioner. Right now we're talking about 60-foot plus chillers. There was some discussion of single story. There was some discussion even of potentially underground. So more discussion and potential proffers are needed in that area. There was noted designs where items such as chillers are internal. I believe Mr. Butthorff. Yes. Had brought that up. Request view set analysis came up for more than one planning commissioner to demonstrate what's visible. We did note that there are cross sections in the actual GDP. However, a little more resident perspective is needed compared to those existing graphics. Revenue generation by users and nonprofit. It's part of what you just closed out with. We're going to talk about that as well. There was a discussion on a fair amount between Wyatt and Mr. Minshew. Fair amount of discussion on job creation. I made a note that we're talking 440 of build out of onsite jobs was my understanding of the answer there. Potentially across three shifts. So any more detail that can be provided to add additional maybe it's not a proffer even. But just more details for decision makers I think has been clearly asked for there. Proffer out additional higher traffic uses. I actually made my own note. Potentially a trip cap with question mark is what I know. So as we look into those issues there may be more than one strategy to employ is my point there. Construction work week and hours needs to be discussed and gotten into. There is the proffer that says construction trips won't be arriving during the peak hour. And so. I think the issue is that it's not a proffer. But I believe even that proffer has a note that that doesn't apply on the weekends. And so I think there's so that would infer I understand I'm not questioning Mr. Knott's answer about that they don't often work on weekends. But there does seem to be some contemplation of it in the proffer. So as that issue is looked at some more surety is needed there. And also to justify why 1% background traffic growth is appropriate. The team is in the team. I'm going to ask Mr. Knott. I'm going to ask the TIA. Now that's the notes from the discussion. I do have a couple notes. That I want to make sure I was clear on for the public as well as you all. There were discussion today and graphics on the screen regarding a recent addendum to the sound study. Why it did touch on the fact that our own sound consultant has not had a time to review those yet. We have forwarded it. We are going to work to make sure we can get our sound consultant at the public hearing or hearings as that goes forward. However, it sounds like the sound study might be updated as well. So we're going to try and make sure to the extent possible that there's coordination with our sound consultant. So there's less as little back and forth as this comes forward as there can be. I would also note that in addition to the email that was shared for the update. For the update and potential maximum water, the 120,000 gallons reference while the impact analysis was envisioning 200 to 300. Of course, that's a positive direction of movement to come down. However, even as the day went on today, there are emails back and forth including Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Dallella and ourselves. Regarding the best way to potentially proffer that max. What would be the best way to get there. So I would only note that to say that information is ongoing. To the public, we have copies of those things that were added in the last day on the tables near the exits. I know a lot of people were grabbing them on the way in. If you didn't and you're curious about those items, those are available to you. And I think that's all the notes I have for the moment. Mr. Pearson, did we cover everything that we needed to, sir? Yeah, I think John touched on these. But to just add a point on one of the things. I think that's a good point. One additional piece was the idea of modifying the noise assessment to include a C weighted charting as well as considering a proffer to not use water as any form of a cooling medium outside of a closed loop system. But in some ways, he touched on those in context as well. We just wanted to add that point to that. That's the extent of it, Mr. Chairman. Absent any other changes in the process, we'll be looking at this again on June 3rd at a public meeting. June 3rd at a public hearing with the Planning Commission. When do you need the applicant to have materials back to you in order to be on the agenda for the June 3rd meeting? We'll provide them formal correspondence with a cutoff date for when something would need to be included in the packet. I don't know the date off the top of my head is the actual answer to that. Yeah, you're more optimistic than I. They've got a lot of work to do between now and then. I'm just looking at the calendar thinking that's going to be tough. But I've seen Mr. Minchie pull off miracles before. With updating the sound study, assuming we are updating the sound study, well, not we, me, but we, them, June 3rd does get complicated, I expect, fairly quickly. But that will be up to the applicant to determine as long as they can meet the cutoffs. Okay. Thank you. I want to thank the citizens for coming out tonight. This is important to all of us. It has an impact on all of us. And I appreciate you being here. I know you've had to sit there and listen for two hours. I appreciate you not falling asleep. But there will be opportunities for you to speak to us. We just feel like in this current forum, there's a lot more work that needs to be done before there's some good solid meat there for you to talk to. So as was mentioned earlier, the updated information will appear on the website prior to the public hearing. And you'll have an opportunity Thursday night out of Jameswood High School, 630. You can find us at www.fm.edu. And we're a great place to be. So please come and meet us. We're a great place to meet and to talk to data centers in general out there as well. And I believe Mr. Pearson, you're on the panel, right, to answer questions there? Yeah. I have the pleasure of emceeing that event. And we'll also have Eric Lawrence from Frederick Water there, the third-party acoustic consultant that the county has hired. And then Julie Bolthouse of Piedmont Environmental Council is our panelist as well. Okay. Well, that concludes our work session. To the applicant, thank you very much, Mr. Dallalla, Mr. Minchie. and your team, thank you very much for putting up with our questions, and we'll look forward to seeing you soon. Have a safe trip home. Thank you.
