Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-03-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=276
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I hereby call this Wednesday meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors to order March 26. Sorry, I didn't write my date down on the top of my sheet here. We are pleased to have Pastor Dennis Smith of Valley Bible Church to deliver our invocation. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for your amazing grace and your amazing love and dying on the cross for our sins so that we can know freedom and be able to meet and assemble here today to discuss the needs of the county. I just pray that you will guide the discussions here today and give everyone wisdom and help the decisions that are made to be right and just and fair to all concerned. And we may learn to love as you loved us. Jesus name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Vice Chair. Let us please stand and join me in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Now we come to adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to go and see if we can move the issues on Apple Land and the issues on Route 7 before. I don't know how many people are going to speak on the budget. That may take time. But if we can get those things done first, that would be helpful. So you didn't make that in the form of a motion. But we can discuss it. We're in discussion. You don't have to right away. Ms. Phillips, inform me that we don't have that many people signed up for the budget. Is that right? You have seven signed up so far for the budget. Okay. Anyone who didn't sign up who wanted to speak on the county budget when we come to that public hearing, could you give me a hand so we know if that's going to be a long one? Okay. I don't see anyone else. It's up to you if you want to make a motion. I will make the motion. Thank you. I would move that the Apple Land and the Route 7 issues be moved before we go into the budget discussion. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I could support that. But Supervisor Dunn, have you considered if they were planning on coming later? We wouldn't want them to miss. If people were coming on behalf of that public hearing, that was my reservation with that. Okay. I understand that. You can vote accordingly and I'll have to respond accordingly. Thank you. Okay. So I'll second that amendment. Okay. So we have a motion to move the two public hearing items 12A and 12B up or look at another way to move 11A to after items 12A and 12B. Do I have that right, Supervisor Dunn? Yes, sir. Okay. Any other discussion? We'll have to vote on the amended motion first. But any other discussion? Hearing none, so on the vote just on the amendment to the agenda. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Then I'll go along with the majority. We will amend the agenda. So now we have a motion to approve the amended agenda. Any further discussion? Not hearing any. Okay. So we have a motion to move the two public hearing items 12A and 12B up. Do I have that right? Okay. So we have a motion to approve the amended agenda. We will amend the agenda. We will have a motion to approve the amended agenda. Any other discussion? Okay. So we have a motion to approve the amended agenda. We will amend the agenda. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. So is there anyone here who would like to speak tonight on an agenda item that's not one of the public hearing items? Most of it's public hearing. So, alright, seeing no one, I close citizen comments. The consent agenda. How would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second? We have a motion to second. Any discussion? I would just let the public know these are mainly minutes and reports we're approving. There are some small supplemental appropriations, so we'll have to take a roll call vote. But none of these require any of your taxpayer funds. There are donations, insurance claims, and a small grant award that we have to appropriate. Information on these items are available to the public via hyperlinks on tonight's agenda that was posted. If you want to read any more about the consent agenda. So with that said, we need a roll call vote on the consent agenda. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Supervisor Lear? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes aye. The consent agenda is approved. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chairman, I do have some comments. Supervisor Dunn? We're going to go into a budget discussion later tonight. We're going to go into a budget discussion later tonight. And I'd like to go and lay out some items. And I'd like to go and lay out some items. This afternoon, the Governor vetoed a bill that might have affected something. This afternoon, the Governor vetoed a bill that might have affected something. So I'm going to go ahead and read it. So if staff can go and put on the screen here, So I'm going to go and read it. I'd like to walk through for about five minutes some issues on budget. I'd like to walk through for about five minutes some issues on budget. If you want to put up the first screen, first tab, please. If you want to put up the first screen, first tab, please. If you want to put up the first screen, first tab, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Last week, we had a budget discussion. Last week, we had a budget discussion. And there was an ad that was one of the newspaper. The data on this sheet comes from that ad. And if you really want to see that, I have another slide that will show you that data. I have another slide that will show you that data. Last year, we had a proposed general operating revenue of $250 million. Last year, we had a proposed general operating revenue of $250 million. This year, the proposal is $263 million. This year, we're transferring $3.9 million from the capital fund for total $9.9 million. revenue of $267 million. If we add those two up, that means we have expenditures of $267,811,000, and we have an additional $11 million that's going to be taken from the capital fund to meet some other needs. Total expenditures this year will be $278 million. Last year was $264 million. We take the total revenue, excluding the capital fund, of $263 million. The total expenditures is $278 million. It leaves you a $14.9 million deficit. Last year, we had a $14.2 million deficit. The year before, we had an approximate $15 million deficit. Go to the third tab, please. This is the capital fund balance over the next five years, starting with F1. 26, in which we expect to have $36.4 million, minus certain capital expenses that are annual capital expenses to the county, such as sheriff's cars, et cetera, minus money for transportation, in this case $7 million, minus school capital of $4 million, minus capital fire and rescue items of about $3.5 million. It means that we will spend about $18 million from this capital fund. We expect to have approximately $9 million at the end of the year. If that occurs, we will have about $26 million left at the end of the year. When you take a look at going out to FY27, 28, and 29, you have assumptions on capital expenses for the county, money for transportation, you have debt service, school capital. As you can see in the chart, by FY28, we will be running a negative balance. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The next slide, please. The following slide, please. The following slide, please. The following slide, please. The following slide, please. BOBAL operamin denies that the dietary changing recommendations will只 выделosit the balance of a façade lee aux for transportation. That represents about 2.1, 2.2 percent of our total budget. I've made the comments in workshops that we'll have at least 14 million dollars. I've talked to a number of people over the course of the last year, as many of you have, who have said to me, Blaine, we don't want to have more people coming in until we have more infrastructure. But infrastructure costs money. Mr. Bishop from our planning staff a month or so ago laid out the issue of what happens if we do fund a Route 37 or similar bypass on the eastern sector, what happens if we don't? In either case, we are gonna have to spend money, significant money, to address those issues. So my concern in this budget on the seven million dollars is this is an ongoing operational expense, not a one-time capital expense, and these monies are coming from a capital fund which are designed for one-time usage. The same issue goes for the schools. In this example here, the schools have four million dollars that we expect to give to the schools. Last year, at the same time, we were doing five-year projections. The three million dollars for the county was really 5.5 million dollars. The four million dollars that was going to the schools was five million dollars. Next slide please. If you throw those numbers into the equation, within two years, FY28, we will be running a seven million dollar deficit. You cannot continue to go and operate a county when you're taking out of a savings account, which is this capital fund, to try to meet ongoing operational expenses. It just doesn't work. At some point in time, this county has to figure out a way to raise revenue and or cut expenses. In my opinion, in my opinion only, nobody else here, I think that the county is well run. Can you save one percent, half a percent? Yes. But on this budget, just recognize that a one percent savings is a 2.8 million dollar savings. I've said to people, show me. They've had a hard time. The schools have their own elected board. The schools in this county are an equal body to this body. We appropriate money to the schools and they decide how to spend it. And I, as an individual, have some disagreements with how they would spend money. And that's fine and prerogative. But we provide the schools with money. And the schools then spend it as they see fit. So the issue that I'm dealing, raising here is how do we close the gap? I want to work with everyone on this board to address this issue. But this is not a Republican issue or Democratic issue. It's not liberal or conservative. This is how do we solve a problem. And so for those of you that are more conservative, look at this. And I ask you the question, How do we deal with the issue? For those of you that say, raise taxes, That's fine. I can give you a group, a bunch of people that say, I can't afford to do that. Excuse me, One second, please. This afternoon, the Governor of Virginia vetoed part of the budget bill. And in that budget bill there was a one percent sales tax referendum. And I know that the budget bill isn't minimal. But what would happen if I put it in a budget bill and I put a seven percent same amount into each質 question, And I know there's one delegate in the county, so I believe it was a referendum, not a tax. The voters would vote. If I've been correct on that, please let me know. But this would have given you, the people of the county, the opportunity to vote yes or no, to have 1% of money that you spend on a sales tax to go for schools, not including food, not including medical. So if you bought a new sofa, if you bought a new car, if you bought a new painting, if you bought a computer, those types of sales taxes, that would generate approximately $20 to $21 million. That money could go for schools. The governor made the comment that if we did that, other things would be fungible and taxable. So let me make some comments to the governor. And I know this is a local meeting, but the comments were basically said to Delegate Oates, Delegate Wiley, Senator French, Winston Sears, the lieutenant governor, and the governor. You all deal with finance. How do you solve the problem? In this case, this board's primary way to raise money through taxes is to increase the real estate tax, or in this case where the appraisal goes up and the tax rate stays the same, you still pay a higher tax rate, or to go and cut expenses. And those are the two. There are two options. Option number three is for businesses to come into this county that will close this financial gap. I've been on this board for 10 years. Businesses have come into this county. They've contributed. But the amount of money that they are contributing in tax revenue, not in capital expenditures, but in tax revenue, has not been equal to the costs that we've had for the population. So to the governor, I would say, Governor, we're both Republicans. You don't want to raise taxes. Neither do I. But how do you solve the problem when the only options we have are to increase the real estate tax or the real estate tax rate? How do we deal with the issue on growth? You've said that you want to see economic growth be the boom for the county and the state, and I agree. But in this particular county, the rate of population increase far exceeds the rate of business growth. So if you have ideas on how to do this, please let me know. I'm going to ask you to give me a few more minutes. If you can't do that, then don't limit us on options on how we address what's going to be a looming tax issue down the road. In San Diego County, California, if you've lived there all your life, and so, ma'am, just for a moment, you've lived there all your life, and you're paying $100,000, you have a $100,000 house, which has grown to a million dollars, and you're now paying, I'm making up numbers here, $1,000 in tax. The gentleman next to her moves in. Buys the same identical house. He's a newcomer. And he will pay a higher tax rate than the woman sitting next to him. And the thought process is that people that move into a county bring in additional costs, in our case, capital costs, and therefore the real estate tax would reflect that differential. In the state of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia, we cannot do that. So if you don't like impact fees, which the governor's not keen on, and you're not keen on a 1% sales tax, that's another option. We need to work together to solve this problem. So, Governor, let's work together on this. I would ask you to reconsider your veto. To our local delegation, I would say please support the veto overwrite if there is one. Or come to this board and show me how to solve this problem without having to go and raise real estate taxes and how to solve this problem without having to raise personal property taxes. I've had more than one person say here, Blaine, you cannot continue to just raise taxes. Taxes have risen about 50% in the last five or six years. As I've said before, I've had people literally pound my chest saying, Blaine, what do I pay for? Your cost of county or my medical expenses? So I'm trying to work together to solve problems. I just want you to be aware of what's coming down the pipe. If we can solve this together, I'd appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? I saw your hand, Supervisor Jewell. Mr. Chairman, I had the privilege last week of participating in the Ag Literacy Week. Millbrook FFA creates activities, worksheets, virtual tours, and volunteer manuals for Farm Bureau women and the local military. We have a study on high school FFAs to use for reading the Virginia Farm Bureau Book of the Year to bring it to life and reinforce learning. You want to walk out of a school feeling good, go spend a couple hours with 100 kindergartners. They're so innocent, so cute, and they just enjoyed it so much. I want to thank Kylie Gore, and I want to thank the Farm Bureau women for doing this and the local FFAs. We've got a great group of kids in this county and they're really doing great things. So I just want to give them Thanks Thank you any other supervisor comments Anyone else I'll make a couple comments Just responding to supervisor done Funding of the eastern loop of route 37 people have talked about that for a long time It's been our plan for decades a lot of recent studies have shown that it's not affordable So our studies are now looking at coming up with alternative solutions Problems with route 37 aren't just that it's very expensive, but it also cannot connect into i-81 at the northern end So we could it seems from VDOT that we could never have a full loop Even if we built the rest of it the other problem to me is some people want it They definitely want the roads improved But other people have said if you build it We're gonna boom it's gonna spur development Homes on the east side of the county are shorter commute option to the DC area. So we'd end up just Compounding our growth rate if we build it So instead our studies are looking at ways we can fix roads in the county short of building That eastern loop and we are investing in it. You haven't seen a lot of construction yet because it's a slow process We put in funds to the state and the state matches we get Sometimes many times our money back on these projects if we go through what's called a smart scale things already funded in coming include This first one by the state but the rest of it is with our dollars spurring it on i-81 will be widened Through parts of the county route 11 at exit 317 described often as our worst intersection on 81 that's going to have Intersection improvements Route 50 exit 313 has been approved This year for improvements We're investing in safety improvements Which is mostly are all of our local funding at Frederick County Middle School and Gainesboro Elementary School Redbud Road is going to be realigned widening of route 7 south of Winchester into Kernstown, so If you've been wanting to see things happen and wondering why they haven't started yet You they will and you might be cussing us out once you're stuck in the construction traffic But but we are investing in the best solutions We can And I think we should continue that's one of the infrastructure items that's got to be dealt with since the county has grown so much As far as the sales tax referendum I'm against it on general principle I can't answer supervisor Dunn's question about exactly how it operate because they didn't study the bill this year last year If it's in the same form If it had passed or the veto was overridden In last year's form we would have to vote to raise your sales taxes to establish The intent to raise the taxes, and then it would go out for referendum to approval so That is how it was last year, I don't know if that's how this one would be if it was overridden The very first time I heard about it I thought well what's wrong with having the people vote directly on whether they want certain taxes to be raised and After sitting down with several people I was educated and reminded of the fact that Virginia's Constitution word that were formed in a referendum点 in a representative form. So people like us are elected to make decisions like taxes. We're not a referendum-based government like happens in some places. California, for example, does a lot by referendum. That's just the way the county is designed. If the law passed, there's no reason, you know, there's nothing wrong with the law, and we would then have the ability to do that. But I think one of the reasons we don't have referendums and some of the problems California has is because with a referendum, a simple majority can impose a tax on the minority. So 51% of the people could want something, and 49% of the people would have to suffer with it. And our state doesn't like that approach. They like to have boards and enrichment people to consider things and consider all parts of the community, including minorities, before we pass something. So how do we solve the problem? I think there's two main reasons how we can keep ourselves out of financial crisis. One is that we have to have a system of control. We have to have a system of control. We have to have a system of control. We have to have a system of control. One is I believe, I'm convinced that this county can grow its revenue on the basis of business. And I think that is coming. We've seen some big businesses and announcements lately in the last year moving here, and I think we're going to see actually more. This is a great place for business, and that could go a long way to solve the problem without raising individuals' taxes. They do bring headaches of their own when they locate here and use up land, but they also bring jobs. And we're working hard to solve the problem. We're working hard to solve the problem. We're working hard to encourage businesses to come here that have higher than average jobs that they'll provide to the community. So that would be another benefit of the businesses that I hope you'll be hearing about over the next year or two, and some that have already chosen to relocate here. The other solution in the long term to the budget, tonight's hearing is just on next year's budget, but in the long term, I think we should simply live within our available budget. We should live within our available budget. We should live within our available budget. We should restrain county government department growth to no more than inflation plus the size of population growth. We should look closely at anything. Now, there are exceptions to that. We are increasing services in fire and rescue by hiring more firefighting, so their budget will go up by more than the 4% inflation plus 1% county, 2% county growth, whatever it is. But then we can justify to the public why a budget went up. We can justify to the public why a budget went up. We can justify to the public why a budget went up. We can justify to the public why a budget went up. We can justify to the public why a budget went up. We can justify to the public why a budget went up. More than by simple you would expect out of inflation. So I think if we follow that rule of thumb, we can solve that problem in the long run, despite the fact that as Supervisor Dunn shows, that we are using some of our one-time funds out of the capital fund. I'm convinced that there is a good trajectory for us ahead. That's my opinion. So with Supervisor comments concluded, we move to county officials. 8A, discussion, draft. request for proposals for fire and rescue system study. Good evening Supervisors, Chairman and Vice Chairman. We brought this to the board back on February 12th and they asked us to go back and take a look at a few items plus to give this board time to review the draft RFP we distributed to you. As you know about a year ago it was determined that the board wanted us to draft an RFP to look at fire services. So we went and met with the Public Safety Board, came up with a draft RFP. The Public Safety Board also asked that we submit this to the Chiefs Working Group for them to review this and to give their input. I have given you their inputs on a separate document that was distributed to you for your reading. One of the things this board wanted us to do and bring back to this was to look at the different costs of providing these RFPs and I've distributed to you a sheet on those costs. Briefly go over it and these were done by doing an average of RFPs of other governments. If you were to do a to do a full fire and rescue full-scale study that does not include fleet consulting or communication center study, the average cost was about $86,000. A revenue and expense study in consulting is about $37,000 average and a full tilt fleet consulting study is about $37,000. And a full tilt fleet consulting study is about $37,000. And a full tilt fleet consulting study is about $37,000. And a full tilt fleet consulting study is about $37,000. The cost of consulting services studies is about $70,000. However you mix that up that would change. But I think that gives you a good idea of the various costs of these types of studies. Subsequent to that we had a budget hearing last week and as you know fire was discussed at that meeting. So another option was discussed to us meeting with the fire chief, the Don Jackson volunteer chief and others. Another option is if you were to choose you could do the full-scale study. You could break it up in any format this board. desire to do so. You could look at revenues and expenses. You could look at fleet maintenance. You could combine them and separate those. I would advise, from my own personal experience with this, if you are to look at fleet maintenance and if you are to look at communications, that those would probably be best done in a separate RFP because they're very distinctly different from the other services. Another option is when they did a study probably about six or seven years ago, the result of that study is that their staff, the fire staff, was directed to draft and create a plan for fleet maintenance, determining the size of the fleet and fleet replacement, and to create a revenue and funding source for doing that. I know the fire department has worked on that and they do have an assessment of fleets. Another option would be if this board so desired, they could hire an outside consultant to review that fleet assessment that the fire department has. They could also take a look at the condition of the existing fleet, the age of the vehicles, are they still operable, etc. They could also, subsequent to that, if they wanted to determine, I guess the biggest question and issue we look at is the funding and revenues when you look at volunteer fire departments, the ins and outs of cash flows, and how all of this would be funded going forward in the future. As you remember at that budget meeting, a couple of budget meetings before there, they presented a plan and I don't remember all the details exactly, but where the county would pay 60% for a fire engine, the volunteers would pay 40%. It was based on Loudoun County. It hasn't been scientifically calculated, but I think it was a good ballpark idea. So if the board wanted to hire someone to do a full revenue and expense study, they could actually calculate that and make those determinations. But not to make it difficult on you, you have several, you have many different options to go forward with that and I'm here to answer any questions you may have. So if I could start just for clarification. Yes. So if we did everything in one fell swoop, do you have a rough estimate? If you did everything, it might be combined, but if you look at the three, you got to add the 86 to 37, it could be any, I think you would be in the neighborhood of 150,000. The fact that you would be combining all of those three of those things, it would probably be less than if you total all three of those numbers. If you total those three numbers, it's close to 190, $200,000. And those three are revenue, fleet maintenance, fleet? Yes. And a communication center study. Thank you. I have a few comments, but so, but questions first for Mr. Ballhoffer and then we can go to discussion. Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? So Mr. Ballhoffer, on the communication center, what does that add or what does that change or what does that do that is not currently in the county management? Yes. Okay. So what's the situation right now? As you know, I think we, if you remember, we were having some issues with our communication department a few years back. We made some changes and I think we've solved a lot of those. We have a new manager now. The advantage of doing that, if you were to do so, would have an outside party come in, take a look at all their operations and see if there were ways to make improvements. So that would be the advantage of doing that. I don't think there's any dire need or any crisis situation as we had in the past. So right now, when you make a 911 call, we're getting responses to the best of your knowledge as the administrator, and I can ask the chief as well. Are we adequately meeting what is, are we adequately meeting our response times to call 911, I need help on X? I feel confident we are. The biggest issue and challenge we have at our communication center is the same issue you see at every communication center in the country is hiring people to do this job. It's a very complex issue. It's a very complex issue. It's a very tough job. It's very stressful. So keeping it fully staffed is tough. And I don't think a study would help you with that one element. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Bauhofer? Well, Mr. Chairman, are we going through each option? Is that the idea? They put it for discussion, I guess, so I'll ask. So you have estimates of how much you expect these to cost, these studies in part or whole, based on similar studies that have been done. So you're looking for a consensus from us about whether you want to go out and actually do it or not. And then we'll get quotes from companies to move forward? Well, it would be doing a full RFP. So really, if this board were to decide, it wouldn't just be a quote. You would actually have to draft all these different RFPs. So for instance, if you decided to do a combination revenues and expenses and to do a fleet maintenance study and to do a fleet assessment, you would have to draft a separate RFP for the fleet maintenance. Now, generally, how we do that is we kind of cheat. We go out there and look at what everyone else has done. We copy those and then build it based on that. But it does take some effort for every RFP. Then you send out the RFP and wait for requests on proposals. Okay. So they're looking for a consensus on RFPs. We don't want to tell them to do the work to draft the final RFP or put them on the street. Well, I guess what I'm asking, Mr. Bolhofer, the one that the chiefs recommended, is that the one that has the, where we do the study on the revenue sharing? Well, the chiefs recommended the one that has the, where we do the study on the revenue sharing. Well, the chiefs recommended the one that has the, where we do the study on the revenue sharing. Well, the chiefs recommended, yes, it was three items. It was the fleet maintenance. It was looking at revenue sharing, and they wanted to take a look at the salaries and benefits of firefighters. So the chiefs work group, that was their recommendation. What would that cost? The fleet consulting. Now, remember, this would also include all the fleet's vehicles for the county, which would include the sheriff's department. That's $70,000. The revenue and expense study is $37,000. And I'm not sure what a salary study would cost. We did one not too long ago. And if I may ask, and this was for the entire county, if I may ask someone behind me, do you remember what that cost? The last time we did one, four or five years ago when it started, was $87,000. That was a full-scale salary survey for everybody in the county. So doing one for the fire department would be significantly less. Oh, okay. So we're looking at maybe $140,000 or something like that. Oh, okay. So we're looking at maybe $140,000 or something like that. $140,000 or $150,000. If you were to say to look at the option based on what the chief's working group, yes. Okay. Okay. Because that goes right along with the discussion the chief presented at the budget with the revenue sharing. And I mean, I've met with a couple of the fire departments, and the two things that they bring up to me has been the salary study and the maintenance. The maintenance is one that a lot of the volunteer fire departments are concerned about. The maintenance is one that a lot of the volunteer fire departments are concerned about. The maintenance is one that a lot of the volunteer fire departments are concerned about. The maintenance is one that a lot of the volunteer fire departments are concerned about. The chiefs I've talked to. So. Yeah, I got an email saying that the maintenance on some of our vehicles is more than the payment on a new vehicle of that type. So they've gotten them, or we as a county, I'm not blaming them, you know, we're in a situation where if they can't afford a new vehicle, but all these costs are going up, you know, they're looking for solutions. Any other questions for Mr. Ballhofer? If we're having a discussion, I really like the idea of what the chiefs are putting out there. If we're having a discussion, I really like the idea of what the chiefs are putting out there. So the maintenance is really hitting the three things there with, so I'm just throwing that out there. So the maintenance is really hitting the three things there with, so I'm just throwing that out there. Salaries, but not comms, otherwise there's still three pieces to it. Yeah, I think that's what they recommended. I just have one question. Please. Since we did this salary survey not so very long ago and I thought we were incrementally keeping that up to date. Is that not the case? We've just shelved it after that, or? No, we actually do, we check on an ongoing basis of different departments to keep it up to base. And our goal is every year is to do, you know, we've got a number of projects that have been put out there and we want to look at those and keep them up to date. many surveys of different departments and what that really means we'll go out to like six or seven different locations say what do you pay in the beginning firefighter etc etc I feel fairly confident there are no significant issues in that I know I will tell you if you were to decide you wanted to do that I would I will assure you the Sheriff's Department will likely follow that everybody likes to see those because they're always hoping for a better result but I feel we've kept up fairly well going forward so would your recommendation to be to be to leave the salary survey part out of this RFP based on the fact that we did it just a few years ago and and staff is keeping this up to date I would suggest if that was the direction of the board is to give us that direction and then we would go out and do a quick sample survey to see if there are any significant issues and we would say yes we've done that we feel good that's the case so you could do that before we go further we're doing the full RFP I think I would certainly feel better knowing the cost of the last survey we did and how in-depth it was and I frankly thought we were keeping that information up to date I just want to be sure we are before we invest that kind of money and we've been fairly consistent since that time as you know with the pay raises for employees over the last three years and we've looked at other adjustments and for all the departments as you are well aware we did a Compression adjustments in the fire department. We did the compression adjustments in the sheriff's department So there's been a lot of work done and for all the departments in that regard so on the 150,000 the cost for the RFP if we were to At least wait to hear back from administration on that component What with the what would that expenditure? Look like So it was the revenue and fleet number you gave so if you would have did the revenue and the fleet those two together That's a hundred and seven thousand hundred eight thousand. That's the neighborhood. Okay, I Think that would be my recommendation as we wait to hear back from staff on where we are with the Salary survey that we invested a lot of time and money and it sounds like perhaps we are keeping it up today And I feel very confident we could do a very easy study in-house and then get back This and board and say we feel good where we are or we feel like Maybe we could do another salary survey This chairman I would be comfortable that as long as they we did that in fact that okay. Well We've sort of mixed discussion and questions for mr. Ball Hoffer any more questions for mr Ball Hoffer first not that you can't join our discussion, but Let you sit down if there are no immediate questions All right, thank you sir. You're welcome So to continue the discussion I've gotten emails from people In the system and outside worried about you know Unfortunately, we're two counties away from two of the richest counties in the country and we're always competing teachers firefighters With the sheriff's office etc and trying to keep good people So I'm always looking for new ideas if we have the data already Then we shouldn't throw good money after bad. I agree but if there's new ideas out there at Waze. I know I've heard a few at least suggestions. We should consider it maybe in the HR committee or some other place if there are some thoughts of encouraging people to stay other than the simple brute force method of trying to compete with Loudoun and Fairfax counties. You know sometimes there's a unique idea. So Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Lockridge is on to fire and rescue. I know that Mr. Jackson, Don Jackson, who's Chief of the Chiefs of the Volunteers is sitting in the back of the room. So my question to you, the Director of them is, they sent us a memo about a month ago. Have you heard anything different in that month or does Mr. Jackson need to come up here and just ask and provide any more content that might be helpful to us as we go through this discussion? Okay, Supervisor Dunn, I actually have requested to be taken off for personal reasons. So I'm no longer the liaison as of January. So if we want to go ahead and call him up, I have spoken with him in February, Mr. Jackson, but if you think it would be beneficial for him to come up. I think just my comments and he led the Chiefs work group and the comments that you've said, I think he would reiterate that we have grown so, this county has grown substantially and I've heard over and over and over the company's say we're throwing good money after bad. So I think it's definitely needing, we need to look at this, but Chief Jackson, if you want to come up or Chief Mishek and we can ask questions or you can put some input that would be helpful. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Lockridge. Good evening. So was there a question on the table? Supervisor Dunn, did you want to ask? Sure. So my question to both of you is, I know that you're looking to reduce response times. I'm aware of the fact that your maintenance costs are on the high side. I saw what you sent to us, Mr. Jackson, a month ago. Mr. Mishek, is there anything here that you would like to either modify, change, etc., between what we received a month ago and today or put it a different way? From your perspective, as both a county resident and as a person that has to respond to fires, Mr. Jackson, etc., what is the greatest need that we have? The only thing I would add is that in the original memo, it was salary studies that were part of it because we suggested to look at recruitment and retention for the system. Everything we do is from a system approach now and that would include volunteers. Recruitment and retention of both career and volunteers. So that's the only thing, Mr. Baalhofer's 100% right with the salary study and stuff. I guess that would be part of it. But our intention was to look at the entire system, how to recruit and retain system personnel. Other than that, the maintenance is a big thing. As an example, my company in the last two months has spent $40,000 on two ambulances. And maintenance is killing the fire companies. And that's maintenance, not purchase of new, correct, Mr. Jackson? Correct. accident? Right. That's maintenance. And it is good money to bet. You know, some of our equipment is really getting some age on it, and it's harder to keep it up. I can only, I'll give an example. My company, we bought a new engine, put it in service about a year and a half ago. The maintenance costs that were equated to the older engine, they've dropped almost nothing. And the plan is to replace that within 15 years. Some of the engines in my firehouse, the one that was replaced was in 1988. So you can imagine what the cost is for the maintenance on something that old. And we have to keep them frontline. A prime example was the fire in Greenwoods area yesterday. All this equipment is essential. We can have hundreds of firefighters. If the equipment isn't up to snuff, what are they going to do with it? So that's a very important part of it. And the revenue part kind of equates to our apparatus replacement plan. That's important to look at. What's coming in, what's going out. I think we have some good programs right now, like revenue recovery, but it should be looked at. It would give a better picture to you folks to make your decision. Thank you, Chief. Mr. Brashad, if you want to make any comments, you're welcome. It's hard to follow that always. But, thank you for the opportunity. Again, I think it got captured fairly well, the maintenance costs. Looking at that, I know Mr. Paul Hopper, from the total county perspective and being able to leverage resources to do that, maintenance is a critical, important part of the fire rescue system. We have multiple different companies and seeing whether there's best practices or other things to do that could well use the taxpayers' money and make sure that we have a good, effective system is always, I think that's a wonderful idea. And I think the other piece on the revenue recovery is looking at the revenue and expenses. One of the challenges I think has been historically is we try to tug on one string as opposed to looking at it holistically. And so, there's various different funding sources that's gone on between the fundraising, revenue recovery, pass through funds and direct donations from the county. I think it's wise to look at that as we have now come into and done the things that I think this board has asked in putting forth a staffing model, putting forth a vehicle replacement model, putting forward a facilities update, and so on. And so, we're looking at the funding models that were originally created. And so, and add to the fact, of course, that if it was just inflation by itself, price is a cost, but the exponential increases in facility and particularly in apperance costs have just been astronomical from when the volunteer companies started. And so, I think those are wise investments. So, Mr. Mishek, basically, if we do revenue and expenses, do you want to say a whole discussion, not just a piece? Is that correct? Yeah, that would be correct. Absolutely. Thank you. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I think that's the only intelligent way to do it. No. And I just want to have that so we know where we're going. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I'd like to make a comment, but you're welcome to stay and correct me if I say anything wrong. We'll stand by. So, it's been noted that our system was started as a volunteer system, and the treasurer made some comments at our last work session, which I really appreciate. And I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that back in the 1980s, it was almost entirely a volunteer-run system. Volunteer people in this community built the stations, purchased the equipment, raised the funds, and made the calls. The county only put in, he said, I don't want to quote him if the number's a little off, but I believe he's probably right, something like $4,000 per station per year. Now, our budget, our funding is over $30 million. The world has changed. Nothing against the volunteers. We owe them a great debt of gratitude. We owe them a great debt of gratitude. We owe them a great debt of gratitude. We owe them a great debt of gratitude. But people don't volunteer as much. The world's gotten busier. We have other things to do. Costs have exploded for vehicles and other equipment. And we're in a segue period. We're changing from an all-volunteer. We're well on the road to being a hybrid system, where we have volunteers that still do great work. They make far fewer percentage of calls than they used to, but they raise funds, they own most of the stations, and they still purchase or own most of the stations. And so, I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. One of the inefficiencies we had was, because one of the drawbacks of that is, if each station's independent and they get a piece of equipment that gets a little old, they want to have their own reserve equipment. So if it breaks down, nobody fails to have an ambulance show up at their house or have to call another station, and you have to wait longer for an ambulance. And that led to what our last study showed, correct me if I'm wrong, that we had an excess of number of equipment, because each station was trying to meet all the needs. The advantage to having a lot of equipment is that you have to have a lot of hand-inaugurated equipment. And having centrally planned, boy, that's a horrible phrase, a coordinated system is that we can have, for example, reserve equipment that's new and up to date that the county owns, that if somebody has a breakdown, we can provide that equipment until they get their equipment fixed. So now they don't need to retain at every station all their own equipment. So I think the treasurer was right. There's a lot of advantages to studying, seeing where we can save money. I think, in my opinion, I'm in for doing this. It's 150K or so of county funds, but I think the potential to save a lot more than that is out there. And I appreciate your comments. Anything more you'd like to say or in response to me, anything I got wrong on the history here? No, I think you're pretty much on the money. Just as an added thing, over the last... years, four years, we've developed that service model that we're always talking about. And a lot of the work that was in the original study, if you look at it, some of it was not needed. But a lot of those items have been addressed in our 10-year service plan. So, I mean, it looks at everything. And it takes a very, very good look at apparatus, the age of the apparatus, the sequence in which to replace them, the cost. And, you know, costs just keep going up. The longer we wait, the more it's going to cost. That's all I can say. So it sounds like you've done a lot of the work in a service plan that we should leverage and not redo. And with the salary study, we've got some of that data. But maybe that doesn't capture innovative ideas on how to retain staff, which I think you're suggesting more than just the actual salary. So we've got those two pieces. I don't know how, if Mr. Baloffer needs any more. So with those two subtleties, to those pieces. If we go down the row for a consensus, are you comfortable with their comments and ours? I'm absolutely comfortable. Just make sure I have it right. What was discussed was to do the full holistic revenue and expense look at everything. To do the study on the fleet maintenance, which are the CESA vehicles. And obviously, the third one is a little trickier, is the recruitment and retention. Do you want to go ahead and try and draft that RFP first? Or have us go and do a little research and then come back and bring you a more detailed proposal before you consider that third option? How about the board? So I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen. We did a salary study, Mrs. Slaughter. We did a salary study a few years ago. And according to Mr. Baloffer, we're keeping that salary study up to date, correct? So I'm just wondering out loud, how does a salary and retention add, something to the salary study we're doing? Is there something that I'm missing where the retention portion of it would be beneficial to you? It would benefit both career and volunteer. Of course, salary is number one for career people. I'm a retired paid fireman. It's important. On the volunteer end of it, how do we recruit and retain volunteers? Look at what a volunteer gets for volunteering in Frederick County. You know, is there something? Is there something that we can move along with that's not cost prohibitive as a benefit for a volunteer or a benefit for a career person? That has not been addressed since the salary study we did a few years ago. Is that correct, Mr. Jackson? I'm not sure what the salary study addressed. I would like to see this addressed if it wasn't. But from your operation up in Gainesboro in the last four or five years, because we did a salary study four or five years ago, you've not seen anything that has changed on the issue of salary. There's no salary retention that would help your station and the other 11 stations in the county. As far as the volunteer contingent? Yes, sir. No, nothing's changed probably in 25 years. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But I'll mention one unique idea I was given just to give you an example. Someone came to me and said, if we had a benefit that people retire out of our system instead of going for their last three years to another county when they're most experienced so that they can benefit from the state retirement increase, by leaving us, if we had a benefit, for example, that we would cover their medical insurance for a number of years after retirement, that might be a small cost to us, but that might be just the incentive that somebody needs that they would stay with us. Little benefits and incentives like that that are very important for some people. I'm inclined, Mr. Chairman, to kind of go along with the thought that we do all three. If that's going to add something to the mix, that I'm not making, so I raised the issue because of the salary study. But if Mr. Jackson is saying that from his perspective as a volunteer, he's not seeing that on the retention side when his station gets called, it doesn't matter if it's a volunteer or paid staff, somebody has to go. I'm inclined then to include the salary and retention portion, keyword and retention, into this RFP. I think they don't want to look at just salaries since we've done that. No, I'm saying... How do we elicit new ideas to retain? That's fine, too. That comes under the issue of retention. So new ideas, anything that can help to retain and recruit, I'll support. And I'm good to support it, too. I just don't want to see redundancy in work that we've already done and paid for. Mrs. Slaughter, we agree 100%. Thank you. So the fleet maintenance work, a lot has been done, and the salary study, they should be input if we have an outside person do this, so they can leverage what we've already done. Or the RFP could be tailored so that they... They just have to review that and not redo everything. We haven't done... Our committee hasn't done anything with maintenance. That was a suggestion if you were going to do a study how to do it. On maintenance? We haven't done anything with actually maintaining vehicles. We've done a plan on replacing vehicles. So when they're going to need it and... Yeah, you'll need that. Yeah. So that schedule should be fed into whoever's reviewing that for us. So, Mr. Chairman, to go to Mrs. Slaughter's point and Mr. Ballhopper's, if we're going to do something on salary retention, maybe you get together with Chief Jackson, show them what the current salary study was done a few years ago, and then ask them what has to be done to improve, or what are we looking to do to improve? And to Mr. Ludwig's comment, what do you do for new ideas, et cetera, on the retention side, and put that together for the salary and retention portion of this? Mr. Chairman, number three, it's a comprehensive review of incentives for recruitment, and retention of career and volunteering. It doesn't specifically say salaries. Specifically, it's talking about a comprehensive review of incentives for paid, and I think it needs to be included. I think that's, you know, take a look at the salary part. You've already had the salary study, but what the chiefs have recommended, you know, these are the points that I hear constantly from the fire departments. No, I agree. I just take Supervisor Slaughter's point that we should make sure we pass that data and so they don't spend their time redoing something we already have. Absolutely. Don't reinvent the wheel. Well, thank you. So we can go for consensus unless there's more discussion. So I don't think we need it as a motion. The question is, I'll just go down the row. Would you like to do all three of those pieces as discussed or wait on any of them? I'd like to do all three. Supervisor Dunn? All three. Supervisor Wells? I'm going to say all three. I just, I have a hard time dealing with outside agencies coming in. They're a good . I'll say all three. I will say all three without redundancy. Supervisor Lockridge? I would agree with all three. Concur with all three. I concur with doing all three as well. And one comment since Supervisor Lockridge cannot serve on that committee any longer as liaison, if anyone's interested in doing that, let me know. Mr. Chairman, I'll take that. I'll do it. Anyone else want to throw their hat in the ring who would like to do it? If not, then. Okay. We'll have Supervisor Jewell be your liaison. Okay. The only thing I would love to add is when they look at recruitment and retention, make sure that they contact Dan Cunningham, the association president, because there's been a lot of discussion at the association about that too. Perfect. And they would take the lead on that, not the chief's group. Thank you. What I would, if I may suggest, I would meet with all of them, get together and sit down internally first to determine what it is they're looking for. I would also bring a copy of the salary survey because it did look at certain fringe benefits. So, we would meet with everybody, go over all this, and that way we see what we really want to look for, what we've already done so we don't have redundancy, and do the study to look for exactly what we want to look for. And I guess invite Supervisor Jewell if he can make it. So, to that, if you want to include a supervisor in what you're doing, that's your choice. That's perfect. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you for your thoughtful and curious consideration. And thank you. Thank you for your consideration. And Supervisor Lockridge, thank you for the work you did. Thank you for your service to us. Thank you. Okay. We had a consensus on that. So, we can move forward. Appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Well, this is a rare meeting. We don't have anyone to appoint, but that's not all good. We have a few openings for which we don't have applicants. Ms. Phillips, would you like to read this? The board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Conservation Easement Authority. There's an unexpired term. And Extension Leadership Council. We need someone from the Redbud District. And Social Services Board, we need someone from the Redbud District. Thank you very much. If you're interested in serving, please contact us or look at fcva.us. Go to the Board of Supervisors page and you can click on Boards and Committees and read all about them. Any questions, it's a couple steps of clicking you have to do. Please see us after the meeting or email us and we'll let you know. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you. See you in the next meeting. Thanks to you for your support. This is a great meeting. You have to do. Please see us after the meeting or email us and we'll let you know how to get at that information. Committee business, 10A, are we still in order? Yes. 10A, this is Finance Committee. Yes, Mr. Chairman. 10A is the Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center. Superintendent requests a jail fund budget transfer out of the fringes in the amount of 582,000. Our committee when we met, the committee recommended approval. I so move. And we have Mr. Clay Corbin here. He is the superintendent, if you have any questions for him in regards to this. Our committee also, there were three on our consent agenda, but those were no local funds. They were donations and those sort of things. But we pulled this one out, and he is here if we have any questions for him. So I think this one is no local funds as well, but it's a large amount? Yes. Is that right? Yes. And Supervisor McCann-Slaughter, you are, can you explain your position? As a board member on the jail board, I am chair of the finance committee. We actually grilled Mr. Corbin already, Superintendent Corbin, on this issue at the last board meeting just to make sure that everything is fine. And these funds will not be budgeted again for, well, they've taken the interest. So we've had a number of increases that we've had over the years and incorporated those into the budget for, that we're considering tonight. So, but if there are any questions for Superintendent Corbin, I know that the information in the packet had the line item numbers of where those transfers would go. And Clay, would you like to just come up and just touch on that briefly if it gives the board a little comfort in knowing? And we've had a number of vacancies at the jail. Mm-hmm. And Clay has been able to have most of the inmates in one of the facilities due to the state taking the state responsible prisoners. So that's actually reduced the need and trying to balance personnel, but being very mindful in doing that. Absolutely. So really just to give you guys a little reference, it's four main items. Two of them are related. One is Anthem Insurance. That's the incarcerated insurance. What goes with that is the day-to-day order cost. The presbyterian fund цар's kidney. And the four other units are around area andmare, Curb Bank,wide, HP donor centers, Aspenución lorsquri DACA, And gehört unas speciarias de tratos por la Queen fala enTusiae, I really respect my comingECIMPBages' pulpitule diagnoso Talv popcorn en Burmese showers, EOOO the 할게요 de vestibulo, up probably 50% of our pharmacy and Anthem budget. Those are things that far out I can't predict. But keep in mind, I like to say there's four items that we're looking at, but there's 50 to 75 line items. So we get far more right, but there's just no way to ever 100% predict. What we've done, as Ms. McCance-Slaughter said, we always adjust. So FY26, we've adjusted. FY26, we could be 500,000 under. We don't do this very often, but it does happen. In 2021, we did this. And it's our monies. Like she said, we pulled 847,000 out of fund balance, and at the end of the year, we put 850 back. So that's what we expect this year. But this year, what we wanted to do different, instead of pulling out of fund balance and then putting it back in next year, we would like to simply transfer from our personnel line items to our operational. And even the temp nurses, that's related. We have five nursing vacancies, so that's paying for the temp nurse transfer that we want to do. Okay. And that's kind of the bulleted points. I don't know what questions, if you all might have. As she said, we're always very proactive. We get this list of here's the top incarcerates and the medical costs. So we try to look at their state inmates. Can we get them down the road a little quicker? Do they qualify for our work release or HEM, which when they go out on those programs, they have their own insurance. So we're always very proactive, but the only constant thing we deal with is the unknown. And like I said, we adjust each year. But each year, there's always a couple line items. Okay. That are just, we're going to miss one way or the other. But again, it's monies we have in our budget. We just need to transfer it from one side of the house to the other. Mr. Chairman, if I might just add, I guess one of the things that the finance committee of the jail board, and I know Mr. Corbin, or Superintendent Corbin has worked very hard on is that once an inmate comes into the jail, the insurance, if they were on Medicaid, goes away. Okay. And that's a big issue. Yeah. And it's a big issue. And I think the state is advocating at the state level to make sure that that Medicaid insurance continues on, not just because the inmate is now, otherwise the locality is picking up that expense. And it's huge. Was it last year or year before last, because of the health concerns of some of the inmates, I mean, we had a huge deficit on the insurance side. So it is a balancing act. And as the superintendent says, you don't know two years down the road when you're trying to get that money. Okay. You don't know two years down the road when you're trying to prepare a budget, but they do the best they can. And I know he's balancing employees to make sure that we're not wasting any funds. So I commend you on the job you've done, sir. Thank you, ma'am. And your staff. You have an excellent staff. Any other questions? Not much for the discussion purposes. I need a second. I think you made a motion. And I would second it. So I'll second that. Okay. So we have a motion and a second. So we are in discussion. Mr. Corbin. I've seen you operate for the last 10 years. I also appreciate, as Mrs. Slaughter said, your expertise in trying to go and be fiscally responsible. I think this is a smart move to take money from a fund balance, put it into operations, helps you go along. I understand the staffing issues that you have and the deficit staffing that you have. So if this can go and help that, that's important. But as Mrs. Slaughter said, you've done an excellent job with limited resources. And we appreciate the effort you've done. And if you have other needs, just come back to us and let us know because you and your staff have a uniquely difficult situation that other county employees don't have. And we want to keep you staff all safe, as well as having the funds to do what you need to do. Thank you. I appreciate that, Supervisor Dunn. And just a little more context. There's 200 plus employees at the jail, but there's 150 who are sworn. Most facilities around us throughout the state, they're experiencing 25 to 33 percent vacancies. So for us, that would be roughly 50. But right now, we have three. So the staff we have in this area are very talented, and they stay. But we're very fortunate compared to a lot of other places. But throughout times of the year, we've been to 20 vacancies, counting everybody. But compared to other facilities, we're doing very well. We appreciate your work, as Mrs. Slaughter said, on the Medicaid issue. That's the unexpected that you can't deal with. So thank you. Thank you. Good job. Well done. Any other discussion? Very good. Thank you, sir. Thanks. Thank you, Board. I believe we need a roll call vote to move these funds. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Those funds are moved. Now, we juggled the agenda to all of the funds that we have. So, in case anyone has arrived late. So, the budget hearing will be after our two public hearings. First is 12A, a comprehensive plan amendment, CPPA 01-24 and Apple Land Properties. Mr. Klein? Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. You all will be quite familiar with this comprehensive policy plan amendment for the Apple Land Properties, 01-24. This is a request by a committee. It's a proposal that was submitted by a developer to change the planned land use on 96 acres of property from our business land use designation to our residential land use designation. They are also seeking to move those properties within the limits of our UDA, our urban development area. It is located west of Route 11 and immediately north of the town of Steven City in the Bat Creek District. For some context, some of you may be aware that there was a rezoning submitted on this property. The property, on these properties several years ago, known as the Pippin Industrial Site, and they were seeking to rezone the properties from RA to B3. That application did go to a Planning Commission public hearing. It was ultimately withdrawn by the applicant due to unforeseen circumstances. You all will be familiar that you all held a public hearing on this item on February the 12th and recommended denial. Following that action on the 12th, the Board held a vote on February 26th and to re-evaluate. The motion, and to reconsider the application, it was brought back for a public hearing. It went to the Planning Commission for public hearing last week and they again recommended approval. It is this is the countywide locator map showing the general location north of the town of Steven City and this is our existing planned land use map on the left-hand side of the screen showing the subject parcels in purple and that existing business land use designation shown in orange. The dotted lines on the map represent planned future road improvements as currently adapted to the project. currently adopted in the Kernstown area plan we are showing a north-south connector which is a continuation of the Stephen City bypass that bisects the site connecting from what is the Newtown Crossing development and connecting with what is Springdale Road and Shady Elm Road and then east-west connector from Valley Pike on the right hand side of your screen is our proposed future land use map and future transportation map you can see the change in the land use designation from that orange coloration to yellow which represents a residential land use designation and then the change to the planned road as was previously presented to you all where the what is known as the Stephen City bypass would continue on to the subject parcels and connect back to route 11 providing a meaningful conclusion to that bypass in a generalized location and otherwise satisfying concerns that were raised by the town of Stephen City leadership regarding the conclusion of that roadway in addition to the change in the land use map and the future transportation map we did include the change in the land use map and the future transportation map we did include some text amendments within the Kernstown area plan which was last amended in 2017 in the Bartonsville south subsection we speak to future residential development being age restricted which was part of the policy plan amendment request from the applicant we also included some general statements about residential development in this area of the county in our residential development subsection of the Kernstown area plan speaking to a desire to preserve historic resources maintain the Opec and Creek watershed area as a open space and a buffer to those historic homes north of the subject parcels and on the northern side of Springdale Road there are a number of rural landmarks that are included in that part of the county and there's a there was a strong desire from the historic resource advisory board and staff to provide a meaningful buffer between what would be more suburbanized development in the rural kind of historic fabric of the Bartonsville area so we did include specific policies within the plan that would ensure that the any future residential development would harmonize with the surrounding uses and speak to the future character and the buffering and screening of those uses this item again is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item and following a public hearing staff would be seeking a decision from the board on this proposed comprehensive policy plan amendment for the Apple land properties mr. Ty Lawson is here again representing the applicants and I believe he has a few remarks for you as well but I'm happy to start off with a few questions should you have any questions for mr. Klein okay so mr. Klein can you provide a brief description of the plan that was proposed in the first place and then I will give you a little bit of a summary of what we had to deal with last week um I'm just so we're clear this is a comprehensive plan amendment is not a rezoning amendment at this point in time correct that is correct we are considering policy at this point should the future land use designation change I'm sure the applicant intends to pursue a rezoning but that would come to you all at a later date and time to be determined in the roads that were on the map there have been on that map as a planning item for a roadway would be subject to final engineering and property availability and things of that nature and those discussions would occur at the time of rezoning thank you other questions supervisor dunn the road question has come up there were citizens that had reached out to me saying where you have the roads are where the golf course area is and they obviously that that is very meaningful to this community so i will obviously i hope they're tuned in this evening and we'll know that those are just to let people know that there will be a road the exact location if a rezoning comes forward would be determined during that process that is absolutely correct yes ma'am thank you sir so nothing in that map that you just showed precludes the road running through the rezoned area instead of you where it's shown that is correct as is customary with rezonings they do a traffic study and identify the need and we'll work with them on what that ultimate alignment looks like subject to you know final engineering and other considerations so in all likelihood that road could shift onto their properties it's as you see on the map it's um a continuation of what has always been on our plans for lack of a better term it does align with a future planned road on the east side of the road that's been maintained for a couple of years and that's been maintained for a couple of months and that's been maintained for a couple of years and that's been maintained for a couple of months and that's been maintained for a couple of years and that's been maintained for a couple of years but certainly it's subject to a rezoning as I recall last time we had two options in front of us other than denial one was this and another was one showing the road going through the yellow area that's going to change in comprehensive planning is that still an option that we could choose the previous proposals that were before your consideration was a complete removal of the road on the subject parcels and the alignment shown on the right hand side of the screen those are the two options that were presented at that time and I think we're going to have to look at that in the future as well so I'm going to give you guys just a couple of minutes to talk about that and then we'll be back in a couple of minutes to talk about the next slide so thank you very much for joining us and we'll see you next time. I thought there was an option running through the areas changed by the comp plan. No sir the maps are unchanged. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Klein? Now Mr. Klein it's also been anything we do Springdale is off the table correct? Correct part of our evaluation of this policy proposal was to remove those other connections to Springdale Road as you all are aware we recently just closed the crossing out Springdale Road and the railroad tracks to the north of the subject properties to accommodate the Renaissance Drive project to the north of this area that section of Shady Elm Road and that section of Springdale Road are rural roads and we would not envision you know various heavy traffic going in that direction we want the traffic to come back down onto Renaissance Drive to 11 or come out of the town of Stephen City cross these subject parcels and back to Route 11. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you sir. This is a public hearing hearing Miss Phillips do we have anyone signed up? Oh Mr. Lawson yes. She's that area right there. Mr. Chairman members of the board Ty Lawson here on behalf of the applicant is great report and actually even better questions. We appreciate the opportunity to to present this again and touch on a couple of things that were not. I guess properly emphasized previously and and the one was was you you all know about the environmental features and the the creek running through there but but the has significantly important historic structures. Of course the the Claytor property the row property the Schaefer property on either side of the street. We had Miss Rowe at the Planning Commission. Talking about that that I guess the mill dates back to 1730. Um see it on the left those Noch mm. It's important That that what we do. As we go forward with the rezoning starting with this comprehensive plan is in harmony. Um and certainly what we're proposing will do that. I believe you all also receive letters from from Mister and Mrs Claytor. Also from the Schaefert res cables to�21 k�ahar. 00 00 00 00 please. I'm not sure if Ms. Rowe made it. She's at a wrestling thing, I believe, right now. But she did speak at the Planning Commission quite passionately about the preservation work and in favor of the Comprehensive Plan amendment, which will have age restricted around it, which will protect and preserve the environmental features and fit in quite well. I'm not sure if we have. Okay, that's the mill again. We also managed, since we saw you last, to get the support of Stephen City. Mike Major, town manager, appeared for the Planning Commission in support of this. So we've reached out to our neighbors, and they've spoken very positively for this Comprehensive Plan amendment. You were asking questions about the road. It's a comp plan road. This is just a Comprehensive Plan matter. We do intend to file a rezoning. We have a lot of details about it. And one thing we've also heard is adamantly protect and preserve the golf course, and that is part of our plan. And then the age restricted text, we're, of course, very supportive of that. Because, again, that's what we intend to do. We can't give that to you right now, but we look forward to the opportunity to present that rezoning with those details and the assurances that folks want. And we're pleased to support all that. And we do have traffic engineering and everything else here if you all happen to have any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. Now we're ready for public hearing. Matt Schaefer. Good evening. Matt Schaefer, Back Creek, the house just to the right of the mill. If you guys recall, 2015, the county asked us, the members of Bartonsville, to do a public hearing. And I love that people are saying Bartonsville because it's not written really anywhere for folks to see. So it's nice to preserve that part of the county. But you folks asked us to voluntarily put a historical overlay on top of our houses, which when we met with the county, we all agreed that we wanted to do that, which would certainly limit some of our what we could do with the property, though nobody wants to do anything. We all bought these houses and these mills because we want to preserve them. So we are in agreement that this is a historic area that should be preserved. I would say that the current owner of Apple Land has a propensity to want to rezone, sell his property to be rezoned into something, right? You can see that back in 2020, he tried to rezone it into a B, B2, B1 use with 450 tractor trailers a day. Right? We were adamantly against that. The whole neighborhood was. And thankfully, that did not pass. So when we looked as a neighborhood at the opportunities of what could become, so Mr. Gregory wants to sell it, and so somebody is going to buy it and somebody is going to develop it. Seems like that's the juncture we've come to is that something is going to happen to this property. So we, specifically my neighbors and I, but I can only speak for myself, we're fine with an age-restricted development because it will have the least amount of impact on our community while also still serving the land. Right? So we're fine with that. But we're also fine with the land rights of those that own the property. So we speak on behalf of the developers that if they would like to adjust the comp plan so that they may build a 55 and over community, we support it. And we ask you guys to do the same. Thank you. That's the end of the list. Is there anyone else here tonight who would like to speak on this comp plan amendment? Please start with name and magisterial district, please. James Mulder, Back Creek District. Earlier tonight, we heard about the fact that the property was being reused. We're not sure if that's true. We're not sure if that's true. We're not sure if that's true. We're not sure if that's true. We're not sure if that's true. We're not sure if that's true. So the first item is that we will increase business for business purpose. We weren't that sure before. And that's what we're looking for. OK. And I'll pass it to the magisterial district. Please. James Mulder, Back Creek District. Earlier tonight, we heard about ways we need to increase business to increase revenues. Now we want to take a piece of partial that's for business and put it back to essentially age restricted residential. And we haven't approved residential stuff in this county, if I'm not mistaken, for ten years. have age residential already approved down in Snowdon Creek which hasn't been built how much more loopholes our developers going to jump through to eventually get what they want down the line to put in more houses and probably pay proffers 20 years down the road for today's values so I asked for you guys to vote no again on this and if you ever drive up through there you already see all the congestion and all the traffic issues on route 11 through there thank you thank you anyone else seeing no one I'll close the public hearing portion of deciding item board how would you like to handle this this is in that Creek right yes sir mr. chairman I'd like to make the motion to approve the comprehensive plan amendment CPPA number 0 1 2 4 affluent properties second second second, so we have a motion in a second discussion mr. chairman I'd like to have mr. Klein come up and I'd like to make some comments last year's I asked the reap for the reconsideration of this if you remember two weeks ago I came back and said please reconsider this vote and here's the reason why the driver for me initially was as you all know I'm not keen on further development but this area here is an historical area historical to Frederick County historical to the country there's a man by the name of Joss tight maybe you know maybe you didn't he came from Germany went to Pennsylvania led a group of 16 people down into this area it was the first white settler to settle here this is the home not of just height but it was son but I'm gonna get to look if you look at this home to the right-hand side and you probably can't see it in this picture he built a fort and he built a house the year 1732 the same year George Washington came here the same year if we were all sitting here in 1732 we were talking about the king of England not the president United States his son John height built the following house in 1753 that house also is a historic site not only for Frederick County but nationally and it is mr. Schaefer said there's a historical overlay next next slide please this is a mill it's not any old mill but this is a mill that was built in the late 1700s and became a community mill for the surrounding area so we have a new community and people grow crops and have to have a mill this was a commercial mill in the late mid to late 1700s you don't find those around a lot either that is a historic site next slide please this is called the brim house this house also is the same area and I think that we know some people that live there next slide please another historical house in this overlay and so the reason that I made the comment and changed my vote we have something historical and unique in the late in the early 1800s a man by the name of Barton bought the land from the Heights that's why you have it called Barton House. John Hite the house you saw earlier has a son Major Isaac Major Isaac Hite he was a soldier in the American Revolution they married a girl called Miss Madison Miss Madison was Molly Madison Molly Madison had a brother James Madison they built a house called Bell Grove in 1797 so as you can see this ties into US national history the reason that I wanted to go and preserve this and have a residential area would be less of a block it would be easier transition then for what was being proposed if any of you have been to the Alamo in Texas the Alamo itself is preserved but in 1836 that area was much larger than the Alamo itself. John Hite the house you saw earlier has a son Major Isaac Major Isaac Hite he was a soldier in the American Revolution they married a girl called Miss Madison Miss Madison Miss Alamo they built a house called Bell Grove in 1797 and the many things that were built around that as you're only seeing the remnants of the Alamo you do not see the outports the outcroppings that were used in the defense of that abbey in 1836. This here is a unique area I'm very sensitive to growth to the gentleman that came up here and talked about you know business I fully concur but this is the exception to the rule in my opinion and why I think that this comprehensive plan amendment should be approved because of the unique nature that we have here. Bartonville. going back 250 years, older than this country. And I think that's worth preserving as opposed to putting a business area into that area. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other comments on the motion, Vice Chair? So I've written out a few comments I'd like to make. I really think our tendency to consider age-restricted housing as the only new residential we are willing to approve is short-sighted and will end up costing us more in the long run. The property currently could be subdivided as a rural preservation subdivision without approval with upwards of 19 lots. And if they did a rural preservation subdivision, they could include a 60-acre area to buffer those new homes from this very important historical resources. In my opinion, that would go a lot further towards protecting the character of this area than preserving the property. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Ms. Chair. I just want to add to this. The reason why I'm not putting almost 300 age-restricted units here, we're talking about wanting economic development and wanting more businesses to come to our community. With that, we need working individuals, not more age-restricted. I'm not comfortable changing the comprehensive plan for this purpose right now. But I would agree that the existing designation does not make sense either, And I know that this year we are in the process of updating the comprehensive plan on a five-year scale. I really would like to see staff evaluate this area as part of the five-year update. I know that if we haven't already started it, it will be starting soon. So I just think historic, if that is the path that we end up going through a comprehensive plan change, the public has more time to speak to this and we get a greater amount of preservation. So it's been really, this has been a grappling decision because we have the people that are living there, Mr. Schaefer, who spoke, and I really think, you know, for them, this is the lesser of the evils, having a housing development. But you're looking at 300 units. And the owner of the... The property and the developer could do... This is an option. But again, I think it would be important for our planning staff to take it under review and us give a thorough evaluation. There may be other historical overlays that need to be considered. I know Mr. Schaefer said that they had gone to those efforts on their property. So it might be something we want to take some time with to be sure we're doing the right thing. Question, Mrs. Slaughter. Just walk through again. The key component, you were talking about subdivisions, not five acre lots. Can you just walk through that proposal you were doing again, please? Okay. This isn't my area of expertise, the planning, but a rural development subdivision. I might defer to Mr. Pearson. He would probably explain it much better. But the reality is with the rural preservation is you're putting homes on two acre lots virtually, reducing the amount of the acreage. Okay. As opposed to five acre lots and then having a larger component of vacant land available. So there may be, especially with the DSA, the developmentally sensitive areas with the streams and such, it would allow more protection. So Mr. Pearson, I don't know if I've explained that very well, but. No, I think you summarized it very well. It's a 60% of the parcel gets set aside as a rural preservation tract. You don't have to come before the board to rezone, but it's a tool in the rural area. And it's a tool that you can use in areas that are not a rural area. So it's a tool that you can use in areas that are not a rural area. And in return, you can do two acre lots instead of five acre lots. Generally, the same density is achieved whether you do five acre or two acres. It's just setting aside a portion of the property that does not get subdivided. Question? Mr. Pearson? If this comprehensive plan amendment were approved, does it preclude? What Mrs. Slaughter is saying, does it preclude what you're laying out? No, the property is zoned rural areas right now, no matter what. And anybody can do a buy-right subdivision in the rural areas, regardless of what the comprehensive plan says for that property. They just need to do it on well and septic. Okay, thank you. Any other comments? We have a motion to approve. Hearing none, we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Leero? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Wells? Yes. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chair votes no. Sir? Quick comment then to all of you. The reason I made the switch was because I was going to be the chair of the board. I think it's a good thing that we're on the same page. I think we're on the same page. How we get there, we may have a different way to get there. But I would encourage all of you to do a comprehensive plan. If we do a review of the five-year comprehensive plan, that we actively consider this, I think it would be unfortunate if this board or a future board did something that infringed upon the historic nature of this particular unique area. And that's the driver for me more than anything else. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We move on then to our next public hearing item. Under Planning Commission Business 12B, Rezoning 11-24 of Route 7, Self Storage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This item was presented at the last board meeting and there have been no changes to the application, but I'll still provide an overview. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The rezoning application is for a 2.38-acre property from the B1 Neighborhood Business Zoning District to the B2 General Business Zoning District with proffers in the Redbud Magisterial District. This is our overall county map, the property is shown in the red dot along Route 7, east of the City of Winchester. Zooming in, this is the zoning map, the property itself is outlined in purple. The light pink dostęp. Purple color shows the existing B1 Neighborhood Business Zoning District, and I will just point out the yellow color represents the RP, Residential Performance District, and the existing Pioneer Heights subdivision. And Granny's Restaurant is located directly to the east of the subject property. Here's the adopted long-range land use map. The comprehensive plan shows this area, the whole area with yellow hatching, which indicates a desire for residential development, and I would note that neither the current zoning nor the proposed zoning is in conformance with the comprehensive plan. This is the applicant's proposed general development plan. It shows an entrance south off of an eastbound lane of Route 7. They're proposing a three-story facility that will be approximately 40,000 square feet, and they are showing several passenger vehicle parking spaces as well. I would just note that some of the renderings that went out in the board packet showed a height of 42 feet, but that would be subject to the B2 Zoning District maximum height, which is 35 feet, so the 42 feet would not be allowed. I just wanted to make that clarification. The proper statement restricts the use of the property to self-storage only, and it prohibits outdoor trailer storage. The hours of operation were added at the request, of the Planning Commission from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. The transportation improvements include the eastbound turn lanes, including a minimum of a 100-foot taper and a 100-foot deceleration lane to enter the property, as well as a 75-foot acceleration lane and a 50-foot taper to exit the development. They have also proffered that the development will be in general conformance with the GDP. Tonight, this item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 15th and February 19th and ultimately recommended approval. The Board held a public hearing on this item on March 12th, tabled the application, and left the public hearing open until this evening. Tonight, staff is seeking a decision by the Board on this rezoning request. That concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions, and the applicant's representative, Mr. Connectal, is present as well and available to address any questions you may have. Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Peloquin? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Liero. How are you doing this evening? I have a question on the square footage footprint restrictions, difference between B1 and B2. I went out there and talked to some residents a couple days ago. One of their major concerns was the footprint being visible from further away in B2. Is that, in fact? Is that the case, that that footprint would be a lot bigger, square footage in B2 than B1? B1? What we do have is the floor area ratio requirement, which is just the total building floor area over the total lot area. So what they're proposing right now with a 40,000 square foot building over three stories would be a floor area ratio about 0.39. The B2 zoning district allows for a floor area ratio up to 1, 1.0. The B1 zoning district. The B2 zoning district allows for a floor area ratio of only 0.3. So this would exceed the size limitations of a building in the current zoning, the B1 district. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Chairman, I want to make sure. So that's three times the size. Am I correct with what you just? No, it's not three times this. Well, with B2, you could get three times the size. So with one. That's what I'm asking. But what they're proposing with their GDP is 40,000 square feet. That would be a floor area ratio of 0.39. And I apologize if I missed it. Do you roughly know how many units we're talking here that that would be inclusive here with this? I don't know how many individual self-storage units there would be within the facility, but Mr. Connectal may be able to address that question. Thank you. Well, one difficulty. The question is the plan had 42 foot height, right? That was something that the applicants have submitted recently for this board meeting for illustrative purposes. Just to show. I'm just saying if they were restricted to the 35 foot height, which the ordinance has for B2, they might not get as many units as they're thinking they have, you know, in pencil right now. Right. This was submitted just for illustrative purposes. And it is labeled as 42. 42 feet on there. Should this rezoning be approved, they wouldn't be able to do to do 42 feet. 35 feet is still the maximum height. Whether or not they can fit three stories in that. I don't know. That's up to them to figure out. Any other questions? Mr. Chairman, I guess I would have an issue with that because how many I mean, again, depending on how many people, how many. How many units are there? It depends on the traffic going in and the traffic going out. I just I would think you would know what you're going to build if you're going to come before and build it. That's all. Right. So the plan that's been submitted to us so far would not be compliant with regard to height. So that leaves some unknowns for us. Any other questions? Was the applicant trying to present as well? No. Was the applicant trying to present as well today or. They don't have a presentation, but they would be better suited to answer the question. They would likely have a rough idea of how many units would be able to fit on the. Would you like that to address that question too? I would because that's one of the things that was brought up by a lot of the residents is the number of the traffic and the number of people that we becoming and coming out. And so I think it's appropriate to have an idea of what we're talking about here. Okay. Is the applicant willing to. Speak to that. Good evening. My name is Joe connect on with the test and associates representing the owner. Mr. Nate browning on this rezoning. Currently. All right. Well, that's perfect. That's what I was going to go for. Uh, I'm going to go with the. Um. The question about the units. I don't have that now. Trip generation is for the trip generation manuals is based off of use. And square footage for many self storage. That's what we used for determining the trip generations for the site. Not based on how many units there it's based on how many score and what's the square footage. That's normally how trip generations determined for other uses like. Um. Uh, the uses that are allowed currently on B one. So, um, currently, um, the site is B one. All the uses are allowed in B one or by right, which would not have to go through, uh, the planning commission or the board of supervisors approval or public hearing. So, um, uh, I have, uh, just some ideas of the difference in comparison between B one uses and self storage. Uh, I'm going to go with the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, the. Uh, self storage has a very low trip generation. Um, uh, a restaurant, uh, is one of the uses allowed in B one. It can, uh, can be built. Mr. Chairman, I'm, I'm sorry to interrupt Joe. You're not speaking into the mic. It's pretty hard to just bend it. I'm sorry. Yeah. Much better thing. So currently, uh, restaurants are allowed in B one. And so restaurants would have 15 times higher, uh, trip generation than a, uh, a self storage facility based on. Uh, self storage has a very low trip generation. So companies also will have to do their part if they are staff or employees, if they're in, of all Stores here, which is to use customers or staff throughout. Uh. Uh, safely. Uh, so that's a benefit of, uh, win exposed coverage rather than, uh, uh, even with one stoper. Don't with Germany, it can be absolutely lower in terms of, uh, それが正常にρηりぬかかる, acts stop aren't even아�由士류pper이게, Um, so this is, it's a future. Yeah. That is, That is everything. I'm going to try to make these things as practical as possible as I can. Um, I want to make sure that we're looking at a few links. Uh, a few links I want to make uh. Um, one is. You've got the location構成andy, but you can. But currently, self-storage is not allowed in the B1 zoning. So that's the applicant, the owner. His desire is to build a self-storage facility at this site. That's why we're here for rezoning. So, again, I don't have an answer on how many units. The design of the building is from the architect. That was a mistake, obviously, the 42 feet. It's supposed to be 35. So, you know, during the application process, the traffic, of course, was the most important thing. That was the biggest concern with all the review agencies. The county requested that the owner exclude all other uses for this site other than self-storage, and he agreed to do that. Even though that leaves... limits his use. Let's say something happens. He doesn't want to build self-storage or can't build self-storage on his site. He's restricted. He can't do anything else. He's going to have to rezone to get another use on his site. If he goes to sell, he's going to have to find somebody who's looking to buy or buy a lot for self-storage, or they're going to have to rezone for another use. So, again, even though... we're going from B1 to B2, which is a more, you know, you would think a larger zoning, it's actually hindering what can be done at this site. Some of the concerns have been for landscaping. Kayla showed... Oop, the wrong way. So, obviously, the building is at the wrong height here. So, it's fine. So, it's five feet shorter in that visual there. That was presented by the architect to show the landscaping adjacent to the neighboring residents. And you could see that based on the screening that's going to be put up in the buffer zones, which is required, and an eight-foot board-on-board fence that views... from Pioneer Heights. They maybe could see them from their upper story windows, but from the ground level, they would have a hard time even seeing this facility. Hopefully, a lot of the existing trees within... there's a 50-foot buffer between the building and the property line. Hopefully, a lot of the existing trees can be saved. But if not, a screening has to be put in place to meet the county requirements. Um... Um... Um... And lighting is another concern. So, the building would have most likely wall-packed lighting. Um... Probably wouldn't have too many stand-alone outdoor lighting. But, again, the county requires that all lighting be downcast and have to prove through a photometric design plan that you're not glaring onto adjacent properties. So... So... So... So... It's the county's responsibility. It's the county's responsibility. We're here to take more questions if you have any, or if the public has any. Very good. Well, since we managed to get you forward, are there any other questions for the applicant? Supervisor Jewell? Mr. Chairman. Sir, I'm going to go back to traffic study. That traffic study, was it done for a single-story or for a multi-story? That was based on total square footage. That was based on... and you're right, there's a low impact. But again, I wanna know how you can get a traffic analysis when you don't even know how many units you're gonna have there. I drove through that area most of my life living here going to work, and that area is a tricky area as it is. So I'm just gonna throw it out there. It'd be nice to know really how many units you're talking here, okay? Thank you. All right. Supervisor Dunn, you had a question? So Mr. Kenteckle, first of all, is there anything else you would like to do from a presentation viewpoint as opposed to answering questions? If so, I would encourage you to do that, and I'll have a follow-up question after that. So do you have any other information that you would like to present to the audience or to us from a presentation viewpoint as opposed to answering a specific question that would be helpful to you? You're saying? Do you have any other, do you have other either slides or information that you would like to present to us? You were kind enough to answer a specific question on transportation. You were kind enough to answer a specific question on height, but I want to give you the opportunity if there's any other items that you'd like to include, please feel free to do so. Well, I do. The traffic obviously is the largest concern. Everybody understands that Route 7's tight down through there. It's called the Berryville Canyon. So VDOT and the county staff both raised that concern. And so when you zone from B1 to B2, obviously there's a lot of uses that can be put in. Let's say self-storage wasn't going to be placed in this site. Other B2 uses were going to have a high traffic count. So we were looking to restrict that. But the county, VDOT, even Frederick Water were concerned about the use that's going in there and what kind of volumes they're going to generate. So the owner agreed to proffer out all other uses other than self-storage due to that traffic concern. A 100-foot desale lane, has been proposed by VDOT.
