Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-11-20
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=252
========================================================================

. Presentation here from our consultant and Mr. Bishop is going to help us learn more about that, so without further ado I'm going to ask Wyatt and Tyler. Okay, Tyler Klein, Senior Planner. We are being televised. The mics are on. So, want to make you aware that you are gonna be on TV, so smile, real pretty. Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Thank you everyone for your participation evening this is rezoning number 09 24 for the Middletown LLC and this is a request to rezone 101.25 acres from the RA rural area zoning district to the TM technology manufacturing park zoning district this property is located east of route 11 and north of Mustang Lane in Middletown in the Bat Creek District and staff would note that this is the first rezoning request to utilize our new TM zoning district designation which was amended back in 2023 this is a countywide map showing the location of the subject property which is in the southern part of the county just north of the town of Middletown this is your locator map showing the subject property outlined in purple it is immediately to the west of interstate 81 and bounded by Valley Pike route 11 that joins the Middletown Elementary School property and also the Laurel Ridge Community College property to the south comprehensive plan specifically the Middletown Lord Fairfax sewer and water service area plan identifies the subject property with a mixed-use industrial office or MUIO future land use designation and within the limits of the sewer and water service area the the area plan does not speak to the specifics about the MUIO land use but if you refer to chapter 4 of a comprehensive plan in regard to business development states of the value of office and industrial business development to Frederick County is a measurable as part of the county's economic development effort office and industrial growth is a key component for ensuring abroad selection of employment opportunities for its citizens so with that respect the proposed zoning district TM Park district is consistent with the plan identified future land use in other goals containing a comprehensive plan pertaining to business development this is a our long range land use map that kind of candy cane coloriggles and line that existing sieve which is used as aenda material and illes used over the dreams in the underpass dared to suspect there is a potential septic tank into youD stander here and this is a business development with which code has colored striping on the subject parcel indicates that mixed-use industrial office. Land use designation south of them is all institutional. That reflects Middletown Elementary School and the community college, as I noted earlier in the presentation. In regard to transportation and site access, the application proposes two commercial entrances from Route 11 and prohibiting industrial access on Mustang Lane. That's reflected on their generalized development plan. They did do a traffic impact analysis, and within that impact analysis, the key component is that traffic signals at the I-81 northbound ramp Reliance Road and Valley Pike Reliance Road intersections required a signal to maintain its current levels of service as a result of this development. And in their proper statement, the applicant has provided a monetary contribution towards future regional improvements for signalization at the northbound 81 ramp and Reliance Road intersection, and they are proffering a 10-foot wide multi-use trail along Route 11 as identified on our comprehensive plan. This is a fairly lengthy proper statement. I'll walk you through kind of the key components. The first has to do with the generalized development plan, and of course they are ensuring that they will be in general conformance with the generalized development plan, including with the application. They have broken up their site into two areas. The first is the industrial use development area. That area, they specify, will be 70.85 acres, and they will limit this area of the property to 3,239 daily vehicle trips per day, reflecting their desired TM-type uses. They are specifying how they would access the industrial use development area. They would prohibit industrial vehicle access from Mustang Lane, provide a maximum of two commercial entrances from Route 11, and they would construct right-turn lanes along Valley Pike should they be warranted for those commercial entrances. They've also included extensive buffering and screening, a 150-foot wide landscape buffer along Valley Pike, and they proffered to preserve the existing stone walls and decorative feature as part of that buffer. They provided a 150-foot wide landscape buffer along the boundary of their property with the Middletown Elementary School property, and they have a variable width buffer along Mustang Lane, varying from 75 feet to 150 feet in width, and they would, they have a agreed to preserve the existing mature trees on the site to serve as their buffer. For the public use development area, this is a 10-acre south of Mustang Lane, which they've identified for a public use to be dedicated to Frederick County. They have agreed to a landscape buffer along Route 11 between the stormwater facility and Route 11 for this public use area. They would construct stormwater management facilities to accommodate both industrial and public use development within this public use development area, and they've provided a $3,000 monetary contribution to Frederick County for a historic marker or interpretive sign on the public use part of the property. With regards to transportation enhancements, they are offering $200,000 for the proportional share of future regional transportation improvements involving the ramp intersections of 81 and Reliance Road. Improvements may include signalization, turn lanes, widening, or extension of the travel or turn lanes or other improvements, and they've provided a 10-foot wide asphalt trail along Valley Pike. And finally, they have proffered a 10 cents per square foot monetary contribution to County Fire and Rescue Services. This is a typical contribution you see with our commercial and industrial rezonings. This is the generalized development plan as included with the proper statement. Staff would highlight for your orientation, Valley Pike is at the bottom of your screen, and then this is Mustang Lane, and here is Middletown Elementary School. So you have two areas of the site as noted in the proffers. You have the industrial use area, which is the 70-plus acre tract on the north side of the property and this public use site. This is a 10-acre tract on the south side of the property. Shown in green is their 150-foot wide buffer along Valley Pike, which includes that existing stone wall as a decorative feature plus a landscape buffer. Then you have your variable width 175-foot to 150-foot wide buffer along what is Mustang Lane, and then a 150-foot wide buffer along the property boundary with Middletown Elementary School. And then they've identified their stormwater management area on their public use site, which is between the school and Valley Pike. Also in the generalized development plan is a cross-section of the proposed buffers, which shows the anticipated tree line versus the topography and the proposed rate of the site. So for summary, this is a request to rezone 101.25 acres from the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District to the TM Technology Manufacturing Park Zoning District with proffers to enable industrial development. As consistent with our staff report, the positives of this application is the requested zoning district, TM, implements mixed-use industrial office, land use designation. They provided for enhanced buffering and screening along Route 11, Mustang Lane, and Middletown Elementary School, which may mitigate impacts to adjoining residents and historic properties in the school. And they've prohibited industrial access from Mustang Lane. As detailed in the staff report, staff raises a concern with the regional transportation monetary contribution being well short of what would be the anticipated cost for traffic signals at the key intersections identified in the traffic impact analysis to maintain those levels of service. Again, that's your northbound ramp with 81 and Reliance Road and your intersection of Reliance Road and Valley Pike. They are proffered at $200,000. And traffic signals typically run in the range of $750,000 to $1 million depending on the final cost. And then staffer raises the concern that the potential massing and scale of an industrial building up to 60 feet in height in this area of the county may not be appropriate adjacent to a school. And the other historic resources that are prevalent in the vicinity of the site. There are not many 60-foot tall buildings outside of the city of Winchester and north of the city of Winchester. So this would be potentially to be a very tall building where we don't have a lot of tall buildings in this area of the county. So staff raises that consideration this evening. So this item is presented at the work session for information discussion. And we're anticipating holding a public hearing on December 4th. Mr. Stowe, at your request, I did have some questions. I think we have a couple of questions. So if you're unfamiliar with our TM Park District, it was designed to provide areas of economic development authority targeted industries, including data centers, offices, low impact industrial assembly, and manufacturing uses. The uses are allowed but should not create significant noise beyond the property lines, smoke, dust, or other hazards. Within the TM Park District, we do have secondary and accessory use allowances. Where we do have a lot of traffic signals, we have a lot of traffic signals that are not a direct source of traffic. And we are also looking to provide a lot of traffic signals for the T and Y districts. We have a lot of traffic signals in alimentin infrastructure. y Take a closer look at the description of the actual , so it wasn't not relevant to the project. You may have seen it on the front page on the second slide. So today I'm going to attempt an optimized représentational layout. Just a simple of the site and outside of the front setback in regard to height of buildings the tm park district like our other industrial zoning districts allows for a maximum height of 60 feet within that dimensional intention sorry dimensional standards for our business and industrial districts a board of supervisors waiver may be granted for certain projects up to 150 feet in height again they'd have to make that request which is not part of the street zoning but again demonstrating that we do allow for tall buildings in our industrial park districts again as noted no one is utilizing that height in our research and preparing for this work session we don't find a lot of industrial buildings greater than about 45 feet high that's going to be your amazon your graystone and a lot of the industrial property in the stonewall industrial park you know they're really only 35 to 45 feet in height so you don't have a lot of buildings going up to 60 feet in height we bring that to your consideration given the additional construction and the construction of the industrial park and the construction of the industrial park and the construction of the adjoining uses and the surrounding properties in the vicinity of the site turn it over to chris moan who is here representing the applicants before you turn it over yes the industrial area is 70 acres public use area is 10 acres but it's 105 acres so that's only 80. what's the other 20. i can speak to that yeah if you if you don't mind no that's fine okay i got a question and chris when you when you come up if you would be so kind as to come up front so we can look you in the eye and uh and uh thank you for being here we appreciate you being here mr klein were there any um allowable allowed uses in tm or by right uses in tm that were propered out no all of the uses that are currently allowed in the tm district are part of the application they do not proper out any uses okay but the uses that we put in that tm park district are would or consider the uh use of the tm park district are the Completely existing larger use case we then do we not only last year as a national söz students sorry we do so we've entered into 2020 with 100,000 available using tm and need our additional satra škay 61 lot more raw actually here, I really mean it. It's not just an empty platitude. It's been about a two-year process of putting together the rezoning and going through the process. We've worked closely with Mr. Johnson and the folks at VDOT on several layers of analysis as part of this project, which has consumed a good bit of the time since we initially filed back in actually the agencies in 2022. So that brings us today to being in front of you for this work session and certainly review the upcoming public hearing as an important benchmark and milestone for this project. So happy to be with you. Really quickly, Commissioner Thomas, the numbers that are reflected as your land base, that's 70 acres and the 10 acres for public, that nets out the buffers, that nets out the Mustang Lane easement. Because that's a private access easement that exists across the property. It also nets out the stormwater management facility. So the 10 acres for the school, or not the school, but for public use is separate and distinct from everything else that's in that small area. And I'll show you that when we look at the GDP a little bit more. But it's basically those are the developable areas in both the industrial side of the project and the public use side. So you lose 20, 25%? Yes. And stormwater for the detention facilities. Yeah. Do I have to point this at any particular? John? I'll try to jump through. You've obviously seen in Tyler's presentation the publication of the project. And, you know, again, what you're seeing is the site, you know, there's access to the five Mustang Lane currently. It's a private access easement, 60 feet in width, that right now, of course, just serves Middletown Elementary School, which is a distinct parcel. As Tyler mentioned, the planned land use is mixed use industrial office. You know, in the corresponding zoning district for that land use is the TM Technology Manufacturing Park. Again, where that, I guess you called it the candy cane looking hatch. And then we developed lots of options for Knockout Project Street through the So you've kind of seen all of that before, but that's a, that's essentially the Hester property. That's the property that's in front of you this evening. You can, with the GDP, again, the elements that are netted out from an an area perspective are the buffers and the stormwater management facilities. The 10 acres that's proffered to be dedicated to the county, you know, is distinct from those facilities and those buffers. And, in fact, the proffers, including providing the regional stormwater facility. facility in the corner for detention that will actually accommodate not just the industrial side of the project but also whatever future use develops on the public side as well. So again that will handle detention and it'll certainly have stormwater quality measures that will have to be provided but in terms of area they shouldn't lose that much of that 10 acre site to having to accommodate stormwater as a part of that. I think the key thing and Tyler touched on it are the buffers that are being proffered in this case and I have some slides to kind of show you the existing vegetation composition. Along Valley Pike that is a 150 foot deep buffer that will be a newly planted buffer in this case. It'll have you know the landscape screen that's typical for category C buffer with a six foot berm, earthen berm with plantings on top of that. So it's an enhanced buffer from what would otherwise be required. Additionally, you know that that area is includes the hiker biker trail or shared use trail that was also noted as a proper element and we believe fairly strongly that that buffer treatment with the berm with the landscaping together will provide a pretty significant visual screen along Route 11. That's certainly with 150 feet we have a lot of room to work with in that area and I think as we've been talking about it with Mr. Pline with Middletown LLC and some of our designers obviously the closer to the road we bring the buffer elements, the landscaping elements, the better the visual screen is likely to be the more effective but that'll be from the roadway in particular. The uses across the street. Going up Mustang Lane we have a buffer that starts at 75 feet nearest the stormwater pond and then gradually expands out to 150 feet as you go up Mustang Lane and then you hit beside the school and that's a 150 foot buffer. Different from the Valley Pike buffer, these buffers the landscaping will consist of preserved vegetation within those areas. So that's a good point. Thank you. And much of which I'll get to those. I don't want to jump in. I'm getting excited about showing you the pictures of the trees. So let's get to the proffers. But basically the land use intensity as Tyler pointed out is controlled by the maximum vehicle trips which actually reflects probably the most intensive use that we envisioned on the site and have laid out on the site and different concepts. That trip level that we're proffering to is equivalent to about 850 feet. So that's a lot of square feet of general industrial. That's how it was modeled through the TIA process. Certainly we capture anything that you can imagine in the TM district. But the other piece of the equation in the TM district is that there are uses that are permitted that may be desirable that would generate far fewer trips than that with frankly larger footprints or larger total floor area. So while we're proffering to not exceed that. We are certainly in a position where depending on the use the actual trip generation could be much less with that. And that's kind of the variability of the TM district uses. You know a data center generates much less trips. You know that advanced manufacturing facility that's going to have more employees coming things of that nature. But that's part of the you know the spread with the TM district that you might find. Again I mentioned the enhanced buffers. The 10 acre public use site. Funding for interpretive signage that would be placed on the public use site ultimately. And then as was mentioned $200,000 monetary contribution for improvements to the intersections of the Interstate 81 interchange ramps and Reliance Road. And the traffic analysis that we completed did indicate that you know those are needs for those particular intersections. The other intersection that I think Tyler mentioned was the intersection of the TM district. And that was the intersection of Reliance Road and Valley Pike or Route 11. That's another location that requires signalization. And that's actually proffered to be completed as part of the Village of Middletown project. And I think Mr. Johnson can speak to it better than I can. But I believe efforts are underway to actually initiate that signalization effort and make it happen. So that's something that will be forthcoming shortly. The improvements to Interstate. To the interchange ramps are necessitated not so much by this project. But in fact are being necessitated by the accumulation of background traffic. Other projects that are coming online that are utilizing the interchange. As well as existing trips. Importantly the horizon time frame for future conditions in this case is 2025. So it's next year. And without the project which is basically represented. Our project is represented by the purple at the top of each column. But without our project with just background traffic growth and pipeline growth of traffic. The northbound ramps will be functioning at a level of service E and F at the different peak hour time frames. So that's without one additional trip generated as a part of this project. Southbound ramps are still functioning with the pipeline project fairly well. But they're starting to get close. They're starting to experience capacity issues. And so with the addition of the trips from this project. Certainly it adds to what's already an impact on the northbound ramps. And it certainly adds to the southbound ramp conditions. But it's a small percentage of the total trips. Of the total impact of what's happening at those ramps. And that's what this project is about. And that's what this table shows. Is basically that in combined cumulative. We represent 14% of the peak hour trips at the interchange ramps. And so that's important so that you understand where our monetary contribution came from. So it's for a proportional share of improvements. Which is in turn based on our proportional share of impact. So we're at 14%. $200,000 depending on the price tag you put on signals. Which can range anywhere from $350,000 a signal. Which we had our traffic consultant tell us was kind of a straight signal. You know up to $750,000. Or a million dollars per signal. Which VDOT shared with us. So somewhere in that range is what a signal is likely to cost. And certainly conditions. Conditions are already and are soon to warrant signals at both of those locations. So we're certainly prepared and ready to contribute. You know our share toward compensating for our share of the impacts. And that's $200,000 if you basically take it from the low. The lowest number at $350,000 if you accept that. Which is $700,000 in total. Signalization costs. That would be 20 some percent of the total cost. You go up to $750,000. For a signal. Where just about at 14% of that number. So from our perspective. This is a fair contribution. It's reflective of the impact actually attributable to this rezoning. And you know that is the basis for what we're bringing forward to you. We recognize and agree. You know with staff. Whenever you can get actual improvements built. Put on ground. Put on the ground. That's always a desirable or preferred to the state. So we're happy to do that. We're happy to do that. We're happy to do that. But in this case. That's not something that this project alone can bear. And frankly. You know goes beyond what the project itself is impacting interchange with. So that's kind of our perspective on the transportation contribution. I'll be happy to begin to that more with you. Now for the exciting thing about trees. Because this is how I spent part of Saturday. Taking some pictures of trees. It's pretty nice. This is an image of the existing vegetation from the playground at Middletown Elementary School. And you can see that if you get up to it. We did some measuring that most of those trees in that area are at about 25 to 30 feet in height. This is some pretty good stuff that I think was planted probably early on with the school's development. So that's basically standing as the first kind of jungle gym. If you were to go back there. And if you go back there. It kind of drops down in the back between the school building itself and 81. And I went on a Saturday so that I wouldn't be arrested on a weekday by trying to go take pictures. This is looking you know on Mustang looking east toward 81. And again you can kind of see the composition of plant material there. Again it ranges probably from 15 feet. To 25, 30 feet in height depending on what's there. Certainly along the edge it's pretty thick. And this is going looking back the other direction as if we were going west on Mustang. And you can see generally this is the area where the school boundary ends. And then kind of Mustang Lane. And the Mustang Lane buffer would pick it up. So the again the existing vegetation which would be preserved. Is fairly thick. And you know this is what leaves off. You know this is the mostly evergreen material. And just another look at that and kind of with the vehicle for some perspective there. And again that's looking back to the east. So you get an idea of what the existing vegetation is like. And this is actually looking back toward Valley Pike. And the way the existing vegetation sits. And the composition of that. Is you go along Mustang Lane. Again which would be preserved as a part of this proper. So that is what I wanted to share about the buffers and screening. One thing I will tell you in response to the concerns that staff has raised. We are doing additional analysis of view shed impacts. Certainly with the concern about 60 foot buildings. Based on what we are proffering to preserve. Topography and what the expectations are for site development. We have gotten some work underway. But it will be forthcoming that we can share with the commission. And we will certainly provide that to you in time for the public hearing. Hopefully ahead of that. And generally what it is showing at least relative to the school. Is that you know from a line of sight perspective. You really won't be able to see a 60 foot tall building. Based on the way the site sits. And I think part of what is important to keep in mind with that. Is that generally speaking we have you know this front. You know this front area of the industrial use site. You have a 50 foot gas easement. You have a high pressure gas transmission line. That runs across the site. And generally we have anticipated site development occurring in front of that. You know between that and Valley Pike. But more significantly the way the school is located toward the rear. Coupled with those buffers. You know it actually sets the buildings away. From where the school is. So it helps to just mitigate you know that view shed impact. And again I know enough to have seen the kind of the draft work. So I feel confident standing here telling you that. You know that's not going to be an issue. I think that it's going to be a particular problem moving forward. And we'll share that with you. We're also certainly looking at you know line of sight impacts. Along the Valley Pike frontage as well. Because we do have just on the other side of the road. Behind the adjoining properties. We have the National Park. A portion of the National Park that extends there. So we're also doing analysis to demonstrate what the line of sight impacts would be from there. And certainly to the extent that we find a concern or if there's an issue there. We'll work to mitigate that. And working with staff. And I think certainly I know we have a representative from the National Park Service here. You know we're prepared to work with them as well. To be sure that you know these impact concerns are addressed to the best that we can. And we'll be on board with that. So with that I'd be happy to answer questions. Chris is that analysis. Is that something you're going to have for the 12-4 summer course? Yes. So same because the grade I believe on Valley is lower. And then where the building pack would be is. Would be up a little bit from that. Yeah everything kind of drops off. You know as you go back. So it'll. That's the analysis I haven't seen. You know but from a perspective just doing some of the math with it. It should be that the line of sight would be well above you know a building on the site. But that's what we need to understand. And yes you will have that information in time for the public hearing. Chris from an administrative standpoint I want to make sure you know. If we get revised proffers less than eight days before the public hearing. You're going to get tabled. Right. So no pressure. I just want to remind you that that's in our bylaws. Even with Thanksgiving don't you have an exception? Well we're prepared you know honestly. Our goal is to make it to 12th floor. But to the extent that you know we need to make some significant changes. That's good information for us to have. We're honored to have Mr. Johnson with us this evening. Is the road going to the school. Chris mentioned it's private. Is there not a way to get that conveyed over to the state? I thought the state had route numbers they put on school roads for me. I know this doesn't fit the bill of having three users and that sort of thing. No it technically would qualify because it goes over the school. Okay. Restrict acceptance. Okay. So can we make that right away instead of an easement? I'm just asking. I mean that's. I think the question would be you know and we can certainly coordinate with Mr. Johnson. But you know the level of the improvements that are within the right of way. Would they be. You know acceptable. But I think if you're mentioning that for schools that's a typical acceptance. I think we can we can look into that. You know and I think that's another point actually that you're mentioning. You know the Mustang Lane itself is only going to be utilized for access to the school and to the public use site. We've proffered to not access the industrial area from Mustang Lane. So the access to the industrial use whatever it may be will occur exclusively from Valley Pike. So that will certainly help by you know segregating the traffic on Mustang and at the Mustang Lane intersection. And you know I think it may line itself up you know to work. It's a 60 foot private access easement. You know and frankly we've assumed setbacks and everything from you know from that area that would meet. You've done all the work. It's just changing the color of the line. So I think that's a great comment. I appreciate that. Okay. Commissioner, Mr. Thomas. Can I ask the VDOT rep. Do you concur with the two lights at the off ramps and the on ramp on Reliance Road for the need for those two? Both of them need to be signalized with this project. Yes. Yes. The only other thing I would say. I mean I think this is a good project Chris. It serves a good function for the county. However, having said that, I am never in favor of shifting responsibility for money from a developer to taxpayers. And I see no reason to put $2 million in the developer's pocket and take $2 million out of taxpayer money to pay for two lights. I don't see any benefit to the county for that without the project. We don't need the two. The two intersections don't need to be signalized. Now maybe they will need to be in 10 years, but that's 10 years from now. So unless a developer is willing to pay 100% of the cost and not just donate money to the county, I'm talking contract for the work for both of those intersections, any required right of ways, any required property acquisitions, providing the signalization and everything, I would be a negative. Okay. Thank you. Next question. This is the second question. I think there is a negative vote on this. Good. Can I ask, since we're talking about traffic, I just, in all transparency, I did not read all 470 pages of the impact study. But near the end of it, I did kind of skip to the end. At the very end, there is a plan drawn up with a potential roundabout, two roundabouts and they are also a little bit earlier in there. significantly safer roundabouts are? I mean to significant magnitude. Is there a cost savings with that or what's the, is there a reason that we were looking at signalization versus roundabout? I don't know if that's a John question or you question. I can start and then if Mr. Johnson wants to chime in he can. Part of the analysis that we were required to do after the TIA was prepared, there were two additional steps. There was an operational safety, operational safety analysis report that had to go forward with a federal blessing to demonstrate that the function of the interchange would not be negatively impacted by the project and what the TIA was calling for. We also had to prepare for the signal justification reports for both ramp intersections and I think what you saw was an exhibit from the SJRs which part of that process was demonstrating to DDOT that alternatives were or were not acceptable or wouldn't be better than a signal and that exercise that we did, we did a conceptual roundabout design. I think it was looked at by both the residency and district offices and work only so it is difficult for us to pass a不用Com proteins if you don't fit a single proceduremo . Okay. One of them is a six-way roundabout on the east side because of Buckton. So that's going to be a big one. It's going to be complicated. I do think they perform, but how is the developer going to get the necessary right-of-way for those? Thank you. Chris, can you pull up the traffic impact percentages that you had on there before? Where were those based off of? Were those based off the impact study? This was based on the traffic analysis. Yes. That was prepared by Wells Associates. I don't know if VDOT can speak to that at all. Is that representative of the study, and is it true that only a small percentage of the usage from this development would be part of the impact? I can say that is representative of the traffic generated. I mean, if you're looking at a comparison. I mean, if you're looking at a comparison, you're looking at a lot of traffic generated going through those intersections. I would point out that the third signal that's required is being paid for by another developer, so that's not really factored in here as far as the cost goes. And then everything's getting more expensive, so I would err on the side of the higher end for the cost of signals and design of the signals. Quick question. When we're talking about the traffic analysis and the trips, what are the different types of traffic generated? Does that also take into account different types of traffic and different types of trips? The flow with the heavy truck traffic versus vehicular traffic is pretty different. Yeah. The TIA assumes a certain amount of truck trips as a part of the overall composition. I think an important piece of the puzzle with this, and I think it's a good kind of piece of history for everybody, the initial concept for this site was for an M1. Yes. Yes. For an M1 rezoning. And in fact, that was the initial agency submission was for an M1 rezoning. And that certainly would have provided a lot more flexibility from a developer perspective in terms of potential users. Not only would it put some of the uses that the TM district permits in play, but it also would have left the option open for distribution warehouse facilities, those types of things. As we've gone through the process, as we've listened, I think, frankly, to staff and thought about it much more carefully as we made our follow-up submission and move forward, we pivoted to the TM district because it does align most closely with the land use. And it also ends up having a pretty significant change in the traffic composition. I mean, there are certainly certain manufacturing uses, if they were to locate there, would have a truck component to it. But it's a much lesser percentage at the end of the day than what you might get if this were to go. Yes. So, you know, that warehousing distribution lane. So that's not really an option except as an accessory to a permitted principal manufacturing use. So there could be truck trips that are generated from the site. And the traffic study does capture that as a certain number of trips at peak hour. One more clarification. When we're talking about the need to do upgrades based on this growth, not just your growth, but the combined growth, we're actually talking about three signalized intersections. Right? Reliance and 11 and both the northbound and then southbound ramps. Correct. So it's really a total of three that are going to be required, not just two. Correct. Yeah, that's right. But the Reliance and 11 signal is proffered as part of a Dave Holliday development. Right. And since it met warrants, the town has already contacted him to start working on engineering and installing that. So it won't be an obligation of this developer if this resuming is approved. It will be handled separately. Was that signal warranted? Sorry. Because of Dave's property development or was it? Actually, I'm not sure when it would have met warrants. I think they figured it out while they were doing the traffic study, told the town about it. They were doing the traffic study for this project and then told the town about it. Is that right, Joe? VDOT did the warrant. Oh, okay. We did it over the summer. It's a little hard after the fact. When Dave did his TIA, he ended up proffering that because it showed that his development impact was going to cause that signal to be needed. So, you know, time has passed and I'm not sure if he's fully built up. But obviously, his development is a significant contributor. But to go back now and try and say, all right, well, the trips that are there today, this many are from Laurel Ridge, this many are from Dave, that's a little harder to do the postmortem on. But just going back to how it got sourced and the fact that he is contributing to it. If we're allocating a percentage of the cost of a project, that's to all three intersections, not just the two. Even though one of them is proffered to be built by another project. Yeah, I think we need to be careful when we allocate a percentage. Now, in your traffic impact analysis, when you say proportional, did you count one passenger car and one tractor trailer as one and one and that's a proportional one and one? Yeah, honestly, I'd have to confer with Wells. Yeah. And then I'd have to ask about to what extent it breaks down. These are the peak hour trips that would be associated with the project. The way I read it, it was one to one. Okay. And if you're generating 3,500 truck traffic trips, a truck traffic trip back, you know, it's been a long time since I did this, we allocated five cars to a truck traffic trip. So if you want to talk about proportional interchange impacts, you should take those 3,000 truck trips and that's now 15,000 trips compared to the other trips. So if 14% was your 3,000, that's not the 15,000. And if we want to start, you know, nitpicking and going for proportional trips, we need to make sure we're comparing apples to apples and not apples to oranges. But I'll go back to say, without this development, we don't need those two signals there. That's wrong. And I don't see any reason why the taxpayers should be paying for it. With all due respect, that's wrong. I should say. Frankly, Dave Holliday's study that he did revealed that these intersections were going to need to be signalized. They identified that. That was several years ago. I thought I read in your report that without this traffic, you didn't need signals. No. No. In fact, that's what this shows. And what we've seen in here, and I think, you know, if you go back into the report, there were a lot of reports. So I can see where pieces start going in different directions. But 2025 pipeline development without this, the northbound ramps fail. That's next year. And nobody's offering money for anything for that. So, you know, I take your point, but this project is not generating the need for a signal. It adds to the traffic that will be using that intersection and that interchange. But it doesn't come close to generating that. And this is recognizing, too, that with more background traffic, you have the sheets that's established. You have a Wawa that's getting ready to get going in Middletown. There's more that's going to come that's not going to necessarily bring anything to the table for more demand. You know, so I appreciate your critical comments. Thank you. I appreciate your critique, you know, on this. But I think this is fair when you think about this is also a significant economic development project. It stands to bring an awful lot of revenue into the county if it's successful. And that is something that can, in fact, you know, contribute to, you know, the county's share of road improvements. Mrs. Brannon, you've been very patient. Yeah, sorry. You got told you the signal could be up to a million dollars. Why? Because it's going to contain 14% of 700. I'm sorry. It was a range. They kind of looked at it from a signal could be 750,000 to a million for a signal. So it could be 1.5 million from their numbers to 2 million. Thank you. Well, looking at the economy today, it's going to be on the high end, not the low end. So I think it's what you're offering is a low level. I appreciate that. I always question the last guy in, pay for everything. I don't like that. I don't know what to do about it. But it seems like it's a low level. I mean, I think I would second that just because, I mean, right now we're talking about rezoning the property, but we're not actually talking about developing the property. So, you know, the property could not be developed for another five years. So, I mean, I feel like the cost should be increased. Thank you. All right. I guess staff question. Those big fat red sections say pipeline. Is there any expected proffers or potential proffers with whatever that pipeline is? Or is that we don't expect any sort of proffers for signalization out of that big fat red section? I think the answer is no. I do, there are some proffers coming from a couple of the residential developments in Middletown, but I think they're primarily school related. I don't think that there's any transportation related cash contributions out of those. For example, the Sheets project on the east side of 81 was a buy right development, right? They have a significant trip generator, but it was otherwise a buy right development. And Wawa will be buy right as well. Wawa will be buy right. Wawa will be buy right. And then anything within the town, you know, is within their purview to attempt to collect transportation dollars for. We coordinate them on running the model at their request for residential development. But we don't do the same for commercial right now. We don't have a model that could calculate what an appropriate cash proffer would be. We're working on a project similar to that, the road impact fee and cash proffer network contribution that you may have heard about through the development impact model that we've been trying to do. We're working on a project similar to that, the road impact fee and cash proffer network contribution that you may have heard about through the development impact model that we've been trying to develop. But right now we're not ready to assist them with that. Other questions from Mr. Matt? Yes, sir? Just one more comment. If it's 14 percent at 3,000 trips so the basis was 52,000 trips a day and that would be your 3,000 to be 14 percent of that, if we really look at the impact of a truck versus a car, you should be comparing 15,000 to 60,000 one year. So that can be updated per year as you go along. That is the NDAH. That's a grid that you're going to have to be looking at. All right. And that is what you're going to be looking at. be your 3,000 to be 14% of that. If we really look at the impact of a truck versus a car, we should be comparing 15,000 to 60,000. We're more or less at 25% to 30% impact. And we're really talking about three signals. That's $3 million. And if we take 30%, 25%, 30% at $3 million, we're looking at significantly more than 200,000. And because of the economy, I think that the developers should at least proffer to do one of the intersections. Any more questions? Mr. Kearns. Mr. Chairman, Scott Pline, who is my client with Delta LLC. Oh, good evening, sir. Hello, how are you all doing? Good to see you. I just wanted to address what I think are the two most important issues here, which are... The two issues that staff put before us as far as the transportation issue is concerned and as far as the viewshed issue is concerned. And I'll get to the viewshed issue in a moment. I'm not a technician, but Wynn and the VDOT gentleman can tell me if I'm wrong here, or Chris can. But the bottom line is when these studies are done, it's about amount of trips generated, but what type of trips as well. Is that correct? That's correct, yeah. So when they do the study and they start looking at these lights and these intersections, et cetera, et cetera, they're taking all that into account. So whether they do five times as much backup or what have you, or three times or two times, I don't know, but that's all on a national standard as far as how they do these TIAs. Is that correct? Yep. So your concerns have been taken into consideration with the TIA study. I mean, it all comes down to how much is the traffic going to back up, where is it going to back up, how much traffic is going to get through here, how much traffic is going to be blocked over here, so on and so forth. Is that true? Yeah. Yeah, we look at delay at the signal. Right. That's to determine the level of service, not the traffic impact. We're talking two different things. I understand, but level of service is cars going through, traffic impact is the wear and tear in the roads, the backup of the people, the aggravation of somebody having to sit there for a truck to go through versus a car. We're talking apples and oranges. And we can try to conflude it, but we're talking apples and oranges. Okay. Well, respectfully, I think the thing about the backup and everything. End of the day, though, we made this proffer before we were ever asked to when we were still looking at the M1. And we are not, how many homes is Holiday's building? I don't know the number. I think it was June and July. No, I don't know. I don't know off the top of my head. Since it's not a county project, we really don't keep track of it. I think the first thing is we need to use it. But all this background stuff is there. I'm not trying to put $2 million in my pocket. And if it was $2 million or $1 million, the economics of our project won't work. I mean, we've already gone from the M1, which is a much more in demand type of use, down to the TM. The TM is less demand type of use. But we were willing to do it because that was more consistent with what the county really wanted, correct? Is to get into the... The TM certainly matches the Comprehensive Plan designation in this part of the county. So I do feel we're being fair. Now, your argument is a good one. I don't mean to say yours is bad. But you're right. We should be looking at the $750 to $1 million and thinking a little bit more about that, that we could add a little bit more there. And I won't say what those dollars are right now, but I understand what you're saying. I understand I have a site development company, and I've done plenty of rezonings, and I understand the concept of inflation and things getting more expensive all the time. So I can appreciate that, and we will go back and look at that. At the same time, though, I think it's really imperative that we all understand that this is going to happen no matter what as far as it reaching the point... The impacts. Within the next year, you said? Mm-hmm. Okay. And within that year's period of time, or whenever we start to develop, at least what we're doing is putting the first dollars in to help... to help the problem... mitigate a problem that's been... just based on our numbers, or on the TIA, has already been 86%... happened. Okay. So I think it's fair that what we're doing, but I also take note of your argument, and yours as well, Kevin, as to the inflation factor and whether $750 or $1 million is the right number, and we'll take that into consideration. I also want to talk a little bit about the viewshed. I want everybody in this room to know that from day one, again, I try and be very proactive about the things that I know are going to become an issue. We were not asked by staff to put in a 200-foot buffer or a 150-foot buffer next to the school. That was voluntary from us because we realized that impact is important or not to have that impact. Also, the fact that we, in the front of the school, we didn't go for doing anything industrial, what have you, even though that site is planned for that. Because we also believe in community and how our properties, our rezonings or developments or what have you, how they need to fit in with the community. And we realized that a school site is sacred in a fashion. And then we saw a need, we requested and suggested by several groups in the county to make that a new public use area. And we did that, and I think that's quite valuable. It's not something that ties into tree of strategic interest. We do see thaticial growth. The placement of the current head to the building in the tradition ofzyka which is the on mentre m eyeliner back to fun it narrows from Route 11 and we also could do an even higher berm just based on being able to make sure make sure that we can maintain a maintain a three to one slope you know we can make the berm higher we can't right now we're doing it a minimum yeah well it's a six foot six foot okay so and we want to make sure as well that from the National Park Service standpoint that any kind of view shed there we're going to test that and see what that would be right yep using various grades etc etc and whether or not you can't see it at all or you can see 10% of the rooftop then we're also more than happy and I realize this all goes into the proper about before the next eight days that you know doing mitigation things such as going ahead and you know using earth tones as for the coloration of the building and what have you you so we could do that as well so my background is in landscape that's how he started and we've done a lot of high quality products projects in Northern Virginia and we take all these things into consideration and I have a quick question about the right away for a public road versus maintaining the private easement are we saying we could do that yeah okay and all we would ask you to profit for that comfortable I'm comfortable as long as we know that we're not going to have to do it on a timely basis and we're not going to have to do it on a timely basis and we're not going to have to do it on a timely basis it's V dot choice whether to do it or not do it on a timely basis that we're not held up and all sudden and that we don't have to make road improvements to do that so we're more than willing to go through that exercise in the cost of doing so but not if we're building the four lane road or something along those lines hey Joe I think it is a planning exercise yeah the road has to meet our standards so I'm not sure I'm not familiar with that road so I don't know how I so if the standards remain the same we'd be more than happy to do it after that it would be a discussion you know it doesn't turn into whatever and also I want to know and Joe I think you can attest to this we went through two and a half years of working with V dot V dot asked us to do study after study what we've done after sixty to seventy thousand dollars worth of investment before we even had anything literally it's been in between sixty and seventy and anyway my counterpart my son back there can tell you that not my feet but we spent that much money on Wells & Associates coming back and doing designs we did the study for the roundabout because because quite frankly V dot wanted to see that and what we were really doing was we were setting up the template if you will for when the money does come whether it's with I-81 improvements and it comes from federal dollars and state dollars or money coming from it so we don't we've created a template as you saw in the last few slides okay we can exhibit like this withday this five haven't to have it made it going to be perfect because I have to spend like three we have a percentage of vogt flyer for Up to three dollars of cash and that's all I had to do and now you can see that if you do not agree that's kind of the really delicate part actually our climate change principle that sort of set out the dernière our plan end goal yeah when we were grating there was also a variety and you know we couldn't just get the peace to nobody you know they have to do the same thing here you had again we But we went through a lot with Middletown. I think Middletown is also, for whatever it's worth, well, through their vote, are supportive of what we're doing. So again, with all due respect, and it sounds like you have a background in these type of things, but I just wanted to clarify where we were coming from and how we came up with that number and the fact that we will look at those higher numbers in relation to that percentage of traffic that we believe we generate, or traffic impact. Thank you. Liz. Question for staff. How soon does those two additional north-southbound signals need to go online? Is there an answer to that question? There certainly is, and I'll try this, and then I really want John to chime in as well to correct everything I say about it. But Chris mentioned that in 2025, it's anticipated that the pipeline traffic is going to essentially progress and break one of the intersections. The tricky part about that is when that pipeline traffic actually builds out. Of that, we know of sheets being established and operating. Wawa's timeline could be different than we expect, as well as the existing residential development that's in Middletown that's active right now. So we'd be somewhat shooting in the dark, but I think whatever the analysis said was the best estimate for the near term. Would you agree, John? Yeah, I think that's about the best you can do. I don't want to go off on a tangent, but I'll do it anyway. I don't understand the process. Yeah. Like, if we don't have any certain zoning, or we don't have any other means to get these signals, at what point are they going to? I'll save you, John. Thank you. The challenge is we have a list of priorities that the Board of Supervisors has set for transportation improvements, and that they've actually said, we're going to commit funds to these so that John, Mr. Bishop can submit, these for funds to VDOT and show that the county is willing to be a part of it. There's not a way for us to have any money for this, short of knocking out some of those projects to do this. We could try to split you in their grant programs. I mean, you're talking six years out. That's the challenge. You could apply some creativity, such as Transportation Partnership Opportunity Fund. That's got an economic development portion to it. That's what we did with, I think, Navy Federal, the signal out on 50. They were a partner in that, and they had also, frankly, agreed to backstop the county if the economic development didn't generate. That's a pretty big corporation. I don't pretend to know anything about the applicant's ability to do something like that. Revenue sharing is a possibility. There are ways to potentially stretch the proper dollar, but nothing that I can guarantee sitting here today. I think it's a challenge. That's a challenge. These intersections were not necessarily on our radar as needed improvements until they started digging into some of the traffic analysis. Now, regardless of the outcome, I think, of this rezoning, John and I will probably still be talking about these locations and talking with Middletown in the near term about what a project might look like. And Scott's not incorrect about the massive amount of study work they did serving as a good, baseline level of report work that we can build off of, regardless of the outcome. Did somebody do a traffic count, VDOT or the applicant, actually a traffic count at those two intersections? Yeah. And at that time, Sheets was, I'm not even sure they were fully under construction yet, but that was included as well, projections for Sheets. Are buffers not required on the opposite side of the property? I don't know. I don't know what's next to what's adjoining. There's no buffers required along 81. The north side. The north side of the project, they would also be required to do a buffer under our zoning district buffer standards because the adjoining use is residential. But what they have proffered is in excess of what our zoning ordinance requires, and that's why they've proffered it to that extent. They certainly would have to do a buffer on the north side, I believe it would be 100 feet versus 150 feet to whatever. Sorry, last question. The proffer public use 10 acres for whatever use the county wants. How would you leave that to them? Would you, I guess, clear, it looks like it's an overflow stormwater management pond, so you would obviously have to build that out for your industrial site, and then would it just, you would build out that portion and then hand over the rest? It's in our proffers, I believe. We are going to build the pond so it's sized for the stormwater, the stormwater runoff of the public use site. So it will already be in place. As soon as we start our construction, then we will be building that pond to handle the stormwater for the entire site, including the public use. So that will be that much more, that will be a significant benefit to whatever money has to go into the public use project. The balance of the site most likely would remain as is. It certainly depends on when the board would ask, you know, for that property to be dedicated. Who would own the pond? Pardon me? Who would own the pond? We would own the pond, which is a good thing, because we would be the one maintaining it. We would not create a circumstance where we did a split, whatever. It would be, as far as maintenance, which often happens, like in some kind of HOA or POA, but we would go ahead and maintain the pond from day one, continue to do so. Before the Planning Commission meeting, before we take the motion, before we take action on this, we need to find out if the county actually wants that 10 acres. Because we've had property dedicated before that after it went through the Planning Commission, we got it kicked out because the county actually didn't want the property that they had proffered and dedicated. So we'd have to check with the board members to see if they actually have a need for that property. And I have a solution to that. We can make the property, if the county wants it, okay, we can make the property, and if they don't want it, then it just ends up as open space that we own. We're not asking to develop on it, whether or not the county takes it or not. So what would be the zoning on it? Well, the zoning would still be there, but we could proffer over it to say that it will remain as open space if the county won't take it. So it would be just like the buffers. Just like you proffer the buffer, you proffer that that if the county doesn't take it, then it's just open space in perpetuity. Why should we rezone it if it's going to be public use or open space? Why do we want to rezone it? Because public use falls underneath that zoning as you're allowed to do it. We could do pretty much practically anything that the county would need to do with it would be allowed as a government structure under the TM zoning district. Your point's certainly well taken. I think in this instance, it's clear we do not have a particularly identified use for it. It's too small for a school site. We're not going to do a trash compactor site adjoining the town of Middletown. There's really nothing that lines up immediately as an opportunity down there, but it's certainly something I think the board may want to discuss when they review the rezoning application. So Matt, we could write that language with you, right, in the meantime? Yeah, your proposal is certainly not a problem. You know, having it be an option for the county to exercise at their discretion and it's otherwise used as open space is a perfectly fine outcome. Thank you. Let me... I'm going to bring this in for a landing because we're going to run over. But I do... Did you have a question, Mr. Cranston? Well, because in the proper... I mean, real quick, just... I mean, in the proffers specifically, I thought it was interesting that it was called out about this space that the facility may include but shall not be limited to an indoor aquatic center ice rink or accommodation thereof. Was that done with some study in mind or why... It was done because of... What's the name of the group? Two for Two. Two for Two came to us. But we wanted to make sure that we addressed their request. But at the same time, it could be that, but otherwise it could be any kind of... I was just curious if there was a study behind that or if there was any sort of an agreement with Parks and Rec or with the county to do anything. Okay. And basically, you know, a 10-acre site would accommodate that type of facility as well as some other type of... And we can talk to Wyatt about that, too. I was just curious why that was in there. It was strange that it was called out. It was specifically for the Two for Two or whatever it is. All right. Please don't give the county land and then tell us how to use it. Is that the board's thing? Let me ask you a couple questions. The interpretive signage. Renzies Knoll Road is right across the street there. Obviously, there was Civil War activity. I read what the proffer says and what the HRAB had proposed. To you, was there any discussion of doing a Phase 1 or Phase 2 cultural resource survey of some kind? There wasn't. That didn't come out of the HRAB. And we had Duff Dale, cultural resources group, do a Phase 1. So you've already done a Phase 1? We've done a Phase 1. Yeah, so Phase 2 wasn't recommended. But a Phase 1's been done and that was submitted to HRAB. Okay. The other thing I had that I'm going to have heartburn with is you not proffering out uses. Guided missile manufacturing is one of the uses that's allowed. We don't need that next to an elementary school. They're not actually fitting the warheads on missiles. They're building the technology. I mean, I get it. We can certainly take that out. There's several others there that need to get popular. I'll make that bet that that's not going to happen. We'll take guided missiles out of the potential uses. But, I mean, we don't have a very robust national program. We don't have a very robust defense economy. So I would doubt that'll happen. But we can take that out. But to that point, in all seriousness, the uses in that district are intended to serve a very specific purpose in terms of attracting certain types of industry. And if you really go through that use list, we had a really hard time finding anything that you would want to just unilaterally exclude, with the exception maybe of missiles. Certainly, Commissioner Brumback had mentioned that. But ammunition, ordnance, that kind of stuff, that's excluded. So, I think that's a good point. It's excluded. So when it talks about fabrication, it excludes those other, you know, kind of what would be potentially more risky uses, if you will, in the era school. But the others are generally some type of manufacturing. You know, so, I think, I struggle with the proper uses out. You know, if an ordnance has been structured and the district has been structured to reflect a particular land use, then that district should work. I mean, except for some really extreme things. I think missiles, you know, we could take those out. I think just the counter argument to that is when you're not in an existing industrial park and you're adjoining properties, conditional zoning exists to provide some sensitivity to those adjoining properties. Absolutely. I'm not saying this specific instance warrants that. If munitions was in there and the elementary school adjoined it, I would say that it probably does warrant limiting that use out of there. But, yeah, just a counterpoint to that side. Good point. One last, I promise this. I'm very curious about this project. In the letters we got here, one of them was Winchester Public Services and they talk about the projected water service demand is 20,000 gallons per day to that, which, and I don't know a lot about data centers, but I do know that they're pretty heavy. And everybody keeps saying the word data center over and over again. That's the reason I bring this up. And I think they take like 200, 300,000 gallons per day. And I think that's a pretty good estimate. I think that's a pretty good estimate. And I think that's a pretty good estimate. So, at this usage rate at 20,000 gallons a day, that's not even remotely a possible use of that is for a data center. is for a data center. Did you want to address that? I don't want you to get into that. First of all, we're not proffering that this is going to be a data center site. And I think another thing that's certainly coming out of the process that the county's going through with the data center ordinance is that there are a lot of different technologies that can be used. And it depends on cooling systems and things like that. And it depends on cooling systems and things like that. And it depends on cooling systems and things like that. And I think there are a lot of things of that nature as to whether or not the water that's put in initially can be kind of reused and therefore that daily need isn't as high. There are certainly technologies that do have a very high water usage. And so I think we are limited. So it's going to certainly shape if a data center user were to come in what the technology is they need to bring to the table to make it work. We also have had conversations with Mr. Eisenach at the city. And he said that we would simply have to make a specific request for that. Mr. Kearns, I was recently in a large data center that used 36,000 gallons a day with a closed cooling system. with a closed cooling system. And that's what modern technology is driving these guys towards. And that's what modern technology is driving these guys towards. Supply the big quantities of water. For context on the city infrastructure side, For context on the city infrastructure side, their main water line they pull water out of the north fork of the Shenandoah south of Middletown. And that's what they're doing. So as much capacity as could possibly exist does exist in that line. Potentially there. Correct. Yes. It was just called out at 20,000 gallons. That's a good point. I think that's what you all asked for. There's also a relationship between the water usage and what Middletown can handle as far as discharging the sewer system. So the point is still valid as it relates to additional uses. That capacity does not exist necessarily on the Middletown side. And that's what the city and the county deals with. Although an interesting point to the Middletown's system is that they actually need more use. Right now, yeah. They just expanded it and don't have... So when we were asking actually they were like, well, could you go up to 50,000? You know, things can evolve, but I think it's the similar situation that if we found a scenario where we needed more and we were going to discharge more, we could have returned it. I didn't know if that was a limit or a... It sounds like it's more like a ground. It's a floor than a ceiling. Thank you very much for being here this evening. The things that I heard that we'd like you to look at to deal with the cost share on the signals, I think that's going to be a real hang-up just for planning commissioners. I understand what you've done. I understand your presentation. I think the fact that the last one in is asked to pay for everything is not necessarily fair. I understand that too. But somehow we've got to come to a way to work on this. If we can get the one thing the schools asked for was getting the road into right-of-way rather than the easement. I know that was something that was to be worked on. What else, Roger? Help me out. The view shed, I think, is taken care of. Buffers are good. And actually, the right-of-way on the road benefits the developer to not have it because he doesn't have to maintain it in the future. Turn it over to the state, let them maintain it. So that's really a cost-saving form. Certainly. Especially if there's a burden on the schools currently to share in that maintenance. The schools talk to us a lot about getting their roads into the system and not having to do maintenance on them. They will be thrilled about that. And allowable uses. Got it. No needs good missiles in Middletown. One take. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next item on our agenda Mr. Bishop is going to lead us through, and that's the Eastern Frederick County Education Study. And I'll let you introduce Alex. Thank you. He's going to go put his kids to bed. Chris, can we get your... Sorry about that. I got to stop. I like the control. Anyway, I think everybody knows me, but as Mr. Stowe said, I'm John Bishop. I'm your Assistant Planning Director. Not the Assistant Transportation Planning Director anymore. Because after 17 years or so, they decided to trust me with a few other things. So I guess I find that some additional responsibility. And of course we have Alexandra Castrucchini. With McCormick Taylor, who has been our consultant on this study. Not to depart from the script too much, but I'm kind of wanting to start with a conclusion. And what I mean by that is in terms of what I'm asking you to look for, both as you review the study. I'm sure not everyone in the past week has had a chance to read all of that 100 plus pages. And absolutely empathize with that and expect that. But as you go through it and hear the study, what staff is looking for is questions and feedback. And most importantly, for you to be considering, assuming all this makes it through and the Board wants to accept it and incorporate it into the Comprehensive Plan, what that should look like as it goes into the Comprehensive Plan. Because frankly, you could attack it in a number of ways. So just things to be thinking about as you get into this. And John, when you went over this, I mean, we did a whole lot of work on Route 37. Really wasn't ever put into the Comprehensive Plan very well. We never preserved any of the right-of-ways that we needed or anything when we were going through rezonings. So how would this be different than what we currently have? Well, what you're speaking to is the point of the study. Because really until last year when the form of the CIP changed a little bit, I think it was two years ago was the last year you see the full Route 37 loop in the CIP as the top transportation priority, unfunded of course, approaching a billion dollars of cost, which frankly was a generous estimate given some of the challenges. And everybody fairly well acknowledged. Now there is some proffered right-of-way and things like that, but even when you get a big rezoning, Crosspoint's a great example. They actually proffered a little bit of 37, but still not to the 37 sort of interstate limited access standard. That's one of the biggest rezoning that we've seen in the last year. And it's one of the best rezoning of its type we've had in Frederick County in the last 25 years. So just to give you an idea of scale, I'd be hard put to describe the rezoning that could afford to build this for us. So it comes down to how do you get to a buildable project? And that's really the point of this study. What do we truly need that will serve us for a good long time that maybe isn't limited access, grade separated, or accessibility and Kontaktida should serve you. JustДue to international barriers on the physical and on the nås in the in the on theите But part of how I you know made that case if you will as I compared the traffic Not only on our existing 37 but to 81 itself with segments of the Prince William County Parkway the Fairfax County Parkway And what you'll find when you do those comparisons for yourself shoot there are parts of the Fairfax County Parkway, which are carrying nearly as much traffic as I anyone and And and route there are existing route 37 pails in comparison to both those facilities And why that's important is they're at great for starters, which is a key cost component to a limited access roadway They're not a great they have for the most part You'll see them as they need them being upgraded to an actual interchange for the most part You're still talking about a normal everyday at great interchange, which when you compare to interchange costs We were just recently talking about 307 which is a nine-figure interchange Really makes it hard to get anywhere with an energy with a new interchange on new location when you're talking about those kind of numbers So by comparison doing an at-great intersection is just a total game-changer Now to be clear does it make this road any pieces of this road that are that are recommended as being needed between now and 2050? Which is the end of your study study period for this particular study now. It doesn't make it cheap But it takes it out of the way rightsi So we spoke about the bokai original год That's three two three You know in the beginning that was the oil administration by dairy industry. But as we move forward, why don't we start with overseas refused with labor<|vi|> 장apay There's relationships built into the medical and consumer food industry buns你說 cre mająi work of the EIS environmental impacts study that our board had funded back in those days. And they captured the fact that the projections at that time, which at that time it projected through 2020, so about four years ago, for traffic have not been realized as of today. For example, and now I realize I can't see this from here, but I remember a lot of these numbers. For example, I turn this pointer on, I-81 in that location, I believe that number is about 110,000. It's in excess of 100,000. The counts were in the 74,000 range, and that's a combination of north and south. This number here for seven, I want to say it's about 46,000 if I remember it correctly. And today's traffic is just shy of 30,000. Obviously, these are not... Okay. Little traveled roadways today. The point is the analysis that was done back then was far and away conservative beyond what has come true. Now, there are a lot of reasons that's probably happened, but that's the key point, that traffic has not been realized. It doesn't mean we don't need anything. It just means we didn't hit that potential mark. So the points of this study were to examine the past 37 studies to help determine what portions would be needed. As I noted earlier, we... We've got five key segments. So it's looking at those and saying, all right, where's the... What we often call in transportation the independent utility. Can this segment stand alone? What is the benefit of just this piece or just that piece? Which ones are needed more than the others? And also to evaluate whether alternative solutions to constructing those portions in the bypass would be sufficient to address the future volumes, which you're going to see some of that in the recommendations. Establish new purpose and needs for the study areas. In general, that frankly builds off a required element of the EIS, which is the purpose and needs section. Every EIS you ever read will have a purpose and needs. Why the heck are you doing this? We have it in this study as well. Review of the past and current studies in the study area, because we had a number... We've been very study happy and heavy these last couple of years, and this is capturing that and making sure we pull in all of that as best we could. And also, what the public thinks and wants matters. And so, we're going to be looking at that. And then we're going to be looking at the... We're going to be looking at the training of students for the Department of Education and Tools Team, which of course will be on the culprit list as well, as we DPA is there. There is a lot to do. I'm going to repeat everybody, and, when I was at the ditre for three courses at the Department of Education and Tools, and I went to school, we were mutations to 20, mano played solos in an existing college. The group room and... They wereiganst brothers types. Now, the other femaleλα++ knew how to play solos and they were going to show up so many times, and I was a CFA member, to be a pro in the assignment and being able to sayHuh, what? Thank you. I'm sorry, all right. What about the other women? Whit Wagner, who's head of the Fort Collier Industrial Park, key stakeholders affected by this corridor. Glaze Developments, obviously with Crosspoint, they're a major stakeholder, all those kind of things, and also online surveys that were done. And out of this came project purpose statement, and very appropriately, the foundation of that is your own Board of Supervisors vision statement from our comprehensive plan that what's important is ensuring the quality of life of all Frederick County citizens by preserving the past and planning for the future through sound fiscal management. And a sound fiscal management piece, frankly, is part of what we are going for to try and get to a buildable project that the county can actually afford. And I don't mean afford independently, but at least be a non-starter to try and pursue this project. So the purpose of the study is to develop and evaluate a range of alternatives to improve mobility. And safety for all of our road users. Reduce congestion, enhance system continuity, while meeting the needs of interstate, regional, and local traffic, passing through and moving within the study area, including the evaluation of the Route 37 bypass. Because very early on, we said this can't just be about Route 37. It needs to be about mobility in that entire portion of the county. And that's how it went from being the Route 37 study to the Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study. We did do an online survey once we had reached the point of the study that we had drafted. I say we. The consultant wrote it all. But so I don't want to take too much credit for their work. Obviously, we were involved, but they were the drafters. And they deserve all credit for what I consider to be very good work at this point. But we did a public survey. A lukewarm response rate. But as you look at those percentages, that's what's important to us. And that is the amount of traffic that we're able to get. And that's what we're able to get. And that is what we're able to get. So we're able to get about a percentage of agreement with both the draft purpose statement, which I just read to you, but also with the various needs, whether it be bicycle, pedestrian, congestion needs, safety needs, or the interstate needs that were drafted at that time. And those are all incorporated into the study. They're not all in the same place. You've got the purpose statement on one page. But as you go through your table of contents, that'll take you directly toward these needs statements because I wasn't going to read them to you. And there's a lot of information out there. And there's just a quick list of some of the current and very recent studies that were also considered based on their level of completeness as much as they could be during this study as well. And anybody who's been tied in with Transportation Committee or on board or whatever is aware that a number of those studies have already ended up in smart scale applications that are part of the board's current application cycle package. In terms of draft congested roadways, this is without the bypass. The main thing I want to talk about here is that this is based on volume to capacity ratios. It's fairly standard where grain is good and red is pretty bad. But the point I want to make is because I've experienced it already at Transportation Committee, sometimes people look at a piece of it and say, well, why isn't this red? I know this is crap every day at 5 o'clock. The point is we're at a regional model level and we're not at a micro simulation. We're at a micro simulation model like you would see with a TIA. Why that's important is that micro simulation model is able to concentrate on peak hour volumes. This is based on 24 hour capacity. So if you see red, if you see orange, frankly, to a certain extent, even if you see yellow, you still, as someone who's evaluating the traffic, remembers that, yeah, the concentrations are still in the peak hours. And if you're hitting your 24 hour capacity, or exceeding it in the case of the red line, that's a problem. So it may not capture that dot level that I think people often accidentally look for. But if you kind of try and remember what I just said, it'll make a little more sense to you. Now moving into some of the numbers, 2050, as I mentioned earlier, is your study horizon for this. So about 26 years from today, you have a width bypass. Now that's full bypass and without bypass. And there you can start to see some of the key impacts. Now, the one I'll point out probably hardest is Route 7. So based on projections of the model, we're looking at in 2050 without the bypass, just over 45,000 trips on Route 7 with the bypass closer to 28,000. Okay. And that's averaged across the segments. As I mentioned earlier, if you want to focus on the interchange segment, you're going to see a higher number in both those cases. But that's, you know, averaged out across the area. You're going to see the projected volume for each of these things. And one thing I want to definitely point out is that the loop around Stonewall Industrial Park modeled by far the poorest. And unfortunately, that is also by far your most expensive. So as we get into some of the results of this study, keep that in mind as we move forward. A couple others I'll point out because it's easy to focus on the big dogs. But one is Cincinnati Road. Without access to the bypass segments, you've got 14,000 trips almost in 2050 with 9,000. I don't have a number on it in this graphic, but I'd like to point out Greenwood Road. You see the improvement there as well just based on the colors. Tasker Road as well. We go from red and orange to plain blue with the inclusion of the Warrior Drive extension and improvements there. Moving into the proposed solutions. And I would ask you to think about what's missing. I already mentioned the loop around Stonewall Industrial Park, but the segments you're also not going to see in terms of full-blown 37 segments at this time are Route 7 to Route 50 as an independent segment and also Route 50 to 522. So we can talk about that more in a second. I just want to kind of get that out front that you're not going to see those in the recommended solutions at this time. The first is a new two-lane roadway between Route 7 and Route 11. Yes, I know we need to fix our graphic here that ends at Snowden Bridge Boulevard. But through the modeling, this is... This is carrying about 18,000 trips a day. And it's diverting even once you take away the fact of not the full loop is going in. It diverts massive traffic from Route 7. I think most of the segments on Route 7 lose about 8,000 trips with the implementation of this road. And like I've already said, this road ends up carrying about 18,000. Yes, sir. Is this proposed as a limited access road or would there be... This is proposed as... Initially, a two-lane highway. Which... But with controlled access. That's an important theme in this study. That, no, it's not a limited access highway anymore. It is something that we would have to be, as a county, very careful about controlling access on because that's the downside of not having a limited access highway. If you get, frankly, for lack of a better term, spendthrift with your decisions for allowing access, that will kill a road faster than anything. Because a two-lane road... I was thinking it would just develop. You'd get up there and you'll just develop it. Absolutely. It'll gunk up, too. That's a challenge. A two-lane road that does not have controlled access, VDAR starts thinking about four lanes at 8,000 trips. And we're sitting here telling you that this thing will carry 18,000 trips as a two-lane road. But it's not true if you don't properly control the access. So definitely keep that in mind. Number two, and this is a combination of two projects. One is... The three-laning of Cincinnati Road. I can't remember if I mentioned it in practice. I'm not here. But that was a key topic of the public that came out, particularly to our second transportation forum meeting which featured this project. So that was November of 23. So our consultant definitely took a harder look at that as we moved into the recommendations phase. And I'm sure the majority of us are used to hearing various complaints about Cincinnati Road. But it was found that a three-lane segment in there would help. But I want to particularly point out this piece right here labeled Hagerty Boulevard. There is a correction there. Hallowed Crossing Way. When... I think I didn't do a great job at Transportation Committee of making clear that that is not a dead-end road that's being proposed there. You look at that and you say, why are you suggesting this stuff? We're not suggesting this stuff. We're suggesting to come up... from Cincinnati Road and connect to the bottom of Hallowed Crossing Way which is under construction with the Opec and Cross Seat development. That's really important because right now, if I live over here and I want to get to Route 7, I don't have too many darn ways to go. I can wind over here through Channing Drive and end up on Valley Mill or I can come over here to Greenwood Road, both of which have well-known problems. So one of the things, as you look through the section where the consultant... broke down the five segments of the roadway and they talked about the segment from Route 7 to Route 50, they observed that the benefits of getting this as a completed connection just between 7 and Cincinnati Road are roughly equal to the potentially $200 million segment of an independent 37 from 7 all the way down to 50. So that's one of those kind of low-cost, high-benefit items that came out of the city. And frankly, it was just the kind of thing we were looking for. John, can I add a point to that real quick? There is a rezoning cooking on the back burner that will come to the commission early next year for that property. For that, that's going to include that roadway. You all may have gotten correspondence from citizens in the sense of the incline already. They had heard about it and gotten pretty fired up early in the process. Third, we have a new combination two- and four-lane roadway between 81 and 522. So this is down at exit 310, as well as the extension of Warrior Drive. So you have four lanes from where Warrior Drive would connect with 37 over to existing 37 and two lanes, once again, based on what the modeling justifies, from that point over to 522 and Warrior Drive, I believe calls for two lanes in there as well. That's one we have planned for four lanes. And we have a number of proffers on there. I'll not go off on a tangent. I'll keep going here. And finally, a widening airport road from Route 522 to Admiral Byrd Drive. Now, there's a few reasons why you're seeing that. That one came up as a question at Transportation Committee. It's a combination of, well, that's taking your traffic. That might have... We've gone on 37. Frankly, this is already a popular shortcut, if you will, for folks coming up from South 522 that are trying to get to 50 to head east. I live over here on the other side of the city off Middle Road, and I use that myself. I come over Crossover Boulevard, one of your county projects. That's been a big win. And I continue on, and that's much faster than going up this way and going through all the lights. There's another project that... Didn't quite make the cut for the study, but as we move forward in time, and depending on what land use things come on, you've got a comp plan connection from the end of existing Justice Drive to come here. If things were to transpire in a way that that road ended up making sense and being able to be built, there's a good chance that would diminish the need to widen Airport Road in that segment because that would start sharing the load. But that's a little... That's a little off the cuff. So just something to think about. But once again, exactly the kind of thing we're trying to look at, talk about when we consider whether we fully need these segments of major highway. So as I said at the beginning, we're seeking your questions. We're seeking your feedback. We're going to be sharing those with the board just as we will what we got at Transportation Committee. Now, if you sit here and just tear us to pieces, it's probably not going to the next board meeting. We're probably going to do some more work and come back around. But if in general you accept it and you just have some good solid feedback for us, that's what we'll do. We'll be packaging it up and taking it on to the board along with the Transportation Committee feedback. And like I said, we're really looking for guidance that we're really going to push the board even harder on this point. How do you want this to look in your comprehensive plan? We're still trying to decide internally whether it needs to be an independent effort. Or maybe we should go in with three lines after each из今回 deadline. Butчик also talked about you know Strike and some of the canals in the program where the we cannot make sure there are applicants or awardees that we want to do something with. So we're probably going to have to figure out how to, you know, figure out how to ask those questions. that as well. But you could pull this in the, you know, if you're really still married to the existing 37, and I'll admit staff is not fully sold on this being the way to go because you've got some key decision points coming up that are going to force that choice anyway. The rezoning that Tim mentioned is just one. If you're trying to kind of have the cake and eat it too in terms of the ultimate 37, but also, you know, adopt these more modest improvements that according to the modeling will get us through 2050, there's a way to write that up. But like I said, it puts you in a very difficult position for some of your upcoming decisions. That rezoning that Tim mentioned, well, with the gold standard 37 that's been on your comp plan for a very long time, right away eats the whole thing. With this, you know, assuming you want to step up on the proffers and actually make the decision and make the connection or move you in a very real way toward that, that becomes an attainable connection in a much more reasonable timeframe. So that's the balance that, you know, thankfully staff doesn't get to vote. We get to present and tell you the pros and cons and where you all decide to go is where we will follow. So that's something to consider, you know, is this put in as an incremental approach toward still the ultimate because we don't want to let that go? Or do we want to say, you know, we're going to have to move you in a different direction? No, this is our plan now and sort of step back from the other. Like I said, there's pros and cons to both. I won't wax poetic about that. But that's the kind of feedback we're looking for. Mr. Chairman, can I add just one thing to just put an emphasis on something John touched on really well that I think is really important, doesn't get lost in some of the data of the study. I'm looking for an overall 37. Probably just use the model. I think the model matters. Yeah. I think the model matters. I think the model matters. I think the model matters. I think the model matters. I think the model matters. So I think the model matters. Yeah. So when John talks about those, was it four proposed solutions in total? Yes. Yes. Just don't forget that that means that anything that wasn't part of those four proposed solutions is not something that we need to be working towards or spending our efforts on, spending money on or building before 2050 because the study says we really just won't need it. It won't be worth the time and effort and money to construct it. And that includes the loop around Stonewall Industrial Park the connection from 81 to 11 in the Stonewall area I think John said it already but the connection from 522 to 50 and then 50 all the way through to Cincinnati I need the seven but to Cincinnati right because it's this content with the hollowed crossing way well I guess it was a value that was crossing is kind of an alternative so I don't want I want to make sure that doesn't get lost in the in the conversation at all that is a result of the study as well as to not hurt not necessarily pursue those efforts in the near term but focus on those those four proposed solutions that he overviewed so part of the challenge for staff and that comprehensive planning discussion I'm trying not to seem like I'm trying to steer in a certain way because as I said earlier we will follow where you lead or where the board leads to be more specific but there's a state code requirement for comprehensive plans is that they'd be 20 years in the future well right now we've got an evaluation that goes 26 years out in the future and says those pieces aren't needed so that's the challenge for staff 37 golden standard study yeah I feel like it's a by site comparison oh it's a map I mean in terms of like a typical section I mean we could pull up the your County GIS and it's all overlaid on there because we quite far with the drawings it's it's it's one of the most frankly dialed in in terms of location and right-of-way impact and everything of any roadway that's in your comprehensive plan because of all the investment that's been put into that so you're going from from that to something less trying to compare like the area of these four segments how much like you wanted to increase those those segments and build out 37 like what are your is that an option you mean is like a future add-on like building and build these smaller sections I think that was contemplated as part of the study in a lot of cases in some areas and wrong here John it it certainly doesn't preclude it at all that's the case well I'm not sure if that's something that's been discussed or I'm sure we can do more In hollow crossing way is the only one where I am of the opinion if you make that connection with the smaller version of it it's not really going to be terribly practical in the Foreseeable future to ever put the interstate style connection through alongside of that Beyond that I think every other section it'd be possible to come back and either expand or Replace with a larger facility into the future Potentially and yeah, it's worth noting too that with the exception of around Stonewall industrial park to 81 The segments that are for lack of a better way potentially falling off are outside the UDA and swaza And that's kind of one of the key points like if if in the future you're wanting to expand the UDA and swaza into those areas Well that changes the inputs that led to these conclusions, so it would be very important at that time Potentially to look at this maybe maybe that starts to justify reintroducing segments. So if that's the way we have gone So that's that's important to consider too John or Alex what was the basis of the? Land use in the gravity model. I realize wasn't the record that what was that was that our future land use plan there? Yes Why it's very good at giving us a report every year on how many lots we have available within The UDA and in County wide and so on that could be built on That's just wonder for a plan and for 2050 that we have we Flucked out all that end and this would be in addition To the number of lots that I always talk about our UDA report This contemplates owned properties, but they used our future land use map So it would be what I talked about as far as pipeline housing capacity plus anything that's comp land but not second. I Want to make sure? unfair to these guys in terms of that determination because this was the BDOT model which has been in the process of being updated which we had already given feedback on the update of where they take projections not solely based on our land use plan they they they use Weldon Cooper projections of employment and population into the future they then go back to us and we consult our you know land use planning and help them determine based on what are called traffic analysis zones that go into building model where we expect that growth to be allocated so it's not a direct tie-in to the comp plan in the way a TIA would be where we're inputting that zone that potential zoning designation but it's done that way and that was updated for this I noticed there's some cost estimates was my friend mr. Johnson able to participate in the cost estimate side of things I not directly okay not directly VDOT definitely had input to the study we actually had a couple more than a couple but when you include the fact that Brad Reed was involved in the modeling all the way back to the beginning of the study levels of input with VDOT but no this did not actually go to L&D and they gave their opinions on the cost estimate well you got the planning level they're planning that's what we're doing our planning level cost estimates just a few thoughts on this and then take cases yeah first of all I is a jitters just a sad сделать because we've them prior in these I to fix the traffic as much as we can. Maybe sometime in the future, I mean, a multibillion-dollar project to build 37 East, certainly I don't think any of us would see in any of our lifetimes, even you young folks. So I think this is the practical approach. We need to be realistic of what we can get done, and I think this is the closest thing we can get. But now, having said that, I would like to see us come up with some way to make sure that we preserve the land that this is supposed to be built on in our comp plan or make sure that if somebody comes in with a development, that all of a sudden we don't have a manufacturing plant in the middle of where we're going to build a road. I don't know how we do that, but you guys are the smart ones who can figure that out. Well, in that ask, are you talking about the older limited access, style of 37 providing that future right away? No, I'm talking about what we're talking about now. Okay, yeah, because that's a key distinction. Great intersections. I mean, the ship has already sailed. The horse is out of the barn on original 37. We can't, I mean, it's not going to happen. So we need to figure out what are the steps, how's our best approach for the future with where we are now. Part of that is being cognizant of the underlying zoning. When you're building across buy-right property, it's a challenge, you know, because even if we're showing it across RA right now, it's one thing if somebody comes in and wants to make that RA RP. It's another when they're satisfied with doing five acre lots. We don't get to just take the rights away. I would love, and I'm stargazing here, okay, I would love it if the county at some point had, you know, a right-of-way fund where as properties become available, that it would massively benefit us to just have them in hand for something like this. That we're able to kind of snap them up. I've many times over the years, I've had exactly that discussion with folks as properties have become available and we're just never in a position to do anything about it. We have rezonings that we looked at over the last 20 years that we couldn't even get the developer to put the 37 track on. Yep. So, I mean, somehow we need to break that log jam and get, so we can preserve the ability to build these. I fully agree, but I would also say that that discussion, that willingness to say no, and I'm not saying they've been unwilling to say no. I'm not trying to go there or anything like that, but that does become the point where potentially you say no to that result. Any other questions for Mr. Bishop? Yes, sir. Well, I just wanted to make a comment. I think it's a step in the right direction. I think for decades now, we've had our site set on a road that was unattainable. Everyone's agreed it couldn't be built because of cost, and multiple reasons with land. So I think it's a step in the right direction to focus on things that are feasible and economical to be able to get to to make real-time improvements now. That being said, I kind of want to touch real quick on that stonewall loop, and I understand that as designed with the crossing of 81 and the elevations and the interchanges and all that, it just drives that cost figure way up. But what I didn't see in this study was any evaluation, any consideration of maybe alternatives there, a connection out of the industrial park to the existing Route 37 or some other improvement there that could drastically improve that area. Is that area still, even as you look at it in either model, it's where all that red starts? Were any smaller projects looked at there? Not as part of that study. We have, frankly, for some years, been trying to, unsuccessfully I'll note, because of a severe lack of support of it by VDOT, get some sort of traction with the Lenore Drive connection to Route 37, to the point where we did have an opportunity for kind of the last piece of potential right-of-way to purchase. But just the interactions with VDOT were such that we would have, and because we're looking at EDA money, EDA was going to potentially step up and buy it. And so, we had to make it a little bit more expensive. And we had to make it a little bit more expensive to purchase it and hang onto it to where we just, there was no confidence that we would be able to get anywhere. Now, that said, that particular parcel is not particularly developable. We're probably not going to miss out on it. And in the back of our minds, that was probably part of the decision and that sort of thing. I mean, not that I was a decision maker on it, but just things like that get thought about. But, that, analyzing that in terms of how much it helps with traffic was, and I'm not saying it's a bad thing, but it's a good thing. But, that, analyzing that in terms of how much it helps with traffic was, but it's a good thing. But, that, analyzing that in terms of how much it helps with traffic was, but it's a good thing. But, that, analyzing that in terms of how much it helps with traffic was, part of an earlier study. And, there's so much of a focus on getting to that interchange there to, and there's so much of a focus on getting to that interchange there to, because it's closer to the industrial park, that for some reason, at least the modeling that was done just wasn't showing even Lenoir Drive as an independent exit, as being that much help. I think it kinda got lost in the shuffle of the volumes that are heading to the interchange itself. We haven't taken it off the comprehensive plan, we haven't necessarily given up on it, but yeah, it didn't necessarily pop for this study either. Other questions? Mr. Curtis? I live up there, I deal with this, so I completely understand this. I, again, I'll echo the other comments here that I think this is a great, kind of, alternative to something that we know we probably just can't do anymore. So, this gets us in that right direction. My, back to the question that I had earlier on that 30, that two lane, I immediately kinda, you know, kinda, what's a two lane road gonna do? Because I know a lot of, I drive up there all the time, I see the tractor trailers that are trying to get on 81, you know, tractor trailers on two lane roads don't go very, don't help driving that much. Would part of this be for that two lane road, purchasing easements to be able to make that a four lane in the future? Would that be with the foresight to that? And that's why you see, if I could go to that graphic. I'm going the wrong direction. So, you see what's shown here. Now, when you're building two of a potential additional four, over the time in my career, I've seen shifting attitudes as far as what's right or not. So, I wouldn't commit to exactly what's gonna happen here. Because at the end of the day, it'll be what VDOT tells us they like at the time that it gets built. But what you see here is potentially one lane in either direction, still separated by median. I think that helps you a little bit with the truck concern. I also want to make clear, we're not talking about a two lane country road. We're talking about a 55 mile an hour highway that is built to modern standards. You know, like even if we were to say, be taking existing roadways such as Woods Mill and Jordan Springs Road, and saying, we're going to build two of a potential additional four, over the time that it gets built, we're not talking about a two lane country road. We're talking about a five mile highway that is built to modern standards. So, what you're saying is, it's not just a five mile highway, it's a full blown construction, a construction that's built to the purpose they need to serve. You're still talking about a full blown reconstructed, reconstruction to get them to the kind of standard we're talking about, so that they can operate safely and efficiently. But, yeah, and your fears about being able to control the access, to use physical vessels in a foot, in a normal vehicle to양in a vehicle. Tell me a little bit more about making sure that, how much money is artworks worth that different road upcoming for whatever purpose, for a variety of purposes you think that they're doing, have options, so that that is going to be better on the market, is the best way to get them around andegata, and also things that you're listening to, for example, directly at each deal that day, whether it's futuretek some, talking about here is what is the method to bring these together because we've kind of talked tonight this is long-range but at some point what we've got on our current plan in the long range have to come together so you know full disclosure on what happened with the primary road improvement plan and frankly why it ended up behind schedule from the interstate secondary plans because we always bring it together is when I first drafted it I based it off of the results we were seeing from this study and I got ahead of myself and the committee called me on it a little bit they weren't frankly comfortable with making that commitment because what I had done is I went ahead and pulled out these segments that weren't showing up because I'm like if they're 26 years out and still not being justified why do I have them in my primary road improvement plan which I'm using for priorities to get you know today grants and things like that so you know I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get that done but I'm going to get that done so I got ahead of myself I mean I should know because this wasn't you know adopted or accepted yet or whatever but I was excited about the work and and they called me on it and they were not comfortable with going there yet however it still did spur the conversation where for those like Roger in particular who've been looking at that primary road improvement plan for longer than I've been working here those segments of 37 have always been you know the all together and all the number one priority instance of 451 I had a call on September 11 for some Annual Ebonyles the 26th of 72 meeting the board in McN destined the public education certificate approval and business policy and it would have been worse if we had beenrill not reading it just to Shelley like stocking her final answers I explained that to a criticalAND carried all of the Stewart elementary school sheet quite well it's a simple study really simple system with the results of this study, we would build a primary road improvement plan off that. But, yeah. I guess I've already approved. I didn't have a problem pulling it off because I did it once. I just didn't get to complete it. I'm curious, Wyatt, would this, the segment we're looking at here, would that induce some kind of development out there that may not be anticipated? I think, to John's point earlier, if you do it correctly, no. But you could easily do it incorrectly. And the key to that is access. So I think if and when a time comes, and we have additional studies to do before we can apply for grant money for a section like this, namely studying whether or not the existing system being improved would serve the same purpose. But if we got through that, got grant money aligned, I think staff would suggest that the board take some significant action to ensure this thing. So that's something that we're looking at. And I think, as I said, if we get through this, I think it's going to be a good time to talk about what we're looking at. But as far as the roadways, I think the roadway is something different than our typical roadways as far as access is concerned. We don't know what that looks like right now. Right now, the state standards drive all of our access limitations. But I think it would be prudent if we want to build this thing for the future to ensure that we handle it differently. And, frankly, that's, of course, we have an ethic, have had for a long time here in Frederick County, the ethic of development builds roads. Development pays for itself. Right. Thank you. And I think it's only in fairly recent years, after many years of trying to make that true, I do believe the board is trying to make that true, we see that it's just not true. It doesn't fully happen. Kind of oftentimes, no matter how hard you try, the numbers get too big and that sort of thing. And it becomes hard to turn down, particularly like economic development that's not fully paid its way and that sort of thing. And when you're getting them to proffer pieces of the road, how do you tell them that they can't have access to it? So that's a key thing. I have a question. Yes. I think this was an excellent job. I live right in the middle of that. And you've touched all the pressure points. You've touched all of the things that I can see coming. I come from Fairfax and Loudoun County. And I know what I don't want to see. But like Roger said, the horses are not the same. They're not the same. They're not the same. For sure. And the first thing we need to do is get the horses out of the barn. We've got to make the best of it. So if we keep the end in mind but don't make the end the mission, I mean, mission is probably the wrong word, the focus, I personally don't mind seeing the eastern 37 being a little like a Lego path. And not the nice, straight, clean-shot 60 miles an hour of the west side. But the point is, the benefit is getting from A to B, not getting to A to B five minutes faster. So if we end up with a road, and I do like the median strip, a zero median strip locks us in. So we have enough of a median and shoulders to accommodate the future. Without saying that, oh, this is part of 37. And every time we get another set of proffers, we can nudge them into saying, the alignment needs to be north-south a little more. Whatever it is to make that happen, I'm all for that. I think there's a good start. Thank you. I promised Wyatt I'd have him out of here by 8. I'd just like to make one suggestion. Back to our original discussion on the Middletown project. I understand that a contractor's main first presentation, you know, if you read the art of the deal, you come in low and you try to get the most you can out of it. But I think we need to be cognizant of his traffic projections. I mean, look at the traffic projections that were showed here a little bit earlier. The projected numbers from 2005 were 25% under those. So saying that debt. Level of service next year on those intersections to 81 are going to fail probably is not true because the pipeline projections are very unpredictable. And probably will not be what they're projected to be. But what will be what they're projected to be is a number of truck traffic trips coming out of their facility. So when they start saying their proportional share is 14%, we need to look at that and say, you know, really, is it 14%? Yeah. Regardless if it's all trucks and we should be five times or three times. If the pipeline trips don't occur, all of a sudden that 14% becomes 20 or 25%. So we need to look at how much they're proposing as their monetary. And, you know, we've been burnt so many times by monetary gifts. What we need to get is they need to build one of the intersections with put the lights up, do the signalization at one of the intersections. I mean, if Dave holiday agreed to it, getting Dave to agree to something. These guys. Okay. Unless there's any burning questions remaining. I think we've covered this pretty well. I think we've given what you need. And I would encourage anything. Maybe you come up with. I know you haven't had an opportunity to read this full study. So please dig into it. Please send us emails. We're open to whatever you come back with. It's great work. I agree. It's attainable. And I appreciate what you've done. Now it's your work on it. And I look forward to moving it so we can get some roads built. Not sit at the traffic lights. All right. We are adjourned. Thank you very much. Thank you.
