Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-01-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=310
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you 311 government in helping churches only up a hobby yeah from our job to do that or your yeah I'm sorry about that wid ??? I know that commission if you know what her number ya know what time I spent you are letting her budget I'd be able to Save money from the wedding. I mean we hurt the schools number there business point in my person 29% 6.5 million dollar increase in health insurance yes absolutely oh I know let's get started with the work session Mr. Bolhofer oh and Supervisor Walz is going to be here in about 15-20 seconds okay I want to start this process so I put this in your notebook so I can kind of like walk through this notebook some of you have seen this notebook lots of times some not okay so if I start to go too fast because I've talked about this for a long time you're awesome thank you okay so we start out and hopefully this presentation kind of flows the same as this notebook so we start out by kind of well first we had a calendar and then go to the next tab which is the blue the blue blue and white sheets of paper which is behind general fund summary okay so to me like this is one of the most important pieces of paper in this notebook it's the one I look at all the time and so what this blue and white sheet of paper is going to tell you is that we tried to identify by departments those increases that were greater than 3% so that you wouldn't have to go and pull them out yourself at a high level view the increase over last year is approximately 3 million dollars and that is because we have a 3% COLA in there for 2.1 we included the increased school debt of 1.1 because we already knew that number we have some cuts in there of about 1.1 one of them being the board capital fund is no longer there but we do have I mean the board contingency but we do have a contingency fund in there that is our 300 that we normally have and then we budget for a general fund increase of 8% okay we're waiting on those numbers from the health insurance company our claims are greater than that so we'll probably have to spend some more time on that so at the end of this blue and white sheet of paper you'll see 3 million dollar increase so it's on the last page and that kind of ties in with this overview that does not include the school operating budget is that correct that includes the school operating at present level no increase okay all right so then the next tab next tab is there because in the past we've had criticism that we don't give enough information so we tried to give you more so we take what's on the blue and the white forms and we give you the line item detail so this is line item expenditure detail in case you're interested why are you looking at me like that because I'm happy with the blue and white and so that that last sheet of paper is the one that we're going to be using for the next slide okay so that that last sheet of paper also ties in with the total expenditures that are on the blue and white that's been requested this detail gives you the two prior years it gives you the current year it gives you year to date in the current year and then it gives you what is being requested for FY27 Cheryl before you go any further going back to Jason's question yeah I'm sorry on the the blue sheet and the previous section school operating but did you say debt service wasn't there so we don't know the school operating number yet so we just put a placeholder at the current level we did know the increased debt service so we put that in there and that was 1.1 million okay thank you you're welcome all right so the next slide talks about proposed revenue and there's also a tab that says proposed it says general fund revenue so we put a summary in the front which also is on the slide and then behind that is the same the same detailed information that we provide for the expenditures you have two prior years current year we have a net income increase of 431,000 dollars per year we have a net income increase of 431,000 dollars per year we have a net income increase of 431,000 dollars per year it's kind of a little bit misleading because we have some grants in there the top two numbers are the most important probably your general taxes and your local taxes so if you go to this say you go to this detailed revenue sheet and you look at go to the second page and you'll see to the far right it'll say increase decrease of 2.3 million dollars that's your increase that's budgeted for real estate taxes and that 2.3 is in the slide number of 2.8 I'm sorry can you repeat that one more time I didn't follow where the page you were referencing okay so behind the general fund we had the summary and then go to two more pages it says page two got it okay so on the far right it shows an increase in the column of 2.3 million do you see that yep okay that 2.3 is the increase that we have budgeted for real estate taxes that does not include a tax increase that would be the projected growth that the commissioner of revenue shared with us so that 2.3 is part of this number at the top of 2.8 and you can go down the whole chart and do that just to give you just to go down those variances some numbers that kind of stuck out to me so the real estate and the personal property is the largest contributor to that general property tax increase we just talked about the 2.2 the other local taxes that went down 1.1 the majority of that is sales tax and meals and lodging and these are budgeted numbers so they might not necessarily be going down as far as actuals they might be going up like 1 or 2 or 3 percent but we're over budgeted in the current year so we have to adjust that in FY27 so I'll stop and see if we have any questions up to this point before I move forward last year we had a lower than expected personal property revenue what are we protecting this year we ended up being short about $800,000 okay but we underestimated real estate so therefore it offset okay the increase that's budgeted for personal property is $1 million does that answer your question? what's our forecast for personal property this year? is it going to go up as compared to last year? we're pretty much holding the same okay we budgeted for FY27 $1 million more in personal property tax okay so we're going to move on so the next tab you have says capital and the next sheet on the presentation shows you capital as well so this is what the presentation sheet looks like alright so we have capital requests which normally is not budgeted in the operating it's discussed later in the last slide in the last several years we took it out of the capital fund we have capital requests of $9.7 million in the general fund we gave you a quick overview we had electoral $300,000 IT $200,000 sheriff $1.8 million public communications $300,000 maintenance $300,000 parks and recs $6.2 million and then others over half a million so what we did in the notebook which is the purple and the yellow sheets okay this is the detail of that and then behind it is the justifications that the departments would have provided us for that capital request the items in so capital is not part like when we get to the end to say okay this is our revenue and this is our expenditure capital is not in that equation only the items in yellow because they would have revenue associated with them so we don't want to budget the revenue and not budget the expenditure capital statement we makes ourselves each one accountable for goods paid poorly and also what we know that we did is that we did over time used the two same criteria $10.1 million additional capital and then we had enormous capital expenses $100,000 lawn mowing units and we also had little bit of铆 and we simply to go through Fire and Rescue 8, Animal Shelter 1, Social Services 1, and Engineering 2. We have included behind the tab in your notebook the information, the capital, the information that would be provided to us for those requests. All right, so instead of going to the next tab, I'm just going to stay on the presentation. So to give you an overview of what's in and what's not at this point, we talked about the first three items in the beginning being in the budget. The school debt of 1.1, the 3%, which is 2%. The 2.1 million for non-school employees, and that the operating contingency of 300,000 for the county administrator. So it's kind of important to tell you what's not in there. What's not in there are non-grant capital requests, which that was a slide we just talked about, and there aren't any new positions in there as well. That information is provided to you along with the costs, but it's not what we'll talk about at the end about whether our revenues are. Our expenditures are greater. Excuse me a second, and you'll have to excuse the elementary questions here. No, I'm good. This is the first time going through this with the county. So you're saying that our second page, your second slide, okay, where we're increasing our operating revenues by three, and that you had, we had a, if I'm looking at this correctly, which I probably am not. All your capital requests aren't included in this at all. Is that correct? That's correct. When we talk about our revenues and our expenditures, our expenditures do not include capital and does not include positions. Okay. All right. Sorry. Just want to make sure I'm on the same page. Okay. All right. So some of the things that aren't in here, we don't have any additional school operating funds. Dr. Hummer will present to us. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Dr. Hummer. I think they meet next week. So if I get any information, I'll push it out to you. It does not include any funding for the transportation fund. The current year, that number is 7 million. It does not include a tax increase. So when you see the real estate growth or personal property growth, that is at the current rate. And the general fund is not balanced yet. The budget is not balanced with all those assumptions. The next page will show you what the revenues and expenditures so far are. These amounts tie back into your detail or your summaries. The revenue is short by 2.6 million over the requested expenditures that does not include what we talked about. So whenever you add positions or capital or additional school funding, this 2.6 is going to increase. The transportation is not in the budget. Alright, so can we go back to the notebook and go to the next tab? The next tab should say outside agencies. These amounts are in the budget. And this information is provided because it's always a hot topic on what are we giving to nonprofits. So we pull it out and recap it for you. And then we also provide behind the scenes information. So if you're looking for a non-profit, you can go to the website and you can see the information that's in the budget. And then we also provide behind the scenes information. So if you're looking for a non-profit, you can go to the website and you can see the information that's in the budget. And then we also provide it's scripture. So thoughts and meanings of students receiving that. So this isfan<|fi|> pages of tecnologia, where theillUniversal standards came into winter. when we go make the final budget. That's part of it. So I'll tell you, historically, it has tended to come at the tail end of the budget process, but the board does approve it. If you reduce these requests, it reduces that shortfall 2.6. If you increase or add to those, it increases the shortfall. We have in the past, and Mike will talk about this when he talks about the counter, sometimes it's requested that we have these nonprofits or other departments come and do a presentation that you can ask them questions directly. Are the 0% increases, are those based upon a request that they've already made, or is that just a placeholder? The 0% increase would mean that they've already made a request and they requested the same level of funding. Okay, gotcha. All right. The next tab says school board. So when I send you, you know, hopefully when they do the presentation, they'll give you a copy, or if I get something, I'll make copies for your notebook. As of now, all we have is the updated debt service schedule, so we want to provide that, because somewhere during this process, that'll be a question. So you can see between 26 and 27, the top 10% of the school board, we've got two numbers at the far right, then it goes up a million dollars. Next year, it jumps a lot more. Three, three and a half. How much? Three or three and a half, which one is it? It's the difference between 25... Excuse me? From $21,198 to $25.46. 4.3, is that 4.3? 4.2? 2? 2. The tab of budget scenarios, those are things that probably, during this process, you'll request, you know, what ifs, and we have a tab for that so you can keep it straight. And then behind the other, the last several years, I don't know, five, it's COVID, the board has had a capital fund. I've heard about it. There's been lots of talks about it. So what we tried to do is we said, okay, this is how much we have in the capital, but these are the things that the board has said they wanted to do to try to get you to where are you now. So currently, with what I know, I know that there's construction costs for fire companies, for Fire Company 22. I know there's a match to a grant for Charlestown. And I know that there is... There's a supplement for radios. Those are the things I know. Outside of that, it's not on there. Behind this sheet shows you a history of that capital fund since 2017. The last page shows you the $30 million that we're starting with, and then you deduct what we have. So there's about... $14.5 million in there. The past two years, we've used 14.2 and 14.9 during the budget process to fund things like school capital, county capital, and transportation. All right. So then I'll go back to the presentation, which is the last sheet. I think I've went over everything except for the calendar and the comments and questions. And so we'll let Mike take it from here with the calendar. And then I know that you really haven't had a lot of time for questions, but you can call me anytime. You can email me anytime. For the next budget meeting. Yes, Your Honor. Thanks for putting this together. Excuse me? Thank you. You're welcome. One quick question, sir. Sure. In your memory, has this board ever been faced with looking already, what, $2.6 million deficit? Yes. Yes. I mean, we've... Yes. We've sat here and we have looked at $10 and $15 million deficits when revenue was... I mean, revenue is really not tanking. It's not growing like, you know, everyone likes for it to do. But we're not looking at revenue loss. And so... That helps. Thank you. Mm-hmm. If I may just elaborate, just so none of you all go into shock over the next two, three or four weeks, I've heard preliminary numbers from the school. So you see that we have a shortfall now of $2.6 million before our capital, before our new employees, and before any increase in the school. And I can tell you with the school, the number of people who have been in the school, the numbers, they're going to come back to you with their increase of health insurance, which I believe is 29% this year, because everybody's been hit hard with health insurance and a straight across the board 3% pay increase. They're going to need just $10 million increase from last year just to cover those costs. And they also have other items in there. So just to give you an idea of the magnitude of the whole, it's fairly significant. What did you say again, Mike, was the driving factor? For them, the $10 million, they're going to have a 29% increase in their health insurance costs and then a 3% pay raise. When you add those two together, it's in the neighborhood of $10 million. Here, we'll try. And we're going to get in with the same. We've really figured 8% for health. And ours could be in the same neighborhoods, and we'll get those numbers. So there's some significant numbers that have to be addressed. Yeah, that goes back to the question you asked earlier. What have you seen? Now, those numbers are up a lot more. Probably about $18 million in the whole. I've actually done some early numbers, and that's pretty darn close. Keep in mind that your real estate tax increase, one cent, is $1.8 million. So when your personal property is a lot less, like $150,000 or something, $150,000 for each penny. I will tell you, I've already met with a lot of the department heads and had a meeting with them on an ongoing basis. And they've already made. I've already met with a lot of them. And they've already made a lot of cuts to their capital and agreements to make changes to bring that number down. As I said, that's a very challenging number. The primary issue on the calendar I wanted to discuss tonight is, as you know, next week we have scheduled on Friday an all-day meeting. I'm not sure if it's necessary unless this board wants it. Because what we would like to see is, from the board, who is it you would like to talk to? Because there's probably some departments that are straightforward. There are no changes. You may want to talk. So if this board. Let us know who they'd like to bring in. I think every year we bring in pretty much most of the outside agencies. There may be some you don't want to bring in because it's going to be the same as last year. So if the board let us know who you'd really like to hear from, we'd like to get that information so we can schedule those people and get that set up. But if the board chooses not to, we can miss that meeting next week. And I believe we can accommodate all those meetings in a budget meeting or supervisor meetings or on other Wednesdays. But it's the board's choice on that. Those are outside agencies. Outside agencies. And talking about for next Friday. And also certain department heads. Because I'm sure you'll want to talk to certain departments. Yeah. Okay. So it's the board's choice on that. If whether or not you wanted to have that all day on Friday, if it makes sense this early. Because I know you still have a lot of going through on these books. Feel free, as Cheryl stated, to contact Cheryl. Please come into my office if you want to go down and go through this and sit down for certain people like me. I'm a show me person. So it's a lot easier for me if someone shows me directly. So if you want to do that, just make an appointment and come in and I can go through this book with you. I'm more than glad to do that. And in the future meeting and probably next week, we'll be giving you a better idea of what those big numbers are put all together. So you can see the magnitude and what issues we're going to have to address. So you have the big numbers next week. I will have some. Yes. And they won't be the exact, but it'll give you, they'll be pretty darn close. So you can actually see the magnitude of what the shortfall you have. So do you think it's necessary to meet next Friday all day or do you think for early? I think the three important departments are going to be school, sheriff, fire and rescue. I don't know. Yeah, I think I want to, you know, public works because they had some significant changes. The sheriff, fire and the school's already got a date scheduled. So we also need to hear from Parks and Rec at 612. So that's, that's, that's, and I mean, it may be totally. Right. We just need to hear why. Why. Are the departments, is this next Friday we're talking about? We have it on this calendar for next Friday. We set that early as a placeholder. It's really up to the board. Are they prepared? At this time, do you think, or would they, would they be better off to have two weeks in between? They would be better off to have more time. I say we wait. There's no reason to have a meeting if they're not prepared to really come in with what they need. How do you, how do you all feel? I think it's important, but, you know, there's no reason to discuss things if we don't have all the facts. I'm good, but we have a number of new board members. I think everybody's shaking yes, they agree that we should hold off. So. Yeah. Jason, you good? And I will tell you, which I'll be honest with you until I dig into this book, I can't tell you if I'm good or not. That's a very honest question. There's nothing I'm mistaken. So I might be hanging out with, with Mike a good bit. Hey, um, and I'll give you a, just a, let you know what I've been working on to give you an idea. For instance, I've met with parks and rec and I talked to them about, you know, the whole we have this year, and they've already gone through all their projects. And you see in there where they've asked for like $6 million, and I've got it down with Parks and Rec. They've stretched it out, and they've reduced that number to $1 million. So I've been working on departments now looking for big numbers because when you have those kind of holes, I've been trying to get the big numbers down first. And that's the kind of things I've been working on to make it easier on the board when you have to start looking at those things. How often do we, so you're actively working, and thank you for that, with, say, Parks and Rec. How often will we receive an updated schedule outlook? What's the process on that? Generally, it's every week or every other week, so they coincide with these budget meetings. So it could possibly be on a weekly basis, and when we get really into this, sometimes you'll receive more often than on a week. And how often, and I'm sorry for these questions. Fire away. So there's no way I can really do any homework on this tonight without truly studying. And for me to be productive, I'll make it about me, I need something before the meeting. What's the turnaround time for us to get information before the meeting to be able to come prepped for the meeting? Well, I've been, in the past, you know, people have emphasized the more time people have, the better. So our goal is to get to at least worst-case scenario a minimum of two days. You know, because some things, it takes some calculations. We may not be able to make that minimum of two days. I would suggest. Supervisor, if you could come and meet me, I could show you some analysis and such that's been done that would make your job easier. So when you start looking at this, you don't go down any rabbit holes, and I can show you those. I'll probably go down them anyways, but I'll come see you. But anyway, it might help me, yes. Why did I say that? Because I've got an idea of them. Well, my suggestion is an excellent idea. Yep. I think everybody's in agreement that we will forego next Friday. And I think you've already heard some of the key theories that, you know, our rescue should, you know, parts of it, for sure. And I'll start scheduling those. Yeah, I know, like, parts of rec, I know that they, a lot of what they have is tied to grains and stuff. So that's also, we need to hear that. Even the shares to them, I mean, they have a lot going on. So we need to know what's going on with that. So we're going to schedule those. On the 28th, is that what you're doing? The all day? Yeah, all day was canceled. No, no, on the 28th, yes. So we'll put those departments. The 28th is when we start bringing departments in. Is that what we're doing for you? All right. And I appreciate the itemized detail. Yes. I more appreciate what you gave us, so. Yeah. It's there if you need it. Yeah. And, you know, between now and the 28th, if anyone, has any questions or wants to come into my office and Mike's not available or whatever, just stop by. Absolutely. Absolutely. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Anybody got any questions? I kind of missed out on the first part, but I guess my question, Mike, is there anything that jumps out at you in the budget that we ought to pay particular attention to? No. I will tell you this. Yes. I will tell you this. We challenged all the department heads to, I didn't want anyone to submit anything in operating greater than 3%, and for the most part, department heads did a great job. The big thing we're seeing this year is the health insurance cost is the scary item, and, you know, our goal was we wanted to at least get the employees a 3% raise because we're trying to avoid going backwards with employees because when you go backwards, you end up doing salary surveys and making those great jumps later on. And we're not going to provide what 3% was going to be. We're going to be focused on our staff and student salud and, as I might say, our parents and were planning for their future and we're trying to figure out a better way to get club events, I would say, in order to keep bringing those performances to a position that will allow for, let's just say white board Ohhh, I think we know the mld right there, but as a inherited student, that's just not the right way of looking at it. Currently, the actuallaughter is 20-3P and that's up. Oh, Okay. start doing different scenarios to figure out where we end up. Because if we're 30% and you're going to fund eight, which you know you really can't even fund eight unless you make cuts someplace else, it has to be a total change. Frequently it's an ongoing process with the insurance broker and insurance and starts figuring out what that number is. We have several situations that, you know, normally we buy reinsurance for large claims. We have some late, they laser some of those large claims out now so they won't give us reinsurance on it. That's not making life any easier. Like you said, everybody's feeling that. It's going to be long. Yes. Okay. Bob? No. I'm like everybody else. I'm just starting to dig in. Yeah. It's just like. It's just a present it to you so you can start your process. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. We cancel next Friday. We're not going to worry about that. Anybody got, if there's anyone, any department that pops up that, you know, before we just talk about tonight, just shoot. I can email that right now. Educate me on the process of looking. I'm looking at different revenue streams. So for instance, if there was an idea to increase the meals tax or if there was a lodging tax, when does that come into the process? Well, meals tax, that can be raised anytime throughout the year. When it comes to real estate and personal property, that has to be set aside and advertised as well to the clerk. So that's what we're looking at. But we do have no idea. But if we're looking at, maybe I'm looking at this the wrong way, but if I'm looking at it from a holistic approach of where we need to be as a county to meet our transportation needs, because we've been putting stuff into the budget, there's lots of things that we mentioned that aren't included in our $2.6 million shortfall that Gary mentioned that maybe we're closer to 18. Maybe we should be looking at all of our levers that we pull and push. Excuse me. To try to figure out, okay, how do we minimize one impact that might be pushed, if it is lodging, let's say, that, okay, that doesn't impact the residents and citizens of Frederick County as much as a real estate tax does. And there are certain things that does impact our citizens more than others. And so I'm just trying to understand. How do we implement our process here on seeing the bigger picture? What I'll do is, is for the next meeting on Wednesday, we'll get out to you. I'll get you a revenue sheet that will outline all the potential revenue sources and how much they generate. I.e., for instance, if you were looking at the mills and lodging, you're allowed to go up maybe 2%. Each percent generates $2 million. You'll see that put in there. Tourism tax, any rules and such, how you can use it. And we'll give you a whole revenue sheet. So that way, for real easy, you can look down and go, oh, one penny in real estate tax does this. One penny in this. That way, you will have all that information of all potential revenue sources. Okay. I think you might be asking about, like, when we got about three-quarters of the way through the process, and we have the specific scenarios of real estate and how it impacts the bottom line and things like that. Was that about three-quarters of the way through the process? It's at the three-quarter. But I'll give you that revenue sheet early so you can actually do your own scenarios if you want to jot them down. Mike, in the capital funding, smart scale, do we have anything tied in that funds-wise we have to worry about? There are no issues. I'll tell you why. There are no issues with smart scale this year because there's an off year. All the funding for the previous is all set aside and taken care of, so no challenges. And we'll talk on why. There are no critical. There are no critical transportation funding items that need to be done this year because there's not a revenue share in here either. However, it's one of those things for the county. It's been putting money in that fund every year is a good policy so you keep up on your transportation. And in the past, what we've done in years like that has done $2 or $3 million, and that money's been used for those smaller projects, intersections improvements and safety and such, which Wyatt will present to this board, those types of projects. So, we're going to have to wait and see what happens. All right. Because we're going back, like Shawnee Drive, for example, that will be a smart scale project. And all the approved ones, the money's already set aside. Okay. Now, who knows if later on the DOT comes back to us later and says because of increasing cost, you have to find more money. That can always happen, but that's, you just have to wait and see what they say on that. And then we're already, I see Charlestown Parks here. So, anything Parks and Rec related with the grants that they're matching. The money's already, when Cheryl did her calculation, we're going to have to wait and see what they say on that. this was going to be required for all of our projects to be repayable. So, as our students, Marye Barrett, as our union committee member continued to mayoutfully MORE than 3 million dollars of the grant added to a fund in April, she's subtracted it out to get to that $14 million number. and that capital fund only involves your amount of fund balance that's an excess of 20% of your, your your budget, your operating budget. As your budget increases, that availability decreases because the funds have to be reserved. And we haven't really faced that in a long time, you know. We have had situations that we're really pushing that 17% increase in Latin America, and this time, last year and 2020, you know, we saw seven years old, and now a decade later there's a CEOs some emphasis on Bite, all 6 in the space of陳еш and сеat in each Produkt of the funds gathered from campus that are ignored as examples. of what we're supposed to have because our budget increased. Fund balance didn't really increase. So the capital fund at some point will be gone. And then from new, everybody understand what's coming up? We were required to do so much. So a piggyback on Jason's question about ideas. Do you have a, I'm going to call them wacky idea planning sessions where you just throw ideas that are not obvious? So by that, I mean, I'm looking at the sheet and I'm going to ask some crazy questions. We have money for a new position for an animal shelter. What if, has anyone ever said the SPCA does the exact same thing as the animal shelter? It's a non-profit. What if you got rid of the animal shelter? You gave the SPCA $100,000, but we saved $250,000 a year. That's a crazy idea. Generally on that, for instance, we would be bringing in public works. And if you wanted to address that, your time would be to address it when we bring that department head in to discuss that. This board, it's your budget process. At any time you want to schedule a brainstorming or whatever you want to call it, this board can say, I'd like to have a session. We toss out crazy ideas or brainstorm. Yeah, I, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to be probably in line with Jason on some of this. When you look at a, when you're running a business, if you don't have revenue, you have to come up with ideas and you have to throw stuff against the wall and say, I need to hear from everybody. How can we save money and how can we increase revenue? We're at a point where I'm looking at this and saying, this is a crisis. And it's kind of a crisis. We can't sit back and wait to see what's going to happen. We need to have action. So I think we have to have brainstorming sessions and we have to have everybody coming up with ideas. I think every department should ask staff, hey, if you have a crazy idea, come up with it. And just let's think outside the box and see, what can we do to figure out? And we're going to have to figure out where to save half a million, a million. You know, I don't know. I just think these things could add up and we could be helping ourselves a little bit. We should be looking at 18 million. Yeah. And another comment that I would have is that I think that it would be prudent that, I mean, the school debt is, I think it was 4.2 is what we were talking about. They were looking at not this cycle, but next cycle. Okay. But what is coming down the pike in the next, two years, year, two years, three years, because what I would hate for us to do is for us to make a short-sighted decision, only do something for this year. Okay. Without looking down the line on where we need to be. And then next year we're like, oh my Lord, we have to do a huge increase because there was no planning involved. I can't do that. You've got to look ahead. Five-year plan at least. Yep. And that's minimum five-year. And I'm not, and Bob, I just got the book. I understand. The, I don't see that data here. It's not there. Yeah. It's not there. And I need that. For me to be able to do my job, I need that data. I agree. And we have those graphs as part of the presentation. I'll get those done very fast where it gives you the five-year outlook, plans it all, plugs it all into models. And it actually shows you in graphical form. And it also shows you in a chart form. And I can always provide it in an Excel spreadsheet if people want to play with the numbers. And that will be coming. And those charts he has are very helpful. Okay. Thank you. You can find this helpful. The idea with this is, because you can see this book's overwhelming to start. So at the first meeting, you don't want to do far too much because it becomes overwhelming. I'm going to suggest that if there's any other supervisor that would like to meet two-on-one with Mike, I'd be more than happy to join up. John, you and I meet with him. However, that way you get two guys in the room at the same time. And it helps you save time. And, you know, you've got other things to do besides do this. So I understand. But if we can get two, I think, in a room at one time, it would be helpful. Absolutely. Give it a try. I'm more than welcome. Somebody call me and say, let's do it together. Bob, we'll set up a time to meet with Mike. Bill, the cigarette tax, is that still a situation where the Jews didn't want to squeeze? Cigarette tax? I'd have to go back and revisit a lot of that. There's a lot of moving parts to that. Setting that up is pretty extensive. About three years ago, there was more headache than what it was worth. Yeah, it still is. Okay. For the most part. Now, we've been getting into the Virginia group. And I am at some level there. I can explore that. But when we looked at it in the past, it almost looked like it was going to be free. Even for a while. And actually, cigarette usage is going down. So the revenue associated with it is going south. They just haven't tapped all the other alternatives to cigarette where they did cigarettes. So from that perspective, I would say in the last five years, that revenue has actually decreased. A population increase in the county. Cigarettes are going down, but vaping is going up. Yes. But they don't tax vaping. They don't tax vaping. Different. We tax our vape shops as business. And back to Supervisor Atkins. In regards to meals tax, that was on the table last year for the Board of Supervisors. And we can get some numbers for you so that if the Board would like to explore that again, we can present that as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. When the legislation came out of the state on marijuana usage, is that anything there on tax revenue? The state's taking care of the state. I will say that. How that flows down to the locality. I haven't read that. So there won't be any taxing by the locality, and it's going to be all state. Kind of like ABC. That's what I'm seeing. Okay. Mike, will you bring a list of different potential revenues that we'll throw in there, the 1% sales tax? Yeah, I'll put in a comprehensive list, talk to everybody, get all the information we get, so all the supervisors will have that full list and potential revenues. Those are Robin Banks. I'm not thinking outside the box. From the capital budget side, do we have a same thing, five-year plan on that? Yes, and they've already generated the one five-year plan, and I've been meeting with department heads because the original one that was submitted is completely unrealistic, so we're working on getting it to be a much more realistic five-year plan. So that will be brought to the board, I believe, in February is when that's scheduled. But I can get the draft. I can pass out to people, everyone sooner. Yeah, one thing, it is what it is where it was. If we could get the information before the day of the meeting, that would be great. Absolutely. That gives me at least I can sit there at my desk the night before and go look at it. Mike, do you know what we do with all the... So if the sheriff asked for 18 new... Two vehicles to replace those, what do we do with the 18 old ones? We auction them off. It's not a lot of money, Derek, because by the time we get rid of them, they're usually in bad shape. Yes, but we do sell them through an auction. Yeah, correct. Right. Yeah, so we also like book them down the line of the people that aren't going chases if they have 150,000 miles on them, you know, there could be an investigator or it's a combination of things. Administrative car. Yes. But there's that revenue, auction revenue, does it show in here anywhere? It's not budgeted. Usually when the sheriff has a sale, those funds go to the finance committee to be reappropriated, maybe for a wrecked car or various things. And it's not a significant amount of money on the auction ones. By the time they get through them, they're pretty shot. And we created years ago a matrix that we use on all of our county vehicles. So we go through them and how much we're spending in repairs on this car, how old is this car, how many miles does it have on it, so forth and so on. Just because it's got 10 years on it, it may be worth keeping. But if it's got a lot of mileage and it's costing us more money to repair, then we put that into the, we say, well, that's one we need to take out and replace. So that's where we are with that. And that's worked pretty well, I think, over the years. There was a model they had built. It's a standard model used, I think, nationwide. But an algorithm. Right. Right. An algorithm. Yeah, we do it on the federal government level. We did it at GSA where we know when it's time to swap out the vehicles. But they're expensive. I mean, outfitting a sheriff's car vehicle is expensive stuff. It really is. Much more expensive now than it was 10 years ago. Absolutely positive. Crazy expensive. There was a time when we used to get police cars. Now they're all police SUVs. SUVs and police pickup trucks. Because we used to all use Crown Vics and they don't do that anymore. So the price has sped up. I don't think you can get the Crown Vic anymore. Nope. Everybody good? Any questions? You got your homework. We got homework. Thank you. Really, we appreciate it. Yeah, you're welcome. Thank you. Yes, Cheryl. I will be knocking on your door. Okay. Mike, you know that. I'm up there knocking. Thank you. Thank you, everybody, for all the work you put into this. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Be careful. I'm going to squeeze some in the hand. There's not a whole lot. Have a seat Wednesday. I'm actually happy with all the things that we'll talk about. Thank you. The President is going to say goodbye in just a few minutes, but we'll teach this party one thing at a rest. Here comes that movie, Heartbreak Valley! Alright. This is really really exciting! So don't get a couple of us going like, let me teach you how to ride the in- отд. No, I don't want you to do that! you you you you you
