Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-02-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=270
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you stare at each other yeah there you go your glasses I can see it with my glasses that's good I'm old if I can see it everybody there you go I was looking at his are not that good either Can you read it? And I have contacts in. I'll just look at this one. It's in here, right? Yeah. Or it is. This one. Do you want to have that one? Yes. It should be sitting on your bottom one. Gotcha. Yep. I don't know. It's a good one. Okay. Okay. Are we all ready? All right. It's 530. We have an agenda for the work session. And unless there's any preliminary, we can jump right in. Item one is rubble concrete tipping fee rates. And Joe Wilder from director of public works is here. I'll just mention that the landfill has proposed to raise rates gradually over a period of years to cover their costs of operation. But there is one tipping fee, which is different from the others. It represents a sudden and much larger rate change. So, Supervisor Lockbridge and I, we sit on public works. So, I'm very excited that we needed to bring it to the Board to air it for you. We don't need a decision here or even necessarily a consensus. The point is to make you all aware of it. The public works committee did not take up, did not catch and take up this one particular item. So, if you want some research done, I'm sure Joe's willing to do it. And that committee at its meeting could also take up the issue and then come back to this Board before rates have to be set. Yeah. Okay. We'll call this off. We'll call it off. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Members. So that's item one. Joe, would you like to? Good evening. All right. Well, thank you all. Hopefully this won't take a lot, but real quick for those on the finance committee. Last fall, we knew going into this coming years ahead, we're going to be spending a lot of money to landfill with development. Many of you may not know or do know, we have two landfills out there, an MSW landfill, municipal solid waste, and a construction debris landfill. And right now, we're in the middle of developing area two of our CDD landfill. Along with that, we are actually working with DEQ to expand that area to provide plenty of capacity for our regional area for many years into the future. So, thank you. But as we started looking at these long-term costs, even though the landfill is in a very good financial position, we wanted to get an idea of what are these future costs and how will that affect our revenues and the money that we have to be able to pay for the things at the landfill. It's very important to note the landfill is a 12-fund enterprise, which means we are paid for by the tipping fees. So, the only trash that comes to Frederick County is from Winchester, Clark County, and Frederick County. We have an agreement. Three localities have been in place for many years. And every locality pays the tipping fee for trash that would come from themselves. So, Winchester has curbside. They pay for their trash. Frederick County has convenience sites. We pay for that trash, Clark County. And then everyone else that would be a private hauler pays a different rate. But we do have two different landfills. The construction debris is one where we get a lot of the debris from new construction. The MSW is more of your bagged trash. Things come from your house. So, each one has different requirements. Our job is to try to have enough money to take care of it. So, this past year, we worked with our consultant, SES Engineers, who has done what we call a pro forma analysis, which means we actually look at our landfill as a business and find out what's our profitability. Because for us, the profitability, the money that we make, is what we put aside for all the future construction costs that we're doing. It's very important to note the landfill has no debt. We have no bonding. So, everything we do, we pay for out of our reserve. So, that makes us in a very good position. But also, when you're spending several million dollars a year on construction projects, it doesn't take long to go through the funds. So, this analysis was done, and we reported that out in September with a conference. We did a combined work session with the Public Works Landfill Oversight Committee and the board. And we went over a long report, and it justified why we need to raise rates. So, we went through, and honestly, through all of our meetings, the main things we were focusing on was the MSW commercial rate, the municipal rate, and the CDD construction debris rate. Now, just so you all know, because Frederick County, Clark County, and Winchester are part of our re-raising rate, we have a lot of work to do. Which is, as you know, at this point, Partners, we have a lot of land in하하ulers communities. We're a national park that serves as a state shoppingría. So, we also, had some some finance city community visits here, where we from like, the New Haven prefecture, where we kind of brush off a little, you know,っと came up with some of the domestic needs re- painters, sound pretty, but the city feels we're kind of thumb in their face in this sense of a Roundtable sort of thing. So, today, there might be a adjustment made and associated with the〜 in this subänder budget. So, from what мыぁ raising here. So, but the one rate that somehow we didn't talk about, but it's not like we didn't purposely not talk about it, was this rubble fill rate. So, I've got a slide here. We'll come back to that one. All right, so what we're talking about today is rubble fill. So, rubble fill is different than this. So, this is what we call construction and demolition debris. That is a mixture of drywall, wood, could be concrete, could be metal, could be basically everything from if you rip your house apart, just imagine all of it being able to go. And we can stick it in a certain landfill with a liner system because it doesn't have regular garbage in it, which is municipal solid waste. But now, rubble fill is such that it's actually only clean concrete with maybe rebar in it. It could be brick. It could be rock. And it could be chipped up asphalt. But those are considered clean materials. And technically, those do not have to go into our CDD landfill or MSW landfill. And over the years, we've always taken in rubble fill. And we've had purposes for it. And we've had areas where we've filled it in. You know, we had a hollow and we'd fill in to make parking or whatever. And honestly, what's happened over the last couple years. The amount of rubble fill that we're actually getting into landfill continues to go up every year. Here's the last five years and you have this exhibit. It's actually went, you know, from 4%. And now, as of right now, it's at 11%. So we're getting a lot more rubble fill. And the problem is we're running out of areas that we can dispose or get rid of the rubble fill. Because we would really hate to have to put it in the CDD landfill. But that's where we're going. And the thing is, if we have to put it in the CDD landfill, we've got to charge the CDD rate. So, you know, in talking with our landfill manager, we felt like if we wait too long to make an adjustment. Because once we set the rate, we can't make a change for another year or year and a half. So, one thing that happened in the report that you all got a copy of in October. Was in the pro forma report on this chart, which, trust me, it's got a lot of numbers. It's setting the rates into the future. But there was a typo under rubble that said, in the original report, said $50 a ton. And it should have said $20 a ton. But, and that, it is what it is. We never intended to tell anybody it was $50 and just raise it $8. But it was our intent to actually raise the rate. That much. That much. That much. And basically because of a couple things. We would love to see this rubble rate go down. We really don't need to take in rubble. We don't have a place to put it. And we're going to be forced to put it in the CDD anyway. But when you think about some of the large commercial sites, as you all know, there's a lot of demolition happening around our region. A lot of places are getting torn down. Well, if you start, if we start getting thousands of tons of rubble debris, and we don't have anywhere to put it. We're going to have to put it in our landfill. So, we raised the rate. I mean, an ideal thing would be that there's another way for people to manage rubble fill. We don't need to have it. And so, the other thing that our consultant recommended is that we really need to reduce the different tipping fees we have to make it more uniform. So, everyone's playing with, so everybody knows what they are. So, if we'd have known it might be a little issue and not, we should have brought up. So, we're going to have to do some work on that. And we're going to have to do some work on that. And we're going to have to do some work on that. The other rates are all going up around 16 to 17%. And then the rubble, literally, it is going up 190% over the current budget unit rate today. That's from 20 to 50? It's going from 20. Well, it's actually, in next year's budget, it's going to go to $58. The same as the CDD. So, we're doing away with essentially the rubble rate that we have today. And it'll just become the CDD rate. Starting in July. So, that was a decision that we made because we really, it doesn't help us to take this material if it's not cost effective. So, that's kind of where we're at with this rubble rate. It's not affecting a lot of people. When you actually look at the listing, there's really about four or five large haulers that bring in. You know, more than 1,000 tons of rubble fill. Most people, it's only a few loads a year. So, I think that kind of covers where we're at. And I'll be glad to answer questions and clarify. I just wanted to get through kind of how we got here. So, Bob, I'll let you in first. I guess my question, and you alluded to it, but I didn't get an answer to it. There are other ways for contractors to. Dispose of the rubble fill. And what comes to mind to me right away is Ward Block. That's going to be rubble. The whole place is rubble. So, what do they do with that? Well, right now, I mean, there's not a lot of options. One option is that a private person. You know, we have not been able to invest in the equipment it takes to process this type of waste. It would cost a couple million dollars to buy the equipment to beat up rubble fill. And make it a product. There is markets out there. But we really aren't in the MRF or recycling mode out at the landfill. We just don't have this. The only thing we really do out there is deal with tires and our mulch. But this material could be hauled. I mean, it could be placed on property. As long as you comply with the rules on. There's nothing in it that would hurt the environment from that perspective. But there are places that people take. I mean, Frederick County Middle School, when it was demolished, it was hauled somewhere. We don't know where. But it went somewhere. And was disposed of. We kind of think we know where some of it went. And they are allowed to place this material as fill on property. There's no restrictions if it's clean rubble. That answer your question? It did. I mean, there isn't. I don't mind the rate going up at all. That's fair and I understand that. But I go back. I go back to the days when we talked on other works about if you don't have a place to take your trash, then the trash ends up alongside the road. So if you don't have a place to take your rubble, where does it go? We'll take it. I understand. Yeah, we'll take it. Okay. I mean, I understand that. We're not telling people they can't bring rubble. Our suggestion is that by raising the rates and keeping them there. I just thought maybe there was another solution. But the solution is basically haul it somewhere. Or else or dump it on. Honestly, what's happened to us is you saw that one slide. We've been getting so much. It's filling up the places we've been over. You know, we only have so much property out there. I know I've gotten some complaints from some of the contractors who have that rubble fill. They've dumped it on their own property. And a lot of people around there very displeased with seeing large amounts of rubble. I understand. Yeah, I do. Yeah. Just saying. So, the rate that we have, where are people coming from? For example, is our rate so low that people are coming from a 30-mile, 60-mile, 100-mile circumference there? Or is it primarily being certified? No, I don't think we're getting that. I mean, there's always a debate you could have out-of-area waste coming in. But in this case, when we look at the amounts, I looked at the whole list. I mean, you've got four or five major local companies that's bought it in. And then it's like right now. One of the biggest haulers of rubble fill is the city of Winchester. But they're demolishing buildings. Yeah, they've been busy demolishing things and hauling stuff in. So, they've been one of the bigger haulers of rubble fill in. Second question. If this is truly cleaned, can it go on part of your site simply on the ground itself? If it rains through, there's no problems, et cetera. And they're just, you know, make a ski slope out of it. I mean, can you do something? Can you do something constructive where you have a 300, 400-foot small mountain? Or does that not meet your needs? Well, we just don't have the property to keep going. Yeah, we just don't have the property. Because right now, we're in the middle of excavating a million yards of shale earth in future prep for our CDD landfill. So, the property that we just bought a couple years ago is filling up with thousands and thousands of yards of shale fill. And the last question is, with the increased rate, do you expect the same volume? Do you expect the same volume to still occur? We think it's going to go down. I think it's going to go down. Okay. That's what we really think is going to happen. People are going to find other ways to manage it. As Bob said, I'm supportive of that because you're running a business. And you have to make revenue. No, absolutely. I totally understand. Expenses. I'm okay with that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I have a couple questions, if I might. Yes, sir. So, just so you all know, the reason the committee didn't see it is because of that typo. They looked at 50 to 58. It didn't raise a flag for them. But. So, there are some businesses in the county, then, that this would impact. Their cost to get rid of rubble would almost triple. And we, I want to make sure, first of all, we need to air this and make sure that they are aware of this cost coming, rather than driving up and suddenly having a business enterprise be unprofitable because they didn't realize this cost was coming. The other thing is, I've been told that businesses. Have other ways that they could invest in. They could buy property to dispose of it. They could make an arrangement, an agreement to dispose of it. They could even buy equipment to reduce the rubble into something that they could use some other way. But what would really hurt them is if the forward thinking ones invested in any of those things. And then we changed our mind and went back because the board started getting complaints in July and the new fiscal year and didn't realize we had done this. Then the businesses who were planning. Ahead would be penalized. So that's why I thought it was important. We had to get this out to the public and to the board right now. My next question is. So one of the largest. Entities that brings rebel into the landfill you said is the city of Winchester. So. Is this city owned land is word Plaza, for example, city. Oh, no. So why do the people, the developers who are doing this get to you? They use the city, right? Well, they don't. The only people that's gotten the city rate is when it's a city project or city owned property. That's who's bought it in. Anyone else has to pay the commercial or the regular rate. So word Plaza. That's a private entity. So whoever does that has to find a way to manage all of that material or pay the higher rates. Higher rates. Yes, sir. What kind of city projects have there been that right now they're doing South End Fire Hall right up the road. They demolished a whole almost a city block in that. So you understand it doesn't take a lot of material to add up quickly when it comes to rubble. I mean, you're talking one dump truck load of rubble fill is going to cost could weigh, you know, 20, 20 tons real quickly. So before you know it, you you haul 100 loads. That's, you know, thousands of tons. And that cost adds up really fast. So it doesn't take long for that kind of material. Plus. So. You can't try and find. You can detect dust, but there's gone in the sand. It's sleeping little pieces. No more dust and the smell score is realized. And if you imagine taking a weed out and 있ting them in and then hope really does the job for the community. How many percent of that one is just going to keep it here and probably you can take them out if some of those huge economics Global's flee. If we could make it ambitions so we could stuff it down into the into the. Again, we're a dám splashing. It goes that way. down that rubble into managed items. Is the market for it, number one? Number two, if you did that, does that then create more space for you, which you could potentially drop a rate from 58 to something lower, because now you're having something more efficient? Well, but that means we'd have to invest in the equipment to do it, and we're not going to be investing in that equipment. And then the second question is, this is to you, Josh, for the private companies, they would say, fine, we will go and buy the equipment to do that, because it would cut their rates. They can put the capital investment in. It's tax-price, it's a cost to them, and then it helps you. So, I mean, if you had a conversation with businesses. To put it in at the landfill, you're thinking? Yeah, in other words, private business, or businesses, you're talking about five major haulers, for example. So, it's cost-effective for them to go and say, we will pay for that, instead of the rate going from 20 to 58. Now, it only has to go from 20 to something less than 58, which addresses your concerns of a rapid increase in that extra business. That's why I'm asking the question. If you do a million dollar, or two million dollar item, over a 10 or 15 year time frame, you can build that into your operational cost, and it's not going to be significant. Yeah, I know $100,000 a year is significant, but I mean, it's not. Yeah, I mean, right now, we're just don't have the, you know, at this point, we're just not in that position to be able to invest in that. Okay. I'm not sure what. Any other things going on. I'm not sure what that business use case would be, so they'd be grinding down the rubble into some other thing. Yeah, there's markets for all the different things, but. I don't know how they would dispose of that. To answer his one question, with the way our rates are now, we're going to be using this pro forma, and as you see in the future, once we move the rubble to the CDD rate, it will mirror the CDD rate. So we won't be going back, and we've made a decision that we're just not going to get into the rubble recycling business. We deal with tires, and we deal with mulch, and that's about all we need to worry about. Okay. So, Lane, if it, if it, if it's a private company, and they didn't want to even have a business, a private entity to do rubble recycling at the landfill, there's nothing to stop a private business at whatever site they're doing it for themselves to take in other customers for profit to deal with it. But again, that increases the volume of stuff they have to get rid of. So, so with our drought ordinances, we heard from water haulers who were particularly affected by the things we were considering doing. Are you going to notify, after this discussion today, begin notifying your bigger haulers of rubble so that maybe they'll bring something to us like the water haulers did that we don't realize? All the rates are going up. And the way that we have to do things at the landfill, we can't advertise a rate until you guys approve a rate. So we can tell them that these rates might be coming, but until you all approve them, we've just never been in the position in the past, we've always said, you've got to wait until they set the rate before you can let people know. So the way things work, we're going to give them about a 60-day notice. Once you all approve the budget and it gets endured, you know, fully approved, that's probably usually around the end of April, so that's when we usually let customers know what the rate will be starting July the 1st. So it seems like if there were only a half dozen large businesses or entities bringing it, that we could just, it'd be rather than trying to advertise it somewhere, we could just let them know. The problem is, we're not going to let them know. We're going to let them know. We're going to let them know. So we're not going to do that. And that's the problem. We're going to let them know that it's going to be $1,000, $2,000, $3,000, $4,000, $5,000, $6,000, $6,000, $7,000, you know, $5,000, $8,000, $7,000, $8,000. It's going to be a lot of money. So we're going to let them know that we're going to get it done. But the problem is, some new developer could come in to deal with word clause or some other project. Yes, sir. We do need new ones all the time. So I don't know if this is a big enough change that we are trying to do. You know, one costs $1,000, a $2,000 on an MAAD, and this would go up to around $1,400. And that would require, what is it? $2,000 union share split. $2,000 union share split. Well, that would be for the amount of the units that are on shift. We would want that to be between the $1,000 to $2,000 working Schnitzel L budget. So if we didn't include an TM with $1,000, what would occur with a life-long delay with that? Ms. SIMIN. we thought about is the local quarries. When they raise their rates, they give you 30-day notice. So it's industry standard that if a tipping fee changes, there's usually not a year of time. Because I want you to, you know, the thing is, do you just not raise that rate? Because we really need all of our rates to go up accordingly, you know, starting July 1 based on our budget for the revenues we need to collect. So that's an important point to bring up. We have two questions. Supervisor Lockridge and Jewell both had questions. Okay. Well, I want to follow up on the recycling part because we spent years here. It's important to recycle. So what I want to hear more about is you said that the product, it can be converted by a recycler. For what? I mean, if it's, and then if that's the case, I personally, have seen it in Bat Creek where stuff's dumped on a field. Brandon, you've been down the road, you know that. You know, I mean, Mr. Bullhofer was working with me on a constituent complaining about having dirt from James Wood School being dumped out on Cedar Creek grade. So I want to avoid that. And so is there a way we can work with the private sector on coming up with a solution for this rather than saying, well, you can just go dump, dump the stuff. I mean, it really, you know, at least get an opportunity to talk to some of the recyclers and see what we can do. If there's a way for the county to work with the recyclers on this, if it's something that can be converted for use, I'd rather see converted for use than dumped in a field or filling up our landfills. So that's where I'm at on that is have a conversation. I don't know. I mean, I don't know about concrete. I can tell you about computers. I don't know about... I don't know about concrete. So but if there's a product that can be made out of this, then we really should be trying to see what we can do to resolve that and do two things. Resolve the issue with the landfill, resolve the issue with being dumped on the side road or on property that should be used for something else. So two points to piggyback off of you and Joe, you can add into this. Currently, the landfill recycles this product, but with this change in rate, we are dumping it in and taking up space in the CDD. So currently, is that an accurate statement to say currently and you guys say that now we're up to 11% of our total... I mean, our recycling is just that we're not putting in the landfill. We're just putting it on property, disposing it. We're not recycling. Currently, you don't use it for any cover. We're not using rubble fill for anything. And never have? What is fill? The only thing that we ever used in the past was if we got chipped up asphalt, which is considered rubble. We were able to... We're able to use that as kind of road base. Okay, so it has always gone in with the CDD? No. No, we put it on other properties that aren't lined. Properties that we own. So you were filling in ravines or something? Yes, like I said at the beginning, we're filling in ravines. Okay, and I just wanted to clarify and the reason that I think that I was important to get this out is, and you said 190, it's a 290% increase from 20 to 50. No, I did the math, it was a hundred, it's 190%. I think it's a hundred and ninety percent increase. That's a hundred and ninety percent. And I think it's a hundred and ninety percent increase. I think it's a hundred and ninety percent increase. And I think it's a hundred and ninety percent increase. So you say a hundred and ninety percent increase. So you say a hundred and ninety percent increase. Well, the increase is 190, so the cost goes to 290 of what it was, to 2.9 times what it was going to be charged. Yeah, percentage wise it's a hundred and ninety percent. Of the increase, on top of the hundred, right, the hundred percent originally, so. It's a hundred and ninety percent. Yeah. So I just, and Brandon, you brought up a very good point. When you have contracts, maybe. 60 to 80, but you said the quarry doesn't do that, but you could put. And I, you know, think about time on the school board where we were paying for Phil. And so I think Supervisor Jewell has a point. And I know you, I understand your position of, hey, we don't want to be in this business. That's a whole other mindset. And you got to have somebody to run it. Then you're selling that back product. I get all of that, but I do wonder if there's a private, public partnership agreement. I mean. I've explained that that other than if it's part of the. Wow. That's the one that comes up. So we'll try, you know, the conversation on that from us. I would, I mean, even لمand. Uh, we would do that. You know. But, um, but we're actually a public, you know, and! This is, you know, he will have to get a job. I mean, what they gonna do? If they'reements then tomatoes. I mean, I don't know, you'd just have to cut off tiny strawberry thorns to get the following, um, that can do things. Yeah. And you know, it precedes some new marketing. Yeah. But I amyards. We've been doing some. Thank you. So I would just ask for board members if there's anything, Supervisor Jewell has already mentioned, that if there's a recycling vendor out there that Mr. Wilder is aware of, that he should reach out to them or let us know so that we can reach out to them. I mentioned maybe we should post, if 30 days notice is normal, if we posted on our website, they'd have 120 days, right, if we posted now before it would go into effect July 1st, so that at least some of them would begin to see this and if there's some big cost. We can always take our proposed tipping fees for next year and just put them out as these are proposed tipping fees for beginning July 1st. If you all are comfortable with that, we can do that. But we'll make sure everybody has to know that you can still change the rate between now and when you adopt the budget. That's the point of it, so that they can come and weigh in on it. So those are two good things to do. Is there... Oh, or would you like the committee, the Public Works Committee, to also follow up on your ideas? It seems to make sense to me at their next meeting. Any other ideas before we go on the agenda? I think your comment on the 120, you know, post now for July 1, I think that's good. It provides notice to people that are involved. But the comment, if you have feedback, go back to the Public Works Committee so that's a venue that you can have come and see what happens from that. Well... And then the other comment is... To say to people, ask them, is there a product for, you know, rubble? And if so, what is it? They might know something we don't know that helps the problem out. So is it true that we haven't raised tipping fees in a long time? How would you characterize the changes coming? We just raised tipping fees in this year's budget. The rubble fill... I don't know if it went up this year, but we just raised tipping fees this year and then this coming year. July 1 is our largest proposed tipping fee change in a long time. So that's why it's going up. Because there may be a lot of sleepy people out there who are not anticipating a bunch of rate changes. So I think it would be good to advertise all the rates for that point as well. And I guess those rates, they are part of the budget add. So the final rates you decide go in the ad when you do the ad. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Joe. Thank you. Thank you, Joe. Next is the county administrator's adjustments on our budget and then we go into tax rate discussion, I believe. Very quickly, I want to show you before we go into presentation, I handed out a new county administrator adjustments. You should have it in front of you. And I just wanted to go over some of the changes because there may be some prizes here that we've made since the last time we gave you this, which was the last meeting. You said we were going back to draw more people. So we've made some more adjustments in the capital. None here. The real big change you're going to see are going to be in parks and recreation, as you may or may not remember. That was the largest expenditures in capital. So here's some of the items that we've made. And then we're going to go into the next item, which is the tax rate. So we're going to go into the next item, which is the tax rate. So here's some of the items we changed. You will see here the old Charlestown Road Park development. It's approximately $2.8 million plus $2.8 million. Half of that is part of a federal grant. The other half would be a part that the county would be contributing to. The reason we pulled this out, this does not mean the grant is dead. We do not expect that it's very highly, highly unlikely that this would be approved and the spending needed this year. So the grant will still be going through the next year. Thank you. We do expect that it will still be going through the process with the federal government. The funds would not be needed this year. Now, however, come next year at a certain point in time, it may be approved. And if indeed it is approved, then the decision would have to be made with this board, do you want to pay the county's half for this park? But that's why we pulled it out for this year. We've also pulled out on here, you'll see the two trucks, they actually have revenue share funds that they can use. They don't need tax dollars to pay for that. And we pulled out on this, we have a sample, a truck that's being used. It's a pretty good truck. It's actually a standard tax truck. We pulled out on there the Sharando Park Area 3 development design, which was $524,000. And this here, you don't see where it's pulled out, but this is the parking lot. Originally, the full amount was going to be paid for with tax dollars. It was $330,000. If you look on the blue sheets with the budget changes, they have money in proffers that would cover part of the cost. So what we did was reduce it by this $250,000 and use proffers to pay for that parking lot. So you've reduced it to $250,000? Reduced it by $250,000. And so if you look at the total reduction, the total reductions are approximately $3.4 million. The last time you looked at it, it was about $7.7 million, and now it's down to $3.7 million. Before you change that page. On the Abrams Creek Trail Phase 1, it says grant funded for $1.1 million. That's all funded by a grant. Why did you pull that? I did not pull that. What you see pulled is this right here below it is the old Charlottesville Park. That's still left in there. Okay, okay. Thank you. Thank you. So describe the three columns again you've got here. So I'll make sure we understand. This column is, these are all the items that are in the budget. This column in the middle is the subtotals for each category. So, for instance, when you see that 2.9, that's the subtotal for the Parks and Rec Department. When you go back here, for instance, the sheriff, this 1.9 is subtotal for the sheriff and fire, that 2.9. Okay. 52,000 is the subtotal. This final column I just added in, it was just a worksheet for mine, and I just wanted everyone here to be able to see, in case you didn't remember because you had the sheets from last week. This shows the actual items here, this final column, items that were pulled out. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So you've pulled out 3.376 million? Correct. And these 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 items here were pulled out. But some of the others were reduced? Just the one with the parking lot, the $250,000. That's the only one that was changed. Okay. It was changed from the original, or I don't know which copy I've got here, but it says $250,000 there. It was changed from the one I handed out last week. If you see it last week, last week's copy of the CA, it said draft. That would have had, it would have been $330,000. What I did is I broke it out, and the yellow part is the part paid for with profits. Okay. And on that sheet, if you have any questions, please ask me, because that's an ongoing sheet, and the goal is we're going to keep bringing down those numbers. It's just to keep you posted on the items we've been cutting out. It's to go along. I think I've seemed to have confused everybody looking at the faces around the table. Please ask questions of where I've confused it. Well, we have two sheets that look like other than the title that are the same. Yeah, but the two sheets, one has that extra third column, and one sheet doesn't have the extra third column. And the title one says removed items as opposed to adjustments. Got it. I will tell you, I was working on those late afternoon Russian for the meetings there. That was a typo error I put in there. I will send you out a corrected document. So the removed items are the ones in gold highlighted? The removed items are the items in the third column over. The items that are in yellow are all items that are either paid for with a grant or profits. But as of last week, we knew that they were grant or profits already. So this is just... With the exception of the parking lot. Right. Because when we went back, when I met with the parks and rec, they said, we do not need tax dollars for that because we have a proper to cover the cost of that parking lot. So the others are unchanged. Correct. Okay. So I have a question. So this end, does this replace the 7.3 that you had before? What does it do? No, this number in the middle does. This is just... I would ignore that third column. That third column is just for your benefit to see the items pulled out. That's why you can actually... Disregard even that sheet, the third column. I probably shouldn't have put it in there. I thought I'd put it in there to make things clearer. And I did not think correctly, obviously. Yes. Mr. Ballhopper, the bottom line then is you now have the capital request on the county side at 3.955775, right? Actually... Where is it last? It's the other one, and I'm going to go to that when I get you right. What do you mean? It's 3.9 million. It puts over to this capital fund 2026 adjustments, and I'm trying to look at the removals to see if that is reflected in the total capital. Because on the one sheet, you've got a bottom line of 3.9,55775. Yes, the 3.955 is the actual capital. Of where we are today, once you removed everything. Exactly. That is the amount you will see in the later worksheets. Thank you. And if you look, this is the sheet you'll see. It's difficult to read on there, Chairman Popper, but this is in the presentation, and that's the number. I'm going to start from the beginning on that. I apologize for the confusion. Thank you. The first two slides are... The first two slides that I'm going to show you here are actually calendars, and I'm going to come back to these slides because we've had several... I've had several questions regarding the timing of when decisions have to be made. So I was going to go through the presentation and address those at the tail end of the presentation. We've been going through these presentations in the past. We've gone over operating costs, and we've looked at things such as why are our costs, have they increased greater than the population plus inflation, and we've demonstrated in the past. The biggest drivers of that. So we've got the DHS, fire, and the officers in schools. What I wanted to show now on this, this is kind of like the last part of the budget, is those items that are coming in the future when you look at the big dollar items that will be coming to the county. So what I have on here is this is the five-year capital plan, just to give you an idea of what's coming in the future. And I believe this here... The yellow, these are items which the money has already been set aside. As you recognize, the top three are the three school projects. Average Creek, you see down here, that's with a grant, and the old Charlestown Park. It had been set aside in previous years. This year, we're pulling it out. The key numbers in here is to show you the big dollar items out there in the future, if indeed these items are approved. So when you look at the total costs and the five-year plan for the schools over five years, including the items that are already approved, is $227 million. Parks is $30 million. Now, I'll tell you that one of the biggest items in there is the recreation center. I know that's not an item. No one has voted on it. It's not been decided. But it's always been kept in the plan because it's been the number one priority for recreation. This item has been requested for many, many years. It's kept in there. County administration, I will show you the most significant item in the county administration is this $1 million. That actually is the money to budget tearing down the shopping center at Sunnyland. That has not been decided on yet. However, we want to keep that in the budget because, as you know, this board at some point in the future has to make a decision on what to do. One, are you at some point in time going to refurbish it? Two, is this building going to be? Three, is this building going to be torn down? And would it be the administration building, the new administration building for the county and the schools? In 2020, they took a look at that before COVID hit, and they looked at building a shared building for both the schools and the county. And the cost at that time in 2020 was $40 million. Three, would this be torn down if you wanted to do a rec center? Four, would the county decide to sell it? At some point in time, the county will have to make a decision on that. But we've got the $1 million in there as a place marker that if you did decide to tear it down, that's probably a fairly low estimate of what it would cost to tear down the building. It'll probably cost you more. Regional landfill, and Joe will correct me if I'm wrong, most of these items as an enterprise fund would not come from taxes, so it's not really a consideration in your tax decisions. But it is part of your five-year capital plan. This is probably the most important part. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is probably one of the biggest driver costs, as we saw with labor as you're building the fire department. You have the sheets on this. The big numbers on here is when you start looking at all the equipment and redoing stations and such. If you were to do all the projects in here in the five years, it's a significant amount of money. I believe that's almost $50 million, and then there's other money going out even further. But that's the biggest cost for capital you will see with the county. And as we all know, the biggest cost for the county is the construction of the building. And as we all know, one of the challenges we face is the cost of fire equipment has skyrocketed. Fifteen years ago, an engine was $300,000. Now it's $1.2 million for a fire engine, and there's not much you can do to get around that. The sheriff's office is not significant. This $10 million of money is already set aside with ARPA and other funds. That's why it has no bearing on your budget decisions. That money is already taken care of. So those are your big items in capital coming up over the five years. I believe that's on the agenda tonight to discuss in further detail. I think some of the other items that you would look at that could be of concern going forward would be the other big item is, and I discussed this with Steve, as you know, we had a 10-year plan, eight firefighters a year for 10 years to get the fire department up to a size where we would be able to handle the change in the fire department. We're not using volunteers for a lot of firefighters. At this point in time, they've hired several. So going forward, there would be about 56 more firefighters needed to get to the optimum level of firefighters. That's probably a cost of close to $5 million in labor a year. He's at 56 more to hire. That does not include the age you have in this year's budget. Any questions on the capital part? No. Mr. Chair, I know this isn't a capital expense, but you mentioned the expense of firefighters, which wouldn't be either. Just for my clarification, the school funding does not include outfitting the school, tables, chairs, et cetera, based upon this number, as well as staffing. Is that correct? It has no staffing. It should have furniture, equipment, and fixtures, but it should not. There is no staffing, correct. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I was a little bit clearer than the county administrator adjustments, thank goodness. This is another item that was discussed. I know this was sent out to you. I just wanted to highlight that. This is the upcoming debt with the school projects, the three projects. And you're going to see when you get into 28, it's going to hit $25 million, as you saw in this year's budget. Just the school is $19 million. you're gonna have these group of years here where you're gonna have a significantly more expense in the debt. This does not include the other capital or debt for the county itself. That averages about two million a year. This also does not take in consideration if you do any other projects. So this just is these are the projects you do. If you do any other projects in here you won't see this number coming down. This is the most updated schedule from FCPS. I keep going back to this blue sheet. I know you're tired of seeing it just so you can see where we start. Once again this shows you it's from that very first section in your books and the reason I keep mentioning it because it's such a useful section I know I use it frequently when I'm going through the budget. The general fund summary. To get to my next sheet the number I use to get to operating expenses I take this total from that blue sheet and I subtract out all these items which brings me to a fiscal year 26 your starting operating costs. So I add them back in. 18 million for the school, 19 million for debt for the school, 7 million for the transfer to transportation, additional 1.9 million debt service and here's where you see that item for the capital expenditures and the county administrative adjustments. That's 3.9 million you have for capital for the county and then the contingencies 3.1 million that's a 4% pay increase which is approximately 2.8 million which leaves $300,000 in the contingency fund. The new positions is 1.6 million. I'm actually still having some discussions on this. This might change slightly but that's it's not going to change significantly. So going forward then to goal here was against the total cost the budget for the schools and everything at 279.5 million dollars and the goal of the exercise here is a math exercise to try to balance the budget. So the first thing to do to budget that was to move as we've done in the past two years is to move your transportation to the capital fund. That reduces it by 7 million. The next item was to remove the county capital the 3.9 million to your capital funds. The next item on there as you know the schools and they're operating asked for approximately 9 million dollars additional. This was a reduction of 4.5. Once again this is not a recommendation this is just a math exercise. This was just to cut it in half which brings it down closer to a 4% total increase in the previous year and this is something that's been done before however this was discussed last year I think in some great length and this is the use of fund balance and I'll call it the 3% quote. I know Judy last year you brought this up we discussed the fact that in our fund balance each year 17% goes to reserve. Everything greater than 20% goes into capital funds so you have that additional 3% which is actually fund balance that is not designated for anything. If you were to calculate that number today it's approximately six million dollars. So one of the ideas was put in here and once again this is a math exercise. Let's take some money from that fund balance in the process of balancing the budget. When you do budgeting using fund balance for balancing your budget is not an uncommon thing for governments to do. So that has taken two million and I call that from the three three percent flow. That money is not specified for anything. Here we change this because we've been going through with your ordinary capital expenses last time you saw this number it was approximately three hundred thousand looking through the budget we think we've identified in the neighborhood of five hundred thousand dollars and other cuts from your operating expenses and as we discussed last time that's a three hundred nine thousand. We don't believe we needed in the budget for your Microsoft licenses because we think our existing licenses are sufficient. If indeed through our analysis and investigations we determine it's not sufficient we would have to come back to board and ask for this again but we're fairly confident we won't have to do that. But I don't want to go forward and recommend mine until we're sure we absolutely have to have it. Before you leave this page the school operating transfer is that updated based on the school board's meeting this week? No. This is not updated on that so it will be updated once we go through the numbers and such. So what we got before was the superintendent's proposed budget and the school board can change that and I think they did so those numbers are going to change. Yeah they may change I know a lot of they what I've read they move things around when I get those numbers I'll plug it into this model and send it out. Do you have any idea did it go up substantially the request? My guess is I think it stayed close to the same but I'm not certain. I don't think there was any significant change. Mr. Bolhoffer can you go to the previous slide? If you look at that and I watched it this morning on TV if you look at that eight eight eight million six hundred sixty six thousand one five I think it's in that ballpark it might be nine it might be nine million now. Might be slightly more. Yeah it wasn't a significant change. Right from what I can recall watching the meeting last night. So I will get in touch with the school board and plug that in and send it out a new spreadsheet tomorrow. Well the only issue is we were talking about the tax rates today so. And I'm gonna get to that I think all will be clearer once I get to those last slides I hope. Mr. Chairman if OBSCOM is 8.6 to 9 we were talking about $200,000 difference that's if that's the differential that's insignificant. Right. So I will show you the things that you have that are easily adjusted. Obviously this use of fund balance three percent float we believe that number is probably in the neighborhood of six million so you can always adjust with that number. That's money that's in your fund balance and not specified to be used for anything. This number here as I said this is a number I just chose which was pretty much cut it in half just to plug into this model. The capital actually ties directly to certain items that were purchased or that they've requested to be purchased. So after doing that this is what we sent to you we discussed last week with one exception. These were three different rates this was the this is the revenue neutral rate it's 51 cents is the current rate and then we gave this to you last week we split it right down the middle and gave you the middle and the interest rate. You can determine interest rate only in distribution based on American savings. This is it as much as 8 должно were cashed. Think positive behalf of the situation buy Jongbie is a year for you so there's pretty much a violation of the export price. During that time that's where I think a few middle rate. Then we added in here another rate in here just to figure out we found a rate that based on those other changes got this number closer to being balanced. So that's why this was in here. It is not a recommendation. It just showed you what would happen with these expenses and these revenues at that rate. So it gives you four different options of rate. All of these can be changed very easily with a spreadsheet. So use the term balanced, but we're drawing funds out of the capital fund in all these scenarios. Right. But technically from an accounting, government, financial, you're still a balanced budget. Whether you pull the funds from your fund balance, your capital fund is still considered a legally balanced budget. It's just that in future years, we wouldn't have that money forever. And what's the grand total that you pulled out of capital in this exercise? It was on a previous chart. The more you see it, the more you see it. The more you spend that money, you have less of a luxury on it each year. This shows you the total coming out of it. Now, this doesn't have a hat on the over the crest yet for separate school buses. And we have not added debt services. But last year to balance the budget, we actually moved the debt services into here. Yes. Can you go back to the slide? Before this. So that expenses per budget summary of the 261 million, that's with all of those scenarios. It says the expenses per budget. That's what the 4.5 cut out of the schools. True? Correct. That comes right back to this number, which cuts all these things out. So this number is actually plugged in right into that line. So if you make any changes on the other spreadsheet, it'll go directly to this line. Very good. Thank you. Whoo. Yeah. Okay. Josh. Please. Hi. Good. Hello. Hi. My name is Josh. And I wanted to talk as if this is as okay enough. I said this today, but I'm wondering if you guys have ever thought about having some education so maybe everyone gets a fall permit or, you know, for perspective, like on a lay off from being in the neighborhood, BE for adults. This feels like a very personal thing for me to make a move. Right. I would. It was a big change for many of us. Yes. So hopefully. OK. year, 12 million next year, and I think it's either in the five, six range for the next two years. This doesn't even cover their three-year request, and I don't know if they've come back to you with some revised numbers saying this is what we really need for each of these years, but these numbers here don't meet that. I can tell you, this I used based on simply the fact that in the previous year they had a total amount that was going to be $19 million they needed, and I looked at it. This could pay for that $19 million over time. Is it sufficient to cover all those? I'm not sure. Then the other question that was brought to my attention is that their priority list, and we haven't got it yet. We're trying to give you the two columns, a priority because they think they need it sooner, rather, or a priority because it's an air conditioner, and it's much more to have an air conditioner for your students than it is a tennis court. So if you remember, if you looked at that priority list, it's kind of confusing at parts because oftentimes they were prioritizing. Things like tennis courts over air conditioners, and that's just how you define priority. This may or may not be enough. I doubt it, but this is just a number in there as a placeholder of $4 million a year. And I respect that, and I guess to all of us, I would say I like to hear from the schools what is really crucial. I mean, an air conditioner, in my opinion, is more needed than a ball field. There's a place for ball fields, so I mean, they can list out their priorities. That would help to figure out what you're going to fund or not fund. What dollar amount you're going to put that with. Because they get to do the funding, but we get to provide the dollars. Another way to ask it would be if they did get $4 million per year, could they live with that? Or what problems might they foresee? Just a suggestion. My question or concern is I don't want to be in a situation where two or three years from now they have some major, capital failures, you know, in equipment, et cetera, that then there's a tremendous need. So I'm trying to meet that. To figure out what is really needed. I mean, this building here, can we live here for another year or two? Yes. But if the air conditioning went and the heat went, it gets to be a little bit different situation. Thank you. I have to back up one bit. The biggest driver on using this building may not be the state of this building. The fact is, and the unknown, and I don't know the answer to this, is if it's sometime in the future, I don't know. If it's sometime in the future, the courts decide they need more space, will you be forced to have to do something? Because as you know, when they made that decision, the city and the county have to provide them space. I think the long-term plan was that there would be a different building built, for instance, in another location, and this building would be refurbished for the courts. That was a thought in the past. But the driver of that may be the courts and not the actual state of this building. Let me just make one other comment. Julie, Bob and I have been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. We've been on this committee for a couple of years. 10 years, 15 years, whatever. And if a judge says, we want, it's not something we can negotiate. It's not discussable. It's, we want, goodbye. And I know I had a conversation with a former chairman seven or eight years ago, and he said, probably in the next four to five years, you're going to have a need, the courts will probably come to you. They're not coming to us yet, and either you, Mr. Ludwig, or you, Mr. Fallhoff, can go talk to the judge as I can. But I think that based upon what I've heard from the courts, they're going to have a need for this sooner rather than later. And when they say we would like to have this, it's not, it's not negotiable. I mean, it's not a vote. So just recognize that. Thank you. Any other? I'm going to move. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to go back now to the beginning, because I did such a good job confusing you when I started. Let's see if I can do it one more time, because this is probably the most confusing part. And I know I have, Cheryl here is going to straighten me out when I don't get this quite right. This is the original calendar based on your schedule we discussed last time, where this calendar is based on the fact that you would make a decision tonight on your tax rate. I will tell you, it's not absolutely necessary if you didn't do that, if you get to a point where you can't. Make a decision. However, I will show you that the one date that really drives everything you do on this decision is this April 28. That's going to be the critical date because once you lock in on your tax rate, and this gets sent out, it's I know the treasurer will correct me, it's almost impossible to change it. It can be done, but it is not not any easy task. It would require I guess, sending out stuff. So this is the biggest driving. We work at these dates going backwards is this no tax bills. That's when we mail them. Right. I have a two week lead into that. Right. And that's why I have here I backed this out two weeks before then. But this is the driving force. So if you decide to delay, you would still really need to get to a point to make a decision by March 5 on a tax rate. Because then that would put you in doing the ad on the 10th. Reassessment hearing on March 26. You'd have to do the reassessment ad on the first. And you would have to have your hearing and adopt the budget on April 9. Because that gives you the two weeks sufficient time to get the bills out. Now the big question I've been asked, I think it's been confusing to everyone is, are you required to advertise the rate? Well, eventually you are retired required. Now, if you stay at a rate that is no more than 100 or if it's no more than 1% greater than your tax revenues this year, the actual advertised rate will be when you do the budget that will be your official advertising. If you want to raise the rate more than that 1%, you will have to do a separate advertising for that. Not raise the rate, but raise the tax bills. Raise it well to average to raise the tax bill, which would mean if, if, or in the, let's just say, for example, you decided to leave it at 1 cents, you would have to do a separate advertising because that increases your tax revenues by more than 1%. Now, once you do that, as we've stated in the past, whatever rate you state, any rate that you would vote on that's greater than the 42.4, you cannot go, if you go lower, you cannot go higher at a later date. To go higher it requires a separate advertising that has to be done as that would probably be a lot less than that. So, that's why I'm saying that. You can't really do that. You can't go higher, you cannot go higher at a later date. To go higher it requires a separate advertising that has to be done, has to have a public advertising that has to have a public hearing. It'll be seven days, correct, Cheryl, before you have the public hearing for the budget. That's correct. So are you having the public hearing and adoption on the same night for the budget? On this calendar, you might have another day. I know you and I discussed this. Excuse me. So I thought we were to do the budget adoption on the 23rd. Do you have another sheet? The only trouble that we can do, and that is correct, you can do the budget adoption on April 23rd. If you get to that point, because the bills will have already been done, you would have had to have decided. You mean April 23rd or March 23rd? April. Adopting a budget on April 23rd, correct? That'd be the second meeting in April. But the commissioner and the treasurer, that pushes them. Yeah. It was. So. That's very tough on them. That's why the April 9th, it makes more sense to do your public hearing and adoption on the same night. On a previous presentation, I'm going from memory, I thought you had a public hearing on, a public hearing like the last week or the last meeting in March, then the adoption was the first meeting in April. That was correct. And this still keeps that same. The adoption, the trick here is by pushing out the decision, if you decide to exceed the 1%, forces you to have the adoption and the public hearing on the same night. And that's what you see on the screen there. April 9th, we would have two to three hours of public comment. And then we would have a budget discussion and a vote. Correct. It would be a long day. So you're asking for a public hearing and an adoption on the same night? Yeah, because I think if you try to go to April 23rd, it's very difficult on the treasurer. I agree with that. Can I have a public hearing and adoption on the same night? I don't know that answer. I think there's a time frame between if I come. I don't have it with me. I will check, but I'm pretty sure you can because when we verified it, I think that. The commissioner should be able to tell us. So I'm going to be honest, but to help, we can always set the tax rate and advertise the tax rate. You can always come back down. At least gives. And then we'll have less breathing room to see where we're going today. But what they're doing is they're saying that they're not going to adopt the budget. There's conversation that they're not going to adopt the budget until the 23rd. And so that's going to push you. And then, so I think it's confusing when you have the public hearing and the adoption of the budget at the same time. And that's confusing. I think it is confusing, but once again, this is you're taking a look at what options are open to you. That part can be confusing, but in the same respect. Does it give you enough time to make a decision on the tax rate? So it's balanced in the pros and cons of both approaches. But those are your, you have those options. Good. So can I go back to, so if we were to set a tax rate tonight, advertise, just advertise the tax rate. We could, if we could agree to that, would that ease things? That eases the timeframe significantly. That goes back to the first calendar. When you do that, it makes everything a lot easier. Go back to what the commission, if we advertise, you can bring the rate down. You just cannot go up. That's correct. And that's this, this first calendar, this first calendar goes back to the original schedule of the February 20th, the February 26th reassessment workshop, making a decision. I just want to give you all your options moving forward. You don't always have a great option. You just have some options. Bottom line is we wouldn't have to decide today. However, it's much better. If we do. So I don't think we should discuss the calendar too much more. We need time. We're down to 15 minutes or so to actually discuss. Right. Right. So I'll be inclined to say, let's fix the rate today and advertise rate. Have a public hearing on March 23rd or whatever that date is. After that public hearing, then we all have a chance to go and think about what's being said. Because us two to three weeks to the next meeting to figure out where we want to go with the budget. So that's all. It's a better process than having to have a public hearing and a vote on the same night. I much prefer the first category. Pick a date. Pick a rate today. Have a public hearing on the second meeting in March. And then we can stop the budget in the first meeting in April. I'm willing to just jump right out here and say, you know, Mr. Chairman, why wouldn't we advertise at 47 cents? Look at the 46.8 unit right there. You know, you're advertising. Right now, there's a cushion there. But it gives Mr. Bolhofer and everyone else a chance. He's already reduced. He's been able to come back every time and reduce and reduce and reduce. But it gives everyone a chance to breathe here if he advertises 47 because we can always go down. Right? And then you're not putting yourself, you're not boxing yourself in. You see that there's a little bit of a cushion here. And then we can come back and we can. If we need to adjust, we adjust. But at least we're starting the process. So we're not boxing ourselves in except, of course, we couldn't go up from 47 once we advertised. But we could go down as much as we want. You can go down, but you can't go past 47. Right. So that's a decision of the board for consensus. I don't know why we just point out. It starts about. These scenarios assume certain cuts like to the school budget are built in to this. You couldn't restore any of that without taking more out of the capital fund or future impacts. And there were other assumptions that, you know, on all these charts that went into it. And also, of course, point out that we have costs coming. The courts or something hanging over our head, but the schools we've already started on those projects. So. So, Mr. Chairman, you can pick any number you want as long as you come down. My question is. What number then do you think is comfortable to pick as an advertised right? Knowing you can come down. Yeah, that's the decision for all of us. And John's been willing to put a number out there. So I guess which is the tough part. I know. So my question, you ran your chair. You get to lead. You know, where do you want to begin? Where do you want to begin on the number? Well, we can go around the table with the 47 that's been put out and see if we, but anyone want to discuss what's been put on the table? Or put another number out before we start going around the table. What's your number? You just were questioning whether that was good or not. I mean, do you think we should go 51? So 47. And that's only an advertised. Great job. No, exactly. That's that's the whole point. Let this process start so that the staff can do what they need to do. I agree. 47 doesn't worry me this year. What it worries me about. Is out here as some of these projects we decided to undertake, or that might get pushed on us like the court situation. Are we going to be regretting it down the road? And that's something I don't know. And we have to look into future years and say, what are we willing to? We all have a different threshold on this. How much we're willing to take out of different expenditures this year in the future. We've had these debates over the years and everybody has. Different opinion on how. Much funding should go to the schools. How many firefighters we should hire. And we don't know what the economic environment is going to be. Supervisor Wells. I think the only way you can answer some of your questions there. It seems like you're concerned. Maybe not for this year, but the following year. So you look at this and you say, we're at 51 cents. We can stay at 51. We can advertise 51. Yeah, throw 51 out. Yeah. And you can come down to 48 or 47 or revenue neutral or whatever it is. Yeah. The people in Frederick County, I've tried over the years. It hasn't worked. I don't know how we do it. You're talking. How do we let people know this is an advertised rate? This is not the tax rate. This is not what we have passed. This is open to public hearing. And at that point, the board will decide whether it's that. Or something lower. And maybe we want to do that. Maybe that's. You know where I am. But saying it gives an opportunity for this board to look at all options if you do that. Maybe it's 50 cents. Or whatever you want to set it at. But that may help in your worries about future years. Because you'd have the opportunity between advertising and now to look at that and say, well, you know what? I have to look at that and say, well, I'd like to get this one. I don't think we're going to be able to get this one. I don't think we're going to be able to get that one. But you know, I don't think we're going to have a lot of time. We've got to look at it. I think we're going to have to look at it. that. But that may help in your worries about future years because you'd have the opportunity between advertising and now to look at that and say, well, you know what, I'm here. And you have four weeks to go and work numbers. Yep. I mean, I'm really wondering if you think 51 would be good. I'm good with 51. I mean, I absolutely agree with that for advertising. But, you know, Josh, Mr. Chairman, what do you think? Both are going to draw a comment from the public because both are taxed because their home assessments went up. So it's just a fact of life. And one thing, I don't know if I'm helping, one thing I thought about was we were in a bubble once with cars. We gave a rebate. What if there was a recession and it's not there now? What if the federal government's cuts mean that people stop moving out here and home values go down by next year? Yeah. We can't reassess. So people are going to be angry next year saying you're charging me at 47 or 51 or whatever the ultimate decision is on an assessed rate that went down. And I just haven't mentioned it to the treasurer or the commissioner of the revenue. But in my opinion, if we could do a rebate once, if there was a big bubble, we could do a rebate to offset that next year. So we wouldn't be trapped. I wouldn't ask the commissioner of the revenue to try and reassess in one year. And if I'm not mistaken, you can lower the rate in a non-reassessment year. That's correct. That's correct. Right. Which is easier than a rebate. Rather than a rebate. Yeah, the rebates are free time consuming. Either way, I'm sorry, but that's a better approach. No, no, no. I understand where your thoughts are there, but the time consumption for a rebate is pretty heavy. I sit corrected. I do think that you could readjust the rates next year. Right. So we don't have a concern of pegging ourselves too high. We can always. We can always fix it in that direction. You want to go 51? Just for the advertised rate. It certainly gives you a lot of room to work. That's my. Listen to what you had to say. It does. It does. Because we're not. All we're doing is helping to start the process. Yeah, I'm not going to eject either way. Either. I think we could survive at 47. I'd love. To offset the 20% assessment increases for people. So I'd love to drop below 51. That doesn't mean we don't that we can't advertise it. So. For next year's budget, they aren't that big. Super. The only concern I have in an advertising 51 is that what supervisor well said before, like, not everybody pays each sleeps and drinks and stuff day in and day out like we do. And they don't understand what necessarily what. That's not necessarily a 21% real estate tax rate increase. That's why I threw a number out there like 48. I think it still gives you wiggle room. It doesn't. It takes away that angst. Remember, whatever rate you have shows can come up with that. This is the advertised rate. Which would have that in March. And then we will have a service. Now, it's great. Only right. And then and then hearing you the public, then we'll make an adjustment. As we see fit. I mean, I'd be okay with 51, but I'm more in favor of like 48. Okay. Well, how do you feel about it? I mean, honestly, this board has approved many projects. We have spent a lot. And. So ultimately, we do know Texas are going to have to go up. In order to pay for what we are spending. So, ideally, I would love to be revenue neutral. And I think we've discussed let's tighten our belt. I think we've seen the cuts and I don't think there's room. I mean, clearly would be in the home is $5 million. That's with a four and a half million reduction. So revenue neutral is obviously not an option. And as we can see three to three years from now, as we get to the end of the year, we're going to have to go back to the beginning of the year. And we're going to have to go back to the beginning of the year. And we're going to have to go back to the beginning of the year. So I think if we get to our fourth High School, we don't want 40% tax rates at that point. So it only makes sense to incrementally increase. So. Ideally, I think we'll come in close to 47 or 48, but 51 could be advertised. I mean we can always come down. There you go. Alright. So it seems like we have 47, 48, and 51 in the table. And nobody is. that upset about which way we're getting close if it was a free 848 I don't care what you have because it's always change you don't want 51 I'm alright 48 about you John I'm doing 48 if you want to advertise and and just show that we're you know I would go with 48 mr. chairman we have three other people we have three already all are we all good I seem are there any objections to 48 we can put it that way I'm neither present here okay two years ago I was first badly on this issue so take a rape then we'll have discussion when we get to the budget it seems like we have a consensus so when the Commissioner does this public hearing ad she's gonna probably have questions concerning how number four says you're not allowed to vote on the budget and you're not allowed to vote on the budget so what we usually do is we try to work on the revenue side because we know what 58 cent generates we know what other revenues we have and I just want to make sure that the transfers from the capital fund that's going to identify by the county administrators we're those the transfers we're going to include because that would be in the budget and that calculates the total percentage so that would be the seven the seven whatever memory he ended up with with capital for us three point five and the schools of four so that would that would that would be part of this ad so you're asking us if we want you to I'm just saying that's the assumption I'm gonna make doesn't really mean anything at the end of the day that's an accounting that could be changed later yeah I want you to know what it's just advertised yeah it's just an advertised right but if someone says to you well the budget went up you're gonna know that the budget went up by the advertised rate the other revenues we have and the transfers and the transfers we're going to have to make sure that we're not going to have to make a decision on that. I just have one question when I'm looking at the page that has adjusted expenses where is the reduction for the school capital from the capital asset plan? Is that their ordinary capital? Yes. That's this right here under this one line item. It's four million. It's not included in that CA except on this last page. I just want to make sure that this adjusted expense of the two hundred and sixty-one million takes into account the reduction the four million because I don't I don't see it up there. And the reason it's not in that one is because they they submitted to us in a separate capital asset plan so it's nowhere in those expenses so where you see it is it comes in as an individual item straight to school capital. I could do the same thing I could actually add it in up here and then subtracted. Cm regulations spoken at the 맞da connection to the 1.ется us that in addition to the truth transportation of 7 million. The 3.955 is on the county side. You're not seeing not seeing that for million. 1憂 Пока schabsal 1憂 I'm going to ask Mary again before you. 1ih KTVU es I'm going now for three minutes. And then there will be looked at next week Ferrell on절ck editor of Christmas so in particular I'm noting Relax I was going to ask my investigations are available on therolling go ahead with the important staff meeting this wanted to forgive you stop and crying It's a voorword. 13 gesehen don't cut myscreen there's nothing that is click on it and I'm just going to I want to be sure that we know that there's the additional $4 million coming out of our capital fund. Right. And I will actually add it to this. What I'll do is I will add it in up here like the other items and subtract it out so you see it. So if we look at your scenarios, for instance, the $0.468, and I know that we have a consensus of $0.48, Right. you're showing a positive of $3 million. Right. But that doesn't take into account the $4 million for the school cap fund. Correct, because it's just going straight from the capital fund, so it doesn't ever hit those operating. But we could take, instead of reducing the capital fund, or as Supervisor Dunn says, ordinary capital items, we could take it from... Absolutely. Yes. Absolutely. Okay. I would need to know that when we advertise the budget. Right. You need to know that now. Well, no. When we advertise the budget. Right. If we're going to transfer it to operating versus capital. Right. And I will, just so no one forgets that, so it's highlighted, I will actually add it in on this chart. When you see when I add the $7 million for transportation here, I will change this and add $4 million for school order made capital. And then subtract it out here so no one misses that. I just want to be sure it's not overlooked. Yeah. That would probably be a better way to do it from the start. Let's have one other thing. Before this gets printed in the paper. Yes. If the reporters could get in touch with the chairman and kind of make sure that you've got it right. The way it comes across in the paper is the way that our taxpayers see it. And I'd like for them to have a clear understanding that this is not the set tax rate for Frederick County. This is a tax rate that we have set for discussion purposes and can be lowered after the public hearing. So I'd just like to, in the years past, it has not come out that way. It's come out as a tax rate and everybody's hair goes on fire. So the best, I know it's going to happen, but the best we can do is work together to make sure we, word it properly and the best we possibly can. I concur. That's all I've got to say. I concur. I understand. But we also have to remember too, the Code of Virginia has specific guidelines on how to say certain things. So we will have to make sure, but I will be happy to share that and pull up all the evidence. Whatever the code is, let's do it, but let's make sure we put it clear as we possibly can. Mr. Chairman, the press can hear the words and can be lowered. So, so blind and shunned. Yes, sir. Can you ask us to answer? I did. We did add that in the last two years ago. I did. We did add it in the last two years ago. That was done. Two years ago. Would you like that to continue? Yes, I would. I'll make sure. I'm sorry. And also if you would, if the Commissioner would sit over by the project. I would have wording to say that the rate can be lowered. I'll sit down tomorrow. And not raised. And not raised. Cheryl. Because it will have to go to our committee. It can be lowered and not raised. Yes, we had that wording two years ago. And yes, that would be an appropriate wording, in my opinion, if everyone else agrees. I can't remember the exact wording, but we'll research it. So by having information. And everybody agrees with it. I'll send it out tomorrow afternoon. But if everybody agrees with it Friday, I can send it to the paper. And then it should be on Wednesday. What was your comment? So then, that's what I was going to look at. So we're on the first calendar. If the ad is going out March 4, then the language would have to be put together. No later than that. So, we're going to look at it. We're going to look at it. I was going to ask you to give us a quick look. So, I'm going to ask you to give us a quick look. And then we'll call on the committee. I'm going to ask you to give us a quick look at the date. Okay. So, let me just take a look at the date. Okay. and Wednesdays. What was your comment? So then, that's what I was going to look at. So we're on the first calendar. If the ad's going out March 4th, then the language would have to be put together no later than Monday for us to have time to massage it with the press, right? Yes, March 4th. So we need to get the language together this week or no later than Monday. So I think that she's got most of the language together. It's my understanding they've already sent it to the paper there to fill in the blanks. So you can forward the language to me if that's there. I'll talk to Jack and make sure that what actually goes out is good. Alright, thank you all. We have only six minutes until our regular meeting. Let's move now.
