Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-11-01
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=202
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I called to order the November 1st, 2023 Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you all. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, make sure you turn on your mic when you're speaking and turn it off when you're not speaking since we're limited to five on at one time. Adoption of the, next up is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion? So moved. And do I have a second? Okay. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? There we go. We're adopted. Okay. I hope everybody read the meeting minutes. Do I have a motion to approve? So moved. And do I have a second? Second. All right. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All right. Minutes are approved. Now, committee reports, the only one I have is Winchester City, but I just wanted to make sure. See, you, see, perfect. Perfect. And. Okay. I know you don't have any report, but Maddie Rodriguez is here tonight representing Winchester City. Thank you for coming out, Maddie. And. Thank you. I don't have anything to report. Great to see you. Welcome to the crowd. Thanks. Okay. Moving on. Our next up is citizens comments, which is for any items that is not before the commission for public hearing or on the agenda. Um, I'm going to open up the citizens comments and I'm going to close the citizens comments. All right. The next item up is going to be the public hearing regarding conditional use permit number 10 23 for roses plumbing. This is Peloquin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the commission. All right. Going old school. This conditional use permit application is for a cottage occupation to operate a plumbing business. The 64 acre properties. Located at 311 Patty's run road in the back Creek Magisterial District and the zoning is R. A. This location map shows the property outlined in blue. It is located in the southwestern part of Frederick County near the line with Shenandoah County. The applicant proposes using an existing warehouse on the property for the storage of materials. One employee would be accessing the property periodically to gather materials and no customers would be coming to the site. The warehouse would typically be. Accessed between the hours of 7 a.m. And 5 p.m. On Monday through Friday, but could be accessed at other times as well for emergency calls. And as the note in yellow states, these are what the applicant has proposed, not the conditions on the C. U. P. The definition of a cottage occupation is on the slide. One of the main differences between a cottage occupation and a home occupation in the zoning ordinance is that cottage occupations allow for one employee that does not reside on the premises. The comprehensive. Plan designates this area to remain rural and the proposed use is generally consistent with the plan. Should the planning commission find this used to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. Our view agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Only one employee that is not residing on the premises is permitted. No customers would be permitted on the property and then any expansion or modification of this use would require the approval of a new conditional use permit. Um, um, following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors. Um, that's all I have for the presentation. Happy to answer any questions. The applicants, Mr and Mrs Rose are here as well to address any questions. Okay, Mr Thomas. Hey, I don't want to put you on the spot, so if if any of your want to help you answer this, I'd appreciate it. Uh, I read the conditions on when a conditional use permit is required and for the life of me, I can't figure out why we have to. I can't figure out why we have these people in here tonight for this conditional use permit. So for a cottage occupation, it's it's because they have an employee because they have one employee that does not live, um, on that site. So that probably doesn't come to the site very often. So he comes maybe every morning to gather the materials, but then goes out for the day. Um, so it's, he does no work there other than load his truck up. That's correct. But the ordinance distinguishes the home occupation, um, has no employees. Cottage occupation has one employee. So it's that distinction. I think we are really stretching it here. I think this is ridiculous. We need to look at that ordinance to see if this is, uh, I mean, this isn't reasonable. Understood, Mr Thomas. And the situation we were placed in is, I think when you think about an employee on added business working all in all day shift, it's one thing. But since the concept of this ordinance is to prevent additional trips in the R. A. In and out somebody coming to the business just to pick up supplies qualifies as an employee under the interpretation. Um, and that's how it's been administered in the past as well. So maybe we need to look at that for future amendments. It's on a 64 acre property. I mean, this is sad. Anybody else? No, I, I echo what Mr Thomas said, and I wonder, is there a way the D R C or someone could come up with a plan to handle this type of thing administratively rather than running these people through this process? Because it's, this is onerous to say the least. Fifteen hundred foot building on 64 acres is quite the quite the we want to be business friendly. Let me put it this way. And this type of thing doesn't reflect us being business friendly. That's that's my concern. Staff would gladly accept direction to amend the cottage occupation ordinance to address the planning commission's concern. And I think emotion to that effect would help to move alongside of the application and then be supported by the board and make it move along even further for any future amendments. Don't be a much. Anybody else? Um, this brand, I was gonna speak up, but both of them said I drove out to the property and it's literally one truck. Leaves this driveway, pulls in loads up this truck and leaves. It's very role. I sat there for two hours and he got on the road and one other truck came down the road. A van. It's I think this is a bit onerous too, but I understand why the staff did it because the ordinance is if you have one employee, even though I think it's sad someone that shows up from time to time to load a truck counts. Like an employee working at the site. It's so I'd like to see it and and it made me sad talking to them because they had had this business for years and Shenandoah County and moved here. And they kind of regret moving from the county. So any more questions for Mr. Pelican? Okay. Any questions for the roses? Alrighty. I'm gonna open this public. Hearing, um, who anyone who wants to come forward to speak for or against the signing. Please come forward. State your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes. If anyone wants to come forward. Mike one. Okay, I'm John Klein. I'm your neighbor. I've lived there for 23 years. I don't understand why we're here. To be quite honest with you, I've seen her employee twice and I'm retired. So I'm in and out that road all the time, seemed twice. Since they started her business. And how I know it was twice. Because I always stopped the truck to talk to him. And two times it was his worker. I know the one time he was there less than 10 minutes because he was going in as I was going out. Then he passed me at radins on Cedar Creek Road or one on 55. So he's hardly there. There's more UPS and FedEx tracks are going up down that road. Anything else and how half of them are going to my house. So I know what I'm talking about. Ha ha ha. There's no better. There's no traffic that's resulted from their business moving here. And for the life of me, I can't understand why somebody would complain other than they don't have anything else to do. I mean, this is just insane. It's cost them a lot of stress and extra work that was unnecessary. And I would like, I know you can't tell us who it is, but if you get an opportunity to talk to that person again, tell them to knock it off. I don't know what's going on, but that's ridiculous. Thank you, sir. Anybody else want to speak? Okay. I'm going to close the public hearing. Discussion among commissioners. Now we could be talking among commissioners. So anybody got anything? Well, after we vote on this, what kind of a motion do you need for staff to look at the ordinance? I think if you don't mind, you could separate them, motion to approve, and then at a separate time just give us a motion to amend the cottage occupation ordinance. And then we'll have a motion to approve the ordinance to address the concerns expressed tonight. Something to that effect. Okay. Don't go far. It's going to be coming. So anybody on the right? Okay. I visited and talked to Mrs. Rose and I told her there, and I'm going to tell it and say it again. I said the same thing. Mrs. Rose, I'm sorry. I'm really, I'm sorry. You know, this is ridiculous. I do have a question. We've got it Monday through Friday with a tie. Do we, do we have a motion to approve the ordinance? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't think any of the intentions in their narrative made their way into the conditions. Okay. So there's not limitations to that effect. I just want to make sure. We're not, we're not doing, we're not limiting, we're not doing anything. Okay. That's right. Just wanted to make sure. So it's all Monday through Friday and I was like, oh, okay. Let's, let's have a conversation about that. Okay. I need a motion from Bat Creek. Mr. Chairman, I move that we approve conditional use permit 1020. 23 for the roses plumbing. All right. We've got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. All right. Mr. Stowe's second. I'll start with Mr. Triplett. Triplett, yes. Akins, yes. Cozell, yes. Emanuel, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Stowe, yes. Markert, yes. Brum, yes. Grannon, yes. Chair votes yes. This will go before the Board of Supervisors on December the 13th. So thank you, folks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. We'll see you on December 13th. Mr. Chairman, on a related issue, I move that we request staff re-look at the cottage occupational permit requiring a conditional use permit for one employee that never comes to the site. We need to have better definition and control over that. I'll second. You didn't say that was a motion. I said I move that we... Yeah, he did. Okay. So we got a motion. And we've got a second. And any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I wonder if we should limit that to one employee or some other metric that makes more sense as far as employees who may not be on site on a regular basis. There could be one or two or three. I wonder where we... One additional employee... I'd make a recommendation. ...might not encompass the entire site. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. That's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. We'll make a recommendation. We might not encompass what we're trying to encompass. Yeah, I can take Mr. Thomas' current motion with enough of a general nature to let us bounce around some ideas, and we'll bring it back for discussion, and you all can see what you think about it at that time. Okay. That's what I was gonna say should happen. All right. Mrs. Broomback. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Brannon first. Mrs. Brannon? Mr. Brannon, yes. Mr. Bromback, yes. Mr. Markert, yes. Mr. Stowe, yes. Mr. Stowe, yes. Mr. Bromback, yes. Mr. Markert, yes. Mr. Stowe, yes. Mr. Molden, yes. Mr. Thomas, yes. Mr. Kern, yes. Mr. Emanuel, yes. Ms. Kozell, yes. Mr. Eakins, yes. Mr. All right, chair votes yes. DRC, you got some work to do. That'll be good. Thank you. And then thanks for, staff, thanks for all you're doing too. I mean, you know, this is great. So, okay, you're lucky. It's only 715. I know. I was gonna change, you know, so. This is an ordinance amendment for conversion of our building. So, we're gonna change it. We're gonna change it. We're gonna change it. This is an ordinance amendment for conversion of our allowed uses tables and additions and deletions to various districts, and this is a public hearing item. There are two proposals for consideration this evening. They may be acted upon separately if desired by the Planning Commission, and I'll walk you through each of those proposals. Proposal A, as you all are familiar with, is the conversion of the allowed uses terminology. The current zoning ordinance utilizes what's known as the standard industrial classification. Which is an antiquated system for classifying various uses. It was last updated in 1987. It has not been updated since. We are proposing updates to our allowed uses tables and the planned development business and industrial districts to reflect terminology that's part of the North American Industrial Classification, or NAICS, terminology system. And we're removing references throughout the zoning ordinance to all the SIC numeric coding and removing reference to SIC and all the other things. We're also removing references to the NAICS and the other sections where it's applicable. NAICS is an alternative system for classifying business establishments. It's maintained and updated on a more regular basis. In fact, it was last updated in 2022. There are a bunch of digital resources available to staff. And NAICS includes a lot of uses that were not previously uses or business types in 1987. So it's reflecting a more modern approach to the allowed uses and some of the industries that reach out to the county. So we're looking to locate here. Again, NAICS is a resource to the zoning administrator, but we're not confined, really confined by the terminology. We're not confined by all the numeric coding and things like that. So it does give us a little bit more flexibility than we currently have. And that's why the numeric coding is not included in the amendment. And I think I've walked you through a number of those converted uses and things like that, but I'm happy to answer any questions at the end if there are questions. The second part of this proposal this evening is additions and deletions to our allowed uses list. We have added primarily and removed uses from various business and industrial districts. In most cases, the proposed additions expand the allowed uses that are allowed in certain zoning districts to better meet the intent of those zoning districts and or again, to reflect uses not in existence when SIC was last updated. And I'll walk through some of those specifics because this is probably the most important part of the ordinance amendment. For our B-1, our neighborhood business and industrial districts, we have added and removed a number of uses. We have added and removed a number of uses from various business and industrial districts. There was only one change that's of note. Car washes was removed from the allowed uses list at the request of, or sorry, rather at the recommendation of the Development Review and Regulations Committee. And staff would note this is the only deletion throughout the proposal. All the other districts received additions but no deletions. Next is our B-2, our general business district. This is our kind of our main kind of bread and butter zoning district that, you know, all of the businesses are looking to locate in. So we've added some additional uses. Broadcasting and content. Content providers, again, one of those new industries that wasn't previously included. Automotive oil and lubrication shops. It's going to be, you know, your Valvolines and your tire centers and things of that nature. And then technical and trade schools. For our B-3, our industrial transition district, we've added a number of uses to better meet the intent of that section. For those of you who have been on the Planning Commission for a while, you know we don't have a lot of utilization of our B-3 districts. It's intended to be a transition district between our general business district and our industrial district. Not nearly as intense as our industrial district, but more intense than our general business district. So we've added a number of uses we think fit nicely there, including warehousing and storage, gasoline service stations with or without convenience stores, professional scientific and technical services, including testing laboratories and general business offices, precision equipment repair and maintenance, consumer good rentals, and rental and leasing for cars, trucks, utility trailers, and recreational vehicles. That's going to be your Hertz rental cars and companies that rent RVs and trailers and things of that nature. For our TEM, our Technology Manufacturing Park district, not a lot of changes here. You all actually did a fairly comprehensive review of the TEM district back in 2022 and amended that use list. We did add one use there, which was storage batteries and primary battery manufacturing. Those are, that's currently allowed in other districts, and we feel like it fits with that Technology Manufacturing Park district. For our M1, our light industrial district, we've added some additional uses, storage batteries and primary battery manufacturing, and waste management remediation services limited to glass, cardboard, plastics, recycling, and excluding incinerators. That's going to be your ridge runner container services or like uses. Waste management presently is only allowed in M2, but we've allowed it in M1 with the exclusion of the incinerators, which is a highly intensive and noxious use, so we want to reserve that for that. For our M2 district. Our M2 is our industrial general district. Only one change here. We did take tractor trailer and tractor trailer truck parking, which is currently listed as a conditional use, and we've moved it to our allowed uses list. Again, our M2 district is our most intensive heavy industry type district, and we feel like tractor trailer truck parking fits nicely in that district. You all have seen a number of those. Conditional use permits were in the M1 district. This would allow it by right in the M2 district. And again, alleviates some of that. So you continue to use that. Thank you. So that's the additional use permit pressure that we get. Our MS, our medical support district, there were no changes to the allowed use list. We did update the terminology. We did do a fairly comprehensive reorganization and condensing of that section. Really what it includes is uses that are kind of accessory and complementary to a hospital setting. So that's going to be your personal services, your pharmacies, drug outlets, things of that nature. We've also added a requirement that we remove the requirement that continuing care retirement communities are within a two-mile radius of the Route 37 medical center interchange. Fairly, again, antiquated requirement when they were developing the hospital and some of that west medical campus. But we have interest for maybe doing MS district in other parts of the county to support communities like Lake Frederick. So we wanted to remove that requirement to tie retirement communities to that two-mile radius and just leave it open to being in the MS district. Our HE, higher education district, the permitted use list was expanded again to include those accessory and secondary uses typically associated with a college or an educational campus setting. Again, that's going to be your restaurants, your retail uses, and your lodging type uses. And finally, our extractive manufacturing district, we added parks to the permitted use list. Again, that's going to be your district. And finally, our mining operations, we have in the county, their long-term plans is to convert when they no longer use property into potentially being converted into park space. That list was not included, so we wanted to make sure that was included in that permitted use list so they have that option when they remediate the sites down the road. It's, again, a long-term kind of vision for that district. There's one other topic for consideration for you all this evening that was not previously included, but staff has gone back and forth with in discussions. And that is to add batteries. We have a battery storage as a conditional use, again, requiring the conditional use permit. We recommend that that use be added as a CUP use in the TM, technology manufacturing, M1, light industrial, and M2 industrial general zoning districts. For those of you who are not familiar with battery storage operations, they enable energy from things like renewables, such as solar, to be stored and released when power is needed the most. This is a new and emerging industry, and one way to think about it is kind of like a data center type use. It's a big setting where not a lot of employees, just kind of big battery banks that are storing energy like data would be stored. Staff would note, again, it's new and an emerging industry. We've not been approached by a battery storage manufacturer or battery storage operation at this time, but looking ahead at some of these emerging industries, and battery storage is a separate, distinctive use from that battery storage, primary battery and storage battery manufacturing that's already part of our use list. Again, we just want to bring that to your consideration this evening, and looking for some direction in your motion if you would like to include that as a conditional use, because presently it's not included as a conditional use. Why are we separating that? Would you explain why that's being separated out to require a conditional use? We want to reserve the right to learn more about that industry and consider it on a case by case basis. If you were to make it a buy right use, we have the potential where... A lot of our M1 land could potentially be swooped up in this emerging industry, and you have all these battery banks, and you don't have any other... There's not a lot of employee generation or anything like that, so we're trying to be cautious about allowing it in all of our zoning districts and giving staff, the planning commission, the board of supervisors the opportunity to understand the industry a little bit better and review requests for that type of use on a case by case basis. So, this is just the battery storage industry. Yeah. If a large commercial operation wants to bring battery storage in, say they put solar panels all over the roof of the building, and they want to bring battery storage in to use as part of their industry... That would not be what this is. This is a separate... If it was just standalone battery storage on a piece of property. This is a warehouse for battery storage. Basically, yes, sir. Like a data center, but... Yeah, and thank Tyler, if you don't mind me cutting in. One of the... It's grid connected battery storage. So, it's tapped into the electrical lines and holds energy from those lines and disperses it at appropriate times. The same considerations that Tyler mentioned about it potentially being a consumptive land use in the M1 in our industrial districts was why we think it's best to maybe introduce it as a CUP and see how it goes in the same way we did tractor, truck, and trailer parking, because we just don't know exactly what it's going to look like, frankly. We've had a couple calls, but nobody's serious about it. But we think we may likely be able to get it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're not abundantly clear as to what the taxation would look like for it. There's been some hints that it may be considered under the renewable exemptions that occur for personal property or machinery and tools tax the same way solar is exempted from some of that. So, we kind of want to wait and see, keep it as a condition we use to make sure it's allowed somebody wants to do it, but that we can evaluate it individually in that case. I hope that makes sense. Makes sense. I was curious. I'm curious, is that definition accompany the use? Because I know car dealers, for example, I'm working with two of them now, and they're going to store batteries on site, plus they have a separate facility that's outside of the building for damaged batteries that are from wrecked vehicles. And it's a different kettle of fish than what we're discussing here. Yeah, we got into a bit of a circular conversation with the zoning administrator on this, and the conclusion was if we were to interpret battery storage to mean a building full of batteries versus grid-connected batteries, then we would also need storage for anything else that goes in a warehouse articulated in the ordinance, right? We would need pallet storage and car storage and all the other things that typically move in a warehouse. So we feel comfortable. We're confident that the term as it stands right now is common sense enough to not be confused with the storage of batteries versus battery storage. Does that help? So fairly extensive ordinance was told in White today. Actually, we started this process of updating this as a staff back in, like, November, December 2022. So went through the DRC, the first part of the new year, planning commission. Actually, you all discussed this back in July. It went to the board for discussion on the 9th, and they endorsed those proposed changes. So I'm not sure. So I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment. And specifically, I think it would be appropriate to make a separate recommendation about the battery storage discussion that we just had as it pertains to it being a conditional use in our TM, M1, and M2 districts. So happy to answer any other additional questions that we have. I know we've discussed this in a lot of different settings with a lot of you, so happy to clarify anything else. Okay. I'll look to the right first. Any questions? Any questions? Is this actually electricity storage instead of battery storage? It's the storage of the electricity to go back into the grid. I'm about to do that with my house. Solar panels on the roof, generating electricity that goes into the grid, and then I have a solar panel. And I also am going to have a battery installed so that when the grid goes down, I can utilize the solar array, and that battery becomes active as I draw from it and then recharge it. It would not pertain to these individual power systems. It's kind of this utility scale use, like a solar facility or like a data center, where the scale of it is so large that it requires regulation. There's kind of personal systems where you're... Maybe storing a little bit of power that's coming out of your solar panels to offset your energy costs would not be part of this discussion. Right. So we're not talking to Generics for a house. We're talking football fields of storage. If there's any other use being conducted on the property that's using the batteries, that's accessory. It would not need a conditional use permit. We allow that currently. Somebody who's doing a manufacturing operation could cover green space with solar panels if it's connected. It's a manufacturing operation and serving that use, but they need a CUP when it's utility scale going directly into the grid. I think we can see from this discussion, our definition of that needs to be pretty clear because if we get an overzealous person just like that previous conditional use permit, if we get an overzealous person who wants to appeal it, we could end up with a whole bunch of conditional use permits in here if we don't have a real tight definition. So I think we can see from this discussion, our definition of what this battery storage that requires a conditional use permit consists of. So the second bullet point I have is actually pulled directly from the NAICS resource about what a definition is. So that would be our resource definition that we would refer back to, just like we would for any other use. Absent of a definition in our ordinance, which not every use is defined, we refer back to another resource. NAICS is included in the intent section of all of the CUPs. So that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about the NICS. We're talking about the NAICS. And I think we're confident that the intent section of all of the zoning districts stating that it is the right resource for defining what the use is, and I think we're confident that between the NAICS resource and the zoning administrator's own judgment, that we can make a fair interpretation of if someone seeking to do this use fits under what we intend the definition to be or not. And Mr. Chairman, I have another perfect example that you all see pretty often, which is tractor, truck, and trailer parking. A warehouse doesn't need to come for a conditional use permit to do that unless it's the same stand-alone primary use on the property, and the only use on the property. And the same would apply here. You all, if it goes forward as a conditional use, anybody that wanted to do this would have to come back through this process. So you all would have the opportunity to ask them questions and understand what it is at that point. Like I said, we haven't been approached by anyone specifically looking to do it, but there has been some chatter about, hey, would this be allowed or not currently in the county? Ms. Branham? Yes, sir. Have you all talked to any places, jurisdictions that have done this battery storage that we know what are, what if they're leaking, what are the problems? How do we even know what conditions have put? It's brand new. Yeah, it's brand new. I don't think we've gotten there yet. But we have not reached out to a locality specifically asking about it. So my question is, are we jumping the gun saying we'll have conditional use permits before we really understand the industry to know what conditions would be? Put on them. We felt like this was, given the comprehensive nature of this change to all of the use tables, we felt like this was the appropriate time to bring this discussion for you. If you all have no interest in moving forward with it, it can stop here and we can bring it back to you when someone approaches us about doing it again. That's one option. I don't, you know, we don't want it to derail moving forward with the rest of the work that's been done on this issue. Doing a CUP is actually protecting us on that route. Yeah. That's what you're doing. So, any more discussion? Okay, do you have a preference? Do you want it put together or do you want two separate? I think two separate motion. Motion on the proposals A and B, which is the additions and deletions and the change in the terminology and then a separate motion on just the conditional use of the battery storage I think would be appropriate. Okay, so how about if I open a public hearing and close it real quick and then we'll, don't go far. I'm opening a public hearing for discussion. Anyone wants to come forward? Okay. Thank you. So, I'm going to go forward and speak now or against this. Please state your name, Massachusetts District, and three minutes and I'm closing that public hearing. So, okay. We've got our discussion in place. We want two different motions here. So, do I have a motion? Mr. Chairman, I recommend we approve 7A and 7B. I move that we recommend approval to the Board for items 7A and 7B. Do I have a second? No, no, no, no. We're not over here. We're still back here. We're not on 7. We're doing the ordinances. I think what Mr. Thomas was trying to say was there's a, articulated in the staff report, in the presentation, there's a proposal A and proposal B. I think that's what I was trying to say. I think that's what I was trying to say. I think that's what I was trying to say. I think that's what I was trying to say. I think that's what I was trying to say. I think that's what I was trying to say. The proposal B, which is under item 6B, so I now see the confusion, Roger. But a motion to approve proposal A and B of item 6B would get you there. Okay. I move that we recommend approval to the Board of items A and B under item 6. Okay. All right. I'll second that. All right. There you go. I'll start with Mr. Triplett. Mr. Triplett? Triplett, yes. Thank you. Mr. Ekins, yes. Cozell, yes. Yes. Kerr, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Stowe, yes. Markert, yes. Brumbach, yes. Does that have the battery CUP in it? Yes. Yes, it does. So, Brandon, no. Did I miss something? Hang on. Mr. Thomas, was your motion to include the approval of the proposal B and B under item 6B? I don't think so. I don't think so. I think it was the proposal A, which is the straight conversion of the uses from SIC to NAICS and proposal B, which is the additions, deletions, and I assume to the conditional use permit for the battery storage? No. Okay. It was everything except the battery storage. Mrs. Brannon, yes. Then, Brannon, yes. Okay. Chair votes yes. Okay. Now, let's do a motion regarding the battery storage. Okay. Do I have a motion? I would propose we don't put in the CUP right now. We need to learn more about the industry and not jump the gun. And, Mr. Chairman, if that's the prerogative of the Planning Commission, we don't need a motion. Okay. Okay. Is this the prerogative of the Commissioners? I don't know what's going on. I'm seeing heads nodding. I'm seeing heads nodding. Okay. Okay. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to vote. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm seeing heads nodding. I don't know that it makes much difference either way. Yeah. Okay. We'll shelve that one for now, sir. How's that? Yeah. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Klein, thank you. Yes, sir. I would just like to acknowledge, the work Mr. Klein has done, along with Amy Feltner and the zoning administrator on this work has been phenomenal. When I was doing missionary duty over to the DRC I got to participate in some of this. And I don't know how... I mean, Mark Sharon, I don't know how they think about this. They think about this as a little remote. They did it. I mean, this would have driven me crazy, but I'm an engineer, and I think linear. And this stuff is great. This moves us forward. This is very forward-looking and sets us up for business to engage businesses going forward in a way that's current. And I just commend the work that the staff did on this effort. It's huge. It was a lot of work. Thank you. We'll pass it along. And Ms. Feltner and Mark deserve the bulk of the credit. They spent a lot of time together. To get through the useless, and we had a lot of internal meetings about it. So I appreciate everyone's help on that item. It is a fairly comprehensive change to the ordinance, and I think is a good starting point. Now we have an information discussion on ordinance amendments. Yep. So the next two items are information discussion. The first is a discussion of changes to the sign ordinance section of the ordinance, which is Part 201.06. And there's two parts to this proposal. The first is to remove a section that is honestly not necessary because we no longer list the sign types by each zoning district. They're contained in a table later in the ordinance. This was just an oversight in doing that comprehensive revision to the sign ordinance. And it's just kind of like a leftover that we didn't catch in one of our other staff members when they started to use it. Like, hey, this is a conflict, so trying to remove that to provide clarity and to remove any confusion. The second is to remove a section that is not necessary because we no longer list the sign types by each zoning district. The second part of this amendment is to respond to some feedback that we've received from the community regarding sign heights in the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. Currently in the ordinance, we allow rural area signs at four feet. That number came forward from the old sign ordinance that we had going back probably as far as 2008. And staff is proposing a sign height of eight feet in height. The discussion that's been had with staff was, you know, rural roads, sometimes higher speeds. And we've seen a four-foot sign versus an eight-foot sign. An eight-foot sign gives a little bit of visibility, gives the motorist time to see the sign and understand what's there and make their turn if they need to or things of that nature. So we don't have any disagreement with that change. We think that's a fairly good change and addresses a need in the community for a larger sign. The sign size in the R.A. District, it would not change. That's still 50 square feet. So you're talking about a 50-square-foot sign at eight feet, potentially eight feet in height versus four feet in height. And I will say there are some signs in the R.A. District that are already eight feet in height that kind of predate the ordinance. So it's not out of scale with what we are seeing in our rural communities. So, again, the committee discussed this on the 28th, and they endorsed their proposed change. This is an information discussion item, so we are looking for any comments and consensus from the Planning Commission to forward to the board. And should the board choose to move this forward, it will come back to you all for a public hearing at a later date. So thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Discussion. I'll look to the left. We're sure we're going to look to the left. Look to the right. I would assume that the sign height increase doesn't block a view of traffic, right? There's no... It would not block the view of traffic. All the other sign provisions, the setbacks, and things of that nature would still apply, just simply increasing the height. Mr. Higgins? Just for the point of order, I just want to make sure I understand something. So we're going to look at this, hear it, give an approval or a consensus, and the Board of Supervisors is going to do the same thing. Then we get to talk about it again, vote on it again, and then the Board of Supervisors does it? That is the current process that is set up for our ordinance amendments. Maybe something else to look at. You got the process down. Currently. All right. Mr. Klein, I think everybody's good. I think we have some consensus. I appreciate the consensus. This is our last ordinance amendment for your consideration this evening. A little bit more meat on this amendment than the previous information discussion item you had. This is a proposal to amend our supplementary use regulations for commercial telecommunications facilities to modify the criteria which the Board of Supervisors considers a waiver to the setbacks for those telecommunications facilities. This ordinance amendment was actually initiated by a telecommunications... I'm sorry. Telecommunications provider, Diamond Communications, who are seeking a conditional use permit, in fact, and they brought this issue to our attention. And presently, under our current telecommunications ordinance, the Board may reduce the setback for a telecommunication tower proportional to the height of the tower to no less than one-half the distance of the height of the wireless facility or wireless support structure. For those of you who have been on the Planning Commission for a while or those of you who are new to the Planning Commission, we did do a fairly... In fact, we did do a comprehensive... Change to our commercial telecommunications facilities a couple of years ago. And that standard was carried over from our preceding ordinance into the new text that we had at that time. But there's always room for improvement. So the proposed language is that the Board may still consider a setback waiver. But if the applicant submits sufficient documentation certified by a Virginia professional engineer that in the event of a collapse, the facility or structure would be contained within a defined... Fall zone that does not extend into the area of the proposed reduced setback measured from the center line of the base of the wireless facility or wireless support structure. The reduced setback distance under this provision shall not be any less than that required to accommodate the indicated fall zone. So a little bit of a change in the language. It requires the telecommunications engineer to define a fall zone and provide staff and the Board with what that fall zone looks like and how the tower would collapse. And the fall zone as opposed to the setback. So it's a minor change as far as the language goes and the protection that's offered to the county. But it's a fairly significant change for those engineering the wireless support structures. It allows them to work within a smaller... Potentially within a smaller footprint on properties, which is helpful when they're trying to locate telecommunications facilities across the county. So again, it is a Board waiver. So even if they make the request, it's ultimately up to the Board of Supervisors to consider all the factors of that tower. And doing that and conditional use permit towers... Sorry, telecommunication towers require conditional use permits. So you all would still have the opportunity to discuss those setbacks at that time as well. So the committee discussed this on the 28th and staff is seeking comments from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board on this topic. Mr. Thomas. I was the one to put that in initially. And when that came up, I mean, this is an old condition. Because at that point, there wasn't enough information on how... Cell phone towers collapsed. And at that point, 20 years ago, a lot of the towers collapsed just one piece. They didn't break in half. They didn't have soft spots or break parts to bring it down within a fall zone. The only thing I'm concerned about this a little bit is the other added benefit of having this was it gave us more of a buffer of the tower from the surrounding area. If we have a collapse on a fall zone... New technologies, new materials, you can drop a tower now within the footprint of the base. So are we going to allow those towers to be up against or 10 feet from the property line? If they can show... And no disparaging remarks about the Board of Supervisors. But are they going to be able to understand an analysis that says it can drop within a... A certain fall zone? Are we going to put ourselves in a point where we're hiring another consultant to verify the tower's consultant's verbiage that they can fall within the fall zone? But are they going to want to allow a tower that close to the property line? Because theoretically, they can drop those towers now within the footprint of the base. So that would put it 10 feet from the property line. Is that what we want? It's a valid comment. And like I said, we can convey that to the Board of Supervisors. And as I stated, telecommunication towers of a certain height require conditional use permits. So there'd be an opportunity to talk about the joining properties and things of that nature at that time. Well, maybe if we're going to adopt this, maybe we need to have a buffer specifically that the tower can be no closer than 50 feet from the property line. Regardless of the height. But again, that's something... That's something we need to discuss. Because we had the added advantage when we did it the way previously that it had to be the height of the tower away from the property line minimum. Just a comment. Thank you. Mr. Stone. What is the difference between a wireless facility and a wireless support structure? I didn't understand what the two were. Because there's three types of antennas, right? You've got the monopole. You've got the self-standing. And you've got the guide, which no one does anymore. Mr. Stone, I think the county attorney just told me for the purpose of this ordinance, there really isn't. But I think as it relates generally, a wireless support structure could likely be interpreted as like a guide wire or something other than the tower itself. Okay. Thank you. Anybody else on the left? How about on the right? Everybody good? Okay. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For current planning applications that are kind of noteworthy, I just have two for you. The first is Airport Business Park, which is a 116,000-square-foot warehouse we just recently approved a site plan for. And then the second is pending, and it's Greystone Industrial Park for a 327,000-square-foot warehouse that we're still working on. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Absent that, at the beginning of the slide deck, there was the Transportation Forum details, and that is November 16th at 6 p.m. So that will be here in this room. I encourage you all to attend. We've made some progress on the Route 37 study, and our consultants for that are going to be here with some information. We're definitely not at the conclusion of it. Oh, do we still have another item? Yeah, I was going to point it out to you. You got your bylaws. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was letting you go. I mean, it's going to... Previously provided to you, I think a little more than 30 days ago, was an amendment to the Planning Commission bylaws to legalize the way we've been currently doing the electronic participation. So it's pretty straightforward. I think in the memo I mentioned that there are some considerations that you all could take into account that the board did not. So that's well expressed in the memo. I'm happy to answer any questions that you all have on the topic. Anybody got any questions? Any comments? I've got one. I saw that limit of two, but I think there's room for it to go up to six. That's right. And I think we really should give that some consideration. Maybe four go halfway in between there, because if there's a unique situation where someone's going to be gone for a month or two, or there's something happening, give them the opportunity where they can participate. So that was the only thing I saw that I thought I was concerned about. Yeah, I think a motion to that effect to include that. We can work out the wording of that and don't need to come back to you with it if you want to include that change. And you're right, it was either two instances or 25% of the meetings. So the six was an estimation of the meetings that you'd hold in a year, and the 25% figure applied to it. Do... Anybody want to make their motion, or you want me to make... I'll make the motion. I'll make the motion that we go with the 25% for being able to do remote call-ins for meetings. Second. All right. We got a motion. We got a second. All those in favor? Aye. There you go. And since I jumped ahead of you on the current planning applications, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have on any of those or any other topics. No, I think it's all good. All right. Do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. All right. We're out of here, folks. Thank you.
