Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-12-06
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=204
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, please make sure you turn on your mic and turn it off after you speak since we're limited to five. Next up is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt? So moved. All right. I got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. The agenda's adopted. Folks, I hope you had a good chance to read the meeting minutes. That's up next for September 20th and October 4th. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes? All right. We got that. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Minutes are approved. Thank you. Committee reports. Let's see. We do not have, well, CPPC, I can just say that they met to discuss what's coming before us tonight. So that's short and sweet and to the point. Historic resources, do you have anything? I missed it. Okay. Okay. And then Frederick Water. I've got that right here. Frederick Water Board of Directors met on November 21st. The Frederick Water Board accepted the Frederick Water fiscal year 2023 audited financial statements by Brown, Edwards & Company. The auditor did not detect any matters of concern. Frederick Water, in coordination with, this is important for folks to hear. Frederick Water, in coordination with the county administrator, declared a drought emergency on November 15th, 2023. The drought declaration is aligned with the response with the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality's groundwater monitoring for the region. Groundwater levels in the region have continued to drop since March of 2023. Groundwater not only supplies Frederick Water's public system, but also Frederick residents who utilize private wells for the water. Everyone in Frederick County should be aware of the drought impacting our community, and everyone should be practicing water conservation. If water use is not required, then it should not be wasted. Simple as that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the water supply efforts, such as turning off the faucets, et cetera, preservation of our groundwater is essential for everyday life, and water supply is vital during the times of fire emergencies. The drought emergency will remain in effect until further notice. So, thanks folks for that one. And are there any other, before I look towards Winchester City? Okay. Hi, good evening, Winchester City. Liaison. How are you? How are you? You have anything for us? Okay. Well, thank you for coming. Appreciate you being here. And then, hello, Ms. Slackridge. How are you today? Hey, I'm good. How are you? I'm good. Do you have anything for us from Board of Supervisors? Yeah, I'll just touch base on our November 8th meeting. That's the last time we have met, and we denied the Dover Hill crossing. So I just wanted to let you guys know that. Also, the Getaway House was approved after we looked at it again, and the Carmoose was approved at our last meeting. So that's all I have for planning. Thank you so much. Yep. Thank you. All right. Hey, John. Okay. Next up is Citizens' Comments. Now, Citizens' Comments is open for any items not before the commission of the public hearing or on the agenda. If anyone wants to come forward, please state your name, Magisterial District, and limit it to three minutes. All right. Seeing no one running up here, Citizens' Comments is closed. So thank you. All right. Mr. Pearson, the next item up is public hearings. CPPA number 0123, Madison 2. Chairman, I'll have to recuse from discussion on this app. Thank you, sir. Point of order. Point of order. I don't know if this is the right way to do it. I'm concerned about these four back-to-back, because we'll be increasing the swaths in the urban development in four of our six regions. So I feel like we should table this and get with the Board of Supervisors and really plan out, is this the right growth? I'm not for no growth, but four of the six, we're increasing the development. It seems like this should be planned out to me. Okay. Point of order. We did have a work session, and the Board of Supervisors were invited to that work session. So unless I have a motion to table, and we can take a vote if you want. I do. Just a discussion item on that a little bit. The Board will have the ultimate say on this. My mic isn't working, I guess. The Board will have the ultimate say on it. So whatever we do tonight, we'll go to the Board. And the Board has the option, if they want to approve all four, if they want to approve one and send the other three back for future studies, if they want to send all four back for future studies, they can do that. I guess my concern over tabling it now would be we've had a lot of meetings, and depending on which one of these we're talking about, different Board members have different views. And I think we really need to, for our benefit, for the applicant's benefit, and for the residents of Frederick County's benefit, I think we need to get it to the Board and let the Board decide then what they want to do. Do they want to send it back for us to study, give us more guidance on how they want us to study it? Do they want to maybe approve one, send three? Do they want to send three back? They would have that option. And then that would kind of energize the citizenry, the applicants, and us and the Board to really look at it in a more focused view. I mean, we've taken a broad brush at it. We've taken a broad view of it. But to get down to the specifics and really dig down deep into them, we really need to get it in front of the Board and let them decide what they want to do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Certainly, in the past, the Board has kicked all of them back. You know, not specifically these, but when we've sent other comp plan amendments forward, they've kicked them all back. They've kicked one back. They've come back with different guidance on they don't think this is the right timing. They need us to study more on maybe what, you know, not to talk about individual specifics on these tonight, but which ones they want to see studied, what concerns they have about individual ones. I mean, I think that's a big question. I mean, it might have a concern on transportation on one, on disturbing neighbors on another one, on school children on another one. So I think until we hear what the Board wants, we ought to let the Board go ahead and kick it back. And like Mr. Jewell said, they've already had their opportunity to talk to us about it, and we've had pretty good input from the Board members, I think. Here's my view. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. right away and they need to figure out committees and not rush this personal opinion okay so I'd like to put a motion to table the four all right we have a motion to table all four do I have a second all right the motion dies so now we can move forward mr. Pearson Thank You mr. chairman I'll begin just by adding prefacing all four with some comments regarding the process many of you have been involved either the CPPC or otherwise but at the slide deck you can see in your introduction your comprehensive plan there's some criteria to evaluate when you're looking at comprehensive plan amendments so I'll briefly review those is there a benefit to the public health safety and welfare is it consistent with your goals objectives and policies will the uses of the property in the immediate vicinity of the subject property be in any way appropriate or not appropriate and if there is any other questions or comments that you may have to make about the change that you've made in the community or the community as a whole and will it result in benefits that will outweigh any significant impact of the change so process wise we started back in June 1st when our applications were due for this comprehensive plans and programs committee reviewed this in November and you have it before you all for public hearing where we'll seek in a recommendation to the board who will then have public hearing in January on these four items and make a final decision and then for the public's benefit I'm sure the Planning Commission is already aware of this but oftentimes when somebody gets a letter in the mail they presume it's a rezoning action and that if this is approved and it's inevitable that the property is going to develop but this is really a pre-emptive step to evaluate whether or not these uses that are being proposed are appropriate for these areas of the county and in any case the four applications being considered tonight prior to development they'd have to come back for a rezoning application discussion and then we'll see what happens in the next couple of days. Surv assistant Elgerow the Saanen SAL linie console Carmen Senator Dinah Saanen development to the south and the east. Properties are currently zoned rural areas and are in the Opecan Magisterial District. So to orient you on the map, if you're heading on 277 or Fairfax Pike to the west towards Stevens City, then you're heading this way. The property is outlined in blue. The brown here is the Lake Frederick development, which is continuing to develop with a future connection of Rachel Carson Drive to 277 in this area. And then if you were to continue down 277, you'd eventually run into the double toll gate area. So the proposed plan changes for this, again, include a new non-contiguous urban development area. The mixed-use commercial office designation is going to remain the same. The mixed-use industrial office is going to change to Neighborhood Village, and I'm going to review all this on a map in a second. Some of the Neighborhood Village remains the same, and then some of the industrials can be redesignated to Neighborhood Village. So as your land use plan stands, you're going to have to make sure that you're going to have a good plan for the neighborhood today for the southern Frederick area of the county. This is how it is represented. So you have mixed-use commercial office on the portion that fronts up against 277. Here you can see your South Frederick Parkway, which is a long-term planned road meant to wrap around the south side of Stevens City. This candy cane color is the mixed-use industrial office. There's some blue industrial on the far western portion of the county. As you can tell, a riparian area divides the property. And then there's Neighborhood Village, which is this checkered pattern. And then there's the mixed-use industrial office. So you have mixed-use commercial office on the southern portion. You have mixed-use residential area. And then there's the urban development area. And then there's the urban development area. So what are the differences? And that's the map we're going to show. You can see in the small dotted black line, that is your existing urban development area. And that encompasses large portions of the county as the place where you're planning for denser residential growth. So this new concept of having a separate urban development area is supported by planning staff if the application merits inclusion for its own rights. We don't think that not is advisable because urban development doesn't always happen in a contiguous nature I think we've seen that in the county the fact that you have Lake Frederick there's a decent example of that and since this property adjoins Lake Frederick directly you can draw a new urban development area around Lake Frederick and the property in question and give it some character by tying it to that Lake Frederick development so here would be the proposed change you'd see a new urban development area that goes around Lake Frederick and then the applicant has some provided some texts to provide color for what that would look like and so that is not contiguous to your existing urban development area and avoids you then wrapping in all of this industrial land and granting it the rights that come with being in the urban development area if that concept is at all not clear please let me know I'm happy to expand a little bit more on that in addition to the map amendments proposed there's some text amendments I won't read the full breadth of them but in short there's some conceptual ties to say that this property ought to develop in a similar manner as Lake Frederick and that's again conceptual in nature it's not to say that the housing types in Lake Frederick are going to be built on this property but that it should represent the high quality construction and the general gateway field that's provided for the southern Frederick portion of the county that there'll be interconnectivity to the adjoining developments if at all possible and then most specifically the commercial areas fronting on 277 are ideal for medical uses to be included in that portion of the development some of your relevant agency comments on this one include Frederick County Public Schools who only has capacity at the middle school level in this area Frederick water is going to be able to serve the property with sanitary sewer but it's going to be a little while they have a sanitary sewer force main that they're having their capital plan that they're working to construct and this is something that I would like to address in the next session as well. as I think due to be done by 2026. And then VDOT anticipates that the change in land use will actually generate less traffic because you're taking industrial land use designations off the property and replacing them with residential land use designations that are likely to generate less trips than the industrial ones that were previously on the property. Again, that all would need to be colored at the rezoning application phase to do a proper traffic impact analysis and determine what impacts would be brought on by the development and whether any mitigation measures need to be proposed to offset the impact on the surrounding area. Some of our conclusions is just that the industrial property that's on the west side of the riparian area is really too small to develop with any viable uses, so changing that to a different land use designation makes sense. Further, the mixed-use industrial office bay, and given its small size and nature, really only seems viable for office use and is a good place to be. So, it's a good place to be. And then, again, I think we can all agree that the urban development area is not currently supported by market demand. And then, again, I think I mentioned the second bullet previously when talking about the non-contiguous urban development area. If the application has merit otherwise, we just want you all to know that from a planning perspective, doing a new urban development area doesn't seem like an impediment to good planning in this specific instance. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. Mr. George, representing the applicant, is here. He doesn't have a presentation, but he's happy to answer any questions as well. Any questions? Good. Any questions on that? Mr. Thomas. Sir. Is there any unintended negative consequences for us by setting up two things, putting Lake Frederick inside the comp plan or inside the water and sewage Urban development area. Urban development area. And by having a non-contiguous urban development area here. What are the potential negatives that we look down the road at? I mean, Lake Frederick, I'm not sure what difference it makes to them whether they're in or not. Yeah. And that's why I didn't know if you had something that I wasn't seeing. No, no. So, foreseeably, we've evaluated this for that same concern. Are we making a potential mistake in having some unintended consequence come because of that? For Lake Frederick, nothing changes. It's already zoned. It doesn't grant them any further density or otherwise. For the only potential unintended consequences, it might invite people to then apply to amend the comp plan to further expand this urban development area. Because previously they were too far from the existing non-contiguous one, but now, Lake Holiday may be adjoining. Still legislative consideration that will come before the planning commission and the board, and you can decide whether you think it's appropriate at that time. So, it's nothing that you can't avoid through decision making if somebody wants to bring something before you. Does that make sense? It does. Yeah. Just put up with my next question a little bit. If Lake Holiday came in and said, we want to join the urban development area, and they would want us to provide water, and if something happens with the lake and they wanted us to provide water and sewer there, it would really be impractical for the county to provide water and sewer there, and it really wouldn't make much sense to put them in the urban development area. So, what would be our rationale when we've set the precedent and have a non-contiguous urban development area here, what would be our ability or rationale to say, no, Lake Holiday, we don't want to do it there? Yeah, I think, keep in mind, Lake Holiday has water and sewer, it's just privately managed and provided for. And there are no connections from that private system back to the Frederick Water Public System. There's actually quite a large gap between the two. So, I think they're kind of two horses of a different color in that respect, but I think that would be your argument is you're simply just too far. The closer example, and it's not a great one because it's already in the urban development area, is Snowden Bridge. At the time, Snowden Bridge was a very large area, but it was a very large area. So, the reason why Snowden Bridge was rezoned, it may have been prudent at that time, rather than do the shoestring drawing that brings the urban development area out and encompasses other properties to go around Snowden Bridge just to come back and leaves this large bulbous mass that isn't contiguous to the rest of it. It may have been appropriate at that time to do the same thing we're discussing right here. And it goes back to those concepts that we discussed at the CPPC last, which is for the longest time, people thought that urban environments grew in concentric zones, and that's why we're doing this. And so, I think that's a good way to put it. It's essentially, but we're finding the market certainly does not encourage that necessarily. They find pockets around major transportation routes, and they develop in edge cities or otherwise, rather than just all ballooning out from Winchester City. So, from a planning perspective, it makes sense in that respect. Does that get to what you were asking for? Yes. Okay. Mr. Stowe. How far is it from the urban development area at its existing perimeter down to this proposed, is it, I mean, a half mile? It's just an estimate, I'm not. Yeah, yeah, according to that scale, it's about a half mile. Okay. Yeah. Does this in any way accelerate or help the second access into Lake Frederick, or is it totally separate? I don't think in any foreseeable way it helps that, no. Okay. I had the chance last night to visit the school board's capital improvement, and I was just wondering if you could tell us what the plan is for that. So, the plan is to have a CIP submission for the CIP program they were doing around the county, they did several times, and they were pointing to an area down here for an elementary school at a future time. Has any consideration to an elementary school site been considered in this project that you're aware of? So, we're eagerly awaiting their CIP submission this year, and I don't remember that being on last year. So, if it does come through, and the board adopts it, it could, absolutely, be incorporated in the comprehensive plan as part of that, and then, when a future reason is, if it's not, then it's not. So, if the zoning comes for this parcel, that could be something that's discussed, whether this is an appropriate site or otherwise. And do I understand there's 800 residential units with this project, is that correct? I think that was a calculation done probably by VDOT to try to provide a rough estimate, but the applicant may be able to speak to that better than I can, but from Frederick County's perspective, we don't necessarily assign a density to it at this time. Do we know what type of housing is being considered, or is that also not? I'll let the applicant speak to that, yes, sir. Thank you. All right, anybody else? Well, I think we'd love to hear from the applicant. All right. Good evening. Good evening, Craig George, I'm a partner with Valley Engineering. Just here to answer any questions you may have, just to go down the list that you've already mentioned, I can hit those up real quick, and then be here for any more. I think one point I want to bring up as far as what differentiates this from some other properties, this is in the sewer water service area. So you have that corner down there that the sewer water goes around, but the UDA doesn't. So that's another thing that differentiates it from like Lake Holiday or other areas like that. The 800 units, that was a number that we just brought up, because when we compared traffic as part of the traffic impact, we had to assign just a per acre, just to get comparisons. And so that's roughly in that 10 unit per acre, which would be a mixture of housing, single family, town homes, apartments, probably. That's about the level that we've looked at it so far. So there's no set plan that's available, but that's 10 unit per acre is probably a good middle road density. And I just mentioned types would be various different types of units, but as far as the, you know, the number of units that we're looking at, we're looking at about a quarter of a million units, and that's about the number of units that we're looking at. So that's a number that we're looking at. And then the use change, the designation change, really, you're just really talking about the 32 acres sitting in the middle of it. That's the industrial kind of comes and just goes onto the property. Then there's that main drainage that's really the headwaters to Lake Frederick. That's a significant impact to the development of that little sliver. So that's the industrial that's going to Neighbor Village. And then the little part there in the middle is the 32 acres, which I, you know, I was obviously not involved in the comp plan, but my assumption is that intention for that little area was to try to transition the industrial to the residential. But in reality, that north-south huge buffer and drainage is really the transition in itself. So really the designation suggestions that we're doing are just to clean up the site to make it more, I guess, more in line with what the market demand is and what the constraints are on the site. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Akins. Question. Tonight, I want to make sure I've got my head in the right space here. We're primarily just talking about changing the comp plan and the use of the land, not necessarily density. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay, just want to make sure. I answered that for Mr. Pierce, but is that correct? I would say the only thing is that Neighborhood Village, is one of the more dense residential designations that we have from a land use perspective. There is a low density, medium density, high density in Neighborhood Village and urban center, and that gradients . Does that answer your question? Yes. Can you repeat that? . That's correct. And as far as, obviously looking at our papers, it doesn't really tell you the whole picture. This site has a lot of finger drainages. There's a lot of topo on the site, so in reality, the whole bottom site, like below the connector, is not suitable for extremely high density residential. It'd be more in line with single family duplex style development, just because of the topo. Any questions on Moraine? How about on my left? Mr. Thomas. Just along with the questions that were asked by my colleagues up there, I want to make sure everyone understands, though, whether this is recommended for approval or not, we're not committing to any density, any residential type, or anything like that. All we're doing is saying, yes, we can put it in the urban development area. And then the rezoning is when we'll talk about density and housing types or numbers of houses and school kids and all that stuff. So this does not commit the Planning Commission to any future actions other than consider, if the board puts us in the urban development area, we would then consider it for a rezoning. Correct. Understood. Yeah. Thank you. Anybody else? OK. Thanks, sir. Thank you. I open the public hearing to anyone who wants to come forward and speak for or against the item. Please come forward. State your name, magisterial district, and please limit to three minutes. The lady back here had her hand up. Don't wait on this. My name is Diane Fancler. My father owns some property on Fairfax Pike. Are you a Peckin? Are you a Peckin district? Magisterial district, are you a Peckin? OK. So if, Wyatt, you could put the map up and tell me where the water tower is on Fairfax Pike. So at the beginning, we said there's a water issue, right? Yes, ma'am. Now you're telling us there's drainage down on the bottom of your lots, right? So my question is, if we have water issues now, and I believe one of your slides said 2026. I was going to speak into the mic. Ma'am, ma'am, you need to speak into the mic. And this is a recorded session. I apologize. So I believe one of his slides said 2026 for water. That's correct. Well, no. It's for sewer. Sewer. Sewer. Sewer and water. Water's already there. Water's already there. It's for sewer. It's sewer we're looking for. Sewer. OK. And then at the beginning, we said we had water problem in this area, in Frederick County, right? We're in a drought right now. Emergency drought. And so if we add, and we're not going to say 800, because we don't want to put a number down, what's that going to look like? That's my concern. And then somebody else asked a question about Lake Frederick. It is my understanding. It's my understanding that Lake Frederick doesn't have their exit so that the fire and rescue can get there in the correct amount of time. If we can't service Lake Frederick, how are we going to service this gentleman's Madison? I mean, fire and rescue is a big one. And then I'm on that neighborhood app about groceries. There's not enough grocery stores. What are we going to do about that? And then that goes into schools, and we can't find bus drivers. How are we going to bus these students? I think that's a big issue too. That's all I have. Thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. Anybody else want to come forward and speak? Yes, sir. Your name and magistrate district, please. Jeffrey Hoyt, Shawnee District. Okay, I strongly oppose this proposal. Since moving into our home in 2013, the traffic has increased exponentially. Semi-truck traffic is at an all-time high. That's a big issue. It's at all times of the day and night. The number of accidents that occur from one end of 277 to the other is also very concerning. By adding a neighborhood village means an increase in the number of cars along this route. More cars mean more potential for more accidents, which already occur several times a week. Rush hour traffic is backed up from Warrior Drive to I-81 almost every night and makes it difficult to go five minutes down the road to the grocery store or other established businesses. How does the county plan to counter this issue should the proposal be approved? By adding a neighborhood, what will this do to our schools in the area, which from what I understand from other community members, are already at max capacity? How does the county plan to counter this issue should the proposal be approved? We had a very tough year with the weather. According to our experts, our area water table is well below where it should be, as we are in a drought. Having adequate water supply would be severely reduced. With a newly proposed neighborhood, reliable water access is critical to the health and safety of our community, supporting hydration, hygiene, and fire suppression, among other uses. How does the county plan to counter this issue should the proposal be approved? How would developing 149 acres for a residential neighborhood help our fragile environment? Green energy and saving the environment are hot topics, yet a proposal such as this would harm our ecosystem. How does the county plan to counter this issue should the proposal be approved? There's insufficient public notice for this proposal. Did a little bit of Google searching for the proposal number and got one result in the Winchester Star on 22 November in the back section of the paper where they're normally supposed to be posted. No social media posts were posted for this. I checked them all. And so how are the residents in the Stephen City area and in the surrounding area able to voice their opinions when the letter appeared to be only addressed to the adjoining properties of the proposed property in question, which is 1702 Fairfax Pike? How does the county explain this egregious oversight? In summary, this proposal would negatively impact the surrounding area of Stephen City and its residents. The county should be looking to promote already existing properties and businesses in residential establishments, well-being, and not be adding to what is already a very difficult situation. Please consider voting against this proposal and do right by your citizens of Frederick County. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Anybody else want to come forward and speak for or against this? All right, I close the public hearing. Discussion among commissioners. Anybody got anything to say? Yes, sir, Mr. Thomas. I would just say, I mean, this was not included, or this was included back as a potential development. The development can occur whether we approve this, to prove it going into the urban development area tonight or not. So this really isn't the development. This is whether we put it in the urban development area and have sewer and water service there. I think a lot of the concerns that are expressed by folks tonight aren't relative to the action we're gonna take tonight. I appreciate their concerns and what they're talking about, but we probably just need to go ahead and push this forward to the board and let them decide whether it's appropriate or not to change the urban development area at this point. Okay. I'm looking to the left. Anybody else? How about to the right? Mr. Akins. Mr. Akins. Yeah, Roger, I agree with you on all, everything you just said there. In my opinion, it makes sense. I mean, it's right next to Lake Frederick. It just kind of, you're just cutting a little bigger, the piece of the pie there. We'll work out the details later on all the other issues, the hair that might be on it, but I concur. Okay, well, I need a motion. I move that we recommend approval of CPPA 01-23, Madison, LLC, Project 10. I move that the property be included in the urban development area. And I need a second. Second. Okay, we got a motion and a second. Let's start with Mr. Akins. Akins, yes. Cozzo, yes. Mandrill, abstain. Horned, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Lestow, yes. Brumbach, yes. Brannon, no. Chair votes yes. This will move forward to the Board of Supervisors on January 10th, 2024. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Move on to your next item. Next one, CPPA number 223, Jordan Springs property. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. This is another CPPA application seeking to modify future land use designation for two parcels and to extend the sewer and water service area and the urban development area to encompass those properties. The 232 acre properties are located north and south, or on the north and south side of Jordan Springs, and they're partially bounded by Woods Mill in the east, and then they border Snowden Bridge to the west. Properties are zoned RA, B2, and then one of them has a historic area overlay designation on it as well, and they're in the Stonewall Magisterial District. So, Orange U, Snowden Bridge in this vicinity here, Woods Mill Road comes down, meets Route 7, and Jordan Springs Road coming up, eventually running into Old Charlestown and Stevenson Road, if you're familiar with the area. The old Jordan Springs Hotel is on the B2 zoned piece. The rest of the property is zoned RA, and the same piece that's zoned B2 has the sewer and water service area on it, and the urban development area is hidden under the blue lines that outline the property. This is the portion that's on the other side of Jordan Springs Road, it's worth noting. So, land use plan changes that are proposed for this is obviously the inclusion in the SWASA and the urban development area to modify the rural area, to change the property designation to residential, and to change the business designation to residential. Additionally, the applicant has proposed some text modification to your Northeast land use plan, and it essentially vests some of what they've communicated to the CPPC Planning Commission and Board about their further intent to rezone and develop the property, which is to conduct it as a 55 or older, age-restricted development, to incorporate the historic hotel building as a community center and recommend it, as alternative 수도юkeof Sport Amendite OD present LiN HEF. Basically, that's reformed, and also adopted the I school selves for mining, you know, these two local�� space features in honor of these campus communities, so I'm impressed that they exploited the behavioural and designer and conservation of the National Hote Center and the FC gosh unos in a What A � I. Nancy trainer, who is dress. With the proposed change, the entirety of the properties included would be painted yellow for a general residential designation, and then that text would be added to the Northeast Land Use Plan to provide some clarity as to what the intention is for those residential properties. So some of the relevant agency comments is Frederick County Public Schools has no concerns if it continues to be age restricted due to the fact it would be less likely to generate school-age children. Frederick Water is able to serve the proposed use. VDOT does anticipate a substantial increase in traffic on Jordan Springs Road, but has indicated that the road may be capable of handling it. I would color those comments from the planning department's perspective and say that was a bit of an odd VDOT comment that they were both so direct about their opinion on it and that they didn't take into account the safety and design standards of Jordan Springs and Woods Mill. Because while those roads may be capable of handling the capacity. They're extremely rural in nature, have vast curvature changes in them and pretty poor sight lines in some portions of them. So we would add that to that consideration. And then the Historic Resource Advisory Board just supported continuing to have the historic area overlay on it, maybe expanding it when it's rezoned to cover more area, and then supports using the existing hotel as a recreational amenity and suggested it be added to the National Register of Historic Places. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So conclusions from staff's perspective. We think it would be prudent to include a trail along Hyatt Run, the water feature that splits the property. It's proffered currently on the Snowden Bridge property as a linear park and the continuation of that would be appropriate. Some considerations for the Planning Commission for an age-restricted use as proposed is keeping in mind that rapid access to public safety and the routes to the existing Winchester Medical Center may be problematic as it relates to this property. We are understandably smart to have a place for added backup, whether in Tim Cacopen or Tim Hobson, but it could be in no future way. Top of the map for 2021, please. populations from the end of the 81st Annualvell and 32% of affordable homes. NSW appears serviceable to 50apa larges wattageummutee сум analytic spends. Damage is pretty earnestly special. All same sense as insights will be forcefully felt. Special Hans Scheller eventually affected the gegenüber in Orangeville, Pennsylvania. In concerning strengthening access to Bullitt. of this area is seemingly adverse to how the comprehensive plan represents that area currently, which is primarily natural resources, historic resources, and rural areas. And if this property is approved, it may be prudent to revisit that area in a broader sense and determine whether or not that's how the county wants this area to remain. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation to the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. The applicant is represented by Urban Engineering, and they do have a presentation for you in a moment. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Mr. Thomas? Has there been any discussions with staff about an alternate access to get as much of the traffic off Jordan Springs Road as possible to connect it through Snowden Bridge or through some other way down to 7 or back to another road that would minimize the traffic? Of course, you'd have to have an access on Jordan Springs, but some way to kind of split the traffic up so that maybe only 20% of the traffic went on Jordan Springs and the others went another direction. Yeah. Staff has advocated in a more general sense that there just be street interconnections with the adjoining Snowden Bridge development. So, I think that's a good question. I think there's a lot of development to assist in that respect. But I think just today I had a conversation with the Planning Commissioner about whether there was the possibility of ensuring that a large volume connector could be connected into Snowden Bridge Boulevard. It implicates an adjoining property that's not controlled by the applicant in any way, so it's tricky in that sense. If it were possible, I think it would serve a great benefit to the transportation network and allow for people to quickly get to 11, which is identified by VDOT as that's the way it's going to be. Okay. Thank you. And I think that's the primary destination for this property. So, it would be excellent from a planning perspective if it was possible. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Isn't that a little bit of an expansion ? What is that? Right now, it's what we would refer to as just a planned and unfunded project. I think the only, and I say near term, but we're talking 2030 at the earliest, is the diverging diamond improvement. So, we're talking about the improvement to 317, which would increase the efficiency of that intersection greatly and provide some capacity in there. But the widening of Route 11 past Rutherford towards Old Charlestown Road is a priority with no funds allocated for it. So beyond 10 years, I would say. Yeah. Anybody else? Okay. I'd love to see a presentation. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. John Regan. I'm the president of the Christopher Companies, and the applicant with me is Dave McElhaney from Urban Engineering. As Wyatt pointed out, the proposal we are proposing here is an age-restricted project, which would be an age, you know, live, age in place. We would have independent living. We would have a home, which is a home that's not going to be built. We would have a home that's not going to be built. We would have a pre- intermediate learning center, which is fairly efficient and can find a person in Brazil for half a year. project we are making a proposed text amendment to guarantee that this property stays as an age-restricted project and is developed that way we are in in our proposal do you have the yellow layout we are right on the UDA one of the discussions in the other case this property Stoughton is in the UDA we're just adjacent to it as you can see on this layout I know it's just a bubble one we were going to have a heavy amount of amenities we're going to use the the historic Jordan Springs Hotel as they once said it was last time was it really is a hotel was in 19 1916 so it hasn't been a hotel for a while I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry but we would like to use it as a restaurant a tavern a community center and so that would tie get use it for part of the out the amenities for the community as well as our own community our own residents when they move in we also are proposing a nine hole golf course because of the topo the golf course would actually I can use the trails that way I can blend that in the Nate and the nature of the area I can have a lot of amenities that are in the area that are in the area that are in actually you know make make the upper plateau area tie into the Jordan Springs area one of the things that came up during our our the hearings are that the meetings that we've had was traffic it came up just when and why its presentation we're committed totally to do a full transportation study in this area and we are proposed if that study doesn't get approved I think that the city has to make a decision on whether or not it would work and if it does the city says it or even if the county staff or you all say say we need to do improvements to Jordan Springs we'd be more than happy to do so I think that that is appropriate because we are going to be adding a lot of traffic to this to the roads and I think we definitely will make our commitment to making that happen tying into Snowden Bridge for the transportation so long as they grant us an easement and we can tie into it I'm more than happy to tie those in because it makes it easier for multiple points of entry you know because stones stones high Jordan Springs is low on the road so if we tie in a stone we can get transferred to people taking a left could take a higher you know point of exit to there Dave anything I I probably missed a lot of stuff but good evening again Dave McElhinney civil engineer for for John Regan John you pretty much covered it I just wanted to bring up a couple of items for purposes of the Commission to consider and I think most of you are aware of this but I think it's important just to note again as shown on this slide there is an existing trunk sewer that basically runs parallel to the existing Hyatt run and that runs totally within our site so obviously we have a request to put us in the UDA as well as in the store and we're going to be able to get that done in the next couple of days so much for lots of them but with that said if there's a chance that there is a way for any kind of government organization to collect any kind of sewer energy needed to occur with respect to what they need to do with thosegod doing some project and then following traffic and it's going to be the opposite if the submitter is going to be� and again you gum as well as the petitioners if they would like that we There was a full evaluation that was done, a market study. And there's a shortage in assisted living, independent living, and age-restricted living. So we bring forth what we believe is a win-win for the county, for the potential residents that would be coming here. This project would create an economic generator to provide the funds to ensure that we are maintaining that historic, we call it a hotel. It's currently a wedding venue. There's a lot of history there. It was pointed out to me right before we came up. This particular piece of property that includes the historic hotel was the first historic overlay in the Commonwealth of Virginia. And so we've been asked to consider. Slightly expanding that, which John has agreed to do. Obviously, there's no school board burden here with this proposal. This is a fiscally positive development. We've taken away all the burden, again, for the schools. If and when we go through the rezoning process, that will be something, obviously, that we will be working closely with the county to demonstrate. But I think that's really important to recognize. And then, as John's indicated, certainly we recognize. With this type of proposal that we need to evaluate. And we will, through a comprehensive transportation study during a rezoning process. Again, if we get there. To figure out how to enhance the transportation improvements out here. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the applicant? Yes. Mr. Stowe. Thank you for the presentation. I'm the guy that asked Wyatt about connecting your project up to Sennan Bridge Boulevard. I like your project, but Jordan Springs Road is dangerous. In the last three years, the average number of accidents on Jordan Springs Road between Route 11 and the entrance to the hotel is 12. Averaging one a month, which is not just property damage, it's also personal damage. Sure. And the challenge there is, can the roadway be widened? Can it be improved? Yeah. But the right-of-way is so narrow, you'd have to get right away from. A lot of people to widen out the roadway. And I'm not sure how you would do that. And we're not in detailed design at this point. We're at a planning level. I know that. So I think I would be a lot more comfortable with this project if it connected up to Sennan Bridge Boulevard. And that was your primary access. And I think your clientele would probably enjoy coming out at a shopping center rather than a busy intersection as well. So I'll just respond to that if I may. And I think John may have a few words to say to that as well. We understand. And we're obviously at the very beginning stages. We are going to be working closely with staff, with our neighbors, to understand connectivity. Obviously, VDOT would be involved in that exercise as well. We have a transportation consultant on board who would be assisting us in the analyses as well. The one thing that I really think is important to recognize is, and I think most of you are probably very familiar with this road, obviously, in terms of its narrowness, the country nature of it. When you are traveling down toward the wedding venue or the hotel, you're coming down that really steep, very narrow condition. This property has several hundred feet of frontage on both sides where safe turning movements, lane widening, shoulder sections can be put in place. So we have frontage already available to us where we can make substantial upgrades to. Jordan Springs Road, by virtue of the fact that we have land on both sides of the road. And I understand, and to my colleague's point, Jordan Springs should remain one of the connectors. But I'm not comfortable with it. Interparcel connections to the other properties, absolutely. And we'll work closely as we need to. Mr. Wardoff. Well, I was just saying, I mean, so you're, the property about which you own, it's a very short, you know, I realize you own both sides, but it's a very short period. So on this side, it's still narrow and hectic. And on this side, it's still narrow and hectic as you come up to where you are. Because as you get up there toward the top of the hill, Morrison's Road, your property stops well before there. I mean, again, during the process of getting rezoning, you guys can impose those, you know, to get this started, you have to get easements to widen. Whatever our study says or whatever the county staff says, hey, we need this to be widened from Stoughton all the way down to our entrance or even beyond. Because the 28 acres that are on the other side of the road, it goes all the way up that hill. So on both, we own a large swath of where it's really getting, let's call it touchy. And so, but if it goes up toward Stoughton, we can, you can impose this thing that you have to widen. And from your entrance to the next entrance, we, I've got no problem with that. Plus making connections into Stoughton itself. All right. Any more questions? Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay. I open this public hearing. Anyone who wants to come forward, speak for or against this item, please state your name and match your sterile district. And do I have anybody coming forward? Okay. I will close the public hearing portion of this. All right. Discussion among commissioners. I'm looking at Mr. Orndorff. Well, first and foremost, I think the design of this type of a development, it's just beautiful, right? I really like the design of it. And personally, if I was going to retire and go down to smaller acreage, I live in a place like this. But that's not the question that we're trying to answer tonight. And so, you know, I've lived there my whole life. I've hunted all that property. I slid right on. I've hunted all that property back in the day. And I will tell you right now, I was coming down Route 7 the other day. And people coming from Loudoun County are turning right on Woods Mill Road, turning left on Jordan Springs, getting on Route 11 and getting on 81 at Clearbrook, right, to bypass all that traffic. So there's already an enormous amount of traffic, more than that road can handle now, folks, coming out that don't even live there, right? They're using it as a thoroughfare because of all the hectic road systems. Before and after where we are. Those roads, Jordan Springs and Woods Mill, just cannot, it cannot, folks, handle any more traffic under the current condition by which it is. Now, in the event this property, there's some type of an easement that allows them to go through Snowden Bridge, you know, then that creates a different maybe dynamic for us. But right now, there is just no possible way that Woods Mill and Jordan Springs can handle any more type of road like that. And I cannot support this amendment. All right. And do I, oh, Mr. Thomas. I mean, I agree with Mr. Warndorf. I think this is a wonderful project. I think it would be great for the county. Where I guess we differ. I would like to give the developer the opportunity to show us in the future, just putting this in the urban development area, and it is right next to the urban development area. So redrawing the boundary around this doesn't guarantee a rezoning. The rezoning on this will be expensive. It's extremely difficult. And you know what the concern is, transportation. So you would have to convince the planning commission members at the time and the board that what you've done will alleviate any transportation issues. So before, I mean, I would like to give you the opportunity. So I will vote in favor of sending this to the board and let them decide whether they want to include it or not. But you have a real opportunity. I would like to make sure that we have a real uphill battle to get the transportation improved to get a rezoning approved. Recommending this to go in the urban development area does not guarantee a rezoning approval. Mr. Stowe. Yeah, I agree with my colleagues. This is one where I think if we could give these folks an extra year, if they could come back next year and work on some of these transportation issues and maybe tweak their plan, massage it some. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If we could come up with a way to maybe work with the Snowden Bridge folks or connect up to some of the other roads that are there in Snowden Bridge, then I think this would be far more appealing to me than putting all this traffic out onto Jordan Springs and Woods Mill. Just a reminder, we had a traffic fatality on Woods Mill less than a year ago. So things are very challenging out there from a transportation standpoint. Anybody else? Ms. Boop? Ms. Boop. Yeah. I just have one comment. Again, I think it also is a beautiful project, and I'd love to see the historic hotel preserved in any way it could be, because that is a historic resource that you can't recreate. But in our consideration for these comprehensive plan amendments, we're supposed to look at that and consider what benefits the public health, safety, and welfare. And I just think our safety is important. And I think that is a concern there. So it's a big concern. And I can't support it with that knowledge. Thank you. All right. To my right, Mr. Akins. I think it's a great project. I think we're getting way too into details on traffic, what it's going to do, what it's not going to do. We're not rezoning this, guys and ladies. We're strictly looking from a land use perspective. They could come in here and say, hey, the density is X, and six months from now, when it comes to us, we can be like, you know what? We only want Y. And Y is because of traffic. But its position, or excuse me, its location next to Snowden just kind of makes sense to at least look at it. And if the developer wants to spend the money on the traffic analysis and all those sorts of things, to give us facts as a commission and Frederick County of what this land could be used for, I say go for it. Because, again, all we're talking about is land use here. We're not talking about this specific project. They have spent a lot of money and a lot of energy, which looks nice, but it doesn't mean we're all going to be up here approving it six months to a year from now, based off whatever facts are brought up. So I'm in favor for it. It's worth digging into more. All right. Any board comments? Okay. I need a motion from the Stonewall District. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to move that we deny this Comprehensive Plan Amendment 02-23. Okay. I've got a motion to deny. Do I have a second? I'll second it for discussion. All righty. We've got a motion. We've got a second. I start this side. It's to deny. Brandon, yes. Brumback, yes. Stowe, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, no. Orndorff, yes. Manuel, no. Cozell, no. Aikens, no. Chairman votes yes. I hope you're taking account on there. Mr. Pearson? Okay. All righty. Now, will this go before the Board of Supervisors? All right. Go. Before the Board of Supervisors on January 10th. So. Next up. Mr. Chairman, I would just encourage the applicant to work on this and bring it back again next year. I do think it's a good project. Okay. And I might want to buy a place there when you get it built out. All righty. Next item up is CPPA number 0323, Brockton Property. Thank you. Chairman, I'll have to. I'll have to use on discussion of this application. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, 0323, Brockton. This Conference of Policy Plan Amendment is seeking to modify future land use designations on one parcel and to extend the swaza to encompass that property. It's a six acre property located in the southwest corner of 522 and Route 37 interchange across from the intersection of 522 and Apple Pie Ridge Road. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. It's in the Gainesboro, Medellin. So, it's oriented to the property. This is the intersection in question with 522 and 37. If you were to head east on this road, you'd head into Sunnyside and into the city of Winchester. If you were to head west, you'd be heading out towards West Virginia. And then if you went up Apple Pie Ridge, you'd be right near James Wood. So, the Route 37 west's plan changes that are proposed for this is to extend the swaza and to convert the future land. use designation from rural area to business. There's no text proposed with this change. It's really just a map change. Here's your map as it exists today. This is the proposal showing the designation as business and to add the swaza to encompass the property and enable the ability to access public water and sewer for commercial uses. Some of your relevant agency comment include Frederick Water thinks they're very much able to serve the proposed use but that it may incur major expenses due to the nature of boring under major roadways. VDOT noted that there's existing safety issues in this area currently and that careful consideration of that at the rezoning stage would be appropriate. And then your HRAB, Historic Resources Advisory Board, recommended investigating the property for remnants of the second Winchester battle. Some of staff's conclusion is Route 37 has acted as the boundary for more intensive commercial and residential development uses in the county. That being said, you're welcome to contact us. Thank you. Mr. David Frank with Pannoni Associates is here representing the applicant. I don't believe David has a presentation but he's happy to answer any questions. Okay. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Mr. Stowe? Mr. Pearson, can you speak to the VDOT comments on this one, if you would please? Between the VDOT comments on this one and the Jordan Springs one, they were different than we've probably ever experienced. So I appreciate you bringing that up. So as it relates to this application, VDOT did a good job of explaining that you would have to add a fourth leg to the existing interchange that everybody's familiar with with Apple Pie Ridge right there in order to access the property. It's foreseeably the only safe and meaningful way to get access to it to 522 there. However, they did color that comment by saying they have this intersection in particular is identified as one of their PSI intersections, which means it has a high concentration of safety incidents in that immediate vicinity. And in turn, adding additional trips to it could be a good way to get access to that. But they admittedly agree with us that it is a rezoning consideration for how to mitigate that, and they're not exactly sure how that would be handled until the traffic studies undertaken for the property in question. Does that help? Yeah. Okay. How about on my right? Okay, any questions for the applicant? I'm looking I'm not seeing any. Sir do you have anything you'd like to say? Good evening again my name is David Frank I'm with Pannoni and I'm representing the owner and the applicant this evening. What we are what we are requesting here is for a commercial use at a very busy intersection. This is a long-range planning question and consideration. We see this as a viable revenue generating development area that is significantly underutilized. We are fully aware of the challenges and that would have to happen at the rezoning stage in terms of extending sewer and water and the transportation improvements. We also acknowledge that the current comprehensive plan identifies this stretch of 522 as let's just say having traffic challenges but we also believe that if this is a logical general revenue generating area in the county if there's a strip of commercial development in the long-range view that could occur here that one of the ways to address appropriately address and improve the traffic traffic challenges we have right there out there right now would be for development investment in appropriate infrastructure improvements. We so we would like to see a favorable recommendation from the Planning Commission this evening. We think this is a viable candidate. The subject property is is at a prime location for commercial development and for retail. And I'd also like to circle back on something Wyatt said it is true that there's a larger study that might happen in the Planning District that this there the planning area that this is in. We would like to see this move forward so that we can begin to look at studies and and some alternatives. We also think that if this RIDES IN supervisor who said that mistaken that agent for interest. He doesways We also think that if this particular piece of property moves forward and there are some planning considerations happening at the same time in this area, that the information generated from this property might also influence and benefit the county long-range planning as to what some of the solutions would be with regards to transportation. You're referencing the Western Frederick Land Use Plan study? Yes, sir. I just have one question, if I could, John. Yes, sir. So the Ingress-Egress, I mean, it's a great spot for what you want to do there, I think. But Ingress-Egress, is it basically going to be a four-way stoplight there versus a three-way stoplight? Correct. But it's not quite that simple, as Mr. Pearson pointed out to Mr. Stowe's question. It is a four-way stop. It is a prime location for an entry to all of the potential property that could go commercial fronting 522. There's an entry. There's an entrance already there. It's a driveway to a house. It is not a commercial entrance. But yes, should this develop, that would be an improved four-way intersection. And then there would be other improvements that would definitely have to occur on 522 in several areas to make that four-way intersection actually function and not decrease the utility of the roadway. And it appears that you have the property to be able to make that happen, though. Yes. Yes. Yes. There's plenty of right-of-way along 522 for lane improvements. So we're not concerned at this point about acquiring a right-of-way along 522. And we have the proper frontage because the signal is fronting the property. All right. Anybody else? Left? Right? Thanks, sir. Thank you. All right. I'm going to open this public hearing. Anyone who wants to come forward to speak for or against, please state your name and magisterial district. All right. All right. We're going to close this one, too. Discussion among commissioners. Yes, sir, Mr. Thomas. I have several concerns about this. I think this is more of a safety hazard than Jordan Springs ever will be. We have a high school across there where we have a bunch of high school drivers coming out to that intersection who are maybe not the safest drivers in the world or the most patient. Putting them at an intersection where you're going to have commercial traffic coming, and you're not going to have a lot of people on that intersection, I think is an accident waiting to happen. Route 37 provides a great buffer there for the urban development area. I think we ought to keep it. I think it's too close to the access to 37. I don't think you can get a safe access to this site and then still have the right-turn lane on to 37 that's there. It's not needed in the area, but you have, if all you have to do is go 500 feet across, you can go 500 feet. the intersection and you have more convenience stores and gas stations and you can shake a stick at so I think this is a terrible project it's a extreme safety concern much more than Jordan Springs project ever will be and there's no possible way I could ever be convinced to endorse this project all right thank you for stones anybody else my left about my right okay Gainesboro district okay we've got a motion to approve do I have a second second all right we got seconds we're gonna start with mr. Akins yes because oh yes manual abstain or diff yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes from back now Brandon no chair votes no this so this will move forward to the Board of Supervisors on January the 10th mr. chair what was the count on that for one abstain thank you I'm just I'm I can count. Mr. Orndorff is correct. Yeah. I'm sorry that I can count. Mr. Chairman, this is your final comprehensive policy plan amendment for tonight. It's the 0423 Sargent application. This is seeking to modify your future land use designations on two parcels and extend the urban development area to encompass those properties. These are about 122 acres in total. The properties are located on the north and south sides of Tasker Road, immediately east of White Oak Road, and the southern border of the properties is formed by the new Aylor Middle School. They're currently zoned RA rural areas, and they're in the Shawnee Magisterial District. So, Orientia, Tasker Road, coming in to 522. If you were to continue along it to the west, you would intersect Warrior Drive within short order. These are the properties outlined in blue. And it was a reference to two parcels, and you wouldn't think that the one parcel includes, the one on the north side of Tasker, but it does. So, the one parcel is the majority of this, and then the small carve-out for the residential home is the other parcel. So, again, they're seeking to extend the urban development area. It's already in the sewer and water service area. The designations that exist of mixed-use industrial office, industry, and park are recommended to be changed to high-density residential and business, respectively. A portion of it is going to be used for residential and business. A portion of industrial is going to remain on the back half of the property. I can demonstrate that on the next map. So, in Candy Cane, mixed-use industrial office on the front, industrial on the back, on the portion of the parcel that's across Tasker is your park designation. The proposal would modify these accordingly to change the park designation to business, to change the mixed-use industrial office and a portion of the industrial to high-density residential, and then to keep this piece over here, that is separated from the rest by a large topographical feature as industrial. There's no text accompanying this map amendment. Some of your relevant agency comment includes that Frederick Water is likely able to serve the proposed use, but would need further information to evaluate the capacities in that area. Frederick County Parks and Recreation would like to see that small portion designated as park remain as such. VDOT did not identify any significant issues with the land use designation. Check. The property is currently under the There's a historic resource on the property referred to as the Sherman Rogers Sergeant House, and your Historic Resources Advisory Board requested that further study be done for that property in question. So, staff conclusions. A less intensive industrial or commercial use could serve to meet the existing comp plan. Designation, if residential, is not preferred. A lot of the concern expressed. was after the school was built and the residential across the street existed over there, that maybe it might not be appropriate to border it with mixed-use industrial office or industry. We just want to assure the Planning Commission that there's a lesser intensive version of industry that could be appropriate if desired. If residential is considered, staff would strongly recommend it not be age-restricted residential. Due to the fact that it's directly adjoining a school, it's a great opportunity to provide a walkable connection to the adjoining school for students. And, and then, Fire and Rescue has been planning for future Fire Station 22 in this general area, not necessarily specific to this property. But, alongside of the amendment that staff is making to designate New Ehler as an institutional, it may be appropriate to add some text to say that the general area between White Oak and 522 in the vicinity of Tasker Road is an identified location for future Station 22. Requested action. So, following public hearing, staff seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. I'm happy to answer any questions you all may have. And Mr. David Frank is here again as the applicant's representative. He does not have a presentation, but is, again, happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Any, anybody on the left? Mr. Stowe? We got some online comments about a park area. Is that attributable to the entire project or just that small piece that's north of Tasker Road? The online comments were specifically, directed at ensuring that the park designation north of Tasker Road remain designated as such rather than the applicant's request to convert it to business. Okay, thank you. How about to my right? Okay. All right. Thank you, Mr. Pearson. Good evening again. David Frank with Pannoni and also representing the owner and the applicant on the, on the Park Design Commission. Okay. Thank you. So, I would like to add just a couple of things to the, to the, to the, to the, to the topic of this, this application. A couple of points I'd like to reinforce and some clarifications I'd like to make. First of all, the use of high density residential in this area plan, there is low density and there is high density. And high density is broken into two different categories. So, in my opinion, this would be what would be considered medium density, is, is what we're going after. And we've spelled that out in our application. We foresee this developing as a, as a potential big project. developing as a transitional use. There are also a lot of environmental areas on the portion proposed to change over to residential. So the density, again, this is not an evening for density, but that is why we anticipate seeing, we've designated high density. It's reasonable to think that there are going to be townhouses and smaller duplex type units and cluster units on this property than a complete development of the entire site due to the environmental issues. The application began by looking at the area north of Tasker Road. The owner wasn't consulted at the time. It became a park, but it also, we've had very good conversations. This is a long-range planning conversation, and it has become apparent to the design team and the owner as well that that area does represent a prime opportunity to have a public use for Frederick County. So that is definitely a consideration that the application would like to put forward, that that area to the north could very easily become something that Frederick County would choose to designate as whatever kind of facility they might be needing. Additionally, the line that has been struck between the industrial and residential on this application is topographic. There's a large ravine there. It makes a lot of sense to have the rear of that property be forward facing in the industrial area with appropriate topographic and wooded buffers between any transitional residential that's being proposed. I'm available for any additional questions you guys may have. I know that the traffic, if a portion of this property does go down to residential, it'll, as with other applications, there'll be potentially less traffic with the residential than there would be with the industrial. Either way, public improvements are going to be reviewed and analyzed, and whatever impacts are necessary to be mitigated will be mitigated at the rezoning stage. And we believe that this is a good way to look at the long-range plan to make sure that we're able to get the right kind of infrastructure. And I think that's a good way to look at the long-range plan to, I think, update according to the new middle school that is now in that district. If you have any questions, please let me know. No questions, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right. At this time, I'm going to open this public hearing. Anyone who wants to come forward, speak for or against this project, please state your name, Magisterial District, and limit the three minutes. Hi, how are you? Good evening. Good evening. How are you doing? Nicholas Robb, Pacon District. I support the applicant's packet here in regards to this inclusion with the urban development area. I think it could be a good use of that space considering it's already in joining, and it includes the sewer and water as well. And given its proximity to the inland port with the industrial portion there, I think it would be good to see that park, and the land at the north part of Tasker remain as such, dictated on the county's use of it. And also, in terms of the applicant, possibly putting forth a transportation analysis in there as well. So I'd like to see what they bring forward to you all in the future. So I approve of that. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anyone else want to speak for or against? Yes, sir. My name is Carl Bowman. I'm in the Shawnee District. So the small parcel, as the Frederick County Department of Parks and Rec referred to it, the one that's designated as a park currently, I'm one of the online submitters of information. And I'm here to say that I would prefer that that particular part stay designated as a park. I was concerned with some of the language in the proposal. I think it was the use of the word new house that seemed to be indicating that it was going to be used for perhaps townhouses or anything like right on that one parcel. And that would just be, I don't think, a very good use, especially since most of the property bordering that parcel is still rural. My house actually is bordering that property. I'm on Macedonia Church facing the front of my house, faces south, right towards that property. My designation is rural. My neighbors on both sides are rural. Yeah, it's Mahola area's role, so I don't think that it would be a good designation to put townhouses there for sure. But it doesn't sound like that's being seriously considered, which is good. So as far as the overall proposal, I don't have support or negatives about it. It seems like reasonable to put townhouses or residential near a school, so no issue there. But I did want to also say that I managed to get every single neighbor adjoining the property. That I was able to walk around the neighborhood to basically say yes, they would prefer to stay at the park as well. So I have signatures from all of them. I know I have a digital copy that I submitted already, but I'm going to be giving this to whoever I need to be giving it to after this. So that really is our main thing. We just believe that's the best use of the land, given all the information on the GIS data that I was able to observe. And based on comments, talking to other neighbors as well. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Anyone else want to come forward and speak? Yeah, I'm Donald Kenny, Jr. in Shawnee District. We basically own the hash area of land right there, budding up to that. It's been in my family for, I know, 100 years that we've lived in there. And now you all getting ready to push us out. I definitely don't like it at all. I mean, all the wildlife. And then, like you said, we've got water. We've got water shortages. And from my understanding, when we built back there, that there was supposed to be no housing or anything done to that property. So that's the reason we moved our house back there. And my mother preferred to die back there, if you all don't mind. So, I mean, she's been back there longer than I have. So that's basically about all I've got to say. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anyone else want to come forward and speak for or against? All righty. I close the public hearing. Thank you. Discussion among commissioners. Mr. Thomas. I think this is a tough one. I mean, do we want high-density housing next to a school? Certainly, we don't want an industrial area next to the school. But what do you put there? And I think just market housing probably would be, low-density housing would be fine. And I know we're not rezoning here tonight. But I hate to see a designation on the plan of high-density housing and us move it forward because that kind of gives the impression that we're in favor of high-density housing. And I think that'll be a tough sale when it comes back in. Certainly, we want to see senior housing there because that would be a tougher sale when you have a whole bunch of school kids and a playground and stadium or whatever there. That's just a headache waiting to happen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else on my left? How about on my right? Well, this is one of those rare occasions where Roger Thomas and Bill Warnedolph agree. So I think we should celebrate. So I agree that possibly the designation on the land as it states now may not necessarily be the best, but certainly the designation that's being proposed doesn't make it better, right? So I'm inclined to keep it as it is based on the proposal we have tonight. Mr. Chairman, I support approval of this comp plan amendment. We studied it thoroughly at the comp plan committee level. I think it's a good plan. I think it's worthy of further study and being forwarded to the Board of Supervisors. Right. So anybody else got anything to say? Would you like to make that a motion? Yes, sir. I move for approval of comp plan amendment 04-23. Do I have a second? Second. All right. We've got a motion and a second. Mrs. Broombach. I mean, I'm sorry, Ms. Sprannon. No. Brannon, no. Brumbach, no. Stowe, yes. Bolden, yes. Thomas, no. Warned, no. Manuel, yes. Ozel, no. Akins, yes. Chair votes no. So this will move forward to the Planning Commission on January 10th. And next thing up would be current. Yeah, I know. So, Wyatt. We have a new motion. Current planning issues or vote count? Is that what you're asking for? Were you asking for the vote count? Do we need a new motion since that motion was voted down? That's fine. I think we all suspect people will vote the opposite way, but I think it would be good for the record to put that on there. Yes, sir. Okay. So I'll make a motion. Mr. Chairman, I move that we recommend disapproval of the CPPA 4-23 sergeant property inclusion in the UDA. Second. All right. We got that. A second? Second. And this time we'll start with Mr. Akins. Yes. To be clear, maybe I messed up last time. And if I did, I blew it. But I'm in favor of moving forward with this. If I voted incorrectly last time, I apologize to the Commission. So the motion now is to deny. No, the motion is to send it to the Board with a denial recommendation. To a denial. Yes. Okay. It still goes to the Board. It was still going to the Board, but it's the recommendation. What's the point of I'm asking? So that the Board can have an opportunity to give their... Mr. Akins, everything that the Planning Commission offers is a recommendation to the Board. The last motion was a recommendation that the Board approve it, and it failed. The new motion that you just offered your vote on, which you can change still, is a recommendation to the Board to deny the request. Okay. So I'm going to vote to not. So I guess it would be no. I'm sorry. I'm a little confused here, gentlemen and ladies. So I'm going to say no. So yes. No. Ornish, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, no. Stowe, no. Brumback, yes. Brannon, yes. And the Chair votes yes. So there's your recommendation. So. Okay. Now, under other... Mr. Chairman, for clarification and kind of picking up on what Molly brought up earlier, when will the Board of Supervisors take these up? Do we know? January 10th. January 10th. That's established already? That's established. Everything's January 10th. Thank you. So. Okay. Are we good on all this now? All right. Now I'm going to move to other. Mr. Pearson, other current planning applications. Mr. Chairman, I'll turn it over to the Vice Chairman. I think he has something. Yeah. I think this is an unusual evening. We're losing our Chairman tonight. He will be moving on to the Board. He'll get to vote on all these things we voted on tonight twice. It'll be interesting to see if he changes his vote when he goes to the Board. But we have a little something to recognize his tenure here on the Planning Commission. He's been a faithful... He's been a faithful member of the Board. He's been a faithful member of the Board. He's been a faithful member of the Board. He's been a faithful member of the Board. He's been a faithful member of the Board. He's been a faithful member and a very active Chairman of the Planning Commission. And this is his last meeting tonight. So I would like to present a resolution of appreciation for Mr. John Jewell, Chairman of the Frederick County Planning Commission. Whereas John Jewell served as Back Creek District Representative and at-large representative on the Frederick County Planning Commission, both from the date of his appointment by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on May 6th, 2020. And whereas John Jewell served as the Chairman of the Planning Commission for two terms beginning on January 5th, 2022. And whereas John Jewell served on various committees and boards during his time on the Planning Commission, such as the Frederick Water Planning Commission Liaison, Transportation Committee Liaison, the Department of the Development and Review and Regulation Commission, and the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Commission. And whereas... John Jewell assisted in the development of various land use studies, most significantly the update to the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan and Small Area Plan, such as the Northeast Land Use Plan. And whereas during his period as membership on the Commission, John Jewell demonstrated both great insight into issues which faced the Commission, a keen sense of dedication to the betterment of his community, and effective leadership in his role as the Director of Planning and Review and Regulation Commission. And whereas John Jewell possesses the highest devotion to duty and representing the cities, the citizens, and the County with dignity, dedication, and wisdom. And whereas the members of the Planning Commission wished to express their gratitude to John Jewell and to recognize his faithful service, while wishing him well in his tenure on the Board of Supervisors. Now therefore being resolved... On this day of... Six... Sixth day of December 2023, the Frederick County Planning Commission does hereby officially express its sincere thanks to John Jewell for his commitment to sound planning, his tireless participation in activities of the Planning Commission, and its various committees, and his overall dedication to the County of Frederick, adopted on the 6th May of December 2023. We have a nice certificate here for you, Mr. Jewell. And we would like to thank you for your dedication to the Planning Commission. And we would like to thank you for your dedication to the Planning Commission. And we would like to thank you for your dedication to the Planning Commission. And we would like to thank you for your dedication to the Planning Commission. And we would like to thank you for your dedication to the Planning Commission. I will hand it to you and then ask you to give it back so we can get two additional seconds. Thank you. This is very kind. I've got to tell you, you know, it's just like my wife and I said this when we were doing the campaign. I've had the opportunity the last four years of making friendships I never thought I would make, getting involved in things I never thought I would. And you all just, you're making me a better person. Thank you. your friendship thank you for what you do put your dedication you have for this County and you know I've said this to the outgoing chairman several times that this committee we have here is made up of folks that really care about the county bring different perspectives to this County and it's greatly appreciated all that you do so thank you thank you very much it's been an honor serving with you and I'm looking forward to the next step here so thank you appreciate it that was a good one thanks all right is there anything else under other mr. chairman just a couple current planning applications to know for you all Winchester cold storage is looking to have a site plan approved for an expansion to the facility on Brook Road GTR tree sales which you all saw as a condition used to permit out their site plan approved recently and I put a card at your all's dais sub for the meeting for the Western project land use plan please go on and take the survey please pass it around help us get the word out when I get as much participation as possible still in the early stages of that but the project website stood up for that closing mr. chairman the county attorney just has a clarification please do your proceedings from tonight yes mr. chairman of an application about items going to the board simply forwards them to the board the board sets a draft of the board and the board also sets a statement on the board's agenda it's obviously staff's obligation to do so in a prompt fashion but just as this body after the moment of silence at the beginning your first action is to approve the agenda the board does likewise at their meetings and if they decide that they don't want something on their agenda for that particular meeting it's entirely their prerogative to say we're not taking this up so it's not as this body's action or staff's action to actually consider those items on January 10th or whatever date is proposed. This is just a draft. You know what, Thayne, thank you for keeping me out of hot water these last couple of years. And Mr. Pearson, thank you for all you and the staff, everybody does. So thank you. I'm going to do a shameless plug here. I can see Cormac's here. So Winchester Star, we'd love for you to put this in for us. So thank you. All right. Anybody have anything else? You are shameless. I am. I'll get advertising any way I can. All right. And do I have a motion to adjourn? So moved. So done. Golly. Thanks, Rod. I really appreciate it. John, thank you. Thank you.
