Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-06-04
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=284
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I call the June 4th meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. Mr. Thomas, will you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the public for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Thank you. Next order of business is adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption of the agenda? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? We have an agenda. Committee reports. Are there any committee reports? Go to my left. Any? To my right. I have one I didn't yield last time for the Historic Resource Advisory Board. They have a project they're planning on the north end of the campus to train, from a technical standpoint, folks to work on power lines. So that will be coming to us at a future time and the HRAB did review that. That was that. That was for Laurel Ridge Community College. Correct. absolutamente correct. Yes. We're privileged to have Lacey with us this evening, the Chairman of Winchester's Planning Commission. Good evening. Of two. So I was able to approve by妳've done a lot of the agenda. The first one being public ?? ,双 a conditional use permit for a fence that's higher than the one that- Can you turn your mic on? I'm so sorry. Hello. The first, May 20th, was our last public hearing. The first thing that we had, the agenda item was a conditional use permit for a fence to go around the front and side that was over the height that it's permitted for, and that was recommended for approval. The next two are what we're calling our neighborhood design districts. One being a neighborhood design district around Valley Avenue, Hope Drive, Valor Drive, Williams Lane, that area, and we were looking to rezone 93 parcels totaling about 92 acres. We did recommend that one for approval, and then the second one is going to be in the North Cameron, Battock Street, Fairmont Avenue area, Loudoun Street area, and that one's 97 parcels totaling approximately 131 acres, and we did forward that to approval as well. Wrapping up. We had an ordinance to vacate and convey a section, a 14-foot wide alley running behind Whitlock Street. We did recommend denial for that one, and we ended the session with an ordinance to vacate and convey approximately 0.22 acres portion of Hope Drive, so right by the BB&T, and that was approved to, or recommended for approval, and that was it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Liero, good evening, sir. Good evening, sir. How are you? Good day. We're doing good. Okay. The Board of Supervisors has not met since the last Planning Commission meeting on May the 21st, so I don't really have any new information for you. Our last meeting was May 14th. Our meeting last Wednesday, the 28th, was canceled due to the James Wood High School graduation so that members could attend the graduation. I'll just give you an update on what we're doing next week, June 11th. We have a busy calendar on our hands. We've got the rezoning, 1124 for the Route 7 self-storage next Wednesday, the 11th. We also have rezoning 0325 and CUP 0425 for Royal King truck trailer parking. We have the interstate primary and secondary road improvement plan, which you're obviously hearing tonight. We have the waiver for inter-parcel connection down in Lake Frederick. That's waiver 01-25. We also have waiver 02-25 storage solutions in the Stonewall District, and we have waiver 0325 Raven Point inter-parcel connection waiver. That's in the Shawnee District, and that's all I have, sir. That sounds like a full agenda, sir. Yes, sir. I believe that completes our committee reports. We'll move on to item five, citizen comments. This is a time where citizens... Citizens who wish to address this planning commission can do so on any topic that is not a public hearing this evening. We would just ask you to come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anybody like to address the planning commission? Seeing none, I will close citizen comment, period. That brings us to Mr. Bishop. Are you going to make the presentation on the update for the roadway plans? Yes, he is. Yes. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. I saw Mr. Stowe last night at a public meeting. He made me promise to give a long presentation so you didn't feel like your time was wasted this evening. As you're aware, this is your annual update of the interstate primary and secondary road plans. Now, the key one there is actually the secondary road plan. That's the one that's within state code. That we're required to adopt each year. However, for many years now, Frederick County also sends along updated priorities on the interstate and primary systems as informational items to VDOT. So that's why these plans do come through together. The only required public hearing, once again, is the secondary piece. But once again, we do them all as a package for consistency and continuity. So I'm going to jump right into it, work my way down, starting with the interstate system. My annual joke is it's not terribly complicated because we have one interstate in our county, and we're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. We're going to have to do that. Mm-hmm. All right. All right. All right.IANN knows what we're doing. He's looking atdontics. What's good. . DR. DR. Dичесuck Dialogues. All right. We're actually working with the tribal departments. that refer to the Eastern Frederick County transportation study for example there's a note that the continuation of hallowed crossing way which currently accesses off of Route 7 and heads south to the bottom of the OPEC and crossing development that the continuation of that down to Cincinnati would have a significant positive impact by the time you combine that and Channing Drive eventually doing its thing going from Cincinnati out to 50 that sort of replaces particularly in terms of demand but also still serves an important role but at a much more cost-effective stance than doing a full interstate level 37 and the rest of them frankly are basically the same so I'll stick to questions on those if there's anything anybody wants me to go into in greater detail now as I move to the secondary plan which as I noted earlier is the part that's required you know we're going to have to do some more research on that but I think that's that's pretty much it for today I think that's pretty much it for today I think that's pretty much it for today I think that's pretty much it for today i'm going to that's pretty much it for today I think so i think if he is on the front with so i think if he is on the front with us if he is on the front with us yeah thank you ya thank you package of funds that goes to finishing that project. But once that project is done, this is a portion of the plan that we actually expect to fall away just because for that reason, BDOT is not funding projects in this way anymore. We rely on smart scale and other pots of money. Moving into the hard surfacing, which tends to get the most attention, at least in terms of phone calls to me from the citizenry in this plan, that is the paving of unpaved roads. This list has not changed from last year, beginning with Fishel Road, which is actually under construction right now, followed by Canterburg Road, which should see some activity within the next few to three weeks, down through phase two of Hunting Ridge Road. The two phases of Hunting Ridge Road add up to be a very significant improvement, as you can see with those stacked on top of each other. That's a few miles of paving of unpaved. But the reason nothing moved up is not... Normally, I would say because there's no new money this year in terms of the projections out over the next six years, but we still had Hunting Ridge Road phase two on there last year as a partially funded. Now it's just been held there and some more money has been put on it. But there still wasn't enough after that to promote another project. So that's why that is as it is. So from there, we move into your unscheduled list, which currently contains 15 projects. I will note that we have Veterans Road. Hanging out in the wings where we do have a petition for that. But once again, with nothing moving up, there wasn't really a big reason to go ahead and throw it on there at this time. But that's one that as we're doing our next update, we'll probably get added on there as well. With that, I can take any questions you may have. This is a public hearing item, as we discussed at the beginning. Transportation Committee did review and recommend approval at their meeting on May 12th. We're seeking... We're seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors, who theoretically will ultimately adopt these. And we also have Matt Smith here with us this evening, who's the Assistant Residency Engineer for the Edinburgh Residency, which of course encompasses us. Did Mr. Smith bring his checkbook with him, sir? I don't know. Check his pockets. His VDOT checkbook. Any questions for Mr. Bishop to my right? Mr. DeHaven. Thanks. Quick question for you. You mentioned the... You mentioned the Redbud Improvement Project. Yes. Is that... What's the timing on that, and how does that coincide with that Exit 317 improvement? It's an important first project. I saw a recent editorial that talked about it and may have inadvertently made it seem like the fact that Redbud's not being done yet is what's holding up 317. That's absolutely not the case. It's about when the funds come in from VDOT and when we're successful with a smart scale project as we are at Exit 317. We're successful. We're successful this year. We know that money's not arriving literally for six years. In terms of where Redbud is today, it's definitely behind where VDOT had told us a couple years ago it was. However, they have opened the right-of-way phase. The design phase is complete. They're moving into right-of-way, and based on about two weeks ago, I was told by one of the project engineers that they are expecting advertisement around December, January. So that's going to be done well ahead of still when we see disturbance for 317. Thank you. Yes, sir. Any other questions to my right? No, to my left. Any questions? I have a few. Yes, sir. Can you go back to the interstate and tell us if you have, and this might be an issue for Mr. Smith, do we have any schedules on any of those as far as the year we might see construction begin and completion? The big dog, if you will, and I wouldn't write checks on this schedule, but it's what VDOT is showing right now is the widening from Exit 317. It's about a $492 million project, but right now I think they're still showing that in the 2030, 2031 timeframe for advertisement. Once again, it's just about, they award about six years out, so that's when you get it. Okay. The unscheduled map that you showed us, do those get completed with the rural rustic road approach? Is that what's going on there? Yes, sir. It's pretty much once upon a time, really quite a while ago now since it was even before I came here, and I'm getting longer in the tooth than I care to admit some days, but the once upon a time to get those unpaved roads projects, you needed everyone that lived along there to agree to give right of way to create that 50-foot right of way. Many projects died based on that because there'd be that one owner that, no thank you. No thank you. No thank you. No thank you. So, however, for many years now, we've done it under the rural rustic as you refer to, which is basically a paved in place. It's not a full base and sub-base and everything like that. You come in pretty much over top of the dirt, you level everything, and you drop your tar and chip, your asphalt on there. Now, they will do things like trimming back of trees as needed. They'll correct drainage where they're able to and right of way is available and willingly given. They'll deal with horizontal and vertical curve challenges. Okay. So, for all intents and purposes, you really are taking that dirt road and picture it. Instead of having dirt, it's got asphalt. Okay. We received a comment online from an individual that was inquiring about the connection between Gateway Plaza and Valley Mill Road. Yes, sir. And the schedule for that project and perhaps the impact on the residents that would be impacted there. Do we have a schedule for that project? I don't. That is one of our smart scale applications. Which I'm glad you bring up. It's not actually fully in the six-year improvement program yet. It is one of our applications that is in the recommended funding scenario. So, assuming it makes it into the program, it's going to be at the, you know, so now being adopted for 25-26, it's going to be 20-30-31 level of the plan. It'll be 20-29 or 30 before VDOT's actually purchasing that right of way. Okay. Understood. Thank you very much, sir. Yes, sir. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this plan, this would be the time to do so. I ask you to come to the podium, limit your comments to three minutes. Please state your name and magisterial district. Would anybody like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. How would the Planning Commission like to? I will close the public hearing. Ms. Gidwell? Yes, I do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Board of Trustees for their support of this proposal. I'm happy to have the opportunity to speak to the Board of Directors on this issue and I'd like to thank our panelists for their support. They've been very kind to us, Mr. Chairman. Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. How would the Planning Commission like to address this? What's your pleasure? Mr. Chairman, I recommend that we recommend approval, or I move that we recommend approval of the draft update of the 2025-2026 Frederick County Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement Plan. Okay, we have a recommendation for approval. I second. And we have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. Ms. Brannon, can you start us off, please? Brannon, yes. Rumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Botterf, yes. Sneddon, yes. Margaret, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. DeHaven, yes. Akins, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on June 11th, as Mr. Liero said. So that will give him the floor. That will give him something to look forward to. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Matt, thanks for coming up. I appreciate it. Okay. Bring your VDOT checkbook next time, okay? That moves us to Item 7A, Comprehensive Plan Update. Mr. Pearson and I have had several discussions about the comp plan update that we will be actively involved in. And when I say we, it's the Planning Commission, as well as our committees. So this is an opportunity for you to learn. And I'm happy to be able to have a dialogue with and ask questions to Mr. Pearson about how this process is going to work and what's happening when and what our role is. So with that introduction, Mr. Pearson, thank you. Yeah, thank you. And I saw Chairman Stowe at a meeting recently, and he told me that brevity was the key to success in life. So I'll be a little bit shorter than Mr. Bishop was. But thanks for the introduction. The comprehensive plan is a state code requirement. And just a quotation. The purpose of the plan is to provide a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development. We're required to update it every five years. Those of you who may remember, we did a cursory update in 2021. This five-year update we're thinking is more of an overhaul or a rewrite, if you will. We've started the process of conducting some background analysis to kind of guide some of the involvement and decision-making as we start reconstructing elements of the plan. And I'm going to overview the first three of those. Then turn it over to John to talk about the transportation model update. And we'll conclude after that with Tyler, giving you some insight into what he's put together for our public participation plan. So one of the first studies that is nearing completion is with the Berkeley Group. You all remember them. They did our phase one zoning diagnostic report. And they're also simultaneously working on an update to our zoning ordinance, separate from this initiative. But we really wanted to get a better idea of some of the existing demographic data in our community. Our appendix two of the plan you may have seen already, and it's only a couple pages and really doesn't go into sufficient detail to establish who the community is. We feel it's really important to have a good idea of who we are so that we can start the process off knowing that and get a better idea of what we want to become into the future as we work through the comprehensive plan process. We're reviewing a draft of that profile right now and providing them some comments for adjustments and corrections they need to make to it. But we're really impressed by the draft report. And as soon as um, we've gone back and forth with the consultant on it, we'll be sharing that with you all. Stop me at any time if you have any questions about any of this. We're also doing a housing and market assessment with partners for economic solutions. This is kind of aimed at answering a question that I think many of you all have asked us over the years, which is, you know, we go through these cycles of annual comprehensive plan amendments that are submitted by developers, and it often begs the question of, are we planning currently for the right amount of land area to accommodate growth, or are we planning for the right amount of land area to accommodate growth, and are we planning for too much, be that on the residential, commercial, or industrial side? Um, so we've asked them to build off the Berkeley study and project outwards some of our market conditions, both housing, commercial, and industrial, and give us a better idea of if our existing planning areas are sufficient to accommodate growth over the planning horizon, or are we looking way too far out and planning for more area than we really need to and need to constrain it back at all? At least that's what we hope to get out of it. It's a little more complex of an analysis than I expected, but I think it's a good idea. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's a good way to put it, that's a good way to put it. I think there's a lot more to the analysis than I just tried to boil it down for, but that's kind of how we scoped that study. They were in town last week and did some stakeholder interviews with the Economic Development Authority, Frederick Water, and a couple other key agencies that have inputs into that information. So we're hoping to have that one concluded sometime in August, more than likely. Can I ask a question? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. Will we have an idea of what population and business our community can handle with our water table? That study is not specifically tailored to our water table, so, uh, I'm not sure if we know that, to address any of the natural resources. But we've already started flagging some key discussion topics that we know we're going to need to get into, and that might lead to consulting services throughout the process. And given the persistent drought conditions, we know that that's going to be something that's on the community's mind that we're going to have to face. But it's not part of either of these two, and it's not part of any of the ones that I'm going to detail right now. But will it be done before we redo the comprehensive plan? Because how can we do it if we don't know what we can sustain? It's a great question. So right now, given that Frederick Water is the provider for drinking water for the community, that task is generally coordinated for all the efforts they do for groundwater resources planning. Other than them, the only study we have to support it was a 2005 report done by USGS that did answer that question in 2005. You might suspect that a lot has changed because of the pandemic, but I don't think it's going to happen. I don't think it's going to happen. Especially as far as impervious surface coverage in the county, that may have been detrimental to the groundwater recharge. But groundwater is a far more regional resource than Frederick County. So right now, we're not planning to conduct an analysis that's going to answer that question as part of the comprehensive plan, but it certainly should overshadow the decision making. DEQ recently did task their groundwater resources branch with working with our planning district commission, the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, which covers us, Shenandoah, Warren, Clark, and all the towns within to do a water supply plan update. And that is due for delivery to DEQ in 2029. And it's currently underfunded to the tune of like, they only gave us $8,000 to do it. So that is a solution that's coming to that question. And it is scoped at the right size, because it's a regional problem. And it also deals with surface water as well, which is an important kind of interrelated part of groundwater. I know that's not the answer you're looking for, but that's what's in the background right now for it. I appreciate your honesty. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions on this one? All right. The other thing that we've heard or gotten questions from you all about that we wanted to have an answer going into talking about residential growth is kind of what the cost of land use is. We talk about the cost. We talk about the cost of capital impacts with proffers oftentimes when we do rezonings, but we don't talk at all about the operation and maintenance cost of land use. So Tishler-Bice, same consultant we use for evaluating cash proffer impacts, is going to be working through a process with us. We've established some kind of like prototype land uses, so rural lots, suburban lots, lots within the incorporated towns, apartments, townhouses, and they're going to take each one of those land uses and build out what does it pay the county, and it's not just going to be limited to the direct economic impact through taxes, but what goods do those people typically purchase that results in sales tax, what jobs do they work, kind of the full slew of positive economic impacts, and then also evaluate the other side of that. What are the costs to serve these individual land uses and try to total that for an average and not just focus on capital, but more on operation and maintenance because I think for a long time we've been saying residential is, you know, doesn't pay for itself. Residential is a leech on the community. We need to balance it with commercial and industrial, but really honing in on if that's true and how much of that is true to get a better idea of the tax based balance that the comp plan is always targeted of 75% residential, 25% commercial industrial is still the right value we need to be shooting for by having some data to back it up. So that's the purpose of that analysis. And for context, Tyler has been heading up the community profile. I've been doing the housing, market assessment and the land use cost analysis. And then John is going to talk to you a little bit about the transportation model update. Mr. Pearson, can you can you talk briefly to the dovetail between the comprehensive plan you're speaking to here and the area plans that we've like we did last year with Western Frederick land use? Yeah, yeah. So in the same way that your community profiles the appendix two with the demographic data of your area plan, the, or your comprehensive plan, your area plans are appendix one. So your general comprehensive plan talks about broad land use goals and is has a future land use map, but is not specific typically to the individual uses within there. So to blueprint in a general sense area plans focus in on a specific area that you may know as Kernstown or Sunnyside. You all recently did the Western Frederick, which consolidated a lot of plans. Many may be familiar with the sense in the Eastern Frederick area, other Southern Frederick, so it it zone zooms in on those individual areas and then deals with how the individual land uses within those are intended to interrelate with each other and establishes different sub planning areas within those. So, for example, in Tom's neck of the woods, the Lake Frederick neighborhood village is one of those, and it speaks to the existing like Frederick community, and it's in a relationship to the surrounding commercial that we're hoping to establish there as development evolves in the area. So, is that kind of what you're looking for? Okay, thank you. Yep. Here you go, John. I don't know if anybody was timing it, but I think that was a little longer. As as Wyatt noted, part of our comprehensive planning plan update, which we have not done previously, we are looking to do to apply the regional model, which is housed with VDOT to your comprehensive planning. Now, unlike some of these other efforts, which are entry level data points to start building the plan on the transportation side, we are likely going to kick off sort of midway through the process once land use recommendations start coming out. So the way we're actually testing is what you're actually looking to do, or at least much closer to now, there will still be elements of looping, if you will, because there's there's as as things adjust and you have to test different scenarios, there's there's some back and forth that takes place. But I think that's, in many ways, what what good planning is, whether you're talking about transportation plan or just general general comprehensive planning as you work with your your committees like CPC or your stakeholder groups or just have your public meetings, you want to take that feedback and loop it back into your work if you're if you're doing a good job and incorporating your community and then coming up with a new or at least adjusted recommendations based off that. Now, aside from just looking at those those land uses and saying, all right, this is how you have to meet them with transportation. And in a technical way through the model, there will be some additional testing that we would like to incorporate. Now, one item that's not a specific testing item that we're definitely going to be seeking feedback on is how how do you all and ultimately the board of supervisors, of course, want us to handle 37 as you've seen in your primary plan discussion earlier. Right now, we're sort of carrying the old vision and the new vision alongside each other. It is our hope as a staff that we can get the guidance we need to to pick a path, if you will, on how how you want 37 handled in your comprehensive planning, because that makes everybody's life much easier when you're dealing with developer development and Vita and every everything like that. But also we'd like the opportunity through this process to take a look at some legacy projects, not just that we can already think of, but which may come out of the committees and the public input. An example might be the exit 307 relocation, which the extreme. Cost of that. As soon as people talk about it, they dismiss it, whether it's Vita professionals or anybody in the community, something we probably need to take a hard look at and say, all right, from a feasibility standpoint, an actual likelihood of development standpoint, what do we need to do with this process? Project task road flyover, frankly, is another we could go on, but we'd also look for the discussions as we go forward in the planning to feed that process and feed that list. With that, I can take any questions you may have on the transportation modeling. That's an aspect. But I think the key point is we're trying to add a much higher level of technical certainty toward what you need from your transportation system to meet your chosen land uses in your comprehensive plan. Any questions for Mr. Bishop? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good evening, everybody. In addition to those background studies will obviously be doing a very thorough, public participation process as part of this update. Your comprehensive plan process really looks to be about a 26 to 27 month process that we're kicking off in July. So this is a multi year endeavor when we're looking at a full rewrite of our comprehensive plan. Our document is very large compared to other localities for 100 plus pages, probably 300 plus pages with all the appendices, you know, modern comprehensive plans, plans that have been done in like communities over the last several years have really condensed what is in their plan. It's contained a lot in those background studies. And then the plan really is your goals and strategies. And we'll be looking to formulate goals and strategies that are implementable and measurable so we can track our progress over time. You recall a lot of this same discussion we had with the Western Frederick land use plan. We use that and the knee lip is kind of a template for what we're looking to do on this larger update. We have assembled a public participation plan document which we'll send out to you all tomorrow. But essentially it outlines the comprehensive planning process and how we intend to invite meaningful public input throughout that process. Um, we're going to be engaging the public in a variety of different ways. You saw kind of the tip of that with the Western Frederick land use plan. It's not just large community meetings in this room, but we'll be out in the community at various scales, um, talking with people, groups, stakeholder groups into, um, you know, different organizations about the future of Frederick County. And really the tenants of our public participation plan are inclusivity, uh, transparency, and that the planning process is integral. Um, the the process is open to all. It'll be very clear. It'll be documented. It'll be easily accessible. Uh, the public participation will occur throughout the process. We won't just leave it to the very end when we have a draft document, but we'll be engaging the public early and often throughout the process. And really that public participation is critical to the success of our comprehensive planning process. Uh, this is our project timeline, uh, looking at the entire course of events. And again, we're anticipating kind of an August 2027 adoption. If we follow the timeline that's outlined in the public participation plan, the first phase we're calling a stakeholder interviews and reconnaissance phase that will kick off in July, and I'll cover that in the next slide, some of the details. Um, and then we'll we'll move on to kind of topic based community events talking about those kind of key issues, housing, transportation, natural resources. Um, and we'll spend a lot of time meeting with various community groups that are interested in talking to us. We did quite a bit of that with Western Frederick. Um, and then we'll have some of those large, um, large kind of community meetings throughout the county. Um, at various locations, we'll take all that public input that's gathered in those first few phases, and we'll start drafting the plan. Obviously, uh, that's a fairly large endeavor and may involve some consultant work, and then we'll do another round of community meetings at various scales to gauge. Did we get it right in our draft plan? What changes need to be made? And then we'll get to the kind of planned adoption and presentation part with the various planning Commission Board of Supervisors. Um, what's key to the public? Um, the public participation plan is kind of the end of each phase. We do a we're going to do a check in through a joint work session with the planning Commission aboard of supervisors. That gives us an opportunity to present what was done in the preceding phase and also kind of do some scenario planning and other, uh, check ins with the planning Commission Board about what we'd like to do in the next phase. Uh, so you'll see us at various times and you'll see that in the public participation plan, various, uh, checkpoints with you all. Um, obviously there will be committee meetings with the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee and other committees of the county as well, as we work through this process. So what's next, we're anticipating kicking off phase one in July. Um, that's again that's your stakeholder interviews and community reconnaissance. We're anticipating that process will take about six months, concluding with a work session in and around November of 2025. During that time we'll be wrapping up our background studies that were identified by Mr. Pearson, Mr. Bishop earlier. Uh, we're going to be starting to schedule interviews with individual Board of Supervisors members and planning commissioners. probably starting in September. We may do you all based on your district. So we'll have like two of you at a time and we'll send out some kind of pre-meeting questions for you all to consider. And then we'll discuss those questions and any other issues of significance. We're also going to do a needs assessment with other key stakeholder groups. So we'll have similar interviews with Frederick Water, VDOT, Airport Authority, Economic Development Authority, and different groups that are kind of party to the planning process. And we'll be launching a project website here this summer and we're already working on our photo inventory. We've hired a consultant that did some of the aerial photography for Western Frederick and they're capturing a variety of images at different altitudes and angles around the county that we're going to use throughout the process to convey different types of information and things of that sort. Any questions on the public participation and kind of what's next? Mr. Klein, is our planning horizon 2045? Is that correct? We don't... We did 25 years. So we're 2050? Yeah. We got away from putting the planning horizon title, but generally speaking, we're looking out to 2050 because I think that transportation modeling seems to drive that when we do these efforts. So one of the things you did last time in the public participation is you went to the schools. Yes. And I heard some criticism of that, but these are the folks that have to live with the decisions we make today because a lot of us aren't going to be sitting up here in 25 years, Liz, Mike. But certainly we see the value in engaging groups that aren't traditionally engaged in the planning process. So student groups, minority groups, non-English speakers, just some of the stuff we've seen in the Berkeley group studies really opened our eyes to how diverse Frederick County is and doesn't always appear as such. So we'll be tailoring some of our public engagement to engage those groups that are traditionally left out of coming to like a large community meeting. As you all kind of start engaging with us in this phase, we're going to be doing a lot of things. So one of the things we're going to be doing is we're going to be doing a lot of things that are not necessarily part of the program. So one of the things we're going to be doing is we're going to be doing a lot of things Think about if there are groups, organizations you're with, churches, civic groups, other special interest groups that would like to be involved in the process. You know, we can certainly do presentations tailored to individual groups. Those will be in addition to any other kind of like large community formatting we're going to be doing. We'll obviously do the web surveying. We're hoping to create a video series which kind of details the process and kind of what's been done as well. So we're obviously borrowing liberally from what some of our other localities around Virginia are doing and looking at what has worked or not worked for them as we have been doing. We have crafted our public participation plan and it is a planning document. So it will inevitably change over time as we get feedback from the community about what they'd like to see moving forward. But think about that as part of your kind of homework on this is, you know, if there are groups you'd like for us to start engaging with, let us know now. We're going to start assembling that stakeholder list. And we've already had a few people reach out to us asking about the comp plan update. We're starting to create that stakeholder list so that we can notify them about future engagement opportunities. Well, I would just say based on the Western Frontier. Frederick Land Use Plan, you set the bar really high for a positive public input process. So we'll look forward to more of that. I'm curious, and I'm glad Lacey's here with us this evening. Obviously, some of our planning overlaps into the city and vice versa. How is that being addressed? Well, in Western Frederick in particular, we did engage with the planning director and their community development director about, you know, where the areas. Line up with the city boundary, Sunnyside, Cedar Creek grade. We'll continue to work with them through this process. They're obviously one of those key stakeholders. That also will include the town of Middletown and the town of Stephen City, which again are incorporated towns in our community. And they also have their planning. There are individual planning challenges, but their challenges related to their proximity to the county. So we'll be working with those groups as well throughout this process. Right. I didn't mean to dominate any questions on my right. To my left. Ms. Brannon. Since I'm on Parks and Rec, so you're considering they at the parks at the two and. Parks will not only engage with the Parks and Rec staff, but will engage with the Parks and Rec Commission as well. We did work with them on the Western Frederick land use plan. They're one of the groups that we will certainly need to meet with regularly to understand their needs. They've been in Parks and Rec has already been involved with the background study, the community profile as well, providing data points about park usage. And facility uses and future needs as well. So that's all part of the comprehensive planning process. But we'll be in the park and see the people that actually use the park. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And my second question, when I went to that planning conference, I went to one of the sessions for a comprehensive plan for Danville, I think it was. They felt that the younger generation doesn't really participate. And they. That they like. Highly recommended texting that that's what they get into or advertisements on gaming things that they play online to get input from them. I thought that was interesting. So I thought I'd pass it along. A great job. I'm not. No, thank you. Questioning here. We found the conversations we had at Western Frederick at the schools were some of the more enlightening conversations we had. So we intend to do a try to roll out something similar at all the high schools because we're be doing a county-wide project mr markert yes thank you i was wondering there are a lot of people that would like to go back to the old days and have a small community with all of the amenities and an idyllic picture of uh of tree-lined streets and um having all of the more of the things near uh home than we do now it's just like the schools virtually everyone is bussed because most everywhere there's no sidewalks but the point being will there be any consideration of that or is that purely a developer driven issue that a developer may come in and want to build a arresting or some sort of a uh town feeling uh is that something that you would consider putting on the comprehensive plan or is is that uh not something that we get into at this level i think that's the direction that we'll probably end up going um our current comprehensive plan doesn't necessarily contain those level of details but we've tried to roll some of that out with neil up and with the western frederick land use plan to kind of speak to community character and what the design looks like and just kind of uh what the ideas are and what the what the vision is and what the the point is so as a part of that i would imagine that most of the feedback we're going to get is going to be in the vein of those comments you know about how the community feels and kind of function so that will certainly be our task as the staff planners to pull together that community input and draft policies and strategies and goals and other implementation measures that kind of fulfill that community vision and that's one area where our current comprehensive plan maybe falls a little bit short um with implementable goals and not having enough detail about what we think the community should look like in the future so point well taken Be sure to include the school system as part of the stakeholders. Absolutely, yes. They'll certainly be a part of that. That is a very long group, and we rolled out some of that with Western Frederick, so we certainly have a replicable process to start with, and we'll be doing similar interviews with them throughout the first phase of this project as well. And then, again, when we check in with you all again in November about this project, we'll not only interview all of the planning commissioners and board members, but we will also engage all those other key stakeholder groups as well. Excellent. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Chairman. Tom. This might be more of a question for Wyatt, but is there going to be any fiscal impact models done based off the growth of the county, say, the last 10 years forward and what the tax base would look like and how that would contribute to, I'll go as far as saying, our wishes and needs and dreams and desires, that we might pursue? So, like, what actually is possible? I mean, what is actually going to happen as far as fiscal benefits, sets up, would result from spending and desktop costs, or any of that other things that we are, you know, actually will be working to make sure that the basic five kickback that we call the cost of employment is efficient was actually a significant investment. And this, what you looked at, the cost per customer, which is Hard proportion, current tax structure and our history on what is being asked. I mean, I can paint a picture that I'd really like to see this. VDOT calls it fiscal constraint. Okay. Fiscally constrained plan. Yeah. It's kind of like how we took the comprehensive plan off being more of a wishlist oriented document to being closer to reality. Still not fiscally constrained, right, as it stands right now, because it doesn't match, you know, the budget in any given year. But no, I think that is probably not going to be an inherent component of the comprehensive plan. However, I do think it is prudent every year that we do the capital improvement plan that we continue working in that direction. And those capital improvements are really the component of it that you all have responsibility in. The budget and operation and maintenance stuff is not your bailiwick. It's just the board of supervisors that handles that. But no, it's not. The cost of land use analysis is giving you some of the information. I think it can help advise what you're looking at, but it's not what you're describing for how we're investing in the associated capital infrastructure that is necessary to fuel this plan so that we don't have issues with schools and roads and parks and all of that. It's really hard to have one without the other. I agree. And it's obviously you guys know a heck of a lot more about comprehensive plans than what this guy does. But I just can't see how it can be successfully done without the finance element. Yeah. I mean, the challenge with doing it as part of the comprehensive plan is finance modeling cannot work on a planning horizon, on a typical land use planning horizon. Right. I mean, five year projections for the county's budget are semi unreliable. Twenty five year projections for the county's budget are guesswork. Right. So I think it has to be a continual and incremental adjustment process to try to reconcile the CIP, the comp plan, and then any given kind of fiscal situation you're in with the county. And so it's got to be continual. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Mr. Thomas. Yeah, I kind of had a follow on question, but you might have just answered it. I was going to ask, doesn't couldn't we dovetail this this plan with what the board has to do for their finance plans for the years and what we can afford, what we can't afford. But if their plans aren't, I hate to say that aren't reliable. Sorry, Bob, but when that dovetail together and give us a little bit of what we're looking for as far as what we can afford, what is the impact if we implement this? Are we looking at, okay, this is going to cost the county X million dollars. And if we relate that to a property tax tax base, that's going to be a, you know, a 2% or whatever it is increase. I mean, when that shouldn't we be able to put that together? Yeah. Again, on the timeline that we're talking, I don't think it's like a prudent exercise, but that is the exact conversation we need to be having. If we looked at a narrow time or a more of a near term timeline within three to five years max. Yeah. And then we could look at, you know, what kind of an industrial base we're looking at? What kind of a property taxes are we going to get from that? And, you know, if we would implement what we're going to, what we're proposing, you know, if we build all these houses, what is the cost if we have, you know, the commercial and the commercial? You know, the commercial areas and the industrial areas, what is the revenue that comes in from those? No. Yeah. And when you, when we adopt this plan and you update your CIP, which is your five-year capital investment plan, that is what you need to coordinate to think of what infrastructure you need to build to support the implementation of the comprehensive plan over the next five years. But trying to project whether Equus or I'll talk about this in a minute or data center developers going to, you know, you're going to have to do a lot of work to build that infrastructure. show up in the next five years or 10 years is challenging. Private development ends up implementing our comprehensive plans short of large public investments on roads and schools. So you can't have any anticipation unless you have approved projects and people underway, which only takes two years, right, to know when they're going to come active and start actually paying taxes in the community. But let me think a little bit more about it and make sure I'm not missing kind of what it is that you're all asking for. But generally speaking, once we adopt this comprehensive plan, it's going to lay out a long range framework for the infrastructure you need to allow the land uses identified in it to actually build out. And then as rezonings come, you'll get as much of that as you can that is reasonable to request of the developer and everything else that is a gap needs to go on your CIP, be funded and constructed. Otherwise, the planning process hasn't done what it's intended to do. Yeah. And then perhaps... Provide for that infrastructure throughout. I guess I was looking at it more as an analogy, a business plan for a company on how they would develop and what their future... So that is a good point. And you saying his business plan kind of triggered in me, most counties and most cities end up having a separate strategic plan that doesn't involve the planning commission that is related to like their kind of business operations. I think we went down that road in 2017 under different leadership and it didn't pan out with the board at that time. But that could be a separate initiative that the county undertakes. And that's a good point. Strategic planning is a whole other element of running a county government that's really important to run alongside your land use program. But it won't be part of this because I can't do it. Any other questions? The schools and Frederick Water are two entities I know of that have kind of a long range plan themselves. Do those get incorporated into our update here? Yeah, they do. The schools more intimately than Frederick Waters. Eric Lawrence will tell you that their capital investment plan tracks our comprehensive plan. So they are planning for infrastructure to match what we plan for as far as land use. For example, they bought property in the northern portion of the county to build a new wastewater treatment plant up there, primarily because the county has been planning for major industrial users up there since 95 and capacity is practically non-existent at this point. So it's things like that where the schools will have school infrastructure kind of intimately embedded into it. But Eric's stuff will have the existing conditions included, existing pipes, treatment plants, anything on the immediate horizon. But then he has a separate 10-year capital plan that he works with. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you for that. That's very helpful. That takes us to item 7B. Don't go anywhere, sir. I believe the current... Planning applications? Yeah. The comprehensive plan proposals came in on Friday. That's right. Yeah, they were due June 1st and we took them on June 2nd, which is Monday. So just going to very quickly detail the kind of amended process that we've changed over the years. So you all will be familiar with, we've done this every year that you all have been on the planning commission going back quite some time, but they're due June 1st. These are private development requested amendments to our comprehensive plan. They're generally targeted to then be followed up directly with a reasonable amount of money. So we're going to be doing that. So we're going to be doing it so that the money comes back, but we own all of it. And we will be doing the zoning. One of the one of the ones I'm going to talk about is going to be requesting to run the rezoning concurrently alongside of the comprehensive plan. We had a similar request for that for that last year. So we have not accepted fees from them at this point. But after the June 18th joint work session with the board, where you all deliberate on the preliminary details of the plan and decide whether you want to further study the application, they'll pay their fee. If you warrant further study and then we'll send it out to the Board. out for the typical agency comment from Frederick Water and everybody else who has potential involvement in the application. After that, you know, we're moving into your typical process that you've seen every year. Historic Resource Advisory Board Conference of Plans and Programs is going to meet in August. And once all of that is done, we're going to go into our first Planning Commission work session on the topics and then Planning Commission public hearing in the middle of September. And then it's going to get passed off to the board in October if things go according to plan. We received three this year. And if there's no questions about the general process, the only thing I did not note is we will be seeking a decision on June 18th from the board this year. I think in previous years, you all just kind of nodded your head, but we're going to probably ask the board to vote on June 18th. It will likely not include the Planning Commission. You all can convey your consensus, but they have always, been the ones who choose whether or not they want to hear the Comprehensive Plans amendments any further. So that's just a heads up for those who will be in attendance. Many of you already heard about this. They held a public meeting yesterday actually. So it's a large data center proposal titled Meadowbrook Technology Park being pursued by a company named Tract. It is just southwest of Stephen City. You can see it's kind of hemmed in between the existing solar developments with Foxglove and Bartonsville Phase One, and it encompasses about 650 acres. We also had a request for a project that should be familiar to most of you. In the last year and a half or so, you considered a rezoning on this piece of land, and it was titled Winchester Gateway at the time. They took the remainder off of this industrial park and rezoned it all to M1. The same people have purchased the property. On the other side of Route 37, this is Middle Road, Apple Valley, and they're looking to do a Comprehensive Plan amendment for data center style uses on that property as well as potentially on the property on the inside of 37. I failed to mention that the Meadowbrook Technology Park project is seeking to process their Comprehensive Plan amendment and their rezoning concurrently. So you'll likely get all of those application materials for the June 18th meeting. And the, last one is the, I'm sorry, this map doesn't do a great job of conveying where we are, but this is Exit 302 at Middletown. So Reliance Road heading kind of southeast out of the county there. The proposal is to change the planning area right here. Right now, this hatched color that you see behind it is highway commercial. And this candy cane color you'll be familiar with is a mixed use industrial office. And they're seeking to do a Complan amendment to change that to B2, B3. And then they're seeking to do a Complan amendment to change that to B2, B3. And then they're seeking to do a Complan amendment to change that to B2, B3. And then they're seeking to do a Complan amendment to change that to B2, B3. And some of the indications in the plan, or in the proposal indicate that there might be a warehousing element as well as a commercial element to it. But we'll learn more as we continue to talk to the applicants about it. So those are your three. Down Middletown Reliance Road, Winchester Gateway in the vicinity of Middle Road and Apple Valley and 37 and then Meadowbrook Technology Park. That's all I have for you, Mr. Chairman. Do you anticipate those being distributed out next week sometime? Do you anticipate those being distributed out next week sometime? Yes, sir. I think June 11th would be the target for the packet to go out. Very good. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? I'm sure there's a lot of questions, but you might want to wait until the 11th and read the application to ask those. All right, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, sir. Thank you very much. And that takes us to adjournment. Unless there's anything else we need to go over. And that takes us to adjournment. Unless there's anything else we need to go over. No. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Be careful going home. Thank you very much.
