Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-05-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=92
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. The agenda is adopted as presented. Citizen comments? Did anyone sign up? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Jeremy Thomas. Welcome, sir. You'll have to adjust the microphone. There you go. Excellent. Good evening, board. My name is Jeremy Thomas. I'm an account manager with Motorola Solutions. I'm here to ask the board to reconsider the recommendation on your agenda tonight to award the public safety radio system contract. We respect the effort put forth by the radio committee. We're honored to be a finalist for consideration. In any agenda packet you've seen tonight, you'll see pricing between discrepancies between Motorola, excuse me, pricing comparison between Motorola and EF Johnson's offerings. Unfortunately, there's no description of our offerings or technical differences. We're not going to go into detail. So I'd like to highlight a few major differences. First of all, we propose an 11 site design. As we stated back in November, we've run the coverage and we know that 10 site design simply cannot and will not meet your coverage requirements. We've chosen feasible sites to ease implementation, reduce risk of increased cost and significant project delays. To that end, we propose zero sites at school locations. We know how difficult that can be. Over the 20 year lifecycle of the radio system, we propose double the number of upgrades as our competition EF Johnson. This ensures that you have the latest and greatest hardware that we can maintain. We can ensure we get cybersecurity updates. We all know how important that is with this recent gas pipeline ransomware attack. And also so that you can get the greatest and latest technology, keep you up to date. We are taxpayers in Frederick County. We have a local shop here on Airport Road. We train certified technicians with decades of experience. Unfortunately, we're not going to be able to do that. We're going to have to go back and do it again. We're going to have to go back and do it again. We're going to have to go back and do it again. We're going to have to go back and do it again. We're going to have to go back and do it again. We're going to have to go back and do it again. Unfortunately, EF Johnson has proposed using a shop that has never implemented any of their solutions or maintained it for that matter. It's like, would you get on an airplane with a pilot that has never had formal training or experience? I don't think so. And to that end, experience. I mean, we've implemented 66 P25 systems here in Virginia alone. EF Johnson, unfortunately, zero. All of your neighboring counties, including the city of Winchester. We have Motorola, Project 25, Public Safety radio communication systems. There are significant design, performance, and durability differences in these subscriber radios. This is our Apex 8000. It is the best in the business. And it's actually the multi-band radio choice by your Frederick County first responders. I would have brought EF Johnson's radio that they proposed, the portable, but it doesn't exist today. It hasn't been developed, tested, or certified. To that end, we... I strongly encourage Frederick County to delay an award until you can test EF Johnson's radios. Put our radio side by side with theirs. Do a bake-off. You know, at a minimum, we'd like to ask the county to evaluate the equipment that is currently available from all vendors. Equipment that aligns with your first responders requirements, addresses the deficiencies outlined in your needs assessment. You know, this investment time maybe takes 30 to 60 days. And it's a good investment time to ensure the county gets the best value system that meets your needs. For the next 20 years. So, appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Wayne Duff. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening, members of the board, staff. Happy Police Week. Happy Public Safety Week to all of the professionals here. My name is Wayne Duff with L3 Harris Technologies, headquartered in Lynchburg, Virginia. I'm the head of the L3 Harris Technology Center. I'm the head of the L3 Harris Technology Center in Lynchburg, Virginia. I, too, share the exact same concerns as Mr. Thomas does with Motorola Solutions. We may not always align on things, but in the interest of the county, in the interest of Frederick County, the public safety officials that are putting their lives on the line every day to represent the county and the people of this county, I personally, representing L3 Harris Technologies. But, more importantly, I'm representing L3 Harris Technologies. I'm a public safety officer. I'm the head of the L3 Harris Technology Center. I'm the head of the L3 Harris Technology Center. But, more importantly, having served as a law enforcement professional for over 20 years prior to joining this industry, want to ensure that you all have done everything you can to ensure you get the absolute best public safety mission-critical communication for your community at the best value. We were, unfortunately, not allowed to participate in this process very long. We proposed a seven-site system. It's a very important system. It's a very important system. It's a very important system. We have a manual cast, P25 phase two with diverse separated geo-redundant network switching centers cores and all multi-band technology with LTE capability. The cutting edge technology that's delivered today for your first responders for less than $10 million. Had we been given the opportunity to at least discuss this proposal and found that the county wanted to invest more money in in-building coverage in the National Forest where there are no buildings, we could have added four more sites for less than $5 million. This project, as you're looking at tonight, is a $15 million maximum project, all in. And I would just highly encourage the board to think hard about this decision. As Mr. Thomas said, they are the leader in the industry, Motorola Solutions. L3 Harris, we are implementing or have implemented P25 Phase 2 trunking systems all over the world in the United States of America and in over 30 counties in the Commonwealth of Virginia. We just wished we would have had an opportunity to talk to the county more and if you re-bid this, you will get the same solution if that's the scope you want and save millions of dollars. And in closing, I would like for you all just to consider a few things. Vendor experience and demonstrated ability. This is very technical, internet protocol technology. It is important that you have experience. This is very difficult technology. There will be bumps in the road, but we have the experience to handle that. Cost and life cycle. Again, maximum $15 million initial project and then as you saw, our life cycle prices with refreshes was very attractive. Capabilities, features and functionality. Please do not sign up for something that doesn't exist. What's going to happen when that contractual date comes and the product is not available? Will you then settle for a single band radio or go to a different vendor? And I'll close with, is that my warning? Oh, I've got a little bit more time. Thank you. Go ahead and conclude. Warranty, maintenance and support. When there's a problem, who's going to fix it? How many times have they fixed a similar problem? What is their experience level? Quality of the work verified by your own references. Demonstrated history of implementing similar technology. And any other factor that the county, the consultant and the committee deems valuable. Like, does it exist today and can we risk it never existing? That's why we ask you to highly consider redoing this process. You may end up with the same system, but it will save you billions of dollars. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? No one. All right. We'll close the public comment portion. The consent agenda. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How would we like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, let's see. We need a roll call. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor McAuliffe? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. The consent agenda is adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Anyone? Seeing none. Item number eight are county officials. This is the appointment of Mary Beth Price as interim county administrator, effective July 2, 2021. How would the Board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion that we appoint Mary Beth Price as interim county administrator, effective July 2. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have had the pleasure and opportunity to work with Ms. Price on multiple occasions, and I found her to have the utmost integrity and to be one to exert much due diligence to do the things, the hard things that need to be done. And I look forward to working with her here in Frederick County, and I thank the Board for her time. Thank you. And I thank the Board for considering her as an option. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mary Beth Price will be our interim county administrator, effective July 2, 2021. There are a number of potential committee appointments under 8B. The reappointment of social services board member at large, John LaManna. How would the Board like to handle that? How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of Dr. John LaManna as a reappointment to the Social Services Board. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While Mr. LaManna may be a good man, I do not believe he holds the fiscal conservative values that I hold, and I worry about the financial outlays that he may partake as a part of the Social Services Board. Therefore, I cannot support him in that role. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Thank you, sir. We'll bring us to the Development Impact Model Oversight Committee. These were my recommendations. Part of them come from outside agencies. EDA. Supplies are up. Planning Commission supplies, too. Topper Virginia Building Association, too. And the School Board, one. How would the Board like to handle these proposed appointments? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move that we approve the entire slate of proposed committee appointments. All right. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. The slate will be appointed. As presented. There are other appointments, and we're recommending that our new Planning Director, Wyatt Pearson, be appointed to the following committees. The Northern Chandeau Valley Regional Commission, as an alternate member. The Winchester Frederick MPO, as an alternate member. And the Winchester Frederick Metropolitan Planning Organization Technical Advisory Committee, as a voting member. How would that be? How would the Board like to handle these? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move that we appoint Mr. Pearson to all three organizations. Second. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Pearson will be appointed. Thank you for your willingness, sir. For volunteering. Okay. That'll bring us to 8C. Bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Public Radio System Procurement. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. As I have in the past, I would like to make a motion that we authorize as follows to issue a notice of intent to award a contract to E.F. Johnson for the new public safety radio system. Number two, for the County Administrator to execute a contract with E.F. Johnson for not to exceed the amount of $20 million. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. And for the project contingency budget, $7,471 spending that final legal review, and for a project contingency budget with not to exceed the amount of $1,500,000. I heard the motion. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I have grave concerns over the public radio system. As it's been presented, I agree with, I believe, every person on this board that we need to get a new radio system, that there is a need to replace what we have. I don't believe that there's any discussion there on the need of a replacement radio. What I do have considerable concern regarding is how this process has been handled. In January, there was a communications committee or public safety radio committee that was part of this, and after the meeting was over, some members of the public safety radio committee came to me and told me that they were unaware that Harris or Bay Communications could be brought back into the conversation after they had been pulled out. In doing so, we did not allow for there to be discussion on various options and cost structures that could have been included into this process, and this was January after the original proposal had been sent to us in November. Adding into that, some members of this board have stated publicly that they were not able to get a new radio system, that they do not understand the radio system, and that they are agreeing with staff. I would really like to show a hands, and I know that I won't get it, but I'd like to know how many members of my fellow board members actually read the needs assessment that was presented, because the budget that is presented, the radio system that is presented, is vastly different than what the needs assessments stated the needs were. If we were going to change based off of what the needs assessment was, we would have to have a different process to go to something like we are considering this evening. This process should have been re-bid. I believe that if we move forward with what is proposed, that any citizen could consider a legal action that we are being arbitrary and capricious in what we are doing. I think that what we are doing may be irresponsible. I think that we should strongly consider re-bidding this project, as I have proposed in the past, and that we should look at saving the residents of our county. We need to look at the I still don't have the majorities of the specifics of either plan that's been presented, but you're wanting me to make a vote on it. This is capricious. I cannot vote for this. I will not vote for this. This is capricious. needs to go back out for a rebid for a new RFP. And had we done this in January, we could be voting on that new RFP tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To follow up on a similar concern that I have with Supervisor Graber is as late as last week when I was speaking with a member of the team that was evaluating this, they were still under the mistaken impression that only two organizations could continue on to the negotiation stage, which isn't true. So I do share the same concern that our committee was ill-advised, didn't understand how the process worked. I have a great concern with the next item on our agenda in that we're being asked to consider mission-critical partners to implement this because I believe mission-critical partners failed in a major way, a material way, to advise our committee as to what they were actually looking at. For instance, they thought they were holding a non-existent radio in their hands at the time that they were making the recommendation to our board. If our consultant doesn't know what they're doing, how can we expect that our consultant was guiding our committee appropriately through this process? And I share the same concern that Supervisor Graber has that this whole thing has been flawed from the beginning, and there's no shame in saying, you know what, maybe we didn't do it quite right. Let's try and do it the best way we can for the citizens of Frederick County. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Dunn. This has been a long, long process. But it's been a short process as well. I have major, major, major concerns on this. Back in February, I made the suggestion that we have an RFP, a new RFP. We got this proposal here on Friday, and I was working Friday, so I saw this for the first time Friday evening. On Monday, I put out a request to staff, and I asked the following question. I wanted to see what the price comparison was between Motorola and EF Johnson. I also asked, what was the criteria used to make this final decision, and how does that differ from the initial needs assessment, which, Mr. Graber, I have read, and the RFP, which I have read. And I wanted to see what the difference was in the final negotiated position between the RFP and what we're doing today. I was given some information in pricing, which is confidential, which I'm not going to make comments on, but I'm going to make comments on that. I'm not going to make comments here, but I will make the comment that for widget A, one item was $30,000. So I'm making up numbers, but giving you magnitudes of scale. And another item was $900,000. And when you take a look at the same widget A, and one's $30,000 by one company, and one's $900,000 by another company, my question is, that's a huge difference. And there are other items on that that do the same thing. In one company, there are some items that are included, but everything has a cost. So if you're going to do bond financing, there's a cost to that. I'm a financial planner. I do business evaluations. There's a cost to doing a bond finance. You can't just say it's included. There's a cost to that. And the reason I'm going through this process is to go through the thought process of getting company A and company B to compete. If company A says we can do something for $100, and company B says we can do it for $1,000, my comment to company B is, hey, can't you lower your price? So that's one issue. Second issue is, there's been significant changes in the market. There's significant discounts, and those discounts are in the public forum here, so that's the public, where Motorola has an $11 million discount. That's one-third the price. Companies are in business to go and make money. If you can cut one-third the price, that is significant. Johnson had a discount of 10%, $2 million approximately. Harris and Bay Electronics were both eliminated in the first round and never had the chance to do orals. I'm out for Frederick County residents. I'm not out for Harris. I'm not out for Bay. I'm not out for Motorola. I'm not out for EF Johnson. I want the best system that Frederick County residents can get at the best price. You heard the comment by Mr. – the representative from Harris, who just made a comment a few minutes ago saying they could do the project for $14 or $15 million. I'd like to say, let's put them on the spot and see if that's true. It's a fair comment. We have the potential of saving $5 or $6 million. Why would you not want to do that? I know that there are some members on this board who have a concern that we need to get this going today, but we all got this information just in October. And I've had these concerns since then. If we re-bid this, we could do this in an accelerated process, because our purchasing agent has already determined what we need as a criteria – because she's made the recommendation, or staff – to go ahead with the EF Johnston proposal. So you have a set of criteria. If that's the final criteria you want, then compare that with others and let them bid it. I would say to all of you, show me I'm wrong, but if we can save $5 million, that's significant. That buys school buses, that can buy parks, it can go back to the taxpayer. So I have major concerns on that issue. Second major issue. The VP8000 is not yet made. Back in February, the gentleman from MCP said it would be available in the summer, June or July. Now it's not to be until December. And I understand that if you're going to make a radio, there's a difference between taking a single band and making it into a dual or a multi-band. That's a technology change. It's not just adding. Harrison, Motorola, I understand have top quality and good quality multi-band radios. The question is, will those multi-band radios work with the Johnston system if the Johnston system is not able to go and do that? In addition, what's the pricing differential between radios? These radios are $8,000 a piece. If we can drop those prices, that's significant. It saves everybody here. I think Frederick County wins by saying, no, let's go and put this out for a, you know, a year. And I think that's the way to go. So, you know, I think that's the way to go. And I think that's the way to go. So, I would like to ask you to take the time to come back to the table and give your comments. We're going to have a discussion about the new RFP, which I know staff will not appreciate, but I'm saying that with you. Have an accelerated timeframe. Let the four vendors come back and say, this is what we can do. Have oral presentations with each vendor, so each of them can defend it, and see where we are. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask Mr. Johnson to come back and say a few words about the new RFP. I know he's been doing a lot of research, and I want to tell him thank you for looking out for the best interests of the citizens of Frederick County. I don't know if this is an appropriate time, but I haven't had an opportunity to ask the representatives from EF Johnson. Is there a timeframe when a new radio is going to be produced? I've heard it's been pushed back six months. I've heard eight months. Do we know when the radio is going to be available that we are being asked to vote upon tonight? You ask, which is not really appropriate. If they care to answer, we will, but we're not going to go further. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. But I will say this. With the lack of technical details that have been grossly lacking in this process, I think it's a fair question to ask. Thank you. Apparently not. Supervisor Dunn. I have one other comment and thought to give all of you. In a conversation with our county attorney, Mr. Williams, I asked him whether certain changes would be significant to the future of the state of the state of the state. And he said yes. I'm not an attorney, but he said yes. I have a legitimate, genuine concern that if we go ahead with this vote tonight and we are sued, then this is going to tie this whole thing up for multiple months. That's a genuine concern that we need to consider before we vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Stegmaier. I speak in favor of the motion. We began this process of replacing our public safety communication system nearly two years ago in 2019. Two years, Mr. Chairman. That doesn't even include the additional 30 months it will take to build the infrastructure and have the new communication system operational. Mr. Chairman and members, every day we continue to delay this critical project, which is experiencing instances of failure right now and is unnecessarily placing our firefighters, our deputies, our correctional officers, our students, teachers, and school support staff, and our citizens at risk. In going over the report that came from the communication and communications committee recently, it appears as though we are saving the taxpayer to around $2.5 million. The grand total for E.F. Johnson being $28.9 million, and the grand total for Motorola being $31.4 million. Using the scoring formulas utilized in both the evaluation and interviews, staff updated vendors' scores based upon the price clarification. At the conclusion of that exercise, E.F. Johnson received the highest scores for initial capital costs, 15-year costs, and 20-year costs. For those reasons, I am supporting this project. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Goyer. May I ask for a point of clarification there, Supervisor Stagmeyer? When the price clarifications were done, was that simply E.F. Johnson and Motorola, or was Harrison Bay Electronics included in that? Can you share that with me? We can ask the staff if that would be appropriate. What we have before us is a comparison of E.F. Johnson and Motorola. That's not what I was asking. My question was, is you said that staff went back and asked for clarification of pricing, and you shared the savings. Was the price clarification, after our initial discussion, with all companies, or was it just with the two preferred companies? My understanding was that it was with the two that qualified. The others didn't even qualify for consideration. So, Mr. Chairman, just thank you, Mr. Stagmeyer. Just so that this board is aware, and all those out in the public, there was only one company that qualified from the initial, from the initial response to the RFP. So, there was only one company that qualified. So, if that was the case, then there should not have been negotiations with the other company that did not qualify. If we were going to negotiate with a company that did not qualify, as it appears has happened, then other companies who did not qualify should also have been allowed to compete in that mix, and that did not happen. It is my fear, as Supervisor Dunn has stated, that we will see liability, as a result of this. In fact, I've heard some comments, some rumblings from some. And I fear that if we move forward, plow forward with this, as it is proposed, and as this process has went forward, that we are going to see significant liability. And in seeing that liability, we are going to put our first responders at significant risk, because this is very likely to get held up in the court systems, and further delays this project many months to come. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes. Mr. Stegmaier, as Mr. Graber said, only one company did. I went through that, and I read that, and only one company qualified. Second comment in talking with staff was that one company was eliminated. Their cost was very good. The comment was that their coverage and execution was not good. But if you're that close on cost, two points, there's a two-point differential between number two and number three. Then from Frederick County's perspective, why would you not bring them into the mix and say, hey, give us a better proposal and compete? You and I both, all of us, want to get the best for Frederick County. But if you get them all into the mix, they're going to fight harder than just two. And when this whole proposal started, it was simply for a $20 million proposal. That was what came from staff. We expect this to be about $20 million. And slow and hold is $20 million for year one, and then you look through years 15 and 20 and it drives up to $28 million. We can go in a negotiated position if we bring more into the mix and drive this price down. So there is a differential between the two. But I think that we can save additional money by bringing a third one in and save the cost of litigation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to answer a question that Supervisor Dundas asked. He asked why was it only two that went into the Orals instead of... You didn't even ask a question, but you're welcome to go ahead. He did. He said, why was it that one person that didn't qualify went forward? And the other one didn't? And I think part of it could be that there was a mistaken perception at the committee level that only two could proceed, which is a mistake, which means that this county may have been shortchanged the opportunity to include the other folks because people on the committee didn't know that more than two could go forward. That's my concern. My concern is that if we didn't know what the rules of the game were and how it was to be played, that we may have shortchanged ourselves. The only comment in favor of the radio system that I've heard tonight did not... dispel any of the concerns that the three others who have spoken have brought forward. The only thing I heard that Supervisor Stegmaier said was that this has taken two years. He didn't say that the process wasn't flawed. He didn't say that the committee members weren't laboring under a mistaken misconception. He didn't say that there isn't any merit in actually trying to compete and get multiple bids to get the best from a third vendor for the county. I'm not saying that that third vendor deserves a contract. I'm not saying that Motorola deserves a contract. It may end up that EF Johnson still has the best system, but at least we would know at that point that that's a sure thing. And that's all that I'm asking for, and I think that's all that Supervisor Dunn and Supervisor Graber are asking for, is that we assure the county taxpayer that they're actually getting the best value for their money, which is what our job is. And that's why I think that we should take the time and do this right and eat some humble pie and say, let's go back and do it the right way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. All right, we're ready to vote. We're ready to vote. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Absolutely not. Supervisor Graber? No. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. That will bring us to item number two, authorization of the county administrator. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion to authorize the hiring of this consultancy, that we actually put this out for bid to multiple consultants. This consultant was hired without any other consultants applying for the job. I think it would be to the taxpayer's interest, the citizen's interest, that we actually put this out to bid, just like we would any other project. I'll second that if that's a motion. That is a motion. Motion is second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Any time we go and hire people, usually you have multiple people that will go and compete. We just hired a new director of public works. He was not the only candidate. Other people competed. When we hire anybody, we want to see that. I've hired people on a congressional staff. I've hired people on a departmental staff. Many on this board have hired people. Mr. Wells has hired people. Mr. McCarthy's hired people. You've hired people. If you're going to go and look for somebody, you want to find somebody that meets your specs. The first person may be very good, but you want to see if he's the best or not. You want to see multiple people to get an impression. In this case, we had only one person apply and one person was accepted. To go forward with the implementation of this, I would strongly like to have multiple people apply. We as board members, if we so choose, would like to sit in on those interviews so that we can make decisions. Ultimately, we're going to have to vote on it anyway. If we can go and have the opportunity to sit in and hear multiple companies compete for this business, that would be helpful. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Additionally, not just as a good practice to interview multiple candidates, but I have real concerns, as I mentioned in the last discussion, about this current candidate. This current candidate came to us with incorrect information on multiple occasions. When I say multiple, three, four, or more occasions we were given incorrect information that we, the supervisors, had to dig up the correct answers to. I really feel like if you already have evidence that the person that you hired isn't doing the job in a competent way, it's just malfeasance to move forward without trying to find someone else who has the competence necessary. I guess my time is up, Mr. Chairman. I'm not sure what I'm saying. I'm just saying, I'm not sure where that came from, but it wasn't directed at you. All right, further discussion. Supervisor Dunn. I just concur with what Mr. McCarthy said. I asked the gentleman from MCPA some questions and got inaccurate answers. I'll be gracious on that, inaccurate answers. I asked for some written responses to questions and got inaccurate answers. And there wasn't even an apology saying, you know what, we all make mistakes. I gave you wrong information, so let me go and correct it. That never occurred. So I have considerable concerns about the capabilities, the technical capabilities of a company that cannot give accurate information so we can make good decisions. So I strongly support Mr. McCarthy's comments. Thank you. Yes, sir. I'm fine with that. Could we put a time period on it? What would you think would be a... A period for what? To get to hire someone? No. I think if we said, you know, by the end of July, something like that, to hire someone. At how long? Middle or end of July, something like that, to put the word out. I mean, I don't know... I was thinking 90 days. Yeah, I would ask the county administrator, what typically would it take, how much time would it take? I think it would be beyond the end of July, but I think we can certainly direct staff to do it as quickly as possible. But the 90 days that Supervisor Wells suggested, would that be enough time to do it? I'm looking at our procurement officer. I think 90 days is maybe reasonable. It is, but with summer, we run into issues with people being on vacation and constantly requesting extensions for the due date. So that's pretty common that we would have to navigate that. I would be amenable if Supervisor Wells is agreeable to using a standard period to get to the end of July. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. First of all, I don't think we have enough time for an option that would require that we use it as a start on a 90 day period and see what we end up with. I'd like to make a motion to amend my... Well I guess I can amend my own motion. Sure, you can. I would amend my motion to include a 90 day period during which candidates could be identified. Second. Second. Discussion. Mr. Chairman, if I may. Two things. First and foremost, I would like to see this at least encourage our staff to look at procurement process. There are other entities similar to MCP, such as Federal Engineering, CTA, and others who are doing projects in Virginia currently, and we could essentially piggyback off of those and not have to do an RFP process, and that cooperative procurement process could expedite that process exponentially. Secondly, I just wanted to give credence to best practices. Best practices is, as Supervisor Dunn stated and Supervisor McCarthy stated, is you allow the vendors to compete, show what their strong points are, give a price point, and allow us to evaluate them based upon what our needs are. And so simply arbitrarily picking a company in light of the bad or misinformation that has already been given, I think, is the wrong move to simply move forward with a company that has already proven to not give us accurate information. I, as well, have received misinformation and inaccurate information to request for information. SUPERVISOR DUNN. I don't know whether this is a positive or negative for any of those of our holy other guys, but I can salute you. SUPERVISOR KING. Mr. Chairman, I thank you for your All right. Mr. Chairman, one point of clarification. Thank you. Speaking with the purchasing manager, we are currently writing a contract with Mission Critical Partners. So some clarification, would the board like us to, like staff to continue to write other contracts, or is the board looking more for an RFP process, bringing vendors in and doing an interview? Because those are two different processes to get to the same end point. Question? Question? Yes, sir. Mr. Tibbs, when we say that it's possible to do it in 90 days, is that possible to do it in 90 days with an RFP? It is. I mean, you can do either one in 90 days. Can you do both, or do you have to do one? Well, I mean, if we go through the process of writing a contract, we're going to create a contract and finalize it. We wouldn't then do an RFP. Okay. So it seems to me that Supervisor Graber is insinuating that by writing another contract, it would actually save us money, and save us the time of an effort of writing the RFP. So therefore, I think I would tend to say, let's do that. Let's look at other companies with contracts that we could write versus the RFP process. That would be my preference. I would leave it up to the county administrator to look at what's available and make a determination based on that, though. Further amending your motion? No, I'm giving some direction, I think, to a question that Mr. Tibbs, Mr. Graber, that's my preference, and then to a question that I think is what my preference would be. The? Yes, Mr. Supervisor Graber was talking about the writing other contracts, and you had mentioned the RFP, so I just wanted to make sure I know which way I'm going. I didn't include a specific directive for an RFP in my motion, so I would leave it to the county administrator to determine, to look at it and say, okay, well, what's the best way forward for us? I would suggest that writing an existing contract is going to be the quicker the two approaches. that if staff uses their judgment and their criteria to select a preferred vendor, we could end up with the same situation where individual board members or others feel that a different approach or a different selection should have been made. So to try and avoid getting back to a point where there's not a commonality, I just fear that we could end up in a similar situation. I just wanted to make sure that you were finished. Yeah, I'm okay. Supervisor Graber. I don't see any, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't see any reason why we couldn't do an interview process, even if they are already, if we're going to do a cooperative procurement where they're already in another locality. I think all the companies, Federal Engineering, CTA, I think from speaking with some of them, they already have contracts with other localities in Virginia. And please correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't know that there's anything that prohibits us from interviewing them to see what they bring to the table and then at that point making a decision. And I would concur with Supervisor Dunn. I would like to be there to listen to them have their sales pitch to find their strong points and see how they can be of best interest to the citizens of the county. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, one point for the board to consider is, is if more than two board members are going to be part of these meetings, they will have to be public meetings. That's not necessarily a problem since we're talking about an established contract in those write-on situations. But it does, it does involve a bit of a more formality of the process in terms of, I guess we'd set up in this room and invite the people in and have the press here and whatnot. And as a point of clarification, are we eliminating the committee? Mr. Chairman, the radio committee, if I, communication committee, go ahead. If the board is comfortable, I would suggest that an approach might be to look at who is, um, on an existing contract and would be qualified. Um, if the board wants to appoint a couple of members of the board to participate in the review and selection of those, I think that's a approach that could be workable. Um, Chairman, um, is it, would there be any restriction on recording the discussion so that at a later date? Because I think there are, that these supervisors are asking is just simply to hear what's being said. So is there anything that would prohibit a recording that could later be listened to by the supervisors that could help inform them as to the decision? And I do, I like the county administrator's suggestion that maybe there'd be a couple of liaisons from the board to that process rather than just sort of opening the door. But is there anything that would restrict us from having a recordation that we could then go back and listen to it at a later time? If I don't think so, I mean, obviously we'd want to make sure that the, uh, is it matter? Of just full disclosure that the companies knew we were doing that. But yeah, I mean, I don't see a reason that couldn't be done. Sure. Yes, sir. We just went through a closed session interview to find a, um, temporary, um, administrator. Why can't we do the same thing? Um, do you interview, have a closed session? It's off record. Each each candidate can make their pluses. Um, they're protected. We are as a body are doing, on the best part of what Frederick County needs. So why can't you just do a closed session or Mr. Williams? Why can't you just do a closed session, um, to interview the way we did for the county administrator and then make, you know, we have the data we need and then we can come back and discuss as, as, as needed. Fundamental difference is that in the case of interviewing the contractors for this project, you're interviewing the contractors for though for their qualifications. And the only subject of discussion, is them. The reason that the board had a closed session to discuss with the vendor on the county administrator issue had to do with the fact that that also goes to developing the criteria for the position of county administrator. And those discussions inevitably, um, can entail, uh, evaluation and possibly comments about prospective candidates. So it becomes a per that. The reason that, um, we had a closed session there was that was a personnel issue relative to the county administrator position. We don't have that rubric relative to this contract. Thank you. All right. We leaving it to the county administrator. I, I, I, I support, I support Mr. Tierney's suggestion that maybe we have two members of this board that are able to go and observe. And if there's questions and they can take them, and they can discuss it with their fellow supervisors as, as they wish or in an open meeting. But I think that's the best way to move forward. Okay. I see the right nods. Yeah. Are we good? I'm good. Are we ready? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Could you repeat the motion? I can do it by Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. So Mr. Chairman, the motion is that the contract for the implementation of the contract, for the implementation of the public safety radio system, be open to multiple vendors with candidates to be identified within a 90 day period. And that two members of this board would be participating as liaisons to that process. Good. Second. Wait a minute. Second. I got to go. You know where you had one. Okay. Thank you. All right. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That will bring us to public hearings. There's a proposed ordinance. Salaries of the Board of Supervisors. Does anyone have comments or introductory comments? Mr. Chairman, I know the members of this board work very hard, spend many, many hours. And the cost of gasoline and time and everything else is going up. So, in my heart, I really feel like the board has not done enough work. The board has not had any kind of raise in a long, long time. And just to cover expenses, they certainly deserve one. On the other hand, I sit in work sessions and we talk about not raising taxes and doing the best we can to keep things as low as we possibly can. So, I sit there. To me, financially, I'm fine. But I do feel that the board has done a great job. I do feel like the public needs to know that these folks up here, including myself, spend many, many hours and a lot of their own personal money. And at some point in time, I think the county needs to support the folks that are here. I have heard this discussion for a very, very many years. So, there are two things. I don't think the census has been certified yet. So, until we get that certified number. We don't have an option there that we know of yet. The only other way we can go to changing it is to change the process we use to determine it. So, that's just informational. Supervisor Dunn. As many of you know, a few years ago, I made a proposal to raise salaries. I did. I made the proposal because we do spend lots of hours. I've spent 30 hours a week in some cases doing this. I've spent all today doing this. And I was told that my motion was way excessive. The last time the Board of Supervisors had a pay raise was in the year 2001, 20 years ago. So, if we just had a pay raise, which just simply reflected what county employees have, we would have to go and double the pay raises of us. And that's a whopping $9,000 per year to $18,000 per year, with the exception of the Chairman and Vice Chairman who get a little bit more. If that's not a good feeling, I have a second suggestion. And that is that if you have to go and work, that takes time away from this. So, we all could go and work for free. We could all volunteer our time. And the county could simply go and reimburse us as an expense for what we pay in federal and state taxes. So, if you have a 1099 or W-2, you can be reimbursed for the time that you're having to take off from that job to do this. We can all work for free. I was told that Blaine, you should work for free. Okay, I'll work for free and just pay my federal and state taxes, and I'm a happy camper. So, you can go either way, but I do think that we do need to do that. I am saying this because I am running for reelection, so it's a fair comment. It's unfair for me to say to somebody two years from now, if I'm on this board, hey, you vote for it because it's not affecting me. And if I don't win, whoever takes my spot should be in the same situation. That person cannot decide to accept it. But there's a considerable amount of work here. There's some members on this board, when they were first running and told me, well, Blaine, you don't really work that many hours. And they started to work that many hours. They said, holy cow, you weren't kidding. So, I do think the board needs to pay a raise. I think it needs to be significant to adjust for inflation. And if anybody thinks that this should not occur and you want to criticize it, which is perfectly fine. It's a free country, thank God. And I would simply say, whatever job, whatever your position paid in the year 2001, go back and demand your employer pay you that position. So, if you're a teacher, or you work at Walmart, or you work at Martin's, or you work at Bell's, or wherever, go back and demand that you be paid whatever the job paid in 2001, and then we can talk. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Your concept's interesting, but I don't think Dakota, Virginia supports it. The General Assembly and the Governor can always change the law. Good luck with that. Yeah, good luck. So, yes, sir. One of the concerns that I shared two years ago when this came up was it's really difficult in this day and age. You know, there was a time in this country where, you know, only one member of a family had to go out and work to pay the bills. There was a time when most of the politicians in this country were working. They were working. They were working. They had made their fortune in one way or another, and they had the luxury of being able to go and serve their nation, their state, their locality, because they were already set. They didn't have to worry about things. But we live in a time now where two spouses have to work, or multiple members of a family have to work in order to pay the bills. And if you're going to get younger folks, folks the next generation that are coming up, it's getting harder and harder to convince someone to take 15 hours a week or 20 hours a week out of their time away from their business. You know, my business partner, he loves that I'm able to do this, but every day he says, oh, that's more work for me to do. So it does put a lot of pressure on people that I think folks sometimes don't realize. No one really sees what goes on behind the scenes. They think, oh, well, you come to a meeting every two weeks. How hard is that? Well, we all know that that's not the case. So I do think if we're going to be prospective and look for the next generation to lead the county, we need to make sure that we're able to enable those people to come forward and take the job. Otherwise, we're going to continue to have a very narrow pool of people that we can pull from. So I do support some type of a pay raise at some point. I'm not sure what that number should be, but I agree with Supervisor Wells and Supervisor Dunn that this is something that should be done more than every 20 years. All right. The only other option we have, other than seeing if the census gives anything, which will be minimal, it's not a big number. All right. I'll leave it at that. We have a question from the audience. It's a question of staff. It requires time. So do we have any time left is a question of staff. But my guess is what we need to do is leave it as is for the next fiscal year and begin to work and look closely at the options in the other approach, the other way of calculating. Mr. Williams did this for us a number of years ago. I don't remember the details, and I'm not going to put you on the spot, but I think that's where we are. Mr. Chairman, I think you're correct. And I know that part of the process, there are two alternative processes, and I know that both of them are somewhat tied to election years. The big thing, obviously, and for good reason, is that a governing body cannot give itself a raise in between elections. It's a matter of whether or not the Board's going to take action on the options. But I think that's where we are. I think the Board has to be in intervening election in order for the raise to take effect. I don't remember those details. The Board's best the Board has to take action on this before July 1st. It may be best for the Board to go ahead if it's the Board's pleasure and adopt this version. And then the Board can then consider what it wants to do going forward. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. A question for the county attorney. If we adopt the ordinance as it's written, could we, before the July 1st deadline, amend the ordinance at that point if we had the time? I don't see why not. The only issue is we'd have to advertise it again. So we'd have to move pretty quick. Thank you. That's going to put pressure on you to give us the analysis of the options. It probably doesn't matter. I don't want to see us put you in a bind. Probably doesn't matter much either way because, I mean, if perhaps it's since this version has already been advertised, the Board could defer action on it tonight. And you have two more meetings scheduled before July 1st. Which would be the first. And then the second is that the Board would still enable the Board to adopt this version if all else doesn't pan out. And that would buy you a few extra weeks to work on this, correct? Perhaps, hopefully, to see what we can possibly look at for you all before July 1st. And like I said, if all else doesn't work out, then we'd just have you all go forward with this. And I think the Board would support you farming that analysis out if you need to. It may. And if that's the Board's desire, I would suggest that the Board proceed with the public hearing that has been advertised for tonight, obviously, to receive the comment and then to simply defer action. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Williams, I thought that the trigger point was 90,000. I think that when a county municipality crosses that figure, last year we were like 89,000-something. So do you know if that's a trigger? Well, Supervisor Dunn, that is. Well, that's a trigger on one of the options. And it's actually automatic. And on that one option is what it says is if the county's population is 90,000, don't spend this all in one place. Your salary goes, I think, from 9,000 to 11,000. So, Mr. Dunn, in response to your comment about what the inflation rate has been for the last 20 years, that's not going to do an awful lot to address it. Okay. Thank you. And then the other. There is another option that allows it, I think, a little more latitude. Okay. Thank you. All right. So let's go ahead and hold the public hearing. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning the proposed salaries of the Board of Supervisors? Anyone? Anyone at all? Seeing none, we'll close the public. Leave it open until the next meeting. Leave it open until the next meeting? Again, until the next meeting. Okay. We'll do that. Does that work for the Board? Mm-hmm. We have a consensus. All right. So we'll move on. Second one is amendment to the 2021-22 physical year budget. Who has this one? I'll take it, Mr. Chairman. Thanks, sir. This is a request from the airport authority for the airport to have a budget of $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. And the budget is $1,000. Okay. So we have a proposal for a capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $4,546,667. Only a portion of that is local funding. And Mr. Szabo, the executive director of the airport, is here if you'd like additional detail. Other questions of Mr. Szabo? How would the Board like to handle this one? All right. Yeah, that's where I was headed. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed amendment to the budget? Anyone at all? Anyone? All right, we'll close the public hearing process. Board comments. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So the Frederick County portion of this is only $53,818. So it's a small portion. This is a regional airport. It covers a lot of counties, and our portion is $53,000, not the $4.5 million. Thank you. Comments? Anyone? How would the board like to handle the request? Yes, sir. I'll make a motion. I'll make a motion that we amend the 2021-2022 fiscal budget persuadant to Section 15.2-2507 to the amount of $4,546,000. That is $4,567 for the airport capital project. Second. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. I'm sorry, Judy. All right. That will bring us to 11A. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a request to add one parcel totaling 27.26 acres to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District. This district is located in the Bat Creek Magisterial District, and it currently contains within that district 6,894.42 acres. It is generally located along the senior district. It is a district that is located on the Tudor Creek grade, Middle Road, Marlboro Road, and Heights Road. This additional request for acreage would increase the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District to a total of 6,924.68 acres. If I could turn your attention to the map located on the left, this is an aerial photograph of the acreage that's going to be added to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District. Obviously, that little red circle up on the top, it's surrounded by the district currently, but it's not going to be added to the district. So, it meets the requirements of an ag and forest to be addition to an ag and forestal district. The Ag and Forestal Advisory Committee, or ADAC, or Agricultural District Advisory Committee, ADAC, unanimously recommended approval of this additional acreage to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District at their March 31, 2021 meeting. The Planning Commission held a public hearing regarding the addition at their meeting on April 21, 2021, and recommended approval. Tonight, Mr. Chairman, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors for this request to addition to the 2020-2025 South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions you or any board members may have to this additional ag and forest, to the ag and forestal district. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Seeing none, thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposal? Proposed addition to the Agricultural Forestal District. Anyone? Anyone at all? Last call, and we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Spec Creek. Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion that we include the 27.26 acres into the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestry District. Second. In the second, is there any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That'll bring us to an update of the 21-22 Primary and Interstate Road Improvement Plans. This is a joint public hearing with VDOT. Mr. Bishop? Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, and as you noted, this is the update. Annual update of your Interstate Primary and Secondary Road Improvement Plans. To begin, this is your normal time that you're updating these three plans. As you may recall, Interstate and Primary finally proceeded last September, which was significantly behind schedule at that time as we were waiting for VDOT to work through updated funding projections based on impacts they had taken from COVID-19. COVID-19. The end result, though, was that there ended up being no update to the secondary plan last year, and this is your next secondary update. This is not a bridge plan, and you're going to get the next year's plan in a couple months. There just simply is no last year update for secondary plans, so in case you get a question on that type of thing. But with that said, I will jump right into it. Just as a reminder, the interstate and primary plan are Frederick County exercises and are simply one of the many ways that you, the board, and we, the county, use to keep the EIDOT apprised of priorities on those systems, while the secondary plan is a more formal code-required element of our planning, and hence the need for the joint public hearing, though we do hold a public hearing on all three as a matter of consistency. To begin with the interstate plan, fortunately or unfortunately, we have one interstate in Frederick County, so it doesn't tend to be a very complicated plan. Your priorities are broken up into interchange priorities and widening priorities, and just to highlight a few of those, while I note that there are no recommended changes, I would like to point out that Exit 313 bridge construction is a very complicated plan, and it's a very complicated plan, and it's a very complex plan, and I would like to point out that Exit 313 bridge construction is a very complicated plan. The main reason why we're doing this is because we want to add a lot of flexibility to the structure of the project. So we have several projects that are in the process of being completed. We do have a few projects that are in the process of being completed, and we are working on a new project that will be completed in a few weeks. You can see that the bridge construction has had a lot of changes, and we're still working on that. I want to point out that the bridge construction, which is your top interchange priority, is in the six-year road improvement plan that has safety dollars on it – I'm sorry, that has State of Good Repair dollars on it in addition to Smart Scale dollars on it. However, traditionally, we still keep that in this plan until we actually see some physical activity So it does remain on your priority list. I would note the same for your top widening priority, which is the widening of Interstate 81 between Exit 313 and 317. That is noted to be funded as part of the I-81 authority. However, that's not expected to see construction based on the schedule on the I-81 authority's website until somewhere in the 2028 to 2031 timeframe. So we're waiting on that one for a while, and we'll consider changing that as a priority once we see the actual activity. And that's a major project that we're excited to get. From there, I'll move to your primary plan, where your Transportation Committee does have some recommended changes that are not massive in terms of new projects or that sort of thing, but perhaps represent. A slight change in philosophy. And that change being particular to the fact that Route 37 remains the recommended top priority. However, as in years past, Route 37 is a massive project, so it's broken up into phases. And the change in philosophy has to do with a shift from instead of the top priority being one that is most easily implemented, it is the highest need, regardless of difficulty of implementation. So to that end, you will see where under the recommendation, priorities 1A and 1B have been flipped to where 1A is now Route 11 to Route 7, and 1B is now exit 310 over to Route 522. And similarly, 1C and 1D have been flipped, whereby 1C is from Route 11 around Stonewall Industrial Park to existing Route 37 on the northern part of the route. And so that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. And I think that's a big change. There is some impact to the final projects in the list. Fletcher Road, Fishel Road, and Canterburg Road, where each of their advertisement dates has moved back about a year. That's really the only impact you see on this schedule, except for the fact that we are not promoting new roads to the scheduled list this year. In terms of your non-hard surface road improvement projects, the unscheduled list, of course, that's always our longest list. In terms of your non-hard surface road improvement projects, the unscheduled list, of course, that's always our longest list. There are no new additions this year. However, I would note that we did get a late submission literally the Friday before the Monday that Transportation Committee met on this program to bring in Germany Road. We received a petition. The committee did look at it. We looked at a number of elements. However, there were a number of questions that still came up in the discussion in terms of proper termini, some of the impacts that were part of the project. Some of the impacts that were part of the project. There were some things that were part of the complaint and things like that that we simply didn't have time to really evaluate. Given the fact that no projects were being promoted this year anyway, it wasn't seen as particularly harmful. It's not denied or anything like that, but it's set aside until next year's update. That's still going to be considered at that time. I would note, as you review the plan and you see the scores assigned to the unscheduled list projects, those scores are not updated. Unless we're actually promoting projects per your policy. Transportation Committee did consider this item on April 26 and has recommended board approval. Similarly, the Planning Commission looked at this last Wednesday, the 5th of May, and has recommended board approval. We are seeking an action by the Board of Supervisors. And as you noted, this is a public hearing item. I would also note that we do have Mr. Ed Carter, who is our residency administrator for the Board of Supervisors. He will be here for Edinburgh as well, should you have any direct questions for him. Thank you. Questions for Mr. Bishop? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Mr. Carter, anything you'd like to add? I guess that John is kind of a good dog. He has always a protective face, so protective message. And hopefully it improves in the upcoming year. The reason some of these projects got moved out is because of all the goes. And so, yeah, we have to take that. Thank you, sir. We certainly appreciate all the support that you and your associates give us as a community. So this is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning the road improvement plans? Anyone at all? Last call. We'll close the public hearing portion of the discussion. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the draft updated 2021-22 Frederick County Primary and Interstate Road Improvement Plan. The motion is our second. Second. Second. Any discussion? Anyone? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. Okay. So while we have... Mr. Carter in the room and Mr. Bishop and others. Later today, we are going to have a discussion on Sensity Village. And Mr. Bishop laid out a proposal for Route 37 on the eastern part, not the western part, the eastern part. And I'm just going to make the comment that we as a committee, as a board, need to recognize that as development occurs there, those developers need to leave that area alone that's designated for Route 37. You can't go build buildings there. You can't go build houses there. Okay. If you want to give the county the opportunity to go and have the transportation needs we need, leave the space to build the road. That's fundamental. I know there's a buy right to build, but we need to work together on this and not just fill up potential areas where Route 37 is meant to be for the sake of a few more dollars. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Seeing none. Supervisor Stegmaier. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Pardon me. Yes, sir? It's a yes. Thank you. I assumed that. It sounded like a grunt, but it's all good. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. All right. That will bring us to a discussion of ordinance amendment. Opaque fencing. Mr. Stein. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance to modify the definitions for opaque fence to allow chain link fence with plastic slats to satisfy the screening requirements for certain types of buffers and outdoor storage areas. It also includes a modification to the requirements for outdoor storage and processing uses and further specifies the type of fence that is required for the zoning. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The zoning ordinance also includes a definition where a zoning ordinance, which means a type of fencing allowed in our road efficiency buffers. I would note that this is a request for an ordinance amendment that was initiated through a business owner or a citizen of the county through their Board Supervisor's Representative. The zoning ordinance definition for opaque fence specifies that a fence that is constructed to visually obscure structures, outdoor storage areas and other uses. The definition also includes a statement that a chain link fence with slats shall not constitute an opaque fence. The opaque fence requirement is also a reference to the zoning ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and several other sections of the zoning ordinance, including Part 201, outdoor storage and processing, Part 203, our buffer and screening requirements, Part 204.11, landfills, junkyards, trash disposal, and inoperable vehicles, including dumpster enclosures, and Part 204.18 for storage facility self-service. In satisfying the requirements for an opaque fence, a six-foot-tall board-on-board fence, hedge, wall, or berm has typically been required, and those are outlined in various sections of the ordinance. For outdoor storage areas, what we frequently hear from our business and industrial users is that chain-link fence is actually the preferred type of fencing they would like for security purposes. For zoning district buffers and residential separation buffers, an opaque element is also required to screen differing land uses or differing housing types from one another. The elements fulfilling a full-screen buffer, includes landscape plantings, plus an opaque fence, which could be, again, a six-foot-tall wall, fence, hedge, or berm. So the proposed change that came out of the committee was this revised definition, which I will read. An opaque fence will be a fence that is constructed to visually obscure structures, outdoor storage areas, and other uses, and a chain-link fence with slats with a privacy factor of 90% or greater may be utilized to satisfy the opaque fence requirements, except for opaque fencing used for road efficiency buffers, and that chain-link fencing with slats shall only use double-walled wing slats, or an equivalent approved by the zoning administrator, in the following colors, dark green, brown, black, or tan. The use of wood slats, plastic slats without interlocking wings and double walls is prohibited, and the use of opaque vinyl tarping over chain-link fence shall not constitute an opaque fence. On the screen is a detailed of a double-walled wing slat when we're discussing that type, and I'm going to have a visual here if anyone would like to see it up close. And this is a privacy detail provided by one of the fence vendors that we consulted with, showing what 90% opacity looks like. Again, looking straight on, you get about 98% opacity, similar to a board-on-board fence. At certain angles, you might get 100% opacity, and at a certain angle, you might get 90% opacity. At a lesser angle, you may get 90% opacity. Again, 90% opacity, in the committee's estimation, was a sufficient standard to set for chain-link with slats. In addition to the proposed changes to the definition for opaque fence, amendments are also proposed to the following sections. In Part 201, our outdoor storage and processing, we've removed the direct prohibition in that section to the use of chain-link fencing. And in Part 203.02e, for buffering and screening requirements, for our road efficiency buffers, the committee has further prohibited the use of chain-link fences in this section only. The Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item at their regular meetings on January 28th, February 25th, and March 25th, and the committee was generally supported the use of chain-link fence with plastic slats for our outdoor storage areas and for certain types of buffers and screening where certain criteria was met. Again, that criteria was the type of slat used, the material, the minimum opacity, and a preferred color. And as long as those were being met, they were comfortable with that amendment. And again, these criteria are reflected in that definition that I read earlier. The Planning Commission discussed this item on April the 21st, and this ordinance amendment is presented to the board this evening as an information discussion item. And following your discussion, staff is seeking direction from the board on if this proposed ordinance amendment could be moved forward for a public hearing. And I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Klein, you made the comment that a chain-link fence was preferred for security purposes. Can you elaborate on that, how that differs from a six-foot boarded fence or something of that nature? I think it's the qualm. In the discussions with the committee, the owner who made this request of the ordinance amendment stated that because of the type of material that he was enclosing in the chain-link fence, chain-link fence is less likely to be damaged. Right. So, the board on board fence is more likely to be damaged, or vandalized by people that may be trying to enter his outdoor storage area, whereas a board on board fence, they can pull down the boards, or the maintenance of a board on board fence doesn't hold up as well as chain-link with slats. Thank you. Appreciate it. Other questions of Mr. Klein? I have a couple. I remember when we outlawed what we're talking about accepting these days. I didn't see any verbiage that addressed maintenance. I am not at all opposed to fabric, which you are suggesting that we not permit. There's some of that that will guarantee full exposure 15 and 20 years. We use it as shade cloth in the industry. It's used for other purposes in other places. The problem again is quality of initial product and maintenance. And then, you know, we don't want to create a whole new enforcement job for ourselves either. But those are my concerns. Supervisor Dunn. Question that is to either the board if that's the comments. But if you go forward with this, um, the question becomes, this is only for industrial purposes, not for residential purposes. And if this is between an industrial area and a residential area, is this going to be applying or you go back to, you know, board fences, etc., which are more opaque, berms, etc. So is this only inside an industrial area or between industrial areas and residential areas? I think, I apologize if it was not clear earlier. I remember when I first were trying to get up for the right conclusions. Well, yeah, it was in the כל one of the urns. The bu terems allowing it in residential areas, and they felt that along roadways it should be prohibited, which is why it's removed from our road efficiency buffer section, but they did not have an objection to using it in other applications. So effectively, someone putting in a screen between two different types of residential uses, such as townhomes and single-family, could install a chain-link fence with slats to satisfy the fencing requirement of a zoning district buffer. And why not along a road? What was the thought process there? They felt like there was an attractiveness that chain-link might lack on some of our gateway corridors where road efficiency buffers are required along major roadways, collector roadways, and arterial roadways, that it might not be appropriate having it along gateway roadways, for lack of a better word. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would just point out, just as a general rule, that I'm always reluctant to change ordinances at the request of one individual or one company. If there was more of an outcry for this. Or, you know, if we heard from a larger segment of the population that this is something that was desirable, I think it would be more appropriate to move it to public hearing. But I'm somewhat reluctant to move it forward based on the request of one owner. And then the idea that, well, we don't want folks who are driving into our county to see this, but we're okay with homeowners having to look at it in their backyard. It just seems a little arbitrary to me. So I'm not comfortable with this one, just to be honest with you. I have two other comments. One would be that, is 90% allowing enough air to move through them? Or is it a sale? With a six or eight foot chain link around an outdoor storage facility and an industrial zoning that also borders a road efficiency buffer, what happens there? We're sort of leaving that discussion out. And again, I think the right quality in fabric will also work fine. But you won't get more than 60 or 80% on any of those fabrics that I'm aware of in the industry. But they'd be very effective and they hold up. So I've heard a concern about moving it forward right now. Other comments? Supervisor Dunn? I have another question, Mr. Klein. I read, Mr. Wells, your letter, et cetera. But what's the driver for this? Meaning, does the applicant not want to build a normal wooden fence between the residential area and the other? Is there a concern about theft? I don't know. I mean, I know where the store is, but I don't know the theft issue. As opposed to just building what's currently under the code. What's the driver for him to say? I want something different. The initiator of the request has an approved site plan for an expanded outdoor storage yard. And on that site plan is a reference to the opaque fence definition. So under implementing the site plan, he refers back to the definition. In this case, that applicant purchased chain link and came to the zoning administrator and asked to be allowed to use slats in lieu of a board-on-board fence because of that security issue. And unfortunately, based on the way we've interpreted this in the past, and the specific prohibition to chain link in the definition currently, we could not allow him to install a chain link fence with slats. We stated that he needed to install a board-on-board fence, or there are several other exemptions that we allow. Opaque vinyl tarping being one, as the chairman discussed, or double row of evergreen trees potentially. But he was dissatisfied with the exemptions that he was given and wants chain link with slats and made the request. Is it for security purposes? If you had the current code going into place, is there anything that would prohibit him from then putting a chain link fence inside? We have a chain link fence with barbed wire, so if he's concerned about people climbing over the fence to steal, you can make it difficult for them. One of the solutions proposed to him was to, in the areas where he was required to do a board-on-board fence under the definition, he could put the board-on-board in front of the chain link if he so desired. But obviously, there was a cost associated with essentially making a double fence. And he was, again, not satisfied. He was not satisfied with the exemptions that we could grant under the ordinance. So his remedy was to request an ordinance amendment, and it did go through the process. Thank you. Just one of my constituents who's asking, and I spoke with him about it. Just personal observation on buffers. They just really don't work. We plant trees, and they die. And they never get replaced. And everybody's happy at the time, and we approve all that. But it just, again, gets full of weeds and everything else. Unless it's all about maintenance. It's all about taking care of the board fence. There is a board fence that separates the Martins parking lot from an apartment complex. It's a disaster. People knock it down because they just want to walk through and go shopping. They cut doors in it and everything else. And it just has never been efficient. I'm not saying they won't climb over the chain link fence, or they won't do that. It's not really, it's a residential area, but it's not been built. And it's a church parking lot, pretty much, that it comes up to now. But I did go drive around and look. And the opaque cloth at that place, they blow down. They flop down. Nobody puts them up. It looks terrible. And then you see the... I showed him some of the cheap chain link fence with slats in it, which I don't think is a great idea either. But if you go with the more expensive fencing with the double slat, it has a lot better lifetime expectancy. So I'm not just on this particular thing. I'm just saying anything that we put out there, it's just got to be maintained. And no matter whether it's chain link fence with slats, whether it's wooden, or whether it's draped material, it's all the same. And trees are the same thing. If you don't maintain them, they just look terrible. So I'm in favor of it, for letting people use it if they want to use it. So that's where I stand. Yes, sir. Question. Is there any way to amend the ordinance with regard to variances to allow people to apply to use this in specific situations? Where it would make more sense versus just making this an across-the-board option for everyone? Sounds like a conditional use. Is it a conditional use? I mean, the use is the same for the properties. Just what are they allowed to put up around that use, I guess? The zoning ordinance has some waiver provisions in it. I mean, it really would be a waiver. I mean, I think it's an issue of whether or not the board wants, whether or not the board wants to invite that and getting a number of those requests. Yeah, and I don't want to invite it. I'd rather just not do this at all. But if we were going to do it, I think maybe we want to try it out a little bit first and see how it goes before we open up the door wide. Well, staff is looking for direction. Should we ask them to work on it? My suggestion would be to go ahead and change it and let it work. If it doesn't work, we can come back. And take it away. And I would say if there's a way for this one individual who's requesting it to be able to do it, let's use that and let them try it out and let's see if it works versus open the door wide and say, okay, everybody, you can go, you know, start putting up chain link fences. Do we need a motion? No. No? No, it's just. Yes, to forward it. Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion. I would make a motion to not forward this to public hearing. I second. Okay. So staff would be looking for direction on what to do to change it so that it might be acceptable. I'm just asking you to help staff. There's a motion before I'd be happy to make a recommendation after the motion. Thank you, sir. Heard the motion. Is there a second? A second. And a second. Discussion. I think we just had it. So. All right. Are we ready? Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Since it's germane to the motion we just passed, my recommendation to county staff would be that we confirm that there is some type of a mechanism for someone to appeal. Or ask for a variance. And if that's the case, then nothing further be done at this point. We see how that process goes. I'm not sure you could offer it to one and exclude any others. If it's already in the ordinance for a variance or some type of. I thought I understood waiver. We have some waiver provisions, but also a variance. One can always go to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a variance. And that's probably. We. We. The Board would have to do nothing now. Right. Right. In order to allow that to move forward. If that's the case, then Mr. Chairman. I think that Supervisor McCarthy. Another option would be to send, give staff a directive to take it back to committee, to the Development Review and Regulations Committee to add a waiver option that could come before the Board. And then the Board would have the ability then, once that, if that were to be adopted, to grant a waiver to allow the use of chain link as opposed to a variance. Right. I kind of like the idea of it not happening at this level, to be honest with you. I'd rather. Go through the. The. The. Or it also could. Other waivers are allowable by the zoning administrator himself. I kind of like the idea of the variance. You know, for. If that's already in place and we already have a mechanism, then I'd say, why are we going through the machinations? Let's just let the process work. Comfortable sending it back to committee. Mr. Chairman, just for the board's information. The. The. Threshold for a variance is based on a hardship. So in order to receive a variance, you'd have to be able to demonstrate why you could not put up a board on board or other permitted type of screening just for your information. It seems to me that's kind of what's being proposed here is the cost of putting up that plus the security fence is a financial hardship. At least that seems to be the theory behind why they want to go that route versus the other route is they don't want to have to spend the money to put up. The extra security. So they want to completely different alternatives. So I'm still comfortable with our current process. Mere financial hardship that would be generally applicable to any property is probably going to be a tough sell. The typical hardships that the busy eight gets is a lot. The big ones they typically get have to do with setbacks that a lot does not already conform and people want to be able to build. In. Setback and it would be a hardship not to be able to develop it, but. I'm not sure how much. Sellability, so to speak, there would be with the busy eight and under the applicable law to say, I just don't want to spend the money to build a certain kind of fence. And it's a hardship. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. If I may. Mr. Chair. Thank you for your comments. Ms. Perkins. Yes. Actually, the waiver will be the better way to go. Mr. McArthur is kind of attorney pointed out in his. Mr. Tierney pointed out when you go to the Board of Zoning Appeals, this was a change of an ordinance. This is a determination of zoning administrator. So coming out that the order is already written today, you can't. You can't. The change that Mr. Klein was proposing through through all was to add the slide offense today. As of today. That site plan that we're talking about. Mr. Wells. Is a constituent has to have that board on board fence today. Irregardless. I blanket be signed. There we do have a small mechanism. It was pointed out. Mr. Klein. It staff had looked at as we were talking about, like the tarping and things that brought this forward here. So we have worked with some. Companies and some more industrial districts to add the fabric on the fences. Mr. Chairman was pointing out. It was just a determination zoning administrator at that time to help these businesses. This is out. With the site plan up part. The only. Thing that can happen is that applicant. Put in for the site plan. I won't sign the site planning of the zoning mature does at the review because it has not met the intent of the ordinance. They could they could appeal that as Mr. Williams to say that the board is owning appeals. They're pulling the zoning administrator determination. How your ordinances applied. It's not a variance. Mr. Williams is correct. Most of your. Variances are for a setbacks. And things of that nature. That that you have mostly we deal with in Frederick County's own houses or decks. So that's that's the change the waiver as Miss Perkins pointed out, which we do have an ordinance right now. As we if we decide to send it back to community look at we can look at a waiver. As you point out, Mr. McCarthy and I think some of the members been on board for a while. Remember that we had waivers the staff that are planning Commission did now most of the waivers come to this board. So we're going to have to look at it was felt that if we were given a waiver in any of your districts or your constituents would have a chance to speak on that. So there is some mechanisms already in place. It's just, you know, how the border wants us to to interpret or write it. So I just want to make that clear that the BZ a route. Yes, is a route on an appeal. And only BZ is looking at that appeal that the zoning administrator interpreting ordinance. Right. And as the orders are written today, it's board on board fence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Question for Mr. Sharon. Go ahead. So Mr. Sharon. So if we did the waiver route, does that require an ordinance amendment in order to do that? That is correct. Mr. McCarthy. Okay, thank you. We can get it back pretty quick. Supervisor done. Going to Mr. Wells is constituent. If there's a way where the applicant and the adjoining neighbors who are affected by that are all in concurrence, so I'm probably okay with that. If the objective neighbors say, I don't like it, then I think that they should have that option. But if two adjoining neighbors are in a concurrence, then I'm more inclined to be supportive of it. If that can go on a case by case basis that goes back to Mr. McCarthy's potential content conditionally. So if there's a way to do the variance where both parties agree and neither party objects, then that's good. If they one party does that stuff, something different, but just a question and a thought. Mr. Chairman, I think that's what the way. The way that the waiver would allow is someone would apply for the waiver would come before us or be sort of a quasi hearing. Everyone would sort of speak their mind on it, sort of like a conditional use permit hearing, except it would be a waiver to the existing zoning ordinance. Is that right, Mr. Sharon? Well, currently in your ordinance, we do have a provision for shared a shared buffer in there between is, uh, Mr. Donald's point not to property owners, um, on agreement, but we would, again, that was something that if the both property owners would agree on that, and that would be. Uh, Mr. Uh, Mr. We would have to make a decision to keep the same. I mean, there's a lot of work to be done for the both parties. Uh, Mr. I think that would be. We could ask. We could pursue that. Uh, because we already have a mechanism there for that. Uh, so, Mr. Sharon, if it was, if, if both parties came to you and said, fine, we want to have, you know, chain link fence with certain items, both then, then you could offer that. We, we would, I would just say right now, Mr. Dunn, we would look at it until we have something written out. I don't want to make a determination. Yeah. I'm not asking you for a commitment. Yeah. But you have the, you have the capability. If two parties come together. To make a decision that's different. That's favorable to both parties. We can look at that. Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would recommend we send it back to committee to rewrite the ordinance to include a, a waiver to, or to, to cast it as a waiver. Second. It does the motion. Can we, um. Recommendation. Yes. Can, can we not limit them in that potential solution? I'd kind of like to limit them to that potential solution. Okay. Yeah. Great. Any other thoughts? We don't need a motion to send it back to committee. So we'll send it back to committee. Waiver was the request. All right. Thank you all. Mr. Chairman, what do you have for us? Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to the zoning ordinance again for you tonight. This is to add agricultural space. Thank you. Now. Demonstrates isrift line that gem the same name as the order that цен's folder that you see on the börder slide. or as follows, is an establishment primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale distribution of livestock, animal feed, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides, seeds, and other agricultural products or services. Of course, it would be also in your ordinance it would be under our conditional use permits. There are further supplemental regulations that were assigned to this proposed use, and they include the sale of agricultural guard machinery shall be permitted as an accessory use. Repair of agriculture and guard machinery shall be prohibited. Retail fuel sales shall be prohibited. However, the sales of propane, off-road diesel fuel shall be permitted as an accessory use. A site plan will be submitted to and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. In general, business district or B2 zoning district standards will apply. That would be included, but it wouldn't be limited to the use of agricultural products or the use of agricultural products that are available to the public. The building height, building setbacks, parking standards, buffering, screening, and any landscaping will be assigned to that. The Development Review Regulations Committee discussed this item on their April 22nd meeting of this year and sent the amendment forward for discussion to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission held a meeting on May 5th of this year and discussed this proposed ordinance amendment and sent it forward to the Board of Supervisors, which is the Board of Supervisors for Discussion. Mr. Chairman, this ordinance tax amendment is presented to the Board of Supervisors for Discussion. Staff is seeking direction from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment that it will be ready to be sent forward for public hearing at your discretion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer any questions you or any board members may have on this proposed ordinance amendment. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Supervisor Wells. Yes, sir. The reason this is coming before us now, is this a particular request from southern states or involvement in their situation on the outskirts of Stephen City? Partly, sir, but there's a little more history to that. As you, Board, recall back in, I think it was 2019, it might have been 18, I have a memory. Sometimes it'll lose when we do ordinance amendments. We were looking at larger uses in our rural areas through conditional use permits, if you all recall. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I know some of the, had staff review it and it went through DRC. Our old ordinance more or less classified this as a manufacturing of feeder seed, basically. That's a manufacturing of what? A feed and seed. Okay. All right, and then we had reviewed it. Well, getting back to what you're asking, Mr. Wells, yeah, we found out that actually a pod on southern states in Clearbrook feed and seed, today, if they wanted to move into our rural areas for any reason, there's, I mean, there's a lot of people who are not interested in that. I mean, we're 90% rural, so you tell me. We just, they can't go there unless we do an ordinance amendment. So that's how this came about. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, how do we define an accessory use versus the primary use? What's the standard for it being accessory versus the primary? In any case, the primary use would be the bigger building or bigger operation it would have, and it would be accessory to that use. The accessory uses that we've added here, and that's a pretty good question. That came up at the DRC and the Planning Commission. There was some question about fuel sales. That's where I'm going to lead this, because retail fuel sales is retail fuel. I mean, I can go, you can go, unleaded gas, anybody in the room can go. This is really set up, as you pointed out in here, about the off-road diesel and the propane, which is just for farmers. In other words, you can't have your, like I said, convenience store set up, and that can. So the concern was brought up, Mr. McCarthy. In addition to that, is there any concern that, with regard specifically to agriculture and garden machinery, that a yard could be set up with multiple tractors, machines, et cetera, big machines? Is it limited to the square footage of that yard must be smaller than the footprint of the physical building? How does that get determined? We would look at it on site plan, but to answer that question, too, that was another concern that was brought up at the DRC. You don't want a large equipment. Again, we have two great ones here, Winchester Equipment, Auburn Tractor, and I hope I'm not leaving any other people hot, but that's the ones that was brought up. No, sir, that's the reason why we didn't want to have that outside yard. We would identify that again on the site plan, so that would put anything in there. Thank you. When you talk about retail fuel sales, because I've had experience with southern states and buying off-road diesel, and gasoline, which they deliver, when you're referring to the retail sales, are you talking about on-site, or will they still be allowed to run their delivery trucks out of the co-op if they had fuel tanks there? Yes, ma'am. The first question, the retail sales, and we could also strengthen, but the retail sales was for that, as we all know, I'm not a farmer, so I couldn't go down there and fill up, but if you could go down there and fill up as the propane and off-road diesel, yes, if you were a farmer and had to go in, and they can use it also for their trucks, so I would anticipate not seeing the site plan, and they would probably have underground tanks, as they do in other places, and you can go ahead and they can fill up to deliver to your farm, or if you were the farmer that came down to get the diesel, fill up that way. But also the gasoline as well. No matter what you do, you're going to have to fill up the gasoline as well. No, ma'am, we did not put gasoline on there. Okay, we could add it, but that was one thing we left out just to keep away from that, having the retail sales of unleaded fuel, if you will, for your vehicle. A lot of farmers use gasoline as well to accommodate the operations that they have, so I would have a little concern with this. It is retail, but it's off-site, but it's off-site retail. It's off-site. Yes, ma'am. Yes, sir. That was my question for clarification, if I may. So when you define retail sales, does it mean I can't sell it, even if it's not located here, so I'm not allowed to sell gasoline, diesel, propane, even if it's being delivered from somewhere else? Because that to me doesn't seem to make any sense. It would seem to be more like on-site retail sale would be the prohibition. Again, we're in the middle of the discussion. If we want to change that, we can, Mr. McCarthy. Ms. Slaughter, to make it fit, what we were looking for, and I say we, the DRC was looking for, was not to have fuel islands, because as you recall, and I know you had, when we talked about the country stores at the time, and that's what we were trying to avoid, and that was the crafting way out here. Obviously, we're in discussion right now. We could change it as we go forward a public hearing. I don't think we want country stores, and we don't want fuel islands, but, they should be able to deliver their product to their customer, and it ends up being a retail. They don't offer wholesale prices particularly. Somebody still has to pay the taxes, and everything else. Go ahead. I'd like to see us, when we get to the motion stage of this, I'd like to see us amend that to be more specific, that on-site retail sales are prohibited. I don't know many folks that are driving up with their tractor to the southern states and filling it up at an island, to Judy's point, most of the farmers have tanks on their property that are coming in bulk sales, and they're filling up the tank there. So, I think if we could find a way to allow for the retail sale of gasoline, diesel, propane, et cetera, but not on-site sales of those things. The only other thing I would offer up with regard to the propane, I do know that there are a lot of the farm people that do go in and fill up their propane. That's true. You're right. So, while the one thing that I would say, the one on Amherst Street doesn't have islands for off-road diesel and gasoline, they do offer the propane fill-up. So, I don't know if there's a way we could deviate from that. Yes, sir, Supervisor Dunn. So, I'm not a farmer like two previous supervisors are, but is there anything that then prohibits a bunch of farmers from saying, I want to go and sell you my corn? It goes back to the Chairman's comment about country stores. So, five farmers say, you know what, we're going to sell lambs today, we're going to sell corn, we're going to sell wheat or whatever, all fitting the definition of what Southern States is doing. How is that issue addressed? Well, again, Mr. Dunn, as I pointed out, there's our definition right there. Basically, they're primarily engaged in the wholesale, you know, wholesale sale of gasoline. They're not interested in the distribution of livestock, animal feed, et cetera, et cetera. There's nothing else there that they would, your suggestion you're making. We kind of put that definition together to not have any other, should I say, open retail or mercantile there. If you're just dealing with those items there, I'm selling fertilizer, I'm selling animal feed, et cetera, I'm good to go, and I can set up a, I can set up a farm operation on my farm and do that. Is that correct? You're talking about a farm market on your farm? You can, yes, it's buy right. This is totally different for this cooperative. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead. If I may. And Mr. Sheehan, you just hit on another remark. You said buy right. Have we allowed this as a buy right versus a CUP, or is there an opportunity, a better way to approach this? Well, to be honest, well, not to be honest. Excuse me. I'm sorry about that. I think you're right. Apologies. Again, we're at the discussion. If this board decide you want to move forward that way, it could be. It could. What was discussed at the DRC and as this amendment was moving forward, the CUP, as you all know, and I know how some of you feel about it, so that's a different day, different discussion, was an opportunity, if this would be used, to close to, you know, a development or just to give the board eyes on. Now, there is supplemental use regulations, and they're pretty, there's a pretty good point here that if you're going to do a buy right with the site plan, with the additional B2 standards, it may be the answer itself, so to speak. But, again, it's the purview of the board whether you want to go to conditional use or buy right in the RA zoning district or add more regulations. That's up to you. Mr. Doster, go ahead. Looking at the definition, is there any danger that the definition itself might encompass more than just the typical southern states type of operation and establishment primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale distribution of livestock? You know, it seems to be what a lot of LLCs that do farming. You know, if I sell directly to the public, am I engaging in the retail or wholesale? If that's what all my LLC does, is that, then am I somehow a cooperative now? I hope not, because we're going to have problems. Well, actually, it's not. You do cattle, I believe, sir, on your own property. Lamb, but. Lamb, okay, yeah, again, not a farmer. No, sir, because that's a buy right. You're doing it on your farm. It's any, like our apple growers do, and that would be. So if you're selling your own produce, it does not fall on this. Yes, sir. Or any farm, I should say, or anybody in active agriculture. That's how we treat them. Okay, Mr. McCarthy and I, who have adjacent projects, and Mr. Graber and Mr. Wells, we all have adjacent properties. Can we go then and start to run a cattle operation? Probably buy your cattle here on the hoof at a lower price, et cetera? And if it's on all four of your farms, and you're active in active agriculture, Mr. McCarthy asked that question. I'm not going to come, the county's not going to come and knock on your door because it's active farming. What you do in active agriculture. So that would then allow that to occur in certain circumstances. Yes, sir. In certain circumstances. That can already occur. Exactly. Okay. That can already occur. Thank you. Sure. Mr. Sheehan, because the local southern states, they have self-chicks and this and that, and do a trout stocking, and you can buy fisheries and that type of thing. What part of this definition would that fall under? And other agricultural products? And services. And services. Yes, ma'am. Okay. I just want to make sure we're clear on how we can accommodate that aspect. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you. Would this allow, for instance, a rural king or a farm tractor supply store that engages primarily in selling these types of things to be able to utilize this to their advantage? That's... Yes. That's a good question. That's a good question. I mean, the farm, two farm tractor stores that we currently have in the county, one at Gateway, one on Route 50. They're in the B2 zoning district. They, actually, we've got them under mercantile. That's what we have in our SIC right today. The, now, if they wanted to haul themselves that and they can meet all this, I don't think we would have an issue. The other things that they do sell at those stores are as a laundry list. The county has given them through our ordinance and through a letter of what they could do in our B2 zoning district. Again, that's a legitimate question. Mr. McCarthy, as you know, and not to belittle both of those stores, they do sell a wide range of things in there. They sell clothes. They sell shoes. They, more than what you would have here, and this will be limited to what you see this definition. So, I don't think it would be a problem to answer your question in the short run. I guess I'm just concerned that, you know, those types of establishments would love to plop a store down in the middle of Gainesboro. And I would just be concerned because that type of establishment, which I love, I love those stores. This is my toy store. They attract a lot more traffic, a lot more folks than your typical cooperative. And the cooperatives, I think, serve a necessary purpose, which is the support of the agricultural community versus a retail type of establishment. So, I just want to be sure that we don't open a can of worms accidentally, which would allow the tractor supply-esque store to plop down in the middle of, you know, a rural area. And again, Mr. McArthur, I think the definition stands on its own. I think we're fine with that. And again, getting back to those two stores, and I know the one on 50, what they had asked the county was for a letter to what their uses were. One of the things that they asked for out at the one store, and I think both of them eventually will have it, they've got, for instance, they sell boats out there. I know you've been there, you just mentioned it. So, a lot of other things are not in our definition that would, the cooperative would support the local agricultural community. So, I don't know if that puts you at ease a little bit. One more question. Is there no other mechanism besides an ordinance amendment in order to allow southern states to accomplish their goal? Is there no way of doing a rezoning or something like that that might make a lot more sense than, you know, rather than having, again, one entity coming forward saying, can you change everything in the ordinance so I can get what I want? Aren't there other ways of going about this? As you know, there are case-by-case basis. Now, if you're asking me about southern states, and I hate to do that, put them on the spot, they are, they could apply. And our comp plan allows for rezoning along Route 11. This ordinance amendment does, though, just so we understand each other, yes, we got this from the Steven City store. But, keeping in looking, if someone else wanted to do it, like, I bring up Clearboat Feed and Sea because I've been up there, they're one I'm familiar with before the other ones came in. I mean, southern states has been here. Let's say they wanted to pick up and move somewhere. They can't. Without filing a zoning order. Without filing a zoning order. Yeah, that's great. Or rezoning. Or rezoning if it falls in our comprehensive policy plan. So that's what you're looking at is to support local agriculture in a county that is mostly agriculture. That's what we sell ourselves out. So that's why this amendment came in. And again, it had been in your ordinance prior, and I think it was just the way it was worded put up some red flares. So most of the stores that we're talking about, the Feed and Seed, the southern states, they are co-ops of farmers. Yes. And we need to more particularly define the cooperative element. That way we don't have to worry about the corporations that are going to come in with their retail stores versus a co-op of local farmers that just are pulling their resources in order to save money. To me, that would make more sense. The most effective case-by-case consideration is the beloved CUP. I'd feel okay with that too. I think that to me it's just I don't want to open the doors wide for people to abuse it. That was the beauty of the case-by-case. And just I guess maybe again, Mr. McArthur, obviously we can debate this all night because it's your time. The definition of the cooperative is there. And we did, actually staff did as this was brought forward, we looked through our other codes that we had. And what I mean by that is, you know, Frederick County, even though we don't use the SIC code in our rural areas, we kind of bounced off with that and came up with this. We came up with this sort of hybrid, if you will. We also looked at, you're right, there are some cooperatives in Virginia. I know that we looked at them. They're bigger stores. But they were cooperatives. So that's why we stuck the cooperatives on the end of that. And I guess the words have meaning. They use that definition. So if you came to me and said, again, I'm not to criticize Farm and Tractor or anything, I don't think they're a cooperative, to be honest with you. The term does not define it, though. It's the words that follow the definition. That's why I was asking, could we just insert some lineage? Yeah, you would have to put cooperative following the hyphen. I think if we did that, I would be a lot more comfortable with the... You know what the board is asking for? I think I got it. Okay. Are we comfortable that Mr. Chairman is going to carry that message back? Yes. Okay. We thank you all very much for the brainstorming. Mr. Chairman, just a question to sort of... Yes, sir. ...to ask about things. I'm assuming that you're looking for moving this toward public hearing. So if the only issue is the cooperative nature, is it something where we could just make a motion to have it move forward with that more clearly defined? That way we don't have to bring it back again to this board before we can move it forward to public hearing, just move it forward? I don't have a grave concern about that. I have great confidence in staff. And if for some reason, once we see it, we don't have to enact it. And I would move that we move this forward to public hearing in an amended format to include a more specific definition of cooperative. Mr. Chairman, if I may inquire, Mr. McCarthy, I think you also wanted to add off-site to the fuel sales. Yeah. Good. You've heard the motion? I amend my motion to include the county attorney's recommendation. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? One quick comment. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. If this goes forward, I'd like to hear the input from farmers. I've listened to three farmers here. But I'd like to get farmer input on whether this helps them, doesn't help them, et cetera. So that would be helpful to me as I go through the thought process. That's all. I think universally the cooperatives help the farm community. I don't think there's any question. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? All right. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll move it forward to public hearing amended. Are we good? MDP of Cincinnati Village, Mr. Klein. Information only. Thank you, sir. Yes. Good evening again, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is a proposal to develop 107 single-family detached cluster units and 126 single-family detached townhome units on approximately 74 acres. And that translates to roughly three dwelling units per acre. The properties subject to the master development plan known as Cincinnati Village were part of our rezoning application number oh, sorry, number 1306, which was approved by the board in November 2006. And that approval included various proffers. The approved proffer statement allows this development up to 285 dwelling units, excluding the garden apartments. Again, they're developing 233 of those 285 units. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties identified at Cincinnati Village are highlighted in blue, and they are south of Cincinnati Road and due west of Frederick County's boundary with Clark County. They also are immediately south. They're south and adjoining the subdivision known as Glenmont Village, which many of you are familiar with. And going back to an earlier comment, future Route 37 bypass between Route 7 and Route 522 bisects the property in the southeast corner. The master development plan again includes 233 units. The applicant is proposing two points of access and interconnectivity consistent with the approved proffer statement. The first is an extension of Rossum Lane. This is currently a road that extends from Cincinnati Road to the south and a future road known as Royce Drive, which will connect to Glen Ridge Drive, an existing road, which is the main road and access through the Glenmont Village subdivision. There's a future dedication for Route 37 bypass, and I will talk a little bit more about that when I have the next graphic up. And of course, this master development plan includes all the buffers and screening, landscaping elements, recreational units, open space, and pedestrian accommodations. And then there's the next part, which is the future road. And that's the future road. And then there's the next part, which is the future road. And that's the future road. And then there's the next part, which is the future road. And then there's the next part, which is the future road. So I have a definition of what this is. It's one of the phases of the local road. So what it would mean is it would be using the proper equipment and the appropriate infrastructure for transportation. And then the next part, which would be the entire property coastline, would be using the same construction or management systems that are outlined in our zoning ordinance and our subdivision ordinance. This is the master development plan as provided by the applicant. Again, for orientation, Cincinnati Road would be kind of at the top of your screen. Two phases, phase one, which is where Rossum Lane extends into the property, and phase two which includes town homes at the southern portion of the property, and what is this future Royce Drive, which would connect through access into Glenmont Village and then obviously Glen Ridge Drive. Phase one includes primarily single-family detached around the perimeter of the property with the townhome development clustered in the center. Proffer statement includes several other elements that are shown on this master development plan. 10-foot no-disturbance easement along these two boundaries of the property, and then a 50-foot no-disturbance easement along this portion of Glenmont Village where phase two includes the townhome development. There's a number of environmental features which are also shown on this. I do want to call your attention, because we had a discussion earlier about future Route 37 bypass. On this development plan is the proffered Route 37 dedication, which is this little triangle in the bottom right-hand corner of your screen. I would note that that dedication from the proffer specifies an alignment of the development plan. The development plan is the proffer of the development plan. This is an alignment of Route 37 at a very specific point in time, which was October of 1992. Since October of 1992, Route 37 has gone through a number of design iterations. And the current alignment is shown in this outline here, which is a 2016 alignment. While it is not a proffered dedication, it is an acknowledgement by the developer that Route 37 will have potentially a significant impact on the future phases of their development. And speaking to Mr. Dunn's comments earlier, will essentially cross a number of the townhomes at phase two. I call your attention to that, again, because the dedication is different than what is our current alignment, but they are providing what is required by them under their proffered improvements. Again, this master development plan for Sensity Village is in conformance with all the requirements of Article 8 for master development plans of our zoning ordinance and our subdivision ordinance, and it's in a form currently that is administratively approvable. It's also in conformance with those proffered associated with their rezoning application, 1306, approved in 2006, and it was presented to the Planning Commission on the 21st of April. It's presented again to the board this evening for information. No action is required by the board, of course, and after this presentation this evening, staff will proceed with approval of this master development plan. The applicant will also need to make a subdivision design plan as well following the master development plan. So happy to answer any questions you may have, and I appreciate your time. Thank you. Questions for Mr. Klein? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Klein, just to clarify, so this is simply for informational purposes. This board is not approving any new building lots in the county. This was already approved many years ago by a prior board, is that correct? Yes, sir, that would be correct. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Just for the record, there were proffers, but those proffers were not adjusted for inflation. So I understand that the proffer statements here for single-family homes were about $10,000, and the cost estimate today would be $16,000. That's a 60% increase. And the proffer statements for the townhouses were $8,000. Today it's expected to be in the neighborhood of $14,000 or $14,000 to $15,000, another 50% to 60% increase. And there was nothing here to deal with the traffic on Cincinnati Road going east other than turn lanes. Is that correct? That is correct. I would state that their proffered improvements also included roughly $8,000 per unit, or sorry, total, so $5,000 for single-family and $3,000 per townhouse unit. For off-site improvements to Cincinnati Road, those will be dedicated to the county as they pull building permits. Obviously, there are no current plans for county plans for improvements to Cincinnati Road in the vicinity of this project, but that money is coming into the county's coffers. So there's nothing here that this board can do to deal with the increased traffic that's going to occur on Cincinnati, nor with the increased cost that will occur because of the building of these 200-plus homes. Is that correct? Well, you're receiving the contributions that were proffered, and obviously, as you stated, those don't align with what the current... estimation is, but... Point taken. Thank you for the clarification. All right. If there are no questions, we thank you very much, Mr. Klein. That'll bring us to board liaison reports. Are there any? Citizen comments. Any issue that you might like to bring to the board's attention? Has anyone signed up? No one signed up? Thank you. Board of Supervisors comments. Are there any? Supervisor Wells. During our work session in the back, we, at the very end, we were discussing the Hanley Library employees, their salaries, and the funding thereof through Frederick County, adjusting, I think it was around $55,000 it would have been to adjust those salaries. I'm just asking for clarification. I don't know where we left that. I was confused at the end when we adjourned, and came back to the meeting, so I was just asking the board for clarification on where that was. I don't think we did anything with it. So it just died? Yes. My impression would be that there was no action taken. That was just my impression, Mr. Wells. That's what I meant. Okay. All right. Other? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir? On a different topic, this Cincinnati Village is significant on Frederick County, and this is an example where what was proffered in cost is not adjusting for inflation. So I'm just going to encourage this board that if we go and do further development, there has to be some type of an escalation rider in it. So if something is not developed in a certain period of time, it's adjusted for the cost of inflation and or the cost of building. Housing would, the road has gone up over 100% in the last few years, which is far higher than the cost of inflation. So this has to be adjusted to meet the new building. That's number one. Number two, we have a population of 90,000 people, which has grown 30,000 in the last 20 years. The next 20 years, we're expected to grow another 30,000 to 40,000. Go to Drupal early in Pleasant Valley and see the traffic jams. On Cincinnati, Cincinnati Road is meant to be built as a four-lane road, not a two-lane road. And as this whole traffic is going to go on, to Cincinnati, we need to go and deal with that, not in the future, but say, how do you control the growth in the developer? He's going to go and bring those cars in. He has to help to cover that cost. Otherwise, we'd have tremendous traffic jams that are unseen. So this is just an example where we together can go and try to make some changes for future developments, and maybe staff can if the board agrees, to deal with the issue of road growth, to deal with the issue of capital costs, and to deal with the growing, growing population, which is going to increase significantly in the next 20 years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to offer my congratulations to all the young men and women who will be graduating high school in the coming weeks. I know it's been a tough year for those folks, all of our students, but a big congratulations, special congratulations to all those who are going to be graduating. Thank you, sir. Well done. Anyone else? Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Thank you. We'll stand adjourned. We thank everyone for their time and attention. Thank you, Ms. Brains. alumni because that's what we heut did today and what we attained. We've겠� you go ahead and thank them for your passion today. Thank you, Ms. Insurance. Thank you, Ms. Dana. And thank you, Mr. Fawcett Jr. And respect for eating the news today. Happy, happy, happy New Year to everybody and the final few here today. We loved seeing you up at the Folsom. I wanna say we are proud of you for us. We are proud of you. I'm alwaysized, you, we appreciate you into the fürs of the few who Gina spoke to tonight and I'll share with you, about our success. And there may not be anyone here memories of you at all. We cannotなる tässä 보시갬ะLE. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
