Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-02-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=321
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You know, it doesn't take a whole lot of thinking what they're going to do. We're just, we're hurting. We've got four in this academy. We've got we've got four And I don't know how they're going to work out. But the last academy, we lost, I think, two. Alec, we lost two in the last academy. They didn't even know how to handcuff. You know, so these are the things that, you know, if we could hire certified people, we'd do it all day long until we got our 14 people. Mr. Bolhoffer and I talked yesterday. I'm even willing, because I can't fill the 14 that I have, to give up the two positions that I asked for in order to take that money and put towards the salary increase. Does that answer my question? Yeah. So. And if I may interject, 3% of the total is already in the budget. So any adjustment you had on there. So, for instance, if this board was so inclined to go to 7%, that was. Would we mean adding an additional 4%? So what's the math between the concession of the two positions and the increase? The math on that is, and I don't have the exact, but I can tell you ballpark. The two positions with the equipment is $400,000. And when you look at the scenarios, you'll see where that's both added in under the new position lines. So that's approximately a savings of $400,000. Yeah, it's in the book. $412,000. Closer to 6. So does it ask for 7 or 10? Sure. Well, the county's given 3 if they give the 3, and we're asking for 7. More. So I'm making a total of 10. Which will put us up. Not above everybody, but it'll put us in the running with everybody. Because, like I said, we're going to have to make a lot of money. We're going to have to make a lot of money. Because, like I said, we're going to have to make a lot of money. Because, like I said, we're going to have to make a lot of money. Because, like I said, we're going to have to make a lot of money. Because, like I said, I can't fill the 14 I have with what I'm offering. And, you know, we've done an interview today, and we have no idea how that one's going to turn out. So if you look at this 7%, you'll see that it's not going to be 10%. You're going to have to make a lot of money. You're going to have to make a lot of money. So if you look at this 7%, you'll see that it's not going to turn out 10%. So if you look at this 7%, you'll see that it's not going to turn out 10%. And you take off your $400,000, you're still looking at $650 to add. I'm sorry to monopolize this conversation, but I want to make sure. So right now in our budget, we have $349,000 being allocated. You're saying that we could do a concession, basically, of not the two positions, which is right now. roughly four hundred thousand so that would take and I'm sorry I don't have a whiteboard but seven hundred forty nine thousand is where we would be yes sir okay that seven forty nine the delta between the seven forty nine and the one million one hundred sixty five is roughly four hundred thousand so we're asking for four hundred thousand dollars more to the budget than what is presented like you I don't have a whiteboard so I'm going by your math it's pretty good that's what I'm going to take this into consideration think about it and we'll come back have a question so is this for entry level or is this for all well if it would be for entry level but in order to stop any progress it would have to go okay so we did do the salary survey as he mentioned in a previous email less than two years ago we also did a ten percent across the board for employees for a compression issue and that was about two hundred seventy thousand dollars maybe eighteen months ago so you saying Cheryl on top of the four hundred thousand to deal with the compression you need another but two seventy or something I'm saying that in less than two years ago we spent money to deal with compression and I just wanted you to know that and sure that was ten percent yes keyboard when you want to put it on put on the list of things we need to consider yeah I think so yeah give us a chance to get started on the numbers thank you for your time a trillius your day when not not salary related I'm sorry Mister chair but I had a question and I'm sure here I might as well ask it the the capital request I think called for twelve drones that did two drones for the other ten I'll pull it off also about there there were only two drones okay all right thank you okay thanks yeah first I wanted to say I I thought this methodology of everyone sending in the stuff it was a great methodology for a conversation starter there was a lot of great information there a lot of varied information between all the supervisors I think something to look at to look at going forward obviously I think in the future to be nice or nice to have more time review all this stuff I know I was at work until. to in the morning last night looking at these eyes I think it's a good way to have a conversation with board members before you get to the meeting and just start you know from 0 6 and I want to go over a couple items these are sort of housekeeping items based on questions one item is outside agencies one of the questions is which of these agencies are really outside agencies which are quasi government etc some of the newer board members may or may not know so if you have it in your book it's under the outside agencies the health department we have to fund that that is a government agency NW Works is an outside agency they provide assistance to I think disabled people were disabled people help them find jobs and send them in job placements our health is an outside agency I'm not too familiar with it but I believe it has a parent-child center or such and I do know they work with the DSS Department of Social Services the Lord's Fairfax EMS Council that's a group of with the fire who does who meets in I'm I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer that question but I'm going to I'm not exactly sure what they do but I do know they discuss issues with fire I think Missy you could address more what they do so the EMS Council is the group that sort of determines the protocols that the fire and rescue department can operate under based on the medical operations in the hospital so they also provide training and certification thank you um Northwestern Community Services Prize uh provides a mental health service I believe they are somewhat required by the state however I believe the localities have the option of going a different route and setting up a different organization I can tell you at times both the county and the city of Winchester we looked at alternatives uh because I'm assuming we were having some issues with there but I believe those are resolved Access Independence, I think they help with setting up for people with disabilities at their house, but they are an outside agency. Seniors First is an outside agency providing benefits to seniors. Obviously, the Hanley Library is not an outside agency. The Regional Commission, we're a part of that, and we pay our dues based on a formula to them. The tourism program, we also pay our money to the city of Winchester, and that's based on a formula. Lower Fairfax, I think that's soil and water conservation. They are quasi-governmental working with us. The Laurel Center, I think they work with abused women, but they are an outside agency. I believe last year we increased the amount to them significantly. Laurel Ridge Community College is the college. Blue Ridge Legal Services and Surcap are both outside agencies, and I can tell you I've been here four years. This is my fifth budget. Pretty much every year they're included in this, and every year they've not been given any funding. So that's a brief overview, and if anyone has any questions on these. Looking down the line, any particular questions? I'm going to throw one out there. The opioid settlement. Can any of this money be used to support any of these agencies? I have that on my list of housecleaning. On the opioid settlement, we're receiving funds, and we're still trying to calculate the total amount because we haven't been given all the estimates. These come from lawsuits with various groups, Purdue Pharmacy. I can't remember all the other names. So we're putting that spreadsheet together, contacting, finding out the numbers we don't know. But I think over 20 years or so, it could equal. Two or $3 million. The basic rule of thumb from the state is that it should be used to provide new services, not to pay for old service. However, having said that, when you go through the documents, there's a lot of gray areas, and it's well worth having a review, have the attorneys review this to see what you can and can't do. They actually have a list of all the things you can do. I know one supervisor sent me that list. I call those all safe harbor. If you do. Those things you're safe, you're blessed. There's no issue. You can go outside of those lists, but what you do, you just have to be careful how you do it. None of the money has been spent. I just filled out the report, so it's all been kept. And and really what we need is to have it reviewed legally and have a workshop to discuss the opioid funds. I mean, I really think that's something if the money is being provided and it's for the health department, I'm sure it has to deal with this. So. You know, I really think that we should be looking at how can we actually invest this back into the community to help the community. And if this because of the limitation of time that this board so desires, we could request that our county attorney actually go into those documents and give you a quick opinion of of what he believes you can and cannot spend it on. Why? Yes. Yes. I would like to see that because I would like to see that something. To me. You know, revenue, not revenue. It's money that's already been given because of an issue. And we're we're supporting different health agencies, so it may be able to help help them. And I think it's worth reviewing it and seeing what we're rather than having this pot of money just sitting there and sitting there and sitting there year after year. Let's do something with it that's going to help the community. Mr. Chair, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to. We do not need a work session to have a work session. Yeah, I would recommend that staff brings back to us a policy of how it would be used in the future now and in the future to to finance current expenditures that we have already on it within our budget. So that could be adopted in this year's budget cycle. I agree. Board agree on this. All right, there you go. Will do. Love it. Another question. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I wanted to interject something here. The other thing that we talked about on the outside agencies is what what things do they replace that word that we would have to do as Frederick County government? And for example, in the discussion, I remind you this discussion of Laurel Center last year, we talked about the fact that the sheriff's department is dealing with a lot of those issues and then kind of handing it over to Laurel Center. So that takes a burden somewhat of the burden off of them. So. We weren't funding some of these agencies. We'd have to be funding our own agencies a little bit higher level. Yes. And some of those as actually they do provide services, you know, that assist our government. And sometimes we leave us of having to do things. You know, once again, I guess the question gets to be in the debate on outside services is which ones do you fund and which ones do you don't? So you have to really look at them and and make that determination. What I really wanted to get across was some of those you really don't have a lot of options on. Like. The health department and such. And another question that when we did the budget, when you look at that bottom line on there, the four point one million, that entire amount is included in the budget. So if you reduce any of those dollar amounts that goes sort of back into the pot, you can use for other things. So the entire amount was budgeted in there. Are the two new requests going to are are we going to hear from those? Organizations? If you would like to bring me in, I will tell you year after year when we have a public hearing, they always show up to the public hearing to to to make their case for what they do. There's some information. There is information within your workbook to you can look in there. Yes. Mr. Chairman, let's go ahead and make a. Get a consensus on the outside agencies for the four point one. Just put it to bed. I'm I'm fine with the four point one. One of them. Anybody else? I. I think the review for me would be if there's no direct tie into services that offset county expenses. For at least this year or next year. They need to be removed. So if. I get I get the Laurel Center for sure, but. Laurel Ridge Community College at ninety one thousand ninety two thousand dollars. What are they doing for us directly? That means we have to give them taxpayer dollars. I'll say it's the workforce development and the CTE side of it. But isn't workforce development what we heard. Patrick Barker say is in his budget. So there. So I've studied the EDA budget very a lot in the last forty eight seventy two hours. And there is no. The only allocation for EDA money towards workforce development is actually in the labor that they provide for the management of the world of works widget cup. And the EDA money is actually in the labor that they provide for the management of the world of works widget cup. And the EDA money. And the expo's. And then there's very very little. That is put in. I say very little. It's that's it's that's a relative statement. There is some funds relative to the marketing. And promotion of those three. Three things. But there is no. The only money that goes to Laurel Ridge. Relative to the EDA is the thirty eight thousand. That goes towards the small small business development center. Is is how it's done. There's. There's no money from the EDA directly towards a CTE program. Or anything that Laurel Ridge does. Thank you. Okay. So that's. You know. Because I. I actually believe really do believe what Laurel Ridge. What they're doing with the. With with workforce in the CTE program. I mean it's given. Our community a chance. You know the kids that can't. That won't. Or that can't afford. Or whatever. They have an opportunity to at least. Learn a trade. And get out there and see. You know. You know. Get out there and see. And get out there and see. And get out there and stay local. And support our local. Businesses so. I do think there's a. A benefit to having them here. Some of that Laurel Ridge money also goes to. Assistance and counseling your students. You know if you have. If you have a student that leaves one of the local. High schools and goes off to a. Four year school or something like that they have infrastructure. There they have a counseling center in their. Building and things like that. The student goes to Laurel Ridge. They're commuting their home and. They don't have access to. Some of that stuff that. That a four year school would have unless. Laurel Ridge provides that for them. I would agree. Also I have participated in some of their programs. That are trade related. You know they have a pretty good electricity program. And that does a lot. For workforce development. Really in the region. You know. You know. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. And. So. The amount here. Doesn't give me any heartburn at all. In supporting it. And just. One half of that funding actually goes directly to scholarships for a local students. To go to attend Laurel Ridge. So who. Who else is contributing to. That fund. Laurel Ridge Fund. So if. If you look on page 89. Behind outside agencies. It kind of gives you an overview. Look. On the 2026 budget. not 27 kind of tells you that this these are the participating localities I don't know if 89 has a page 88 has a page it shows you that there's three hundred and sixty four thousand dollars and local and just a quick read off it's Clark up here Frederick page counties Luray Rappahannock Shenandoah Warren County and Winchester shows you the amount of scholarships and it also talks about staff development student wellness programs student outreach you can read it I just want to be aware the board is aware of that we're not the only funding source and there is a MOU that's the reason I brought it up okay thank you okay so board what's your thoughts to try to close the loop on that do you want a consensus vote on Laurel Ridge since there's some people that have questions sure we'll take consensus vote yes so I'm in favor of it of Laurel Ridge I want to be able to move to the next high school okay I'm seeing all right we've got at least four so we're good we move on the question I had from agencies is access independence where if you go to page 46 the there is a significant Delta between our Frederick County's contribution I'll pause while you guys get there any information on that any announcements since I lostM a little imbalanced to the point that supervisor Wells brought up Laurel Ridge is pretty balanced relatively speaking this one is unbalanced and I would say that we would amend that it is the I mean Winchester isn't even on this list anymore they fund Royal Ridge but that's the point the but I would make a make a recommendation that we at least lower this not do 20,000 if it should even be on the I guess my comment on that is if you look at the Hanley library who try to do a good job of matching our percentage funding for the Hanley library and the Hanley library and the Hanley library and the Hanley library with their usage in Frederick County versus city of Winchester and Clark County that share that that facility so I'm not sure if that's feeds into this or not in terms of usage per location no my understanding is the other the other localities just made a decision based on what they wanted to give whereas with the Hanley library there isn't a former used by who's checking out the base so once formula based and one was just what the locality decided to donate yeah I can speak on the Hanley library in the library is a formula base and currently Frederick County's almost sixty eight point nine percent of the users for the Hanley library system so that's why that they're where the expenses but I don't we're gonna talk about Hanley library I think it should be five percent and not nine percent formerly of access independence I like to hear from mr. price he's former director of it maybe he can break down why it's right why it's so it's always been we've never had lunch success with the other counties and groups even though we went you know and sermon's MANA till April 23 00 services in men's utility bills blockź Frederick County is our largest group that we support for the and when it is it's just the way it works in budgets would never been able to believe what we have a formula for any of the other counties or anything because it's just you know it's been an arbitrary amount would you like us to get a usage report because it says that we have 204 to 215 but it doesn't mention the other localities would that help or not personally i think that anybody on this list excluding say the health department maybe one or two others if we have a policy for the handling library based off percentages of usage then we should be maybe looking at that uh for across the board because right now we're picking winners and losers of who should be on this list and who shouldn't there's a lot of other agencies and non-profits in frederick county that do great stuff but we've got it shouldn't be up to the seven of us who who gets funded it's our taxpayers that really should have a bigger say in that money mike i'm on the same page with the logic of you need to explain why there's a difference and we do at times so having a policy or just the logic behind what frederick county is giving with the various agencies yeah i agree i agree so instead of approving this the 4.1 how about we get an idea of what the request was you know get the percentage get an idea of where what they're doing or where that money's going and then we can make a decision because quite frankly i'm not on on in favor of bringing any new requests in so you know blue ridge and circap i appreciate what they're doing but i'm not in favor of starting to fund something new actually so i think it'll be good for us then we can actually work on this 4.1 i'm sure we can get this down below four if we do that i'm trying to put myself in mr boloffer's place here so what are we actually telling them that we want him to do on this what what specific uh agencies do you want him to research in terms of usage anybody want to speak you want me okay so we know we have to do health department um lord farefax emis that's not the only agency we're involved in you know health care effect union about the health department or dm nerdels ayd material community we're involved in hablar un y google there's a lot of hope in this sei there's a lot of budget in such a way that we can do you can do 피�ocoda there's also one APT geomagic literacy right to gpc health infrastructure a lot toencias k pack kfc consult they're gonna send out to they're not just gonna drop some very simple above and tag last week but you know if things will go up and make sure their been explained and the substance abuse coalition that's been explained our health i don't know i think you know ds stay work with dss i've got that down in northwest community services um i think that the hanley library i if everybody's in agreement with that i think it should be at least five percent not nine percent and so i would say um where's the formula for access independent where's the formula for seniors first tourism we've got that i'm pretty sure there's a formula with the tourism yeah yeah lord fairfax swcd that's a agency that that's required we know the laurel center but with the laurel center we we gave them a really big bump last year is it necessary for it to stay there or should we you know that's where we need the sheriff's office and actually social services to speak to us because i know those are the two agencies that uh laurel center supports the most so we we really need them to step up and tell us and then we talked about the community college did i miss any Virginia we have a northwest work we didn't mention oh nw works yeah we need it yeah yeah nw works thank you and our health yes or no get a get a study on that or not yes and then the other one that wasn't just mentioned was in uh northern chattanooga valley regional commission that's a formula that's a formula based on all the uh localities that use it right that touches all our jobs yep so mr ball for does that give you direction i believe it does your turn uh just be clear you mentioned seniors first because i was looking at that one it looks like it's we're right in there with everybody else on fun funding actually shanadoa pays more than we do all right then we can take that off the list that's good with everybody i'm seeing yes seniors first okay we can take that off the list reducing one for you and we don't you're not doing this at two o'clock in the morning please okay all right so we'll table right now and whether we're gonna what we're gonna approve for that outside agency budget does that work for everybody okay let's move on another question was asked what does one penny of real property tax cost someone that owns a home if you take out any discounts or if you're trying to if you take out a sale of a house if you're taking out a discount if you take out a single house you're going to be paying something off okay exemptions which were minor generally if you have one penny on a three hundred and fifty thousand dollar home that adds thirty five dollars to your tax bill it's really very simple math because it's the value of the home divided by a hundred times the one cent so excuse me zero zero yep and I'm the one to ask that question I asked that question because whenever you hear about taxes being raised we're gonna we're gonna raise your tax by hundreds and hundreds of dollars or thousands of dollars and I want people to really see what's the true cost okay a fair day you had a two cent increase on my my house would cost me like ninety dollars so there you go but I want I want that out there into the public when Chester Stark can print that one so they're sitting here I mean I know I just I when we're out talking it's amazing how many people said you're gonna raise my taxes it's gonna cost me thousands and thousands of dollars no it's not and we're just putting every option we can on the table so I want people to understand the amount of money you're actually talking about because then they can actually do it like Don did do the calculation yourself you have an idea so thank you I appreciate that you those are the cleanup items the next is to actually get into the meeting but meat and potatoes as you know we received a lot of information for a lot of supervisors and they were all coming in very fast yesterday afternoon so we're trying to figure out a way how do we put this in some kind of working model that will assist you all we're really the facilitators and looking at this and making decisions given the short time I just created two simple models and I the two that the one was based on the original sample I gave out and I made adjustments based on requests from supervisors and the other model was which took a somewhat different direction was the model based on by a supervisor oats and I just took his numbers and put them in a similar format so I'll go over the first model I've had these out but I'm just going to get into that and I'll get back to you if you have any questions. here we go should have a copy I believe there okay the idea of looking these two models not to make any recommendation of what to do is to give you ideas based on a lot of the suggestions of what type of things you can do and what options you has have as you go to this budget this one yes what does it look like that you gave us we've got a lot of paper right this is long that's scary that's Gary's yeah what else would you like that I'm sure everybody's good you got that you got that got it thank you so they both start out the same way these numbers come right from your budget book the budget revenue budget expenses and you get to this shortfall you remember this one we are adding to all the other expenses aren't included included in your line item in your budget book the total requested per capital was 9.7 million the total requested for new positions was 1.6 million the school's request was 18.2 million uh school capital and all I put in here was their level one capital there was a much larger list but I just put in the level one and the idea here fire equipment this was based on requests from I think three supervisors uh this is not a recommendation it was just based on what some of the supervisors suggested we pulled out the health insurance because we believe we sold that we moved the transportation elsewhere from the original one um so that gives you when you look at all that a 39 million dollar deficit and if there are any errors I apologize because this was done late last night uh I took the one request there were several different numbers that supervisor suggested what to pay the school so I just picked one out not a recommendation it's just a number so you know put a number in the spot and the request that I cool I'm not even sure who it was was 9.6 million dollar recommendation to fund the schools so that would reduce the uh the deficit by 8 million the BRS you've seen this before we know what they uh what we have to pay was less so there's 700 000 that's another reduction it seemed uh from all the supervisors if I'm not mistaken on the uh limit uh eliminating the firefighters for this year that everyone was on board with the 844 000. foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign this reduces the school capital and the idea based on this was to take the 4.4 million from the proper account that was for schools and for a Middletown use that money to pay the debt on the Middletown project which is a legitimate use for proffers which frees up the 4.4 million dollars you know you were going to use the debt to use whatever purpose you wanted it just for the sake of it started in you know the discussion we put I put that in there towards the level one um Capital and just for the record just so there's any questions I think there's been some questions in the past to differentiate between operating capital and what we call CIP Capital generally the CIP capital are items that are larger they're usually one-time things and not reoccurring capitals such as school buses police cars and those type of things which are larger options and выучив в Interim education funds and are not useful because capital is a large amount of what you think is can beо and those type of things you have every year so they're called operating capital that's why you often don't see him in the CIP that's why you don't see him this is a number I just created after meeting with the Parks and Rec Department and eliminating not a lot of their capital and you've seen this before and it eliminated a lot of other capital items in the in the county budget which brings your adjusted shortfall to 18 million and some are up here I can't see from here this shows you the items that were eliminated from the capital request to get to that six million dollars which which seemed fairly unanimous on the drones and some of these other items but Park and Rec was pretty much the big one right what's that Parks and Rec Parks and Rec was where the lion's share of that came from which gave your adjusted shortfall brings it down to 13 million wrong budget figure out on Francis streaming on ska free hey this barely just case you as以及 billion go to that on that the AHRQ to the it's you are required to address that 3 there that is that point and this was used of capital to balance that and here's a the capital thing yeah for that date the original seventies had 12 million for middle school which is 19 eight Pret 여러�amily land and there's fivelajime the federal funds and the two ambulances I think a tanker and a fire engine and this includes the 11 school buses the school requested and this is the remaining capital after the six million and then that brought you to a deficit of nine million in this scenario I just picked the numbers based on looking what I saw if you used a 3% property tax a 2% mill tax it generated that amount of cash which gets you very close to budget in something going back to the use of capital fund it says two million two point three one point six and then you've got County a capital after adjustments is that a balance or where is that here we go it's up here yeah these were all the items I just went through after meeting with department has to remove came to six million there's a nine million got so what it so where's the six million where it says reduce because you're you're nine point seven on the bottom of page one floats to the top of your nine seven that says use of capital fund what is the six million where it says reduce county capital by six million what's that number four cells up one right this was where I added the total capital expense to the budget which increase your deficit and in this part I took all those items we took out of the budget out of the capital to help this this increase your deficit and then by removing six million here it reduced your deficit got it thank you so what so that leaves three point seven then in capital request is that correct yeah yes okay yes three point seven that's county capital right from there the remainder after reducing nine point seven million and there may be an error in this when we have a break I'll double check you, I'll double check you, yeah you haven't addressed your structural problem by because it's a you know operating or reoccurring and using a one-time amount you're using a three cents yes yeah it was three cents yeah so so another thing to keep in mind as as your budget increases the 17% that is minimum increases as well so if your general fund budget increases ten million dollars you need one point seven of that from minimum to be in that fund that makes sense it makes sense but our have we been actually doing that have we actually been taking out so that's part of what we're doing yes okay so when we talk about the I mean I think we talk about the capital fund all the time we don't really talk about this but we do talk about it. capital fund all the time we don't really talk about this but we do talk about it. Because it makes us nervous, yeah. I don't trust me right there with you you recalculate your your reserve fund balance every year It's based on according to your policy 17% of your budgeted revenue so that's a recalculated number every year so it always changes unless your revenues stay exactly the same so we have to go up in the again three to five percent next year we're gonna have... And if you follow what you said then I do have one on your knee as well yeah are you still, fuck that job? Yeah.ط Up to the first, budget yes yes and he's correct it always does go up but we always we've always had that buffer in there so we never really had to be included in our budget like if you look at the Jail's budget they actually budget for their increased reserves because they don't have that okay thank you so once again the idea is this is a tool to show you all your options on there this here is a listing of different amounts of tax dollars I know when I did this originally I put in a different amount for the cigarette tax I based that on a straight formula based on following the population of Winchester versus uh Frederick County to get an exact number or to get a better estimate we could do more research even if you do more research it's really an estimate whatever you do but I think conservatively 1.2 million would cover any costs that's um that would be like four or five years down the road unfortunately like Shandong County just started in 2025 and they took in less than that oh sorry sorry my apologies um that would not come to to fruition for several years down the road um Shandong County just took on cigarette tax and they have received last year less than a hundred thousand why why well they're around forty five thousand population so um so you know with math they had just started it um so you're looking at less than the first year or two you're looking at less than a half a million and as I stated in the previous yeah I just wanted to stress that it's not something it's not going to be um in a shot in the arm if indeed the board wanted to look at this and I don't think there was a lot of board members who wanted to it would take more research I wouldn't want to do the research unless the board was looking at this because to do a better research we would survey several of the other jurisdictions but it's a hard one to measure um this is the uh and this was a good idea someone mentioned to me okay you know no one had talked about personal property tax and that's always another option it was lowered uh year before last I think it was a year before last and the only reason you may want to consider this as opposed to the real property tax is it because in Virginia this year there's always discussion about this tax and there's always a possibility legislature may say we're freezing it at a certain point so if you're at a certain level you may not be able to raise it later that's you never know what happens in Richmond but that's always a possibility so I just want to let you know that is one of your options also okay so Mr orndorff personal property tax any idea or true uh where what's this surrounding counties drawing down house y'all against this ID all that that money okay well it's a good mental year as e All right 별로 a shout out to um to his microphone inis ball development community so that's another chance of attending a first year on inflation Iowa County if their house could up an expect to make below $3.5 million would that be enough so much less money probably hate to put the streets on a Russian cigarettes you'll hear such in my son I do think around the corner of my doctor and counties doing versus Frederick County as far as rates we had we sent out a sheet I believe sometime this year it's buried in all my other sheets right it's buried in all my pile too yeah so I think the city is like 480 Clark County Loudoun County is the ballpark yeah what you had there was during the anomaly where the used car values shot up that one year we tried to adjust so it it wasn't such a hard hit that's equivalent to about nine million dollars that came off the books from that perspective now it's whether or not you want to get adjusted back since those values have I believe Commissioner probably should talk to values more so than me but I think that's what we're looking at right now and I think that's what we're looking at right now yeah you know it we were in the ballpark but did leave take some money off the table in that process I I think it would be helpful more do you tell me I'm all faith I think it would be helpful send it back out send it back out to us that so we can or we'll dig through it but just give an idea of surrounding counties where we are I mean I looked I've looked at it several times I just don't remember all the top my head which one do you want to know I got oh there you go so okay well give us an idea of where we are versusある Election is in there and they don't that's right and War�� County what 28 all right so we're five cents cheaper than than foreign county we're above shenandoah county i don't see winchester city in here sorry so we'd have to get winchester city in clark county and i know clark does not list theirs so you're right just an idea as we're talking about this folks just you know where are we compared to others that's all so yes 4.8 or personal property winchester 4.8 4.8 yes 480. okay all right okay and our general go ahead our general personal property tax rate is 486. everything has to be below that that's our our pinnacle um you know we have business equipment and we've got machining ringing tools there's so many different variables to personal property it's not just about vehicles the rate that you're discussing right now at the 423 is our personal vehicles mr chairman i think uh instead of put if we were to raise taxes yep putting all of it on landowners because of real estate i think personal property is more of a fair tax because that's every one not just a landowner so i think if you're considering like in that case raising it three cents on real estate i'd rather see it maybe go back to two on real estate and let personal property make up the other one just so it's spread a little thinner across the board then everyone contributes okay there's there's options and i i know several of us have asked mike to do this but um i said maybe sits rare in some places but those things might still change okay the easy one is what's called for Maßu and you've got to pay gas and so on and y'all can take off you can lay motion for a skill uh a fixed fare method at least making sure when it comes to housing which you loss can you sit down with us five minutes ok ok right you cannot thank you yeah you're welcome uh right numbers on real estate tax. The number that they gave for the single family home, I'll use that, which is the highest of the three, obviously, was $428,000. So $428,000 out of $0.48, just to kind of reiterate what you were talking about on the monthly payments, $428,000, an average single family detached home at $0.48 would be $2,054 a year, which would be $171 a month. If the notes that I sent out, I recommended a $0.06 real estate tax increase. That would be a $428,000 on a $0.54 would be $2,311.20 per year or $1.92 a month. So the difference in that $0.06 to a $428,000 would be $428,000. Home is $171 to $192. And I'm just looking at these numbers and the use of the capital fund, that $9,700,000 is just concerning to me. And I just wish we could chip away with that, get that down closer to $5 million, whether that be personal property or real estate or meals or lodging or a combination of all of the above. I just think we're setting ourselves up for a future danger if we take that much money out of the capital fund. Anybody else? All right. Mr. Bolt? So I'm going to shift gears. So do we have direction there? You mentioned a statement about possibly raising or lowering personal property. Raising personal. So you're not raising real estate as much. Okay. So do we have a consensus on raising personal property? I think we do. What my goal was for him to go through everything and then go back and say, here's what we'd like to see. Give us the formula for a personal property, a real estate, and the meals tax. And then we'd have a better idea of where we are money-wise and what we could do if we could do that. So we can reduce the capital fund, et cetera. If that makes sense to everybody. I just want to mention also when we were discussing personal property, that $1.5 million, I believe that was Mr. Brauhofer was stretching that across all of personal property. If you're looking at personal property when it comes to just vehicles, we're looking at about $143,000 per penny. $143,000 per penny. Per penny for vehicles and raising that $423,000 rate. Okay. If that's the case, then where's the other one point? We have business equipment. We have machinery and tools. Airplanes are in there. I know that's only $5,000. It's nothing. But you have your contract carriers. So all of that adds up to about $10 million is in machinery and tools. And it's listed under personal property. Okay. We're talking about a full-sense personal property for one-sense real estate. There you go. So the $1.5 million that he's showing for personal property, that's for a $0.10 increase. Okay. It's approximately $150,000. Yeah, it's $0.10. Okay. Thank you. I didn't see that. I missed a zero there. I apologize. It's pretty small up there on the screen. So as you talk to people in the county, their personal property is their cars and boats. And that's what they think about. They're not thinking about equipment and so forth and so on because that's in the industrial part of it. So having one of the larger communities where people are moving in from other places, other districts, how are we doing on making sure that they're deciding that this is where they want to play their personal property? Because I go over into those areas and I see Arizona tags. I see all kinds of tags from all over the place. And I don't think they're paying Frederick County personal property tax on their car. I could be wrong, but and I have turned in a couple of my folks that rent from me and said, go take a look at their tag and make sure they're paying their car. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. They're fair share. But anyway, I'm just bringing that up. We do have an influx of a lot of people coming in. If it's to their benefit to change, they change. If it's not, they don't. I agree. And it might not be a significant. It is. It can make you know, it's every little I believe that everybody that lives in Frederick County should share the burden of the amenities and the luxuries that we have here. And we do have a lot of folks moving in. But when we look at that, they have to be in Frederick County. for 183 days. That vehicle has to be here. So some of the issues are when we have campers and such, they will claim situs in another locality that doesn't have RV taxes. It's a very fine line, but we do appreciate people letting us know, but we have to prove that they've been here for 183 days. We have sent letters out to some of those folks. So please, we appreciate anybody letting us know. You good? All right, Ms. Ballhofer. This is a different approach which focuses more on cutting expenses, and if this is from Supervisor Roach, if you have his sheets, all the details on the sheets, this is just summarizing based on those sheets. I believe I got it right, but like I said, this was done late last night. So I can just go over and give you a basic summary, but if you want the detail, it would be on those sheets. Start out the same, short for additional costs, and then you're going to remove transfer the decal to transportation. This would be on a the idea would be, if I remember right, to create a policy on a yearly basis. This would be a dedicated fund for transportation. I added in all the capital requests before we make adjustments, all the same as I did in the last model, all the new positions, school requests, and school capital. And on this version, it took the original number I had in it for my first presentation for the school amount of 6.2 million. So that reduces it 12 million. If you go look on the list, there's an item there of operating costs. And then you're going to see the operating costs. And that's reduced it 2.3 million. All the detail is on that list. It is I think everyone was unanimous on this one. Once again, the eight firefighters at 844,000. It had reduced the school capital. But put the school pay for this school capital level one with the proffers and supervisor. Oh, it's fine. I get this wrong. Please correct me. You know this better than I do. And then this had a separate list of reducing the county capital. I didn't include on this list because also there was a way after this. If you read that list, there was a several there was a methodology on there bringing back some of the capital items using the proffer dollars, which there's a total I don't remember exactly of a million of which 250,000 was for Clearbrook. And that actually takes the budget. And then the budget down to a balanced budget at that point. This is the use of capital fund. Total in it. Let's see. I have to bring up the sheet. Of course, in my office, do you have this? Thank you. Less than a million dollars in capital fund. Okay, so this is my attempt to just a bare bones. Right. And I think what's great about it is, is you're looking at two different approaches. And when you're all are debating, it's nice to have all the different viewpoints. I wish I'd had time more like a week to look at everybody else's make a lot of other adjustments. But as you know, the information came in late yesterday, and this was done fast and furious. But I think this summer, I think it summarizes your model pretty good. Okay, question on the transfer decal to transportation. Did we have do we have a landing spot? For the for the funds coming in on the three school zone? locations that are getting ready to go up and running on in March? And if so, if we don't, that might be a thing that we could think about. Also going in transportation, public safety meeting. That was discussed. They don't have any idea yet how much money we're gonna be talking about. They wanted probably at least a good six months. Of seeing how the program goes because once it kicks in, you're gonna see a lot of money and it's going to start dying off quickly. So but it will be money coming to us. We need to decide where to direct that. Thank you. Appreciate it. But it may not be much in the end. The other thing to think about in the future is if we decide to put those I don't know where we haven't even haven't even come to the board yet. But those nine red light intersections that could possibly be coming in the next year or so. And then we'll have to wait and see. Yeah, I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. Yeah, I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. We're selling Frederick Canady. There'll be funds for that as well. I agree. With that. Okay, is everybody good? Or Do you want to take a five to 10 minute break and then we come back? I'm good. All right, let's roll. The only thing the thing that I'm struggling with I just want to be Captain obvious here that I'm that I'm struggling with his that using the previous slide and then maybe that's the one that might keep put together if we use the flow and if we use the capital fund next year we're going to be we have four million I think it's four million extra debt service for the schools we have no capital we have no flow we cost are going to go up just like everything else does and I know I'm being Captain obvious here but I just can't get my head wrapped around that we have a working solution yet and I know that's I know that's where I just had to make that statement it's a very great statement that's why I suggested we bring that number down on these capital funds from nine point seven way down yeah on that on this page right there I want to point out something at the bottom it says so school buses one point six five oh this this presentation gives the appearance that that was on their capital list that's in their operating budget so this this analysis that Mike did you would be funding nine point six in operating and then another one point six in buses and when doctor was here he indicated that if you didn't get full support he was reducing those buses so you unless you pull that out operating and put it into a capital which you criticize him for it not being a capital it's not necessarily going to be spent on buses make sense makes perfect sense that's why I asked I'm totally for the buses being in capital I think we got to get back to your buying equipment use capital money for equipment you don't use for operation so okay well I think that you know some and then you know I think that you know some and then you know I think that you know some when there's no capital funding there he'll get criticized for it not being as operating budget so you know it kind of goes back and forth you criticize for it but I mean actually I I said this to doctor Hummer the other night when we talked I'm sorry I come from that world where you have capital and operating and capital to capital and then you know once we draw down the key it's going to be up to the board to make sure we maintain some kind of capital fund that's what we need to be doing I mean an obligating for that okay so if you do that you're you're he his his operating requests would be reduced so you'd be funding more of it in this nine point six that makes sense makes perfect sense yeah cuz actually if you look at that if you combine those numbers you're getting him the eleven point four what he considered the sweet spot so correct yeah and I'm not I'm not on the sweet spot so and I'm gonna I'm gonna when we do have a break I want to work with Cheryl to look at a number because I think I'm looking at this model and if I'm not mistaken and Cheryl please correct me if I'm wrong on this you see in here I'm using a two million for the transportation fund originally I had it up here I think it actually needs to be here to actually put the expense in first before used capital to cover it so I think this should be in what's up like that does that make sense but you're not but where are you using nine seven and nine this is because I put the expense in as all the original expenses and then to reduce the expense by using the capital fund so I think it needed to be up there also it's nine seven and nine right yes that's correct so I think it needs to be up there so I think it needs to be up there so I think it needs to be up there so we want to do I don't know I do it let's take a 10 minute break take 10 minute break and then come back and we're gonna make some decisions or at least some recommendations so what do you think about this you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Alec G arguing I Yeah, yeah, I just told him. My wife and I were talking. And I don't want to have it. I let the people have it. Everybody's got it. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. I like money. You can bring it in. I got the last two. There's a lot of different types. It is. It is. I spent a few of those calls there, but it's still crazy. But they're calling on me. But he's attractive. What are you doing? Surveys against the $500,000. I am related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. I'm related to Kevin. It seems like it. Yeah. I'll make support call your industrial park in acres. 400 acres. We're trying to see what the size of a nice industrial park. Oh, anything. Anytime you want to file. Okay, folks. Thank you. First part was, I think, very good. Let's get back to work here on the work session. The second part. Mr. Ball, do you have anything? I think it's really it's a handoff. It's, you know, you all have to make the tough decisions and figure out what to do going forward. Okay. So I think I'm feeling a consensus here. We'd like to walk out of here with the numbers we need for advertising today is our goal. So I'm going to open up to the supervisors. Anybody want to make any comments before we. Start working this. The. I've just sent Cheryl. So the reason she's not here, I just sent her on a wild goose chase. So hopefully she finds it quick and comes back. But what we're not doing is we're primarily talking about capital adjustments in most of this. I know, Mike, you've worked hard and you've worked. You looked at our budgets. And but I'm going to make a bold statement. I mean, right now, our budget of two hundred and sixty six million dollars right there is. Our teams deserve a three percent increase. OK. And that's that's built into that. That's two salary increase increase. OK. So that's built into that to sixty six. Know that that's that's a two million dollar increase. They deserve that. I'll go as far as saying that the what what we're not talking about, though. Is what are operating expenses as a county? OK. That does not include our personnel. OK. We're going to I'm going to make an assumption that our our departments are staffed appropriately as they are today and are sufficient. OK. But what Cheryl's going and pulling is, OK, what are our true operational expenses minus of labor? OK. And so we can find out, do we have what what is that number? And. And so she's going to get us that. But I want to make a statement that the that I feel that every department should should take a five percent cut in their operational expenses. And we not just focus on capital cuts. How do you all feel about that? I think it's worth entertaining. I do. I mean, I'll make I keep on. I hate to compare federal with local. I really do. But I mean, it's where my where I cut my teeth and where I come from. And I know for the Senate, they actually have been working on the same budget for the last three years. They're working on twenty twenty four numbers when they when they when the budget's been passed. That's where they've been held to. So it has not. Increased in the last three years. And I mean, I know it's especially when you head into the third year. It really does impact. It can it can impact projects that people are wanting to move forward with. But I think that I like for Cheryl to give us that number, that operating number so we could get it right. Just understand what we're talking about. How much? Yes, sir. I think there's too many variables involved to just say a flat five percent. Like out of Frederick Water, we had chemical prices go four percent in one year. So depending on what department and what their capital needs are and what they need to operate with their expenses. There to mercy, whatever the market is right now. So replacing a copier or something like that. So to just say a flat five percent, I think it's. I mean, if you say hold it as is from last year, that's probably doable. But to cut back five percent. Some. Departments are pipe have no problem working with that and others. We go. There's no way to pull it off. Maybe the statement should be to staff. Is that OK? And I'm not married to five percent. I mean, I don't even know what the number is right now. But if maybe the director to staff is, hey, we as a board want to see an X percent cut from our operational expenses. Mike, go figure it out. And there's going to be departments that need the things that you just talked about. But leave that to Mike. Mike, you're carrying our sword on whatever that is that we give you. But we're not taking any more. From that perspective. I would I would have a comment similar to Gary's in that if you if you just stayed at zero percent, that's already a cut because of inflation on certain things. As you can be. So my question would be, where where are you with zero percent? How much does inflation cost us per department? Because I think without knowing that answer, you really can't really put a number on it. Yeah, I think some department like maintenance where they're they're subject of fuel prices, parts, materials to try and keep up with maintenance that's costly going up on. OK. Well, we're waiting on. Sure. For that. We can work on other things. All right. We've had it thrown out there about meals tax. We've talked about property tax. We've talked about real estate tax. What we haven't talked about in like Mr. Akins speak about this supervisor. Akins is one of the suggestions he had was was it was in with tourism. And so I think that needs to be brought up. So this is getting very creative, and I realize that and there's a lot of moving parts. To this. But if you look at the surrounding counties that of Frederick, the we are and the city of Winchester, especially there is a huge delta in our lodging tax on what the city is charging versus what the county is charging. OK. And it is explicitly it is explicitly stated what can and cannot be used with that lodging tax. OK. But. We have other things that we do as a county that we're funding out of other department expenses. OK. That could qualify for the how how the tax code reads. Excuse me. The state code reads relative to the lodging tax. So if we increased it by 1%, that's $420,000 in law and proposed lodging tax increases, that's number Mr. Orndorff. Gave me a two or three months ago. And that would be a pool of money for almost a half a million dollars to figure out how we can reallocate expenses throughout the county that is truly serving what the actual state code reads. I only took the opportunity to deep dive into the EDA because that's what I've been doing lately. And there's there's definitely opportunities from a labor perspective of how funding. Some of the things that we do from an EDA perspective, things that the EDA funds could be websites that's that could be seen that excuse me, that there are portions of our websites that we have out there that are tourism related. OK. So it may not be able to cover the whole nut, but you know what the EDA is spending $13,900 in website hosting. And some of that is could be covered now. It's a small number relative to a $266 million budget. But if you really dive in to this, I am confident that we could get use that $420,000 from lodging in other areas of the county that align with state code. But it will take some some creative things of moving around. And when I say creative, that means that, OK, people allocations that are in, say, the EDA's budget or the leadership, the leadership. I think it's what's called different things there that could be funded under the tourism umbrella. And most excuse me, lots of counties, tourism and economic development is seen hand in hand. We as a county, we hear a lot from and I'm glad Miss Spencer's here today that we hear a lot about agritourism. And this could be a significant. And it brings a lot of a lot of travelers and people to our farm markets that spend money on prepares meals, taxes. And it definitely could help promote that economic engine to drive more tax revenue for us as a county. I had somebody reach out to me yesterday. That's president of the Winchester Rising Stars. And I said, look, this is a을, this is a very good organization. And I said, look, this is a really good organization. They run travel, travel ball on those folks. Parents and kids travel all over the East Coast, play basketball. And when they go on a travel tournament, you know, they spend a lot of money. They go they go into hotels and restaurants and shopping malls and that type of thing. And we're kind of underserved with facilities here to host that in Winchester, Frederick County. The individual that I spoke to yesterday has reached out to a member of the. I haven't had time to talk to you about this yet, John, about to do that, but I reached out to a member of the city council and trying to push that idea. And he called me to see if what Frederick County would be interested in doing in that we were we would get some spinoffs of, you know, lodging and meals and that type of thing. So that's something worth talking about as well. But we just don't have the venues here right now to do it. Well, I'll piggyback on that right now. I have a meeting at four o'clock today with Mayor Beach to start these conversations. So that's a good thing to start bringing up about what as the board directed with me and the mayor and the president of the council to start talking about how we can work more together on things. I'm going to throw out there about schools. I want to go back to that real quick. The request that was made by the schools when I did the calculation. Was a nine. It was a 18% increase from from, you know, in the budget from last year. And so, like Cheryl mentioned, and I, you know, I was I've been playing with the numbers. If we were to give the schools 7%, that would be $7,971 and 47 cents. With that said, we're paying for the 11 buses out of capital. Funds, which is an additional 11. What? 1.6 million. So we're actually giving them the 9.6 million that supervisor there. It floated out there. So I want to just want to float that idea out to the supervisors. You know, it's not the 6 million where he showed us all the different scenarios. It's 7.9. But it also it's technically it's 9.9. So it's not the 6 million. It's not the 6 million. It's not the 6 million. It's the 7.6 when you pay for the buses. So taking the operating out. So that's a number I'm just throwing out to you because it 7% is not 7,971 at 8%. It's 9,109,000. So and then and then on top with that, if we did the 8% plus the 1.6, then we're doing what they said was really their suites by 11.4, quite frankly. So just that float that number to you. And now. Supervisor Wells, we were just talking. How about we work up now instead of down? We've been talking all about the capital expenses. We've been talking about and we'll wait for Shirley to get us the operating expenses. But the meat and the bones. Let's talk about that. You want to kick it off? I'm fine. You can pick a number. I was just doing some calculations. No supervisor Lerio had six cents in there. So you want to start with six cents and work way backwards. You can't. I mean, you start with five, whatever you want. Yeah. Okay. Let's just have to pick a number. All right. We're going to pick. We're going to pick three numbers. All right. How's that? Well, I pick one. Well, because they're all going to. You're all going to. Yeah. Sure. Got. All right. If we did. If we did. Property tax. Real estate property tax. If we did. All right. We'll start with five. Just start with five. And then our property tax. If we did 12 cents. Is that right, Gary? Is that what? Yeah. That's what. Sorry. Yeah. That's what I mentioned was personal property is 12 cents. Personal property is roughly equal to one penny of real estate. Yeah. That equals one cent real estate. And in real estate, we start with five. I'm just starting with that number. And then for meals tax, we go to two cents on the meals tax. Okay. Yeah. Now, is that just meals or is that meals and lodging? I do meals and lodging. Just as for clarification. Yeah. I'm looking at Mr. I would do. I mean, I'm sorry. I was looking at these beautiful numbers that Cheryl got me. So thank you. The I mean, I'm on board with two percent for meals and one percent for lodging. That's where I would do. All right. So we're floating out here. Go back and just make sure I got this right. All right. Real estate tax would be five. Property tax would be 12, which equals one cent of real estate tax. Meals tax would be two. And lodging would be one. All right. So let's start. That's our baseline. Let's have that discussion. You know, how does it what does the board feel about that? Let's do the numbers on that. See what we have here. Okay. Real estate tax. Five cents. Nine million. Five times 1.89. Okay. Property tax would be 12 cents. All right. Let me know when you're ready. I'm ready. Okay. Lodgings. Meals is going to be two. Okay. Exactly right there. That's three eight zero zero. And then. Lodging would be one cent. I'm not sure what the rate is. Four twenty. Four twenty. That's the number Bill gave me two months ago. It's nice to have a data nerd on the board. What's that, Doug? 18.8 million. So it's three eight in there. Twice. Yeah. Yeah. Meals twice. Fifteen nine. All right. I'm not comfortable with five percent on real estate. I think that's putting too much of a burden on landowners. Uh, do I number out? Yes. Uh, drop her down to three. Okay. I'm, I'm, I'm comfortable with three. I'm not comfortable with two years. That takes us back to exactly. Uh, Mr. Price, it takes us back to where we were two years ago. So, Mike, could you change that to three please? What was the personal property rate to, uh, two years ago? Yeah. Okay. So, I'm going to go with 61 cents. 61 cents. Oh, personal property. I'm sorry. We were at four eighty six until they rolled it back. Because of the car thing. Yep. What's our, uh, personal property? What's the findings look like? Are they still pretty steady or is, because I know the car prices are up there for a while. Are they, are they still coming down? They're holding now. Okay. So you're. According to J.J. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. They're holding now. Okay. So you're. According to J.D. Power. So you're comfortable with one point. The book just rolled. So you're comfortable with one hundred and fifty thousand? Because I remember seeing at one point there was a number like one point four, not one point five. It's a hundred and forty-eight thousand is what we're looking per penny. Okay. And you feel pretty confident that's going to hold for the next year? Yes. So, if we take it up twelve, we're going up to four thirty. Thirty-five. And we were at four eighty-six. Okay. Did you want to add a number in there? Yeah. Twelve. Please. So that's twelve times a hundred and fifty-six. That's what we got there. That's personal. Yep. You got it. Okay. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. I can't see. You're not going to win that. I left you in charge. Two questions. So, what's our timeline on the advertisement? I asked that, but not everybody got that answer. And then, what's the disadvantage of having a higher rate and bringing it back down as opposed to having a lower rate? You can always lower. You can't raise. Right. You can have a higher rate and bring it down, but you can't advertise a higher rate and bring it down. Whatever you advertise a lower rate, you can't. That leads to the next question is, in Murphy's law of combat, nature always sides with a hidden flaw. So what's the information that we do not have right now that could impact these numbers? Is there anything out there, outlying that we don't know about right now? Last year was not zeroing in on the used car values and things, but do we have anything out there right now that's hanging out there that we don't know about? Just some of the legislation that's going on in the state, and that would affect us in June of 2027, possibly. And if I may just, so everyone understands, you know, the time frame on your taxes, that March 11th, the drop dead, and you actually need it before then for your real property and your personal property, for the mills, the lodging, you can do that pretty much any time you want. However, you have to advertise twice, have a public hearing, and you really need, subsequent to that, 90 days to give everyone time to adjust businesses, the commissioner of revenue. So there is a time. There is a time frame for those taxes. Okay, so we now have the, we have a ballpark here, just something, working, something to work with. From the operational standpoint, Supervisor Akins, you got your numbers. What are we looking at? So there's, and thank you, Cheryl. There's $42 million in true operating expenses. So if we gave the directive, if the directive was given to save 5%, 5%, on all operating expenses, then that would be 2.1 in savings. So what he did is he took the blue and white sheet at the end, the 266, backed out what went to the schools, backed out what we had for salary increases, backed out the debt, and then backed out what we have budgeted for salaries and fringes to get the other operating. Okay, here's my question. That's for this year, right? That's proposed. Yeah, that's what's proposed. Do we know roughly, ballpark, how much last year's operating was versus this? Did we do, was it a 5% increase across the board for the most part? Well, we did four, right? Four. Four percent. Yes. Four percent increase on operational. Four percent increase on salaries. No, I'm taking out salaries. Because, I mean, I'm talking about all the other numbers, the raw numbers, besides salaries. When people. He might have it on that piece of paper there. You know what I'm saying. I mean, every year, I base my budget on 3%. That's how I do it. So, I would raise it 3% across the board and work with that. So, you know, I'll pick on, I love Joe Wilder, I'll pick on Public Works. You know, did they raise their, all their costs by 5% going into this year, or did they keep it flat from last year? I would assume. Yeah, it does vary. But there's a lot of decreases. Like, if you looked in Fire and Rescue, we looked at it yesterday, and there's actually decreases. So, it sounds like a fairly lean operational budget. We haven't ran that number. We can tell you how much. Like, we can pull out those salaries, and we can say this is how much was budgeted in FY26, and this is what's proposed in FY27. So, you can see what the operating increase that we have budgeted. Yeah. Well, I'm just. Not only for us, but for the public. I want them to understand. Yeah, we can do that. Because I actually just made this statement back there in the back about, you know, it really is, really does, the county really tries to run a lean budget. They really do. Yeah, we can do that. I actually have, if I have my next break, I'll go to the office. It's a draft worksheet I was using when we were analyzing where the cuts are, where I took all the key departments and determined their operating cuts and their increases in duties. It decreases by department. Okay. Well, if we could. I missed. Supervisor Akins, if we could get a number on what last year versus this year, would that work for you, for us? It checks my box. I just feel like it's a very large number. We need to take care of our teams. The teams deserve a 3% increase, like I said. Agreed. But any business, I mean, there's a lot of business people in this room. Any business, when your revenues are not growing the way they need to grow, the only other option is to cut expenses, period. And we've all been in situations in households. We've had to be like, hey, you know, we're not going on vacation this year. And, you know, cuts need to take place from an operational line item. From a team member perspective, it generates innovation and finding new ways to actually do the same amount of work with less. And I think, as a company, it's a great way to do that. As a county, we need that. It sounds like your goal is about $2.1 million. And I just throw out there, when I went down to find cuts, I'm in there about $2.4. So if we're eliminating, you know, the project manager position, the assistant county attorney, yeah, there's a number of things in there that got us to the $2.4. So are you looking for additional $2.1 on top of that? I'll be honest with you, Gary. I didn't come. I was looking at it more from a holistic approach. I didn't look at an individual. We may, keyword may, because if there's personnel in your 2.4 number. No. Well, positions, yes, that are filled. Positions. Yeah. I wasn't looking at anything from a position relative base point. I was just. I was just looking at operating expenses. So we might be at 4.3. Okay. I just didn't want to let, I guess, what I kind of identified just go by without being looked at or implemented. There may be a solid savings from a personnel side still able to grab, but I was just looking at it from an operating expense. Okay. I can get you those operating budgets this afternoon and send it out. Those dollars amount. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to hear the other side of the coin on some of those proposed cuts, like the project manager. I know Mr. Bolhofer has asked for that in the past, and the assistant county attorney and things like that. I mean, there's some consequences if we don't have those positions. I'll start out with the county attorney. When we hired Andy, I talked to him about that position and let him know it was available, and he said he wanted to see. He said he wanted to see if he really needed it. He sent out an email. He told us he's still not sure. His goal was to wait until January to make a decision, but he also said he feels comfortable. If, indeed, this board wanted to eliminate it for this current year, he would be comfortable doing that. Obviously, the fact is he'd like to maybe revisit it a year later after he has more information. On the project manager, it's an interesting story there. I remember last year when I was doing my evaluations, I told the board, that probably our weakest point for the county is managing our projects. Our failure to manage projects has actually cost us a lot of money, primarily in the fact that it takes so long to get projects done. I've been trying to do it myself. It's impossible for me to do it. We had the job advertised for quite some time. We were in the process of getting ready to interview, and then Cheryl came and burst my bubble and said, we've got a big budget problem. Right. Did you say anything about it? I was just talking about the position. When she said we have a big budget problem, I said, whoa, I'm going to put the brakes on this, because if we have a real serious issue, I didn't want to go forward with hiring. I think in the long term for the county, we'd need to do a better job management project. A better idea may be to bring back the second deputy county administrator, eliminate the project manager and a few other positions we're looking at, and perhaps put that person in charge of being a deputy county administrator, and managing that project. That's a good idea. Thank you. That's a great plan. That'd be a good code change. Very good. But they haven't said how it's going to work, that's very good. Thank you. Thank you. have to change your plans i personally like the idea of a second deputy i think that um let's get the people that get them focused on what needs to be done and get these projects you know so someone's held accountable for that um in my opinion well i think we need to be out of the project business because government's never been very good at it and put that over to the private sector we renaissance is something we shouldn't have done that should have been on a developer to do uh when we get a reasoning in front of us and somebody says well i'll give you three million of this road project you go find the other five and build it yourself my answer is always going to be no because we can't do it nearly as well as the private side so we shouldn't be in the project management business and the other part i'm not to debate the part of the project manager is when i came here there was actually two deputy county administrators and i foolishly at the time eliminated that position thinking it wasn't necessary so for years they had that set up and it doesn't necessarily have to be for project management it was just for assisting getting things done um and then the level they would do is to oversee and make sure everything's going along schedule but they wouldn't be doing the actual property management because i agree with you that's not what we do especially when we don't do that here because we don't do a lot of projects like that feedback okay if we eliminate the uh this project manager position um you you do put in a second deputy are you going to need funding for that second deputy i don't believe so because we've been taking a look internally and looking at i think one of the areas where we we tend to have far too many people in administrative positions and we're going to look at eliminating some of the administrative positions we're doing it through uh attrition um we're moving it through between one of them that's what we've been doing I know in the planning department they just had their receptionist leave and they decided at this point They're going to use their accounting clerks to do that position. So they were able to eliminate a position like that So the idea was to not bring it back until we could do so without having any Impact on the budget of increasing at any the net goes right back to what I told dr Hummer, you know, you've got a hundred teachers positions if you need to reclassify positions to fill that Reclassify that same thing for you if it's not going to cost the county money I'm you know, if you want to reclassify that's that's I think that's the county administrators job, you know So I'm fine with that when we're not talking about spending money here so but I do agree with the project management Gary, I absolutely agree with you and Private sector does it better than the government? No doubt about it So yeah, so I think the project management position goes I think the county attorney is going to be a good position to hold off on for a year I mean and we will revisit that next year because you know The one thing we don't want to do is you know, we got a good attorney here and I want to keep them I don't want to see him burn out. So You know if everybody's good for holding off for a year Well as long as he plays smart and don't get a bunch of lawsuits, we shouldn't Noted on that So so with the project manager position and the county attorney that's that's a question As you dissolve that when you charge me one for parking At home but like they all told you my five weeks to you Win the car leasing or When they're earning about a quarter million dollars Gares or anything else there that dem geg미 saw that we should be discussing two from your list Yeah, one of the things was like a health insurance how much that it's about seven hundred thousand okay sorry doesn't we have budget the general fund for retirees it's hard it's hard to pull it out for other funds because we have percent of you know we share those costs is that a one-time thing or is that something we can keep doing to continue for a while and you know that that will bring up another subject maybe not for today but those funds should really be put in a trust so that they're not restricted on how they're invested so you can have higher earnings so that should be the next step that we look at after we get through the budget definitely the other thing I was looking at I had two items identified for the sheriff one was his high increase in postage and telephone and also the repair and maintenance budget shot up quite a bit so I had a hundred and seventy thousand identified there I'm finding that that's a lot of money that's going to be spent on the repair and maintenance budget shot up quite a bit so I had two items identified that that's a lot of money that's going to be spent on the repair and maintenance raises along with the two positions he's given up how's the board feel move down the line here and then the other one was down on the library they had a capital request in their operating budget so I just felt we should pull that out the or actually that could be pulled out of their proffers that was one hundred seventy five thousand and and i looked through their request it didn't identify the capital it just says capital okay okay well here's where i'm with the proffers i know it's very you got to be very careful but can we use the proffers didn't didn't you send out something that says this was collected under an old model and you could probably use it is that what you said yeah we were you know the new the new statute is very tough compared to the old statute i'm just not sure if people know the history but way back when they were much looser with proffers and governments were sort of using them like the wild west the legislature came in and slapped governments you know put more restrictions the administrative the library and i believe there may be a couple other ones in there from the old style proffers technically even then they're supposed to be used to increase capacity but the fact since you're not collecting them anymore and you need to spend them the funds really before 12 years so i think you'd probably be all right going there i talked to the attorney about that so i don't i think with that you'd be fine it's gray area but i think you're okay keep us out of trouble please and then the final one i had in here was 50 000 for jail apparently well we're the fiscal agent for the jail and from my understanding they're not happy with our hr department because they have to get through our department so they want to become more autonomous and have their benefits settled uh so that's why we're gonna save years for community and have their own HR manager. So to me, the problem isn't we need to start funding an HR manager for them because we have a problem with ours. We need to get our HR manager and them to work together better and not spend $50,000. Yeah, I agree with you. Is that a shared cost? Yes. I think it is. Yes, that's like 48% of the cost. Did we talk about the $268,000 for overtime? Did you talk about that? Oh, that's right. Yeah, on the eight fire positions that we took out, there was $268,000 in their operating budget to cover their overtime. So that was missed from that $800,000-some we were saving from the position. The $844,000 should have had $268,000 added to it. All right. Well, with the list you've got, it looks like it's roughly around 1.5. Does that sound about right? Is that right? In savings? I got around 1.3. I got 1.22 just in the health, the $250,000, and the overtime. Yeah, well, I had the VRS cost, but that's already. Mike included that one as well. Okay. All right. And then we have a lobbyist for $36,000. Are we getting anything out of our money for that one? We've been working them this year. I can tell you that. Are we getting results? We'll see. All right. We're tracking. There's a lot of bills. Jay, Mr. Tibbs, and I have been going back and forth and tracking a lot of different bills and talking with Delegate Wiley and Delegate Oates and Senator French. That's kind of like the EDM, suspicious of our rate of return. I understand. I am too. I mean, that's just it. If you're going to be on the payroll, you better be working. All right. I'm going to be the one to talk about the employee approvals. The one to work for are the one we're working with is the one that has to pay us now and the one that has to pay our taxes now. That is the good words repeat. So, this is Really cool. So, so hopefully that answers that first question. Yeah. We're talking about payroll homes. What are like five of these? Well, Whichệu T. to fund balance. So those luncheons, we'd have separate funds to keep doing the awards luncheons. That was for trying to schedule a big event with all the employees, you know, like a Christmas dinner or such. The problem is, is the logistics of doing that, because our employees are all over the place. How do you have a big event in an area where you can get all the employees at the same time? Well, I think it's worth keeping. Well, it's a separate luncheon from the other ones that you've been to. Yeah, we have not used it in two years that I know of. I agree with that. So you agree keeping it or keeping it? Yeah. Yeah. All right. So that's, that's an easy one there. Anything else? Down under the capital request that I had, the office renovation of a public works planning conference room. Some of the building things around here, it seems like that could come out of the building admin on the proffer side. Because we use those proffers over at Sunnyside for the registrar. So seems like those proffers could be used for building improvements. Once again, following the same theory of the talking about the library, the fact is, you don't collect those anymore, even though it may not be to increase capacity. I don't think there'll be a real issue. It is a gray area, but I think you're probably pretty safe doing that. Anything else on your list? Anything else on your list, sir? What was the voting machines under? That was under capital. The capital. Rich Viscosi said he does have to replace them. The code didn't change where he would have to do those this year. Well, with Gary's ideas, and kudos to you on that, around I would say back a napkin 1.7 ish there. And then if we said, hey, you know what, try to save us 2.1 from an operational expense side. So now we're at the rest of 1.5. Yeah. 1.7 2.1 3.8. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We're making progress. I want to go over to the public works, especially the shelter. And I'm gonna, I'm in agreement with Supervisor Grubelmott. Supervisor Grubelmott. Supervisor Grubelmott. Supervisor Grubelmott. Supervisor Grubelmott. Supervisor Grubelmott. Mike, would you put out what you suggested? When we discussed the other day that they had, and I won't remember exact number, 1.2 million or whatever. 1.5. 1.5. Anything that they, anything that they use that money for, in my mind, to take care of animals is a great use of that money. So from the brand new sign out sign, which helps animals get adopted, which is a direct use to help animals, is a direct use to help animals. The washer and dryer is a direct use to help animals. And a year where we are pinching pennies and taking money from one thing to give to another, if an organization has that much money at their disposal, they should use that money. If it's legal to use it, I don't see why we wouldn't. And if we're trying to save 250 here, you know... Let me just say a little reparation thing. To where the... if at 1.5 they kept a million dollars in reserve for emergencies that's a lot for taking care of animals but if and they if they could use half a million dollars to fund some of those projects that and it's all legal I don't see any year any year like this why we wouldn't do it I agree I mean that's when you give a donation when I give a donation whether it's to uh Winchester Rescue Commission or Watts whatever we we do as family we don't designate what they're doing with it we just want them to use it to help those that they're serving you know the community do we know what uh doesn't excuse me yeah when we did our research funds are what what they are for animal shelter because I I believe there's some a majority that is is designated hard time actually 225 is restricted by a trust or such the other money you know it mostly comes from wheels and different sources and the really the only restriction on that is to be used to operate the uh shelter I know historically they've tried to use it for capital one-time items or such but by restrictions you know I mean uh Joe did his presentation the number that was restricted by trust was 225 000. so so you got a million some dollars there you take 25 000 out they you're saying take that money the extra money that's there and let them use that in there or give that to other departments no no no not at all just strictly for the show directly for the show it's probably clear yeah absolutely and correctly because people in their wills left it for the shelter yes it's used in for what they were donated for that's fine that's right for the animals and I mean I know I mean they're they have the influence to think outside their gehear but people they like living in thatjähral structure two dollars a day what they will probably they have to use the this program I don't know they say it as ireally but is it is it really not it's a big doctor but just the peeling of theirсть and uh so and decidedta 의going to get it from them isnt a tot and we do think it is we do a lot more committee have to do it図and we have to do more Operations we have a really good convergence of those Um they're talking quite a lot this year So both the some of the things wrong with that right and just to combine that, We're talking about some of the things I'd say that surprised us. a.m. the border talks the car has been turn it in will you be able to move it a little no they absolutely need an engineer involved i i don't think my personal opinion i'd rather see them go a year with without the admin position and see how they operate with their current admins and see if they can roll you know roll this in just like planning just did where they're eliminating an admin position and then come back next year and give us some firm concrete um information on if it's okay do you truly need that admin i i think that we should be funding the engineer part i agree on the engineer uh speaking as someone on the other side of the aisle that's been dealing with public works over the years with karen leaving admin was bad enough now it's gonna be even worse they're gonna need that admin position if they're even gonna keep their heads above water okay and uh that is things poetic justice that freddie county now has to do we require developers to do all these years from the stormwater standpoint that that might speak to are we business friendly if right so if it you try to do something and you can't get it done because we don't have the support to push things through quicker um then we're shooting ourselves in the foot okay so so we're in agreement then we approve the engineer and we approve the admin they're going to need the admin more than engineer in my opinion i i would i do so we need to admin more than the that's they definitely need to the not knowing the inner workings of public works but public works has never been seen as a i'll call it a revenue center it's always been seen as revenue neutral if i remember your services correctly um and if there is increased burden that's coming down the line okay we need to figure out as a county how that departs department can get revenue neutral if we're not revenue neutral with that, with the fees and everything being collected by all of those different, I'll call them islands or silos, that the fees are generated by. So I don't have a recommendation on what we should do to check that box, but that would be a task for staff to come back and tell us, okay, hey, you know what, I mean, the idea I had was, you know what, if every year there's a cost of living adjustments that need to be made so that there's permits or whatever it might be, if they need to go up by a certain percentage each year to keep up with the burden of that department until it gets back to being revenue neutral, then I think that's something that needs to be looked at. That would be my only comment on that. I'll agree that. Those fees do need to be looked at. A lot of them haven't changed in years, and a lot of it's lopsided. You might come in for a two-acre development and be paying almost as much in review fees as somebody comes in with 30 acres. So I think the departments need to go back and do a review themselves of where they need to be at and bring it back before the board in order to get permission to do it. I don't think doing a certain increase every year, because I know in Joe's department, he'll just get a mandate from the state that says now you will charge X. So a percentage isn't going to work. He's going to have to adjust based on the state. But I think a percentage might work for planning or inspections. Good. Okay. And if I may interject, and you'll be seeing it shortly, I know Joe is in the process of doing a full review and making a request to increase their building permit fees, which this board will be seeing shortly. Good. Good. Since we're talking about fees, how does the health department fees work? Because that's another agency. That's another pile of money that we need to put in. Just not sure how that works. You know, I'm not sure because they're really a state agency and we're just required by state laws to do the funding, but I could find out. Yeah, that fee's a statewide fee. Doesn't matter if you're in Clark County or Frederick County. It's so much for a certification letter, so much for that gets chipped down from Richmond to them. Thank you. Okay. What am I missing? We've been going through, done a pretty good job of looking at different things. Different agencies within the county. Well, it sounds like we agreed on what to advertise and I think we're pretty close to staff has enough direction for a draft budget. It sounds that way. I'm going to, Supervisor Oates, if you're, I know you, you know, we've all talked. Three was a sweet spot for me regarding real estate tax. But Vice Chair Wells. And I will go back to last year where the unknown hit us after we had advertised the budget and Supervisor Oates remembers that. So I personally would like to see us advertise the real estate tax at five cents. We can bring it down, but we can't go up. So if we advertise it, am I correct, Cheryl? If we advertise it and then we can bring it down if we. That's correct. I think it'd be. We would be. We would be. It would be prudent for us to come in. You know, I know. I know it's, you know, so. Good. So since we're talking about the ad, you know, there's so many moving pieces. Yeah, it would be good for whoever to do a spreadsheet of the ins and outs and the columns of the funding. OK, so if it's got a proper funding or if it's got a donation funding, all those can be identified. And then you have the what is not identified as funding and you should build a back end of that and make sure. That's. That's where that's where you think you're at. I agree. And I'd appreciate that. Actually, that's what we talked about was going instead of coming down. Let's go up, you know, and let's see where we are, because then we can adjust. We're not looking. We're looking to bring bring this down to its appropriate level and not. But at the same time, not take out all of our capital funds because this is this year. We've got next year coming. So go ahead. And I'm sure. I'm following along. So I saw it from the direction is. Oh, you're still debating on the real property tax up there. What to rate? We're going to figure out here in about five minutes. But the second part is you want us to get to work right away. Take all these suggestions, the cost cutting and all those. Put those together in some type of sheet and obviously bring it back to this board. Look at, you know, the across the board cuts, all these specific cuts, and then bring that back to the board with the intention of getting this done in time. So it's time to advertise the budget and the revenues. By March 11th, Mr. Chair, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. I'm going to say something. I probably shouldn't. I'm just, you know, I'm just I'm going to jump in first, but because I've said this multiple times to multiple people. I love this board because that's what we should be doing. Say what you think. So I don't. care how it could get to a point where the board is micromanaging the team the staff okay and you guys do you guys do the lift okay from our directive if our directive is to save 2.1 and and operating expenses i don't care where the cuts are i really don't you got to figure that out and you got to manage that um because the cuts are from an operational side we've already agreed from a personnel side on the 1.7 ish number so i'm not looking for a big presentation uh i got enough to read um and we all have day jobs most of us do here yeah um the um so just figure it out but you're not getting any more money from me let's put it that way so to clarify once again so for the cuts it's those specific cuts plus the 2.1 it's 2.1 the operation expenses right number that you do so let's talk about that for a second all right so you kind of jumped on that that 42 million right yeah but you don't really know sitting there if that's a decrease or increase or how much right because i haven't given you that number so what if what if it comes back that you don't have 2.1 there then we'll adjust accordingly okay that's fine as long as we know that because that's what i don't want to be sitting upstairs that's exactly why i'm asking for that cushion okay okay that's exactly why i'm asking for that cushion okay okay because quite frankly what i just did was put in 2.1 when i took it from three and that was over 42 million that was on your 42 million okay yeah and that's that's the thought process so if that if that number was 44 last year then that theory needs to be revisited right correct right hello and if i may interject he's not talking again as i'm looking at a 2.1 million right now is how to cut 2.1 million plus the specific cuts on top of that the total of both to be clear and and if i'm if i'm not being clear i apologize is that i'm looking for a 2.1 million dollar cut in operational expenses period okay and how it's done across the board you guys figure it out okay i'm not really if if if if the all the agencies excuse me departments came to us and said we need to spend this we need to spend 42 million in operational supplies for this year okay i'm saying to you guys is that figure it out we should cut five percent we've all had to do it in our own households before okay and how does that work to gary's point some departments might not be able to do it but i went through the 82 pages i think it was 82. it was a lot a lot on saturday morning to deal with and you know what we spend too much in travel we spend too much in postage there's lots of things there's there's there's resources and out there's there's funds that we have per department that we're not even utilizing but we're asking for the budget and so if we're not utilizing the money in the budget then let's not do we've all heard it before well if it's not the budget we got to use it guys you know um we're i'm trying to get away from that let's get it cut us figure it out it's not 2.1 plus another 2.1 it's 2.1 plus gary's savings is what i'm saying we should figure out perfect got it one couple points remember when we first started this process i think it was you who pointed out hey parks and rec that's a 400 increase over the last three years and when we looked at other organizations we were like wait a minute this one went up 150 this one went up 120 over the budget they had the year before over the budget they had the year before that's a startling increase in any business operation and so you'd have to ask yourself how did we get to that level of percentage so when if you can go back and say what were our true cost that year true cost then how much did it raise the year after that on actuals so i i like that theory that there's savings built in there somewhere we just gotta it's just gotta be dug out um and i guess i'll finish since i have the hot mic um i agree with you mr chairman on the start with the high number and we can back down um the the economic development portion of this is not going to rescue us this year so nothing we decide and talk about for does and i'll use the dirty word the data centers any other here in the city we built we are moneyless we will do whatever the company wants to do just be cognitively and understandably that as we think about своей viability actually we shifted to 10 небольшes one or a year ago and we thought man we gotta give like a million dollars years ago with so many for touche now we have done track over 30 rebate season that's 1 million dollars it's taken much less time and more into the major scale this is people with health constraints in our society i think it's gotta be tough to see how spreadsheet when we get this so are you all comfortable with 7% for the schools which is seven million nine hundred and seventy one thousand one hundred forty seven dollars or are you comfortable with eight percent which is nine thousand one hundred and nine dollars in the 88 882 or with the buses pulled out the buses are going to be paid by the capital fund so looking for guidance here mr. chairman about eleven point five eleven point six sweet spot that school system school board was requesting as a sweet spotter dr. Hummer does that get us there if we do is seventy and we do if we do the eight percent you're at because the buses are one point one and a half percent and we're at the eight percent and we're at the eight six so it gets you to ten million seven hundred thousand supervisor Orndorff is what it does if we do if we do eight percent if we do seven percent then you're looking at nine about see a nine and a half million with the buses included with seven percent yeah I would be support the eight percent that it's a personnel piece okay I just I want the numbers out there so everybody understands what we're dealing with and that includes folks that are listening so so there's another one for you for guidance eight percent from last year's and I'd like to reserve the right as we go through this and we can contact each and every one of you for these ideas there's a lot of information here absolutely don't call me I'll email and text while I have the mic on mr. chair for my I did using all the proper money for schools just will remind you when you look at the capital improvement plan and you look at the school boards projection on debt service and piggybacking on supervisor government's comment about the years I whatever we do to really see revenue additional revenue come in primarily machinery and equipment taxes just in the next what one two three four years looking f-y-two three four years ago seem depuis four in cent musical dollars here what we're looking to look here we're at the beginning points of around twenty years is an increase in debt service we have Yazoo Eldaya Chris's on the G and a fifth middle school but if you look at those two buildings that are pretty dire need of renovation and possible expansion of that it those are the big items that's on the horizon so understand the logic in using the proffer all proffer money but it is concerning that the picture doesn't get any better and because of that you have to have these tax scenario in front of us great thank you mr. chairman thank you sir anybody else will speak I'm gonna throw out let's do it okay the recommendation of five cents for real estate tax twelve cents for property two cents for meal and a half for rent and a half for land and a half for housing and a half for mixed-use our income control policy her voltar to be for such composed policy network and i think theHealth Insurance fee was just next yearvagos still Supervisor Oates? I'm going to go right down the line. Supervisor Oates? I thought you wanted to vote. I thought you were in consensus. I'm just looking for a consensus. I think at 5, you're going to see a story about Steve. Yeah, we'll try. All that we're doing is we're advertising. We can adjust. I understand. I'm not, you know, After last year, no, no. I mean, the three of us last year, that was a problem. So, you know, you know where I am. I agree about three cents. But I want to be safe, not sorry. So, you good? I'm good with safe versus sorry. And Supervisor Wernher, are you good? I'm good with advertising it. And once county staff comes back, we're doing their assessment. We can adjust. Okay. I guess Supervisor Aiken said yes. That's rather good. All right. So, I want, it's a total agreement. Okay? And that's what we're going to, that's the advertisement. And I really like that we're getting all this done before Cheryl leaves. I agree. Can I ask a question for clarification? Absolutely. Sorry. So, I guess this is more for Mr. Aiken. The 2.1 million, 5% cut, would that change in your mind if some of these items that you had in your list were explained? Because with that, I mean, we just got this pretty late. So, if some of your questions were answered as to the differences in the operating, would that change your, I'm just trying to figure out where we need to go. I'm happy to, honestly, I'm happy to meet with you, with anybody, by department and go through the things that I identified. I can, I think it's already on public record that what I sent to all the bidders. I think it's already on public record that what I sent to all the bidders. I think it's already on public record that what I sent to all the bidders. Of things that I just noted that looked weird, of a 400% increase to what Mike's point on different things that just looked odd. Yes. And because what I looked at is I looked at, okay, what we were given was January numbers of what's been used for the last six months. So, I took that to make scenarios easy. Let's say that the department only used $45,000 so far for this year. But they were budgeted $250,000. Well, I'm on a trajectory. I'm on a trajectory to only use $90,000. So, why do I need $250,000? I don't have all the data. But I do know that there's a bust there and there's extra money being left over. So, I don't have all the information. But I'm happy to share with you the homework that I did. But it's really going to take going through, I mean, again, not to repeat myself, but what Gary said, some departments may not be able to get a cut. Right. I think I'm just asking. Would it be helpful if the questions that you had were addressed? Like, when we send out this summary of what we talked about today. I'm a big proponent of not doing work that's not needed. Okay. Okay. So, if you guys figure it out, don't put together a book explaining to little old Jason Akins what you did. Yeah. If it works, it works. I got that. Now, with all the discussion today, you'll include, like, the public works. Well, we talked about public works. We talked about what the shelter, that'll be part of it. And hopefully you got everything. You know what? I just want to make a statement for anyone listening. This board is working. And we're really trying. The staff is working. Finance committee is working. Everybody's pitching in. And before anybody goes and starts banging on us, we're looking at a $42 billion deficit. And we're honestly all trying to figure out, not only for this year, but like Charlotte said, she's pointed out several times, next year. Supervisor Warren pointed out the deficit next year with the increase in debt services. So, we're honestly trying to do what's right for the county. And I just truly appreciate everybody's time on this. You really are. You've given a lot of time. And like you, a lot of us have full-time jobs. So, thank you. And if I may say, I've been here, this is going on my fifth budget year. My first year when I started, I came in right at the budget without a clue. And it's actually a pleasure to see the board sit down here and go. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's very unique what I've seen in the four years I've been here, and this being the fifth budget. And it's actually a pleasure to see it happen. And I always welcome a challenge when it comes to cutting the budget. And we're looking forward to it somewhat. And finally, we'll send out information because we are going to have to schedule dates to get together again to go over all this. So, we just send out emails. Thank you. out what dates work best for everybody perfect thank you thank you everybody for you next week yeah we have we have cheryl next week i guess we're gonna work session next 5 30 next week right it may be then if we need extra time we can start earlier such but we'll take a look at that see what we have to get done yeah because we have a work session at 5 30. yes but that gives you more important that charlotte that gives you everything you need for the advertising yeah we're not we're doing this we're not doing this 11th hour and somebody coming in and giving you a bunch of stuff to cut so all right everybody work session's over have a great day and thank you for everything you you
