Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-10-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=164
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Chairman. If everyone would please face the flag for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands, for which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. Second. Any discussion? Do we want to remove item 12.8? Is that the plan? Is there discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as presented. Citizen comments. I think we had one. Jeff Stevens. Welcome, sir. What happened to our microphone? Okay. It's on the way, sir. I'm sorry. It was there just a moment ago. Just a moment ago. Well done. Thank you, sir. Red light on, Matthew. Here you go. Hello? Yes, sir. Thank you. All right. My name is Jeff Stevens. I'm with the Shawnee Land Advisory Committee. I just want to say a few words about the money that's being spent. We have some of the stuff that they're trying to pass through, we have not agreed to in the committee. We wonder, if they're going to do things without coming to us, why are we having the committee? Why are we making these recommendations? Why are they doing the things that they do, spending our money without our agreement? They are asking to, or they're trying to spend money on paving when they have a bus stop, spend gravel. They combined two bus stops. A lot of people are complaining about that. And it's gravel. They want to pave it. They say that they can't plow with the gravel, but it's been gravel there previously for the last, since I've been there, it's been many years, 10, 20 years. And I don't, I don't agree with spending all that money for paving. And we don't know exactly what equipment that they want to replace. They say they want to replace some equipment. We kind of like to know what we're spending money on. And we have to take their word for it that it's wore out because we, we don't have any money. We don't have any money. We don't have any money. We don't have any money. We don't have any money. We don't have any way to verify that. And previously they have, when the motor grader went broke, we all come to an agreement that he said he could find a motor grader equal to it that was a little newer for $35,000. And we agreed to keep the old one for spare parts. And a month later we found out that he bought a bigger motor grader, spent $75,000 or $80,000 on it, and sold the other one for $60,000. So that's we agreed on one thing. And they switched and did something else. And we're just trying to get more transparency and have more, more input from us in the committee. Thank you. Thank you for your comments or appreciate it. Anyone else? No, sir. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. second and the second is there any discussion supervisor greater I supervisor done I supervise McCarthy supervisor Wells is not with us supervisor slaughter I supervisor Ludwig hi chair votes I and the motion carries bring us to board of supervisors comments are there any mr. chairman yes sir was it myself or supervisor done you acknowledged we both said it at the same time well you all choose just wanted to say thank you for mr. Stevens coming forward this evening from the Shawnee Land Advisory Committee after our last meeting this board so graciously allowed us to table two items for consideration this evening and I greatly appreciate that with the additional time I spoke with some of the senior members who have served on that committee seven years plus in speaking with each one of those members they had indicated that they are not against seeing equipment being purchased and improved upon however they'd simply like to see a list of what is being proposed to be purchased so that they can do the role in which they were designed or designated to do which is to be an advisory committee it's hard to advise on something you know nothing about so I think it is only prudent for us as we get to that a little bit later on this evening that we start the process over with the advisory committee and allow it to flow the proper channels the way it's supposed to flow with the regards to the pavement I've heard from multiple residents up there as well as folks who have children the heartache is not with paving itself is maybe the avenue that we go about paving it seems with the increased in equipment nice nicer equipment that they purchased the motor grader that was alluded to this evening is a much nicer piece of equipment it is a piece of equipment that lends itself to do good paving as far as as far as motor grader paving and it would appear that there is a potential to have the best paving in the area and I think that's what we're going to do for the rest of the meeting this evening I'm going to have the paving done for a half the cost or at least a significant reduction in cost as what has been proposed so I think that it is only prudent that we allow the advisory committee to flush those items out come back with some figures and and maybe the recommendation will be to use a commercial paver as was originally suggested however maybe the best route to do is to utilize that wonderful motor grader we purchased last year and to motor grade asphalt in there and still have a nice paved surface for half the cost so I appreciate the fine folks on the advisory committee who've taken the time to speak with me the folks from the community up there who've reached out to me and I believe that we do need to follow the proper channels that have been established and I appreciate their efforts in the process thank you so very much yes sir yesterday the school board had a search committee and they had meetings with the board of supervisors at a meeting at Shranda and they're having a meeting tonight but for those people that are not able to attend those meetings if you want to have some input I'm going to ask you to come up and say a few things about the process and then we'll get to the next one the school board does have an online survey and that online survey is at Frederick County Schools VA dotnet so if you want to have input on what you'd like to see as the next superintendent what qualities you want what items you want you know be aware of that and participate in the survey thank you Mr. Chairman yes sir further anyone Mr. Chairman yes sir I want to thank Timber Ridge School and Residential Treatment Center for hosting a tour of their facility and discussing their mission with me to serve an educational community and to help them educate county youth a member of our local business community joined me to explore timberage's new vocational educational technical project under construction to see if there's a way local businesses can't support that effort the project is designed to provide skills and options for youth who might otherwise struggle to enter the adult workforce and find a productive place in our County I was also pleased that timber Ridge is willing to discuss ways that they in the county might partner to meet other needs and and we all have the same goal of developing our overburdened child protective services mission it is my hope that public private partnerships like this might be one of our answers for ongoing community problems such as the one I highlighted at our last board meeting thank you Mr. Chairman thank you sir any other comments all right we'll move on to appointments boards committees and commissions conservation easement Authority how would the board like to address that one I would move for the appointment of Patricia Shul and Farrell to the three-year term on the Conservation Easement Authority. Motion. Is there a second? I'll second, Chairman. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Shul and Farrell will be appointed. Agricultural District Advisory Committee. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Likewise, I would move for the appointment of Patricia Shul and Farrell to the vacant term on the Agricultural District Advisory Committee. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll appoint Ms. Shul and Farrell. Board Committee appointments. I think we're finished. Committee of Business, the Finance Committee, Supervisor Slaughter. I believe Supervisor Graber addressed this in his earlier comments. So do you have a... Do you have a time frame in mind, or you want to just send it back through Committee Public Works? Is that what you're thinking, and then back through to Finance? Yes, ma'am. I'd like to see it go back to the Advisory Committee and have it play out through the process so it can be vetted, and then come back to this committee, if that would be agreeable. Through Public Works? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Okay. Works. A motion? Yeah. I'll make that as a motion. And I'll second the motion. And a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. That'll be the process. A public hearing. Commission of Business, rezoning 0822. Welcome, sir. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. This is rezoning application 0822 for the Metromont Corporation. And this is a proposal to rezone 20 acres from the R.A. Rural Areas District to our M2 Industrial General District with proffers. And... This is a proposal to rezone 24.7 acres from our B2 General Business District to our M2 District with proffers. This total acreage is approximately 44.72 acres. The proposed rezoning would enable the Metromont Corporation to expand their existing and adjoining industrial precast manufacturing operation. And, again, these properties are located in the Stonewall Magisterial District. Directing your attention to the screen, there are two subject parcels. The parcel I'll refer to is the north parcel. The parcel is here, adjoining Route 37 and at the terminus of Stein Lane. This gray area here in the middle is the existing Metromont precast operation. And the second subject parcel, known as the southern parcel, is shown here. It is bounded by Route 522 and the boundary with the city of Winchester and the railroad line. And that parcel is shown in orange on our map, which is B2 zoning. Staff would note... that we did receive late proffer submission this afternoon from the applicants with new proffers that are different from those that are included in your staff report packet. Unfortunately, staff has not had an opportunity to thoroughly review those and cannot vouch for their completeness at this time. So the comments I'm going to make in the remainder of my presentation reflect the proffers that were included in your staff report and those issues that were outlined in the staff report. So I just want to make that clear to you all this evening that we did receive a late proffer. We have not received any submission today, but we have not been able to review it at this time. Since the Planning Commission meeting... At the Planning Commission meeting, staff advised the Planning Commission that the proffers that were dated September the 12th were complete. And unfortunately, after the meeting, when we took a deeper dive into those proffers, we realized that we had actually made that comment an error. And as a result of that, we did provide the applicant with additional comments asking them to revise the proffer statement before the Board of Supervisors meeting. Those are the proffers that are included in your staff report packet. Those are dated September the 30th. The revised proffer statement does not restrict the use of the property, both properties, to only those uses studied in the applicant's impact analysis statement and traffic study that were included with their application materials. As proposed, the M2 zoning on the southern parcel in particular, without restricting the development of those properties to only outdoor storage and tractor trailer truck parking, could have a significant negative impact on adjoining residential land uses. There's adjoining residential land uses. This is a map of the north parcel, which is the future land use map. This is the north parcel. It is shown in blue, which is our industrial future land use designation. And the southern parcel is outlined in orange, which is our business designation and reflects the current zoning of the property as B2. The comprehensive plan in the northeast land use plan identifies the north parcel, which is currently zoned RA as industrial, and the proposed M2 zoning is consistent with our land use plan. The southern parcel, currently zoned B2, is future planned for business, and the proposed zoning is inconsistent with our plan. However, staff would note that if the impacts of the M2 uses are properly mitigated, it may be appropriate given that it is adjoining an expansion to an existing operation. This is the general plan. The generalized development plan included with the application for your orientation here is future Route 37, sorry, existing Route 37 and Route 522. The northern parcel is shown here in red. Their existing operation is shown here in purple. And the southern parcel is shown here in red. The applicant in their proper statement includes two tree-save areas, a 100-foot tree-save area adjoining the railroad line and the existing residences within the city of Winchester. And a 75-foot tree-save area adjoining the Star Fort earthworks. Staff would note that the proffers that were included in your presentation are included in your packet address three areas of concern. They address the tree-save area, which is the screening from the residential uses. It addresses the traffic and access from Route 522. And it addresses, it restricts a number of uses. However, the uses that are restricted are the ones that are restricted, still allows for a number of uses that are potentially impactful on the adjoining properties. So the Planning Commission recommended approval of this on September 21st, 2022. Again, that Planning Commission action was based on a staff comment that the proffers received prior to the meeting were in fact complete. Again, after the meeting we learned that there was some incompleteness that needed to be addressed. This item is presented for a public hearing. And following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed rezoning application. I'm happy to answer any questions. Mr. Ty Lawson, representing the Metromont Corporation, is here this evening as well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Mr. Lawson, anything you'd like to add, sir? We're going to get there. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm a little bit puzzled. I've read the staff report about comments made in error and things that could have a significant negative impact or potentially impactful. And all those uses, as Mr. Klein recited, were presented to the Planning Commission, were vetted by the Planning Commission, and unanimously they recommended approval of this. Nevertheless, we did receive, as you all received, this most recent report, which is after the report that says it's fine and everything's been presented well and we've been through the Planning Commission with a unanimous recommendation of approval, that there were things made in error by staff. And we have met and we have revised proffers, and you all have seen that. And they are making yet additional concessions on the part of the property owners, so we're able to do that at the last minute. Nevertheless, with great disappointment, I've been advised that there's still some questions associated with that. I think Mr. Klein just said that they haven't been able to review those. And so we must ask for a table to the next Board's meeting, I guess, to allow for that analysis, and I guess to better explain the significant concessions that were made beyond what was unanimously recommended for approval by the Planning Commission. Also note that that next meeting happens to be on a night of the next Commonwealth Transportation Board meeting. So somehow I'm going to have to figure out a way to get back here for that. And we will. So, I'm sorry that we have to ask, very disappointed that we have to ask for the table, but we must. And I'm not sure what the process is, but I assume if it's tabled, it'll be tabled. But should this go forward in their comments, we would love the opportunity to respond to public comment, because I think we have very positive comments for those. So thank you for your time and your indulgence. If you would. Any questions of Mr. Lawson? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Mr. Lawson, I understand your other commitments with the transportation committees and your being possibly out of town for those. Would it be acceptable to you or others if we tabled it, not just to the end of the month, but to the first meeting in November? Would that be better suited for you and the applicant if that were to be tabled? I really appreciate that courtesy, but unfortunately, and as we have told staff and others, we are on a contract deadline for the end of this month. And so one way or the other, we're going to make this happen for the benefit of the client. And it is more than a little ironic to me of what the conflict is, because there's some things that are coming up that would be very beneficial for all of us. But one way or the other, Mr. Graber, we'll make it happen. And I appreciate your courtesy. Thank you. Any other questions of Mr. Lawson? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Thomas Moses. Yes, sir. Thank you. Welcome, sir. If we could have your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Yes, I live in the city of Winchester. My name is Thomas D. Moser, and I live approximately a quarter of a mile from this facility. And due to the noise and disruption of this 24-hour business, which is going to be booming even stronger now with the infrastructure plan going forward, I'm not sure if I can get you to answer that. But I do think this is a very important point. And it's a real question. I'm not sure if I can answer it, but I can also say, you know, as a public speaker, I would love to hear your thoughts. I would like to hear your thoughts on your thoughts and how you would like to see these changes go forward. This place puts off an extreme amount of lime dust, whiteout at times, if you will. When heavy rain comes now, the creek that passes through the railroad, Forget the noise and the wind, my biggest concern is taking up the volume of this flood plateau is what it is. In Hurricane Agnes, those 44 acres were filled to the top, water spilling over the railroad track and multiple houses flooded then. The more volume that's taken out of this field with the more extreme runoff from Sunnyside now, it's going to be a tragedy. It's going to be bad. I'll rest. Thank you, sir. Sam Riley. Welcome, sir. Yes, sir. How are you doing? I'm Sam Riley, living in Winchester, also one of the Pennsylvania Avenue residents. And the noise is terrible. You know, the movement of the crane that goes beep, beep. I can hear from a quarter mile away with my windows down. If I raise my windows, I have no hope of sleeping. What am I going to do with those windmills, Cam difficullite. My good Lord. Oh, they paid $100,000. It's who wants to watch right now. I know we ran the discussion a year ago with you about last weekend about how weather is going to change. I can't tell you what I want to do. If I don't do it, I'm going to get it as as much as I can, but until then I can't do that thing again, please deal with it. To be honest, the deer sounds frustrating to me. They just keep coming because I have all kinds of cool sounds, all the weird sounds and none of them feel right, but these may or may not be any good. Those deer have gone quiet. They're going to make some big changes. across this floodway already and it's changed the water tables in that field already and i can tell a difference in my basement really because i can tell water's being seeped underneath the ground there to the houses and everywhere else because it's not flowing up the creek it's actually flowing up the railroad tracks uphill right now because it's not flowing right and i'm just wondering how this is going to be like say when they put more infrastructure back there you know it just doesn't make sense but in the noise you know but thank you all for your time sir you know janet welcome ma'am just pull that microphone down to where it's comfortable there you go thank you uh i'm janet ligleiter and um i live on pennsylvania avenue just right across from this area that we're talking about and i just want you to know that um you know i'm a resident of pennsylvania and i live on pennsylvania avenue and i'm a resident of pennsylvania and i live on pennsylvania avenue and i live on pennsylvania avenue and i live on retired and i'm looking forward to i love winchester i'm from las vegas nevada and we moved here a few years ago and this area is so much better you know i mean than i've ever lived and my home is so beautiful and the area is green and trees and things that i've just never been used to after living in the desert for all this time and my concern is when i found out that this was going on that you know i'm going to miss a lot of the trees i know they say there's a tree area but that's gonna it's not going to be the same i'm really concerned about the flooding because there has been some change in it i don't know why i'm just a little girl now country girl used to be city girl but i'm also really um concerned you know about the noise right now when we moved there i didn't really know anything about the plant you know i just loved the house you know so when i was able to um first move there the noise was very really hard and yes in time i've gotten somewhat used to it but you can't sleep at night because of the noise if there's and i and i i'm all for you know progress and and all this and trying to make things good for everybody but you know i'm going to lose some of my beautiful backyard i'm going to lose some of my silence at night which is not a whole lot right now and i'm going to be worried about flooding in my backyard and and the people here are so wonderful and i just hope that you guys consider that i'm all for having them go ahead and do it but they need to make some some accommodations so that we still have my retired area that i have now chosen to be for the rest of my life in this wonderful little home that you guys choose to make things so i don't lose all that for progress because then it won't be progress for me thank you so much for listening to me thank you were there others signed up miss phillips no sir thank you mr lawson would you like an opportunity to address any of the comments you've heard we'll be pleased to to respond in in greater detail we did have uh along the way a visit with the city of winchester planning commission and as a result we put together a pretty significant presentation i think you all will be able to see it in the next few minutes and i hope that you all received that hopefully you received that uh certainly the city did and and mr pastorius is not here he he was but when we got the news uh he he went ahead and went on home but he can also speak to you about uh other activities that have occurred on site um as a result of some comments we've received to the rezoning that are that are very positive and again not to beat a dead horse but the proffers that we submitted uh greatly restrict activities so i think that helps uh address it as well so anyway i don't want to steal his thunder but we'll be happy to present that in in greater detail and i believe the comments we're talking about are on the property closer to 522 and and not the other site so it's very very localized um again thank you for your time thank you sir we'll close the public comment portion the chair would entertain motion? Okay, Judy go ahead. I'll make a motion to postpone. Table? I'll make a motion to postpone until October 28th, 26th. Motion to table to 10-26-22 in this room. Is there a second? Second. Second. Discussion? I'd like to make a comment to Mr. Lawson, and that would be as one member of the Board of Supervisors and possibly two or more. The 10-day differential between when your contract is meant to end and when we potentially could do this, I'm willing to amend this motion to push it back. If there's any possibility of doing that, it would be coming from us. Coming from Blaine Dunn and possibly Sean Graber and others to say, we are the ones that are requesting, because we are the ones that are requesting. Because we are the ones that are requesting. Because we are the ones that are requesting. Because we are the ones requesting. Because we are the ones that are requesting. Because we are the ones because we know you can't be two places at the same time, and seeing if the two parties aren't willing to go and push that back until the 11th. I'll just make that comment, and we can go from there. And my second comment would be, would you like to see this motion amended to the first meeting that we have in November? So, Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a motion, I'd like to amend my motion to move it to the... Yes. Briefly, please. I may have bobbed my head in acknowledgement of your motion, but with all due respect, we need to do this by the end of the month. It's beyond our control. It's another party. It's not my client. Okay. I do appreciate your consideration, both of you gentlemen's consideration. Okay. Withdrawing? I'll leave the motion. As is. Is there a second? I'm sorry, sir. Your motion will die for lack of a second. I had already seconded it. The original... I... The original... I think he said the original motion. He doesn't want to amend. He does not want to amend. He wants to leave his original motion as it was made, is what he was saying. All right. My fault. So, we'll go back to the motion as was stated. That's the table until 10-26-22. Thank you. Board meeting in this room. Is there any further discussion? Supervisor Graylor? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCartin? Aye. Supervisor Wells? This is absent. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. We'll table to the 10-26 meeting. That will bring us to conditional use permit 0622. Thank you. Thank you. And before the notification my desease to close jump on the fall commission, I want to ask Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Adler and I to make an app kaikki que крui big者 stone Kwesi Lallewa. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome. Members of the board. This is a conditional use permit before we use for a request for 180 foot monopole telecommunication tower. I have been located on seven acres of property that fronts both Baker Lane and Fort Collier Road. Steele district. The current zoning of the property is B2 General Business. If I could turn your attention to the map to your left, property is outlined in blue. The French County zoning ordinance allows for telecommunications facilities within the B2 zoning district with an approved conditional use permit. This proposed 180-foot monopole telecommunications facility will be located on property is within the county's urban development area and sewer water service area. Furthermore, it's identified in our comp plan as the with located within the Eastern Frederick County long-range land use plan. This area of the county according to our plan will remain commercial in nature. The adjacent properties from this conditional use permit are Zone B2 and B3, and there are some residential dwellings there are approximately 1,000 feet to the west of the county, and these are the areas where the actual and east of the property. Furthermore, the Frederick County zoning ordinance requires the applicant to provide confirmation that an attempt was made to co-locate on an existing telecommunication facility and possible co-location structures. The applicant has provided an inventory of existing telecommunications facilities. If I may, Mr. Chairman, at your dais tonight was the co-location that the applicant provided. However, it did not get to you tonight. So the reason I point that out is part of the procedure, you did not get to look at the sites that were looked at by the applicant prior to tonight. I mean, again, that was a fault of staff. It did not get sent out to you. Staff takes responsibility for that. That would be me, and I apologize for that because it may affect the decision. I did advise the applicant. He's aware of it. Of course, he's here to answer any questions that you may have because you did not get to go over something that the applicant provided for co-location. I just want to get that out. So if you have any questions, or have any questions, you have the applicant. Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, should the Board of Supervisors find this used to be appropriate, the Planning Commission at its September 21, 2022 meeting approved this additional use permit with the following conditions to be attached. Number one, all review agency comments and requirements should comply with at all times. Number two, the tire should be available for co-location of personal wireless service providers. Number three, a minor site plan should be approved by Frederick County. Number four, the tire shall be removed by the applicant or property owner within 12 months of abandonment. And number five, an event of telecommunication tire is not erected within 12 months. Other approved this condition or use permit, the condition, the use permit would be deemed invalid. Number six, any expansion or modification of this use will require a conditional use permit. This item is presented to the Board of Supervisors as a public hearing, and following the public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Board of Supervisors on this conditional use permit for a telecommunications tower. And for the record, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Henry is here to answer any questions that you may or may not have, or should be may have on this application. Staff will try to answer some of the, any questions that you have on this. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. Number one, it's 180 foot power. Is it required that they have a light on that to deal with plane traffic? I believe the airport authority has requested that, yes. So it's part of that. So if this were approved, will there be a light on that tower? There would be, yes. Number two, on page two of your report, it says once the entrance to the property is upgraded, the property will be replaced. So that's the first step. And then the second step is to make sure that the property is not removed. And then the third step is to make sure that the property is not removed. If it's not removed, then VDOT may approve. My question is, does, is the applicant required to upgrade to meet VDOT standards before this goes in or not? That is correct, they would, because we also have a minor site plan. Mr. Dunn would address that. So therefore, the applicant must upgrade to meet VDOT standards if the support approves it. Yes, sir. VDOT is one of the reviewing agencies, the minor site plan. So whatever VDOT required would be required to do on that site plan, sir. All right, thank you. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Chair and anyone? Thank you, sir. Is there anything the applicant would like to add? Good evening, everybody. My name's Kim Henry, for the ones of you who don't know me. As far as the light on it, once I, if you guys give me the approval on it, I file an application with the FAA for the lighting conditions. They make a determination down the road to see if there is gonna be a light on it or not. So the answer to that is not able to be answered at this point. But you will comply? Oh, I will absolutely comply with it. You really don't do that. That's not a prudent way to proceed. If there's any other questions, I'll more than answer them. Any questions? Mr. Kimber. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Did anyone come that would like to speak to this conditional use permit application? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Mrs. Stonewall. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I will move to postpone consideration of this matter until the board's either October 26 or November 9, depending on what Mr. Henry, after I read these various things that we would need to provide in this supplemental information for this application. So we would need to permit the applicant additional time to provide supplemental information to the board in support of his application as code section 165-204.19 requires, including a further explanation of the search area used in the siting, the proposed tower, in particular, the radius used. Specifically, whether it was a half mile, three mile, or some other distance and reasons regarding the specific radius used. Appropriateness of co-location at towers, antenna sites within the same distance, or less than those that the applicant identified on page one of his materials, including sites at or near 1216 Berryville Avenue, 103 Piccadilly Street, 193 Eddy's Lane, 143 Greenwood Road, 220 Imboden Drive, and 1122 Ralph Shockey Drive. For sites appropriate for co-location, verified evidence of attempts to contact the owner, such as return receipts, documentation of any responsive communication from the owners of such sites, an affidavit, a document attested to before a notary of public by the applicant that he is aware that he may be held responsible for the removal of the tower upon discontinuing.WA》 When each of your items is большой, you might write,:" Philippine Animal Protection Office warming down Сегодня Шахт 254 Polite Animal Protection Service's Att Assass prepare Dir répuszt ."hn Wook Uquiera Grzegorz Uieg Zg data, different things that could be transactions that can happen on a tower at any given time. With the growing population that we are having, it is requiring more towers by these providers in order to meet the growing needs of the community. When we are on our smartphones, tablets, other things, using data, utilizing our phones, it takes more towers, more equipment to handle that. Even if we co-located on some other towers, they may or may not be capable of handling the data or be in a direct line of sight as is required for a lot of these units to properly function. While I will support the motion that's made this evening, I really do believe, I've seen it a couple times in this county, that we need to be a little more considerate of our growing community and the desires and needs of the communications as most or many of our populace are going away from landlines. We need to be a little more considerate of our growing community and the desires and needs of the communications as most or many of our populace are going away from landlines. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Other comments, discussion, anyone? Table to a future meeting. Next or the following. Is that okay? Mr. Henry, do you have a preference as to October 26th or November the 9th as to when you could compile this information? November the 9th. Okay, very well. So then I would move to postpone it then until November the 9th. Will I get a list? Yes, sir, you will. All right, first meeting in November. Further discussion? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells is not with us. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Grumman? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That'll bring us to CUP 0722. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this application for a conditional use permit is for a daycare facility. The five-acre property is located at 281 Jeremiah Lane. That's in Clearbrook within the Stonewall Magisterial District. And the zoning is RA. This is a location map showing the parcel outlined in blue. I would note the parcel below that one outlined in blue is the open-door Baptist Church where the daycare is currently being operated out of. The applicant proposes having up to 74 children and 13 staff members utilizing the existing residential dwelling as the daycare facility from the hours of 7.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The entrance to the church will be opened on the weekday Monday through Friday. The existing church entrance and the driveway will be used for the vehicles to loop around the church and exit back onto Jeremiah Lane for pickup and drop-off of the kids. So this sketch map just shows that where the cars would be coming in on Jeremiah Lane as they do to visit the church. They would loop around the church and then have pickup and drop-off here and then exit back onto Jeremiah Lane that way. The definition of a zoning of in the zoning ordinance of a daycare facility is listed in this first bullet and a daycare facility is allowed in the RA district with an approved CUP. And the comprehensive plan designates this parcel as for business and this is in line with that intended use. Should the board find this application to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions be assigned to this CUP. First one is that all review agency comments must be complied with at all times. Number two is that the applicants must satisfy the licensing requirements of the social services department and also get a Frederick County business license. The third is that an engineered site plan must be approved prior to the establishment of the use. Number four is that one business sign would be allowed associated with this CUP. Two, the specifications. The requirements of not to exceed 50 square feet or 12 feet in height. And finally, any expansion or change of use will require a new CUP. The Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval on September 21st, 2022. And this item is presented for public hearing. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors. And I'm happy to answer any questions, but while I'm up here, I'll also introduce the applicant. Ms. Tina Sopcich. Ms. persones Detroit is here to represent the daycare. And she would be happy to answer any questions as well. SECRETARY TILLERSON. Thank you. Questions? Staff, anyone? Just wanted to confirm?ội Thank you. Pardon me? I just want to confirm that... I'm sorry. I guess it didn't get it up fast enough. SECRETARY TILLERSON. Mr. Chairman. As I understand this application, it would be in the residence that is existing there presently, correct? Correct. And has the fire marshal, has there been any discussion with the fire marshal? I looked at the packet. I didn't see anything there that would recommend, but has there been any recommended upgrades as far as for life safety related events as it was built as a private dwelling? And how is that, what does that look like? I believe, well, the fire and rescue department did comment on it. I believe the applicant mentioned at the planning commission meeting that they did meet with fire marshal to discuss a life safety plan, but would move forward with that after the CUP would be approved. Thank you. Thank you. The applicant have anything they'd like to add? Not unless you have any questions. Yes, sir. Mr. McArthur. Thank you. Up to the podium, I'd appreciate it. Just pull the microphone. So in the health department's comments, they had commented that the septic system was insufficient for the number of children and staff that you have, that you plan to have on site. Do you have a plan to upgrade that? And is it possible to upgrade that septic system to handle the size of the population you are intending to have on the site? Yes, we do. We contacted them. We actually got a quote for the amount that we can, that it'll cost to do it. And we are financially stable to make that happen. Okay. Very good. That's the only question I had, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you. Other questions? Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. I read through your item and I'm in favor of what you're trying to do, but I have some concerns. 74 children in a three bedroom house is crowded. So are you open to having a additional condition put on it, which would basically limit your item to 80 children and 15 employees? Your application calls for 74 and 13. And the reason I'm making the comment is that with no cap, potentially, you could put a new building in there with a thousand children, et cetera. So not to say you would, but because I have concern on that, I'm looking to cap that. It's a little bit more than what you have, but are you willing to accept that as a condition? Absolutely. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you, ma'am. You're welcome. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Did anyone come that would like to speak to the public? No, sir. Did anyone come that would like to speak to this application? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. This is Stonewall. Yes, sir. I guess you want the motion, but I just want to clarify that with regard to the health department and the fire safety plan and that sort of thing, that would all come under agency review comments. Okay. And so nothing would be allowed on this property until all of the agency review requirements are addressed and so forth, and the inspections and so forth. So I want to make that clear. So I would make a motion to approve the conditional use permit 0722 for Open Door Baptist Church. I heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. Second. Thank you. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vice-President Dunn. Based upon my comments, I'd like to make an amendment to Mrs. Slaughter's item, and the amendment would simply say that the maximum capacity shall be no more than 80 children and 15 employees on this property. I'll second it. I'll second. Discussion? I'd like to comment that by code, any job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job, or any type of job that is not a permanent job. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Discussion? Any change would require a new conditional use permit that would come back before us. I don't think your motion is necessary. My question is, is there any restriction in our conditional use permit as presented that would limit it at the amount that they are requesting? I didn't see any affirmative language. I would say it's limited, so therefore I think the motion might be necessary. It's a bit of a complex situation, and we actually conceptually discussed that when we were practicing the presentation are thinking on it as if they were to demolish the structure prior to applying for a minor site plan and construct a structure that was larger since the condition use permit didn't speak to that structure it may be possible however once the site plan is established for the property as the chairman mentioned anything that changes that's not on that site plan would constitute an expansion of the conditional use permit require a new new permit there's an open window between now and the site plan being submitted that could lead so I think it's an appropriate limit at this point further discussion anyone yes sir I concur with what supervisor McCarthy said has stated as well as supervisor done with the size of the property that is there I can't see any more than that number of individuals on that current building as it is presented and I agree that the safeguards need to be in place not only for now but future down the road depending upon where this work were to go so I appreciate the motion but also appreciate the amendment to it you and we'll support it further discussion anyone mr. yes sir supervisor at the Planning Commission there was quite a bit of discussion of that many children and adults on the property and there was a lengthy discussion about fire safety and it was noted that the way the land is graded both levels of the property do have an exit out an easy exit for anyone in emergency so with that the Planning Commission did support this thank you yes sir anyone else all right this is the amendment motion to amend and change the numbers 80 and 15 and 15 are we ready supervisor Graber hi supervisor done my supervisor McCarthy supervisor slaughtered I supervisor Ludwig I chair votes I and the motion carries you So this is to approve the amended motion. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Wells is absent. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. The amended motion is replacing the original. Things as to board liaison reports, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Since our last meeting, there were meetings of the Planning Commission and the Social Services Board. Of course, you've heard already much of the work of the Planning Commission. But the Planning Commission did hold a work session dedicated to an application on rezoning for Fruit Hill. County Planning Department and VDOT have a number of issues that were discussed with the applicant. The application will be formally heard at the Planning Commission meeting of November 2nd and is scheduled to come before this board on November 9th. The Social Services Board held a regular meeting focused on Adult Protective Services. I also reported on my tour of Timber Ridge School, as I mentioned earlier, and I hope that the county will explore innovative partnerships such as this. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Liaison reports? Anyone else? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue that you might like to bring to the attention of the board? Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Is there anyone here that would like to comment to the board? Seeing no one. Well, I'm sorry. Yes, ma'am. Please. Just pull that microphone. There you go. My name is Joyce Barr, and I'm in the Gainesboro District. And I'm coming to comment about the upcoming tax rate discussion. We received our assessments, and of course, our property values went up significantly across the board. And we would like to thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Phillips, I would like to comment on a little bit of a different issue that I want to bring to the attention. I want to come back to our current budget. I think that one of the significant issues is that the school board is going to be funding tax cuts. And I think that, in fact, I am supporting revenue neutral. Therefore, that would be a decrease in the tax rate, especially because there are many in our neighborhood and area who are on fixed incomes. And with the increasing inflation, it's a great concern. are many in our neighborhood and area who are on fixed incomes and with the increasing inflation it's a great concern the the other thing I would like to mention is a the school board I am curious as to when the forensic audit is going to occur because as a a citizen of this area I'd love to see what's going on with the budget thank you thank you sir anyone else seeing none okay citizen comments board comments anyone supervisor McCarthy chairman follow-up to miss bars comments hi and I'm sure all of you received significant numbers of emails phone calls after the new personal property tax and real estate tax bills the assessments came out for the real estate taxes the one thing I would point out because I think there was some misconception that we somehow are in control of those audits we have no authority over the values of your homes so if you feel like it your home was overvalued or undervalued you have the option to dispute that through the commissioners tax review process so reach out to the Commissioner of accounts or the Commissioner of the revenue on that process but the Board of Supervisors has no role in setting the values of homes that being said though we do have a significant role to play in setting the tax rate when the time comes so we do have the option of looking at whether or not to lower the tax rate as Miss Barr had suggested or keep it the same or raise it hopefully we can see the tax rates remain around neutral but just if you do have a concern about your valuation please reach out directly to the Commissioner of the revenue on that that aspect Thank You mr. chairman thank you anyone else Supervisor Dunn I'd like to see if the seven of us could possibly get together at the prior to the November meetings so we have a seven o'clock board meeting maybe get together at 5 or 530 and just spend a little bit of time with the others and a little time between them space and where and what the steps have become if there's any happenings being come but let me just state what a was the time so the aquellos have actually talked aboutwan we as board members would like to see in a budget it such as an informal opportunity to get together to say this where we take priorities are this where we think they aren't so I'm just seeing if there's consensus to get together and just have a work session so we can have some input on before the administrator I understand that, but we only have one meeting, so I'm just looking to get together and have a conversation. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would concur with Supervisor Dunn's comments. You know, in the past, we always have waited until all the departments put forth their budget, and then we would be left to, I shouldn't say fight over the scraps, but to have those discussions after all those were in. I think it is only fair. I think it is only this board's responsibility to give our staff, to give our department heads, to give our county administrators some direction on what we would like to see in the budget as the ones who ultimately have to set the tax rate and fund those programs that we believe are the most needed in our community. So I would concur with Supervisor Dunn's comments that we do meet in November and that we come forward and bring some ideas forward that would be helpful. One thing that I think that we should discuss, and I'm just going to lay this out as an example, we have a lot of units in the county. What do I mean by units? I mean cars. I mean fire trucks. I mean ambulances. I mean. I mean. Sheriff's Department vehicles. I mean equipment at Shawnee Land as far as heavy equipment, other types of equipment at the landfill. That's a lot of equipment. I think we could do or be well served as a board to have an individual who is knowledgeable upon equipment, when it should be replaced, a motor pool type of individual who could make good seasoned recommendations to this board on how we should proceed with that. And I believe there could be a lot of money saved for the taxpayer as well as some equipment that may need to be upgraded would have those things identified as well. But have those conversations now. I think that position would be a good position to have. And I think that would be something we should push out before all these different committees come forth with their budget proposals. But I think it would be imperative that we as a board do have that conversation. I'd like to go back to a couple other things that were mentioned this evening by Ms. Barr, and I appreciate her standing up and speaking this evening. We all received a report from the school board from their budget, and all of you would note that I believe there have been few, that have been more vocal than myself, on the need to be able to see where monies are being spent in the school division. I even gave examples this spring of a line item budget from Rockingham County, North Carolina, that showed expenditures within their budget that you could break down by location. The budget that we received was supposedly broken down into detail for us, has information contained therein that still shows, right? Robert Aylor being built in 1869 with its old capacity, and those numbers are being used to show the average ages of our schools. It's not an accurate report. On top of that, there's a lot of lists for repairs in there, which is great. I appreciate the list for repairs. My question is, is where were the repairs done? There are pages and pages and pages of repairs. It says repairs and maintenance, and it has a number affixed to it. One of them is for over half a million dollars. I'm glad that we spent a half a million dollars to fix something. It was probably a lot of money. It was probably a big need. But I'd like to know where it was fixed, because there's nothing there that shows. I have to wonder. My concern is, is a year ago, I believe exactly this month, or well, I guess last month in September, we approved money to fix the HVAC systems for the maintenance garage, which was built brand new 10 years ago. The HVAC systems that were put in there were supposedly 20-year commercial systems. My concern is we are 10 years into a 20-year commercial system. Has the system not been maintained? Has the system, was the system installed? Was it installed improperly? Why are we replacing a system at half of its life cycle? And why did we put over $800,000 towards it, which has yet to this day be spent? I asked my school board representative last month if the repairs had been done since we had allocated the money a year ago, and the work has not even begun. It is with the engineers. My concern is, is if the repair was that critical, was that important, that we would have hopefully had some engineering work done and known exactly what we needed before we allocated. And then have sat on the money for a year is concerning to me. I believe that money could have been used for other things. I've been asked by fellow supervisors to hold off on this request, but I'm not going to hold off on it any longer. I would like to formally request that we have a forensic audit of the school system to know where our money is going. The concern that I have is we have a new superintendent coming in at some point in the future. We had a superintendent that left. We had an assistant superintendent that left. We had an interim superintendent who promised us a transparent budget, who in comments surrounding that departure, while I won't say he was forced out, he hasn't contacted us back, some of us who have reached out to him, it has become apparent that there were some people that were upset with the transparency that he was being willing to provide us. I would like to see a forensic audit performed so that as the new school superintendent who comes in, whomever that is, will know exactly what he or she is looking at when he or she walks through that door. So that there's some sense of certainty in what he is walking into. What that also provides is for this board to see a true fundamental, have a true fundamental knowledge of where the money is being spent. Not saying that there are any improprieties, but we will truly know where our money is being spent. On top of that, it takes away a lot of the argument that this board would ever have on where is the money being spent. What are you spending the money on? Because right now, as a supervisor, I've done a lot of digging, and I still don't know. I think a forensic audit. Is imperative. And I would like to make that a motion tonight that we ask for, we set the process in motion to request a forensic audit of the Frederick County public school system. I'll make that as a motion. Second the motion. And a second. All right. We were discussing another issue. So let's go back to that one. I'm looking for a consensus that wants a work session prior to the November meeting. I'll support it. I'll support that. And I have two. I'll support that. Thank you. We will hold a, how long a meeting do you want? I'm thinking if we started at five, it gives us the time to do what we need to do and take a break before our seven o'clock meeting. Is that amenable? I'm asking you guys. I'd like a five o'clock meeting, sir. Okay. We're looking for a five o'clock work session before our November meeting. All right. Now we're going to come back. Yes. Discussion on the motion. Yes. Supervisor Graber, just because I don't know exactly what, how to define a forensic audit, nor what the cost would be. Would you be willing to clarify the motion to direct the county administrator to come back to us with a definition of what a forensic audit would look like and contain costs? And maybe even one or more proposals as far as costs. I would amend my motion to say such if I. Okay. Question. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. What I understand, forensic audits are designed to find fraud. I believe the school board does go through and they do an audit of the items. I don't think that a, I could be wrong, but I don't think a forensic audit will show you where monies are as much as what, where it was spent. So I'm not quite sure it's going to achieve the objective you're looking to achieve as opposed to getting the school board to just lay out a more detailed budget similar to what you had proposed a few months ago from probably Rappahannock or someplace else. So I'm not quite sure that this is going to go and provide the details that you're looking for. And I'm not at this point in time, I'm not, I don't think there's a fraud issue. So from everything I understand, forensic audits are designed for fraud. So we're not trying to find fraud. We're just trying to find out where money's gone. And I won't know seeing where money's gone, but I don't think you have to go through that process to achieve it. Mr. Chairman. Just to follow up, Supervisor Dunn on the comment. That's why I had to ask whether we could amend the motion to clarify what the audit would entail. Because I share your concern. I don't know that there's any suspicion of fraud, but there's certainly been five years in my experience, probably six in your experience of consternation and asking for detail that we haven't been given. And if the school board can't give us that detail, then perhaps an independent person could review the documents, get us the answers and provide whatever those details are. So I think we need to be able to provide Mr. Bolhofer some guidance as far as what are we expecting out of this and come back with a proposal as to what that would look like. That's why I was concerned about the description of what is this audit? What is a forensic audit? What should it entail? So I don't know how best we move forward with getting Mr. Bolhofer that definition. Or whether he needs to come back to us and say here are some options for you all to consider and let us choose from those options. But I do think we need to move forward. I appreciate the fact that we got a data dump and the most recent budget document. But and it was helpful in some respects. I have to be honest and say it did have information that we've never been privy to before. But it was prepared in such a way that it makes it very difficult still to interpret because it's been put together as part of the greater budget document. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think it's a good point. I think it's a good point. I think it's a good point. It requires a lot of back and forth referencing. It's difficult to do in the format that it's in. I suppose if the school board wants to avoid having to go through a process with an audit, they could come back to us and say, okay, what information and what format are you looking for? Rather than just giving us a dump of spreadsheets of data with no real indication as to where the money was spent, for what purpose the money was spent, those types of things. So I'm open to having that continued discussion. But we haven't been having this discussion. We haven't had this discussion for five years. So I think something needs to happen. Supervisor Ludwig. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was going to say similar words that this motion, Supervisor Dunn, is to get us feedback from the county administrators on exactly what such an audit could provide to us, how much it would cost. And then we'd be advised as to whether we think it'll help on our journey to understand the budget better. I do want to point out I've gone through the latest school budget for. Fiscal year 23 in some detail. And it is still a little bit difficult just to point out to the public. There are a number of tables in it. Some of them are listed as category. Categories of funding. But none of them are of the nine official categories that the state specifies should be categorized in a budget that's presented to the public and presented to a board. I had several other comments. But. I think I'll just. Limited to one more. And that is there are a number of counties in this state that use the same software that our school system uses. And a lot of us have been digging and looking for better formats to help the school to find a format that gives us what we can understand and what we think the public would like to see. And we found some examples that we put on the table and we can put on the table again. It also divides things up by school. So for parents who are interested in exactly what's going on in their school, they wouldn't have to go through all the county data. Or if they want to compare one school to another, they'd be able to do that. So I think there are great examples out there that are. Would be no burden. I don't want to increase the burden on the school administration to provide and settle this matter. And lastly, I talked to the county administrator, Mr. Ballhoffer, about whether these examples we were looking at could also be matched at the same level of detail. By the departments of the county. So that we're not unfairly asking the school system for a lot of the detail that's different from what we're willing to provide from the other county departments. And he's assured me that although our software is different, we can follow the same standards and provide the same kind of data. So we would have trans, the public would have transparency and reasonably equally into all departments. Of course, they're all a little different. The sheriff doesn't have, you know, as much training and teachers. They won't be identical. But they would be at the same level of detail. And I think that would resolve a lot of the issues we had last year. So I do support a motion to look into any way we can get a hold of this data. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Ludwig, I appreciate your work. I'll support the motion to just see what the parameters are. But just as you said, the administrator has other schools in which he said, we can look. I have some comparisons. So before we go and execute a forensic budget, I'd like to see what those things are. And that's going to take a little time. I know the administrator, I understand, has talked to some other people on this board with examples of things that are maybe more readable than the current budget we have. So I'd like to see that before I come and cast a vote for a forensic audit. So, Mr. McCarthy, I'll support the parameters on what you want to do. I'm not prepared to support the trigger yet. Because I'd like to do my homework and see what the other options are before we go. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I'd call for the question. Supervisor? Yes. Do we need a motion to ask the administrator? We have a motion. Okay. That's the problem. Got it. It just seems like we can ask the county administrator to have done that for us. We have to deal with the motion on the floor. Anyone else? Supervisor Graver. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells is absent. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and a motion carries. All right. Any other board comments? Mr. Chairman, I have a couple. Thank you. In regard to transportation and up on the screen, just as a reminder that the Northeast Land Use Plan public meetings are coming up. Tuesday, October 18th at the Jordan Spring Elementary School at 630 p.m. And also Tuesday, October 25th at 630 p.m. at the Stonewall School. And this is a wonderful opportunity for public participation to review and ask questions about the Northeast Land Use Plan, which roughly covers about 21,000 acres. And let's see. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. We've started a process. Last December to update and review this. And it's been a very long and tedious process. We had a citizen committee group. And then it's gone to the CPPC. And the Planning Commission is now looking at it as well. So I do encourage people to come out. We don't update these very often. And this one's been probably 13 years, I think, since it's been updated. So certainly would love to have public feedback. if you can attend one of those public meetings. The second thing I'd like to remind the public of is that on November 10th, beginning at 6 p.m. in this boardroom, the Frederick County boardroom at 107 North Loudoun Street, we will have an annual transportation forum. And at the transportation forum, we will have our Transportation Commonwealth Board representatives, Mr. Merrill, Mr. Lawson, if he's able to attend. We also have our VDOT representatives here, our state legislators who can attend and or their representatives. And it's a wonderful time for the public to have that interaction. If you have concerns about transportation issues, there were also Mr. Bishop, who is our transportation director. He too will make a presentation. And probably review some of the projects that we've accomplished over this past year. And also let you know what projects are in the pipeline. And there's a lot of complexity with all the transportation issues and the process, the grants and so forth that we receive. So I do encourage you to come. It's a great opportunity to interact with our representatives. And that concludes my remarks, sir. Thank you. Any other comments? Vice Chairman McArthur. Mr. Chairman, motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Those no. We'll stand adjourned. We thank you all for your participation and your patience. We are taking time tofund on our elegance on public matters, as well as public 하 driving and public health. Thank you. Now you're 수 jokes sumos may phocas reasons you been suddenly out. Do not use right words when using your keyboard. Do not use right нi domestic yang qui you talk with the teacher. Notice that if you want to say it right you're on. Judge 만 Bror if I have a difficult one you stay. The downloads all thet his blocked test. hxx1l1s6s, you may be d街en ahi chian I can't do that.
