Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-07-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=357
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, everybody. I call to order the board of supervisors Wednesday, July 8th, 2026 board meeting to order. For our invocation tonight, we're going to have our vice chair do the invocation. I'll bow our heads in prayer, please. Dear Lord, we pray for our country, our state, and our county to remain strong. We pray that our people on all levels will assume their obligations with the Holy Spirit guiding their decisions. And as they live up to these obligations, they will bring honor on themselves and to their fellow citizens. We pray for all of those who are suffering and those who are caretakers, for those who have devoted their lives to the protection of their fellow citizens. And we pray that our days will be happy, peaceful, and worry-free. And that we will feel the joy of your love and your love for us. And that we will feel the joy of your love and your love for us. And that we will feel the joy of your love and our heart and the peace you bring to our soul. We pray all of these prayers in your holy name. Amen. Amen. Please stand. Join me for the Pledge of Allegiance, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. and than anyone, all這一 Christmas, and all these years in which we share land, sea, nature, Stat Oi Teah Şempнойâ And to theント Hey there. You see it? Yeah. Yes, Mr. Chairman. Welcome. Thank you for joining us remotely. And what I will do tonight is when we have to do a vote, I will call on you first, sir. Okay? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Okay. Next item up is adoption of the agenda. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move we adopt the agenda as presented. I have a motion. Second. I have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Okay. We are good to go. Agenda's been adopted. The next item up is citizens' comments. Now, folks, this is for agenda items that are not the subject of a public hearing. Madam Clerk. Yes, sir. We have a fairly long list this evening. We will start with Charlene Anderson. So when everybody comes up, we ask that you get your agenda up. We will give your name, your magisterial district, and you have three minutes. Thank you, ma'am. My name is Charlene Anderson. I'm from the Shawnee District, and I live on Airport Road, and I live next door to AMK Properties that's subject to natural sensitive areas that he wants to do. Our concern is my nephew and them live next to us and us. How is this going to affect us as homeowners? How is it going to affect any of businesses that this property surrounds or butts up against? Will there be any restrictions on homeowners or businesses if this is approved? And down the line, if anything changes, how will that affect us? Those are our concerns. So far, it's better than having a bunch of homes around us, but that's our main concern, sir. Thank you all. Thank you, ma'am. Donald Matlock followed by Brian Nury. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the board. My name is Donny Matlock, and I live on Babs Mountain Road right in front of the path of Valley Links proposed study routes for its Valley North project. That's in Gainesboro. That's in the Gainesboro District. My neighbors and I are here tonight to formally present Shaping the Route. It's a report that we prepared for the board. We wrote it because we didn't want to come here with just objections. We wanted to come here with ideas. Together, we have spent a great deal of time and energy learning how other Virginia counties have handled the transmission projects. Just like what we are seeing here in Frederick County and what Frederick County can learn from their experience. Our first message is simple. These transmission lines don't belong in our backyards. They don't belong cutting through our farms and fields. They don't belong cutting through our farms and fields. They don't belong cutting through our farms and fields. destroying our trees and waterways, or changing the views that make Frederick County the place we all love. Second, we think that the conversation needs to change. Over the last few weeks, we've heard that while the board may oppose these lines, the ultimate decision rests with the State Corporation Commission. We understand that. But this really isn't an argument about whether the transmission lines should be built. Fifteen years ago, the PATH project was ultimately abandoned because the projected demand for the line disappeared. Today, we're facing the opposite situation. Energy demand is growing, driven largely by data centers. And Virginia counties have not historically succeeded in stopping transmission lines where the SEC has identified a need. So the question before this board isn't simply whether the lines should be built. It's how Frederick County influences where they should go before Valley Link files its application with the SEC. Other Virginia counties have shown that local governments can shape routing decisions that will make it easier for the state to implement the lines. When they act early and use the tools that they already have at their disposal. Finally, and third, we're not asking you to move the problem off Babs Mountain Road to somebody else's backyard. We're asking you to adopt countywide policies that encourage responsible transmission siting. Policies that favor existing utility corridors and commercial and industrial areas, while protecting our neighborhoods, farms, streams, and other characteristics that make Frederick County special. That's what this report is about. And it's why we're placing it in your hands tonight. I'd also like to formally request time at maybe the next meeting or with your staff for my neighbors and me to present our findings and recommendations with you directly. We appreciate the opportunity to walk you through the report, answer your questions, and discuss how the recommendations could help the county shape the best possible outcome before the next Valley Link comment deadline of August 14th. Thank you for your time and your service to our community. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Brian Nury, followed by Alan Hahn. Good evening, members of the board. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opecan District. I'm not going to belabor the fact that Frederick County doesn't want high-voltage lines coming through our valley. We're not the power conduit for Northern Virginia, and we aren't the power conduit for Northern Virginia data centers. So the resolution as drawn up by the county, I think, should be a unanimous vote tonight. Concerning that vote, I would like to make a verbal FOIA request of the financial records of every member of this board to determine whether or not members of this board may or may not have conflicts of interest concerning power companies like Dominion, Valley Link, or any relevant companies that would have data centers either in Frederick County or Loudoun County. So I'll talk to the FOIA officer about that, but I hope you guys make the right decision. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Alan Hahn, followed by Brian Nury. And followed by Nick Floyd. Alan Hahn, Gainesboro. Since y'all are considering a resolution against Valley Link, I don't know if y'all wear a moral. I would like for y'all to consider a resolution against moral and intervene at the state commission. Are y'all aware or more? Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. Nick Floyd, followed by Robert Buchenshop. Good evening, Chairman and members of the board. My name is Nick Floyd. I'm from the Gainesboro District. I grew up here in Frederick County. This county is home. It's where I was born and raised, and where my wife and I chose to build our life together. We bought a home as newlyweds, and we love the land and hope to raise our family here. We're expecting our first child in September. And like every parent, we've been thinking about a future we want to give him. We even imagine putting a swing set out behind the house. These power lines will be going right over that area where that swing set was going to be. Instead, we're facing the reality that our home sits about 100 feet from right away, and our well is just 10 feet. This is not just a line on a map to us. It is right behind our home. It affects how we live, how we feel in our own yard, and we hoped would be the foundation for our future. We're also hoping that our home will be a place where we can live and grow. We're hoping that our home will be a place where we can grow and grow. We're hoping that our home will be a place where we can grow and grow. Instead, we're facing the reality that our home sits about 100 feet from right away, and our well is just 10 feet. This is not just a line on a map to us. It is right behind our home. It affects how we live, how we feel in our own yard, and we hoped would be the foundation for our family's future. To be honest, it's heartbreaking. We did everything the right way. We worked hard, saved, and chose this property because we believed it would be a place to grow into for years to come. Now we're being told that a massive transmission line could change the future of our home. We're hoping that our home will be a place where we can live and grow. Instead, we're facing the reality that our home sits about 100 feet from right away, and our well is just 10 feet. This is not just a line on a map to us. It affects how we live, how we feel in our own yard, and we hoped would be the foundation for our family's future. To be honest, it's heartbreaking. We did everything the right way. We worked hard, saved, and chose this property because we believed it would be a place to grow into for years to come. Now we're being told that a massive transmission line could change all of that. I have a picture of the Blue Ridge Mountains right here on my arm, and I'm afraid that I might have to add a transmission line going through there. I appreciate your notion against this resolution or against the power lines. I appreciate that. But I also want to point to Culpeper County. They haven't just expressed concern. They've taken a stronger, more active approach, including seeking counsel to appeal to the SEC and push back on the project. I believe Frederick County should be willing to do the same. If this project is going to move forward, then the county should not simply watch from the sidelines. It should stand up, get legal help, and fight for the residents the same way Culpeper is doing. I'm asking you not to let Frederick County simply absorb the burden while other communities benefit. Please push back. Demand the project be moved as possible. I'm asking you to support the project. I'm asking you to stand with the people of Frederick County and help protect the place we call home. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Robert Budenhop. Robert Budenhop, followed by Scott Lynch. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Robert Budenhop. I live in the Opecan District. What I'm here to talk about is the transmission lines from this valley north. The gentleman that spoke before, I agree with everything he said. I don't think we should be the conduit for Northern Virginia's problems for these data centers. These high-tension wires are, towers are larger and bulkier. They're unsightly. They will affect the property values of the people that are contiguous to this, also affecting the people that are living in the area. So I would like to ask the department to think about the future of these data centers. I don't think we should be the conduit for Northern Virginia's problems for these data centers. I think we should be the conduit for Northern Virginia's problems for these data centers. These high-tension wires are, towers are larger and bulkier. They're unsightly. They will affect the property values of the people that are contiguous to this. Also there are health risks. I think that Frederick County should be left alone. Northern Virginia let them solve their own problems with their power. We shouldn't have to be in the middle of this. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Scott Lynch, followed by Rysa Hulsey. Good evening. I'm Scott Lynch. I live in Clearbrook in the Stonewall District. And I'm against the Power Line project because I think it's, they're only putting it in there because they're trying to push that data center down our throats in Clearbrook. If they don't have the power, they won't get the data center. So let's put a stop to it. If it's not going to benefit us in the county, I don't think we need it. Thanks. Thanks, sir. Rysa Hulsey, followed by Teri Flynn. Good evening. My name is Rysa Hulsey. I'm from the Back Creek District. I live in Gore, Virginia. And the Valley Link transmission lines are going to be about 300 feet from my home with my children. I asked for courageous leadership of the Board of Supervisors. I asked that they look at what Culpeper County did. I asked that they direct our county attorney to seek intervener status at the State Corporation Commission. I asked that you authorize funding for outside counsel and expert witnesses to set aside a portion of the budget to pay for any legal fees for fighting against power lines. Culpeper has set aside $250,000 to support Texas. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. And thank you. Teri Flynn,й you also joined the Regional Coalition. Thank you. Followed by Rebecca Rager. Hi, I'm Terry Flynn. I am with the Back Creek District. I agree with everything that everybody has said tonight. We had, when we talked to the health people at Valley Link, their only comment was, with these power tires, that we would feel tingling up our arms. They had no mention of the radiation, the health hazards to any one of us. I'm three doors down from RISA, so these power lines are going to directly affect us. And my question is, what happens in the probably very near future when the data centers are out of date, when these lines will be out of date, what's going to happen then? And then my only other question is, I would be curious to know how many of you on the board are for this proposal. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Rebecca Rager. Rebecca Rager, followed by David Dixon. Hey, my name is Rebecca Rager. I'm with the Gainesville District. I'm part of the Babs Mountain Coalition. We found out about these transmission lines by accident on a Thursday evening. We had gotten the information from Valley Link that said, your house might be affected, so please come out and see. And then our neighbor found the map by accident. It doesn't just cut through our entire neighborhood, destroying countless lives. It also cuts through, directly through our water easement and the area that we have been working on for years to create a working farm. This is my family's dream. This is something that we moved here to do. And the culmination of it to then be this close to then be told, we're going to take a 200-foot easement that you're going to pay taxes on and we're going to do what we'd like with it. If that does go through, not only does my family lose the beauty of our natural resources, that we have on our farm, we also would be in breach of our contract with the state, which means that everything the state has put in would then be on our shoulders to pay back. So what Valley Link is coming out here to do, they see empty land. It's not empty land. It's a family farm. It's family's backyards. These gentlemen have a beautiful meadow that is the most peaceful thing that you could ever see. We picked this place because of that. And this is where we're looking to, you know, grow old. So I would ask that the board consider this. I appreciate what you did today with the stance that you put out. But as other people are asking to have a stronger hand in this for your residents, I'm also the person that created the petition. I know I gave it to you, Mr. Jewell, at the Valley Link. It is now up to a thousand residents who are standing in support of the neighbors here and across Frederick County that don't want their livelihoods and their lives destroyed. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. David Dixon, followed by Frank Yerkovic. David Dixon, Stonewall District. First and foremost, thank you to every board member for opposing the Valley Link project. The ones personally affected are going through so much stress having to deal with this, having worked so hard for what we have to have it taken away. We the people of the county request that the constituents of the county intervene in the Gore-Dubbs-Goose Creek case. And we have a petition to underground both lines. Hood, just like Dominion, is doing for the 185 mile Heritage Mosby case. Also, the approval for the substation on Jolene Drive needs to be retracted. It does not feed Frederick County, nor does it meet our county comprehensive plan. Loudoun County just retracted the substation approval, so you all can too. This one is in a pending court hearing over HOA violations. I have the 500 kilovolt moral project trying to run behind me with the next era. Then I have the proposed Valley Link trying to run in front of my house through my family farm over top of where we buried my grandpa. This power line would totally break up our family farm. Then I have the quarry connected to the right side of me, right next to my property. I need to guarantee absolutely nothing will be done with parcel 34A10C, which is solely supposed to stay a buffer for the quarry. I have my family, my grandpa, God rest his soul, and most importantly, my daughter to think about. Look at these papers over. And think of this, and look at this, and please assist and reach out to the SEC to intervene. Frank Yerkovic followed by Janice Dixon. Chairman Jewell, Board of Supervisors, good evening. And thank you for your service to the community, to the county. I'm here, Sean E., Frank Yerkovic, Golden Seal, and I'm here to speak to you about the business of enterprises, business on airport road off of Aviation Drive. And I'm here on agenda item 7L, 7L, AMK, trying to rezone for a sensitive natural area, almost 100 acres surrounding active businesses that have been in place for decades. We've got airport expansion going on in that area. Our business is growing in that area and many others. We just heard from a resident that lives there as well, next door to AMK. I have no issues with conservation, with dedicating land for conservation, but not within an industrial zoning already deemed industrial. We have purchased, we've invested, not myself, but many others, as ongoing businesses there and we don't know what the effects of a sensitive, Sensitive natural area means long term. We already realize there's 150 feet, 250 feet of right-of-way connected to that property. He surrounded me at this point on three sides, and he's done this quietly, and he's done it without anyone's knowing about it. I've gone around this last week talking to the local businesses, and they, number one, didn't receive a letter for last month's meeting, some of them, and they were completely unaware of this potential rezoning. So all I'm asking the board is, number one, to consider what's already in place, consider the economic impact of this to the county as it pertains to tax breaks or businesses paying taxes. Expansion of growth in this. And how that would affect the county overall and people that have been there for decades and invested in this property, in this area, in the correct zoning that's in place today. I know tonight I think you're only going to vote on continuing investigation of this or planning, and I would just hope that more information gets out, gets out to all the business owners there, and that we do a thorough investigation. Not only for the businesses, but for the residents that are there as well. Thank you for your time, and I have sent each and every one of you a copy of my thoughts already. If you haven't received that, let me know, and I'll send it again. But thank you for your time, and we hope that we can really think this through before we make any critical decisions on this. Thank you. Janice Dixon, followed by Karen Wehmer. My name's Janice Dixon. I live in Clearbrook. I'm here to thank you, first of all, for supporting the community and opposing the Valley Link. We have an additional petition for the HVDC underground that would eliminate taking private property with the moral, with the moral and moral integrity of the community. Valley Link transmission lines. Additionally, we'd like to request for the county to intervene in the Gore-Dubbs-Goose Creek case, and we do have a petition for underground both lines, HVDC. Just like the Dominion Energy is doing with the 185-mile Heritage-Mosby, all the underground transmission lines, the HVDC, could go underground. We appreciate your consideration, and thank you for supporting the community that has elected you. Thank you. Karen Weimer, followed by Rebecca Shannon. Hello. Thank you for your time. My name is Karen Weimer. I reside in Gord, Bat Creek. And I come here tonight in opposition of the Marl and Gore-Dubbs-Goose Creek project. These lines... These lines will irrevocably, completely destroy my home, my neighbor's home, my neighbor's fourth-generation apple orchard. We are not talking about, oh, that's inconvenient, or I'm going to lose my view. We're talking about homes that are now valued at $800,000-plus being worthless, absolutely worthless. If we wanted to move, no one is going to buy our home. And if these come through, we are not going to want to live in these homes. Let's see here. We're talking about these large corporations coming in, waving their magic wands, and taking what so many have worked lifetimes to achieve. This is life-changing in the absolute worst way. This proposed project intends to put monstrous and potentially harmful lines within approximately 350 feet of my home. On the side with the wall, I have my bed on. My bed rests against the wall. So I can't move. I can't move. against a wall that will potentially be 350 feet from these proposed lines. Let that sink in. Do you want it 350 feet from your bedroom? Does anybody? None of us want that. I haven't even begun to touch on all the things to be destroyed forevermore by this project, our peaceful view, our forever home where we intended to live out the rest of our lives. These lines come through everything we have worked a lifetime to achieve, a beautiful home, peaceful community, breathtaking views, kind neighbors. This will all be destroyed. It's never going to be the same should this come through. We would encounter an unrecoverable financial loss should we ever decide to move and sell our house, which of course we would want to do if these come through. Realtors have already spoken to a couple of my neighbors and said, no, nobody's going to. Nobody's going to even look at your home if this comes through. I ask you tonight to fight this with us. I ask you to not allow this unthinkable destruction of the communities we represent tonight. This is not okay in any regard. It's reprehensible and I hope that you think so too. I hope you support us in this fight against what's potentially coming through. I'd also like to add before I'm done that myself and my neighbor across the road, I'm gonna tell you something. I've been waiting too long to deliver letters to the ones that are the closest. Now those letters when we lock out the house down there on the road are the ones that are the most dangerous. The house is located just before the boutique I'm at today. They got everything out of control down there. Relaxed and unquote I didn't listen. I hate to stir things up but I just realized it's a huge issue right now because of the turmoil. So what am I to say? You can only understand it's a great deal to deal with but you can't beat it. You've got to be strong at what you're saying. Robert? And I just feel like this is not good in any we know it's not good in any result anyway, please Look at it from our perspective the homeowners Thank you ma'am. Thank you Rebecca Shannon Followed by penny Smith Rebecca Shannon Gainesboro district good evening board members. Thank you for taking an option Ops Positional stance to the transmission line projects threatening our region I hope you will continue to take meaningful action to protect Frederick County lands and residents however I would like the board to clarify the relationship between this project and the Woodside substation that was accepted as a by right use For properties zoned rural areas under light industry by the Planning Commission in 2025 It is my understanding that this approval is currently being Contested by the community of the Ridgeway estates who believe that the development Was improperly waived on this matter. I agree with them. This case is currently active It is also my understanding that this project is designed to accommodate the Mara Gore dubs goose Creek project a 500 kV transmission line project that will link up with the 765 kV lines running through Frederick County if they are approved Quoting from the Frederick County project report this substation is also designed to accommodate future connection to the first energy Gore dubs goose Creek 500 kV transmission line While this particular line does not run all the way through Frederick It seems strange to me that the board supports this large-scale transmission project yet opposes the North Valley 765 kV line the fact that this went through without opposition from the board was either a lack of foresight Since it is meant to support transmission lines in Frederick County and basically makes Frederick County ripe for the picking in terms of the 760 feet 65 kV Valley North proposal or It shows that the county has knowingly made some decisions that outright support large transmission projects and leave us vulnerable to development like this I would love for the board to speak on this and I would like to know if the board of planning if the board or Planning Commission have plans to reconsider the project and hopefully reject it in addition I would like to take time to share my concern about how data center development such as the Virginia Technology Park project which we coming back into the county's attention in August Make us more vulnerable To the transmission line infrastructure in our County the transmission lines and the data centers are inseparable issues The energy requirements of data centers drive the need for these giant transmission lines If you truthfully oppose these transmission lines, you should also be opposing data centers within our community and opposing the Woodside substation Thank you for your time and attention in this matter Hello, my name is Penny Smith I'm from Opec in I appreciate the supervisors your time and all that you do. I only have a couple quick things One is a question What are the other counties doing to resist the mega electric lines and some of it has been referenced tonight? So I asked that question not as a criticism or as a judgment, but I ask it Actually asking you to reflect on that to think about it And to think what what we are actually doing or not doing It was stated the request to join the regional coalition against data centers and that That would be good It's been said many times tonight that we don't want to power Northern, Virginia But actually there are many plans by the data centers to follow the 81 corridor down, you know down through all as far as 81 goes through our state and beyond So the mega power lines would not just be for Northern, Virginia When you look on their map but their plans are there also to power the data data centers that we consider the other couple things I have is cost any Business looks at the cost most business businesses try and minimize their costs Some countries put those megalines underground, I Don't know if that would work work for the land that we have here. I've read that it's 15 times more to put it underground, but parameters for if things like data centers or other things come here, what are the parameters the board is asking for that would be helpful? And the last thing, I have concerns about the substation too. I guess my last comment is sometimes developers will not totally give what could be done to mitigate harm. They say they can't measure infrasound. They say they can't block it. It can be measured. Infrasound can be blocked by actually not that expensive things to do that actually work. I've researched one of the companies. I don't want to go down that rabbit trail other than to say, um, all these things are interconnected. And I hear the pleas of the people that especially have a few feet from them, these lines. Thank you. We share in the same humanity. We share in the same love of neighbors. We are neighbors. So thank you for listening. I appreciate it. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. All right. So that's the end of the list. If there's someone that wanted to come forward and speak, feel free to. If there's others that want to come up and speak, the only thing I'm going to ask is please line up so that we can have you ready, have you teed up. Thank you. Name, Magisterial District, please, sir. Good evening, Jeff. Melbourne, Winchester, 22601. I'm going to throw you a change up tonight. I'm going to talk about unification. Have the city and the county finally arrived at unification? There was 10 subcommittees that met back in 2007-8, headed by Mr. Mike Foreman. You guys know Mike Foreman. Comprised of city and county residents. And they all came to the conclusion we needed to consolidate, move forward. Mr. Foreman said, the committee unanimously called for a move to unify the city and county residents. The committee called for unifications of the two communities and asked for the city and county to begin a detailed study of the best form of government to choose. Bottom line, this is a perfect example of an unbiased study and recommendation, but for whatever unknown reasons, the perception is our elected officials, both county and city, were the roadblocks. Why was all that time wasted? Moving along, Mr. Wade Byard, who is a county resident, wrote two great open forums. August of 2010, give the 80 a chance to make an informed decision on unification. 10-80-10. Anytime you have an issue, 10% for it, 10% against it, 80% not informed. That's what Wade wants to do. He wants to give the 80% a chance to make an informed decision because they didn't know the material that they went over and discussed. Moving along, he had another open forum in 2020 that clearly stated, Crisis creates opportunity. Winchester and Frederick County have an opportunity to streamline government and ultimately save taxpayers money while providing more efficient service through consolidation. The opportunity to streamline government while increasing business and educational opportunities to offer better service to the people who fund it cannot be ignored. Government was set up to serve the citizen who funded, not the politicians. Furthermore, Mr. Byard said, Consolidation will prepare Winchester and Frederick County for an uncertain future best navigated by the efficient government that puts the best interests of the citizens first. What he proposed is city council and school board supervisor examine this consolidation as an option to enhance our area going forward into an uncertain world. Holding talks on this subject costs nothing, but the dividends could be huge. So I got some documentation that you already got, but I want to put it on the record. Because when I emailed, that don't guarantee it, but I got some information here that I want to give to who, whomever, the clerk, who is that? Give it to the man. Thank you for your time. Thank you. I want to, okay. I want to remind everybody, this citizen's comment portion is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Okay? So, thank you. Yes, sir. Well, I'm not sure what's subject to a public hearing. Transmission line. Pardon me? Are you talking about transmission line? I can't hear you. Are you talking about the transmission lines, sir? I am. Then that's part of the agenda. Okay. Good. Thank you. My name is Joe Dizarn. What district, sir? I'm a Gainesboro citizen. Thank you. Yep. You and I spoke a couple of days ago. I got in touch with Mr. Fox, with you, and with my representative, Mr. Akins, on this matter. And I appreciate your following up on my email. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. My question initially is what do you consider the Board's responsibility and opportunity in protecting this community? This is not a difficult decision to make about is it right to sacrifice homes and farms for a narrow private profit? That's what this is about. It's not a difficult decision to make which side to be on. I can't imagine how it feels to you all to see this stream of people coming up here and begging for their livelihood and their homes. It's insulting to have to do that and degrading. That's not what I'm here to do. This is a fight. It's not a checklist. This isn't going to go away after a resolution or a sternly worded Facebook post. This is a fight. And we'll know in the community who is fighting for us, who is standing on the sidelines, and who is, like the Virginia Chamber of Commerce, supporting Dominion Energy in this fight. What we need is leadership, and we need you to utilize your access to the wheels of power in Richmond. The SCC will conduct local hearings on these issues if it's a big enough deal. And so that's something that you can actually help us with. The other thing we need help with is good information. Good information about what the board is doing, but also good information about this process that Dominion Energy is going through to try to railroad this through our community. There's a lot of misinformation out there, and most of it has been put out there by Dominion Energy and its lobbyists that we meet at the James Wood meeting, at the Clark County meeting that I was at. So we need help. I think you'll see that the citizens are not counting on you to fight the fight for us, but you are in a position to do things that we're not, and in a position to contact people that we are not in a position to contact, or get a response when we don't get a response. I've been in touch with Mr. Wiley's office. I've been in touch with Mr. French's office. I've been in touch with Mr. Klein's office. Two out of the three have gotten in touch with me. We need action, and I hope that I can count, that we can count on you all. Thank you very much. Thanks, sir. Name, Mastiro District, please. My name is Alexander. I'm in the Opecan District. I would like to thank the board for the resolution that was written, joining many of the other counties in opposing the line, especially Mr. Akins. I read your response, and I felt that it was appropriate. However, the audience should be mindful that this was preceded by a letter, which I, in my opinion, did not take a firm stance compared to other counties. I can only hope that it wasn't your intention for that letter to be your only response. And I'm not going to take that letter. I'm going to take that letter. I'm going to take that letter. I'm going to take that letter. I'm coming up here mostly to thank the community for reaching out to their officials and providing the board with examples from other counties of how they responded. And it should be the responsibility of the board to protect the welfare and safety of their constituents. And I hope that you guys continue to do that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Vaughn Whitaker, Gainesboro District. Thank you all for allowing me to speak. I got some food for thought for engineers who come up with these transmission lines cutting through our states to provide energy to the east side of the Blue Ridge. Why don't you build your generating facilities there? Why don't you build your generating facilities there? Why don't you build your generating facilities there? Save yourself billions of dollars. Don't cut up the beautiful valley with transmission lines. All your pollution from a generating facility on the east side of the mountain will go quickly out to sea. Thank you. Thanks, sir. All right. Anybody else? All right. I'm going to close the citizens' comments then. Next up is the consent agenda. And I want to, before we do the consent agenda, I want to make sure that we have a motion to approve the resolution. Regarding the 7L, the resolution directing further study for the comprehensive plan policy, AMK was brought up today. It is not approving a rezoning of any kind. All it is is it's allowing this to go through the process, and that process includes everything you brought up tonight that will be vetted. So just know it is not approving the rezoning. I want to make sure. It's clear on that. Okay. Concerning the consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt the consent agenda as presented. I've got a motion to approve. I have a second. This is going to be a roll call vote. I'm going to start with Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Thank you. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lira? Mr. Chair, I'd just like to make a couple comments on this. On item 6. 7L, item number one on AMK properties to designate 99.25 acres from industrial to residential to sensitive natural areas. I disagree with that. I agree with everything else on the consent agenda, so I'm going to be a no on this because if you look at the comprehensive plan map and the zoning map, basically that area from airport. Road to the north where airport road runs generally east and west to Buffalo Lick Run in the south, which is just north of an RP district, is all basically M1 industrial. And it does not make sense to take strip industrial out of that area. So I'm going to vote no on the consent agenda. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernement? Aye. And the chair votes aye. Okay. So we're moving on to 8A. Recognition of excellence presentation to Master Deputy Daniel Cheshire and Master Deputy David Samps. Mr. Bowe-Walter? Mr. Bowe-Walter? Mr. Chairman, would you like us to get the remote microphone for you? No. Can everybody hear me? There you go. I can hear you with the microphone. You can. You can hear me loud and clear. So we are showing appreciation to these fine gentlemen. I want to speak about the Sheriff's Office in general. The Sheriff's Office has called on for many, many events. They'll be able to take them. We have great appreciation for what they do. They're behind the scenes. Oh, here we go. Get in the air. Can you hear me? Okay. Now you can hear me. We appreciate the Sheriff's Office. We appreciate all they're doing. They attend and help us with many events, many events. And, you know, they're just behind the scene. And I just want to take a moment to say thank you. In the case of these two fine gentlemen, when we had the... first meeting at Shrando, they were very good, very kind to the constituents, to defusing any issues that possibly could be coming up. They were just marvelous. And I just want to thank them sincerely for what you did for us. And here is Mr. Bullhofer. I just wanted to thank them personally because I was there at that meeting that night. And some of you out there were there. And it was a pretty rough meeting. We as a staff that night were doing presentations and our format wasn't very good. Our presentations weren't very good. Our execution from a staff level really wasn't very good. And I didn't do a great job managing the crowd that night. Trust me, I tried, but it didn't go as well as I thought. So it was a pretty tough crowd that night and things were going pretty bad. But these two gentlemen did an amazing job. I had asked them to remove two people from the meeting. And in both instances, they were very good. They were very good. They were very good. They were very good. They were very good. They were very good. They were very good. They were very good. The people actually talked to the people, were very kind and professional, and didn't remove the people. And they did an amazing job that made the meeting go a lot better than it could have gone. So I just really wanted to personally thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. We're under the Board of Supervisors' comments. Does anyone have anything to say before I have something? Okay. Okay. I think we can all agree. I'm going to read this because I want to make sure I get every word right. I think we can all agree that the data center topic has sucked all the air out of the room recently. And it is my opinion it has been distracting us from other efforts and issues that need our focus. To that end, I move we direct staff to prepare a resolution to authorize for public and private data center work. I move we draft a public hearing and ordinance amendment to remove data centers as an allowed use in all of the county's zoning districts. Further, I want to clarify that we should hear out the existing applications filed and under consideration to establish data centers that this change is not to impact them. There's two projects. Those projects will need to be fairly debated by the board. And I do have severe concerns about both of them. That being said, If anyone is considering filing a new application to develop a data center in our county, this is your fair warning that we are in the middle of a comprehensive plan update. The state has enacted legislation relative to data centers, including granting DEQs some direction on regulating water use and noise. The community has made it abundantly clear that they are worried about these things, and I think we need to wait and see how some of this pans out. I hope my colleagues agree, and I'm reiterating my motion. I move to direct staff to prepare a resolution to authorize for public hearing an ordinance amendment to remove data centers as an allowed use in all of the county's zoning districts. Yeah. Second, Mr. Chairman. All right, folks. Thank you. Folks, we have a motion, and we have a second. Any discussion before we vote? Yes, sir. All right. Supervisor Oates. When do you propose this public hearing takes place? Because if we do it before hearing the two applications, that could slant that we're against them from the beginning and set us up for a lawsuit if they're denied. I'm looking at our lawyer. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Oates, you can proceed with both. I've heard you say that in all of the processes at the same time. The fact that you're directing staff to start the process, which will itself involve public hearings at the planning commission level and at the Board of Supervisors, that has no particular bearing on the applications that are before either of those bodies at this point. The fact that they and someone may apply in the meantime as well before the code is changed. No one has a vested right to anything under the current code. code. So they must comply with the current code, which are very, these two applications are various stages. Any new application would be subject to the current code as well. However, as the motion stated, you would only be obligated to give due deliberation and consideration to those applications under the current law. As on the current zoning ordinances as it stands now, as has been done with both applications at whichever stage of the process they're at. So you would just continue as you have, while at the same time letting the new process go forward. All right. Again, my concern is if they were denied and they say they didn't get a fair hearing and they take us to court, these are data centers. They can outspend us in court. So I just want to make sure we're doing everything correctly to keep us out of court. I'm trying my best. I've been doing that the whole time. So. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Okay. I need a vote, a roll call vote on this. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Guggenheim. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. The chair votes aye. All right. Staff, get busy on it, please. Thank you. Okay, folks. Next thing up is county officials. Mr. Bolhofer. Yes. The item before you is the resolution. The state really, in their budget, amended the state code to allow cities and counties to do a 1% to up to 1% sales tax to pay for new construction and major renovations of schools. It's necessary that we would do this resolution tonight if you want to get this on the table. So I'm going to go ahead and vote on the November ballot. One of the questions was asked, how this would affect anything existing. For instance, for the high school or any renovations, you would be able to use this funds for any part of the construction that hasn't taken place up until the time of November. So any construction that takes place after November would be qualified to use these funds on. And that's it in a nutshell. Thanks, sir. One last thing, if I may. Just in case you were asking, the revenues are approximately about $24 million a year, and this is allowed for up to 20 years. Is there any questions for Mr. Bolhofer? Mr. Administrator, if this would pass the referendum in the fall, when would it take effect? January 1st? Mr. Leroy, the board would then have to take another action to enact the tax up to the 1%. There's then a 120-day period of time that has to elapse from that time until the tax starts to accrue. So it would essentially be approximately four months from after the board takes action to enact the tax, assuming the referendum is approved. Thank you. And one thing to point out, the sales tax would capture anybody and everybody coming through the county. Yes. Correct? Correct. So we'll make sure it's clear. This is a referendum, too. This is something that has to be voted on. It would be on the November ballot as a referendum, and I will just read the language. This is what would be on the referendum. Shall Frederick County, Virginia, be allowed to enact a local retail sales tax up to 1% to provide funds that can only be used for construction or major renovation of public schools in Frederick County for a period of not more than 20 years? And that's the actual language that would be on the ballot. Thanks, sir. Okay. I entertain a motion. So moved. We got a motion. Second. We have a second. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lerner? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Grudenbein? Aye. Chair votes aye. All right. We get this thing on the ballot. Next thing up, Mr. Philhofer. Welcome back. As you know, the board asked us to draft a letter or some type of document in opposition of the... the North Valley line. As you know, we did our original letter and quickly became a parent for some of our board members. They did not believe that that letter was sufficient in its opposition. So we went back to the drawing board of the staff and we drafted the resolution. And the resolution, a lot of it was based very similar to the resolution that was done in Culpeper. And if I can, I'll read you some of the key points of this resolution. One is states that the board expresses strong opposition to the Valley North, that the board of supervisors hereby authorizes and directs the resolution. That the board authorizes and directs the county administrator to do all things necessary to oppose the Valley North project. That the chairman of the board of supervisors and the county administrator are authorized to coordinate with governing bodies, staff, and legal counsel for the city of Winchester and Clark and Loudoun and other counties or localities affected by the proposed Valley North project. That the county administrator and county attorney are authorized to retain specialized legal and consulting services as necessary, and the county administrator shall transmit a certified copy of this resolution to the governor of Virginia and several other people which are listed there. I will state if indeed the board wanted to take this direction, the first action, I've discussed this with our attorney, the first action we would take would be to hire special counsel that would have knowledge of this specialty because it's very special and you need to, as someone stated earlier, you need someone that knows all the people to contact, all the ins and outs, and who have done that before. So if the board were to choose that action, that would be our first move to do so. And then we'd have to come back to the board. So we would have to make a decision for appropriation of funds to cover the costs. Thank you, Mr. Belhoffer. All right. I will entertain a motion. Is this public hearing? Oh, no it's not. I wasn't sure. No, it's not public hearing. Okay. So I'll entertain a motion. So moved. How about a second? Second. Discussion? Thank you. There you go. I'm coming down to you. A couple things. One of the routes on Valley Link goes through the future plant site and that goes through the lead and then the road. And the road is all the way down to the end of Valley Link. And that's the road that goes down to Valley Link. So that's the road that goes down to Valley Link. And that's the road that goes down to Valley Link. So there's a lot of work to be done. And I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Belhoffer. Okay. So that's the plan site that Frederick Water has up in Clearbrook. We've already retained Whiteford Law and they're representing about nine or ten localities already. So that might be one to reach out to. That way we're not spending as much money to do all the background work. We'll be one of many. And I believe they're representing Culpeper, I think Page and Stafford as well. Second thing, I think the county needs to get a point person on this. I imagine you're already thinking about that. We need a page on a website that all that information can go to, that the citizens can get to easily. Third thing, since this is going for data centers, I mean, bluntly, there's no substations related to this when it's going straight across the county. And they're paying a million dollars an acre in Loudoun County. I think when they make offers to citizens here, it'll be about a million dollars an acre. And the other thing is, and a lot of people said this. The SEC has ultimate authority. I mean, I think the SEC has a lot of authority. I think the SEC has a lot of authority. I was going to say, not us. We can do some influencing, resolution tonight's first step. But when our resolution goes down there, if 200, 300, 500 of you write letters to your state officials, to the SEC, that's going to have a lot more impact than what we can send. Because power lines are outside of localities per view. We have very little say in what happens. We can influence here. and there and we'll get legal counsel to do that. But just understand we don't have overreaching authority to influence this thing. It's very limited. We want to do what we can. So that's my only comment. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? I was going to make a comment very similar to what Gary said, that the powers, in my opinion, the power is not with us. The power is with the people. And it's very easy to jump on the SEC's website through a very simple Google search and to submit a petition of interference, I think is what it's called. I looked it up the other day and the more people that submit, the higher the likely that it's going to be paid attention to. Our letter may just be worth the paper it's written on, but the number of people that stand up against it is what's going to matter. Anybody else? Anybody else? Okay, folks, also, I've already reached out to our federal, I'm asking for meetings with Senator Warner I'm supposed to have one in a few weeks, and Congressman Klein I'm working with our state representatives. So this is the first step. This is not the end. This is the first step. We hear you. We know. We're going to fight for this. We're going to do everything we can. But just like Supervisor Oates said, all we can do, we need you to hit everyone you can. Send it to Ben Klein, send it to our two federal Warner, you know, please. And of course all our state representatives. That's where you can do to help us. We are going to try to fight this as much as we can. Okay? So, we've got a motion. We've got a second. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Guvermont. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Chair votes aye. Okay. We've got a resolution going here. Perfect. Next thing up is appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. 10A. We have a Historic Resources Advisory Board Shawnee District. Yes, Mr. Chair. I would like to nominate Lucas Cook for another four-year term on the Historic Resources Advisory Board for the Shawnee District. He's doing a great job in that position. All right. We've got a motion. I'll second the nomination. All right. We've got a motion and a second. Voice vote. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? Perfect. We've got that. Next one's up. Historic Resources Advisory Board at Large Rep. You want to go ahead and take that one too, Mr. Liero? Yeah? Sure. I will nominate Mr. Steve Cantu for another four-year term. Okay. Thank you. All right. We've got a motion. I'll second that as well. We've got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? Aye. Great. We're good. Committee business, we're good. Public hearings, not planning, we're good. All right. Now we get to public hearings. 13A, Conditional Use Act. Okay. So, we're getting a lot of public hearings. Okay. We're getting a lot of public hearings. Okay. So, we're getting a lot of public hearings. All right. So, we've got two more. Okay. We've got two more. All right. Two more. So, we've got two more. Okay. So, we've got two more. All right. Conditional Use Permit 0226 for Lamar Rosenberry. Hello, Mr. Bittner? Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Eric Bittner, Planner 2. This is a request by Lamar Rosenberry to operate a public garage on a 9.8 acre parcel in the RA rural area district at 730 Pack Horse Road in the Gainsborough Magisterial District. This property has not been subject to any previous approvals. Conditional uses are identified in our zoning ordinance. These are uses that are considered to be in keeping with the intent of the zoning district, due to impacts may not be appropriate for every area. Due to that, they are subject to public hearing and legislative approval, and as part of that, the board can impose conditions. The property is identified here in red in relation to the bounds of Frederick County and the city of Winchester. Then this is the aerial and zoning map. The parcel is outlined in purple. The parcel and the surrounding areas are all zoned as RA rural area. The surrounding uses are all residential. Staff will also note that on the subject property, there is a residence that is in use by the applicant and the owner. This is the sketch plan that was submitted by the applicants, indicating the proposed entrance on the existing driveway, the existing garage that is the proposed worksite, and then also the proposed parking and the screen. The applicant's request is to operate a repair garage inside of a 28 by 52 foot area within an existing garage for preventative maintenance, computer diagnostics, and failed sensor and part replacements. Between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, and then by appointment only on weekends for a max of 10 customers per week. Inoperable vehicles will be dropped by a service provided by the customer and storage of inoperable vehicles will be screened inside the existing garage bays. Staff will note that these are not conditions. These are the requests from the applicant. Zoning ordinance 165-704.02 does provide supplementary regulations for public garages. These are that all repairs are to take place entirely with an enclosed structure. All exterior storage of parts and equipment are to be screened from surrounding properties by an opaque fence 6 feet in height. Inoperable motor vehicles are stored inside the enclosed building or screened on all sides by a 6 foot opaque screen, and for the sale of vehicles to be prohibited. The Planning Commission recommended the following conditions, that all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. These are within your agenda packets. And the Virginia Department of Health VDH approved drain field and septic design shall be installed, inspected, and approved by VDH prior to the establishment of the use. An industrial sketch plan shall be submitted to and approved by Frederick County, and all improvements completed prior to the establishment of the use. All automotive related activities, including repairs, shall occur entirely within an enclosed structure. Exterior storage of parts and equipment shall be screened from view by a 6 foot opaque fence. All parking shall be on a gravel or hard surface. The business is not permitted employees beyond those residing on the property. The hours of operation shall be limited to 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and by weekends by appointment only. A maximum of three vehicles awaiting service within the screened area, and any expansion or change of use shall require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this last week, July 1st, and recommended approval along with the recommended conditions. This item is presented to you all now for a public hearing, following which staff are seeking a decision from the Board on the proposed conditional use permit. At this point, staff and the applicant are available for any questions. Thank you, Mr. Bittner. Any questions for Mr. Bittner? I have one question. Yes, sir. On one of the screens up there, this is not a performance garage was one of the sentences. Could you give me a definition of a performance garage? So, that is largely referring to the type of work that they're going to be working on. That's going to be some of their larger auto body work. I can let the applicant kind of detail more of exactly what work they're looking for. I'd like to know why that was in there. If they're saying this is not going to be that, I'd like to know what that's not going to be. Yes, sir. I believe that verbiage is pulled from their application, okay? Okay. Okay. So, what would we like to hear from the applicant? My name is Lamar Rosenberry, and I guess I'm from the Gainesburg District. The reason that was worded that way was my representative wanted to know, wanted to make it clear that I don't rebuild race car engines. I'm not making a lot of noise up there. Any other questions? So, performance is... Would be... Like a race and performance car. Yeah. I don't overhaul engines. I don't run them. The neighbors aren't really bothered by the noise. Okay. Okay. Would you work on engines on regular cars? Yes, I do. Okay. Just not on high performance cars. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions for the applicant? Thanks, sir. Appreciate it. Okay. I'll open up a public hearing for this. Is there anybody who signed up? Madam Clerk? No one has signed up. Okay. Is there anybody who wants to speak for or against this? Permit application. All right. I'm going to close the public hearing. Board, this is going to be Gainsborough? Yep. Sir, how would you like to handle this? I'll make a motion to approve as presented. There you go. I'll second. All right. We got a motion to approve. We got a second. Supervisor Warnendorf? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? It sounds like everyone and no neighbors have a complaint or anything, so I'll vote aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Gouvernement? Aye. Chair votes aye. 13 A's approved. Thanks, sir. So, okay. Mr. Bittner, you backed up. We're going 13 B, rezoning 0526 for Busy B. Busy B. Busy B's. Yes, sir. This is a request by Clear Book Rentals, LLC, to rezone .506 acres within the B-2 to revise their proffers. Located at 4489 Martinsburg Pike in the Stonewall Magisterial District. This was previously rezoned in REZ 0501 as part of that rezoning of the applicant profit use restrictions, which they are now seeking to amend. Due to that, it affects land use, and so it is subject to a public hearing that the base zoning will not be changing. The property is identified in red in relation to the bounds of Frederick County and the City of Winchester. This is the aerial and zoning map identifying the property as B-2 General Business District. Behind it in the B-3 is an automobile repair garage that was rezoned in the same rezoning as REZ 0526. The remaining surrounding properties are all RA and uses residences. The comprehensive plan, Northeast Land Use Plan, identifies this area as being mixed-use industrial office. These areas are intended to develop with targeted growth sectors identified by the county's economic development authority, as well as similar industries that are likely to bring higher wages, performance, and professional and or technology jobs. The proposal for additional uses, in this case, healthcare services, does not otherwise further that plan policy for MUIO, and is not identified as an EDA-targeted industry in the comprehensive plan. Additionally, the B-2 district is not typically associated with this planned use category. That said, given the existing zoning of the property is B-2, and the proposed rezoning does not otherwise modify the current use of the property as commercial, it is noted that it's largely going to keep its current state conformance. This is the map I just showed you. This is identifying the area of, and the surrounding area, as mixed-use industrial office and the long-range land use plan. There are proffers with this property. They're largely near the existing proffers. The applicant, since the rezoning, has been operating it as a daycare facility. They're seeking to sell it to a user who is looking to establish an ABA clinic. This is therapy and counseling for people with autism. That falls under our zoning definition of healthcare services, which was proffered out during that rezoning. They're seeking to add that in in proffer A, land use restrictions. Also with proffer B, access management, they're proffering to dedicate 10 feet of right-of-way upon the request of Frederick County. There are also two proffers of note that staff just want to bring to your attention. These are proffered to remain from the existing rezoning. Restricts the building size to 3,000 square feet. The existing structure currently meets that threshold. The applicant is not seeking to add any additional square footage. In the event that they want to, they'll still have to stick to that 3,000 square feet. In that event, also, that will trigger a proffer D, which is a monetary contribution of 10 cents per square foot. That is in keeping with the adopted Board of Supervisors policy on monetary proffers for commercial and industrial square footage. The concern with this rezoning is that the proposed rezoning does not further the land use policies of the NELUP and the designated long-range land use category. That said, the proposed rezoning does not otherwise change the existing zoning or the use of the property B2 and remains in conformance with the comprehensive plan. The proposed right-of-way advances in the Eastern Road Plan is also an additional positive. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item July 1st last week and recommended approval. This item is presented to you all now for public hearing, following which staff are seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors. At this point, staff and the applicant are available for any questions. Thank you, Mr. Bittner. Thank you, Mr. Bittner. Any questions for Mr. Bittner? Any questions for the applicant? Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I will open up the public hearing for this rezoning. No one has signed up, Mr. Chairman. All right. Nobody's signed up. If there's anyone that wants to speak for or against this in particular? All right. Then I'm going to close the public hearing. This is Stonewall District. Supervisor Oates? Yes, sir. I think this is a good use for the community. And I recommend approval for rezoning 05-26. All right. We got a motion. We got a second. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Gouverment? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Chair votes aye. This is approved as well. Very good. All right. We have 14A. Mr. Bishop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. You do have before you this evening the potential Comprehensive Plan Amendment for Pine Hill properties. This was presented back on the 17th as part of the joint work session. However, that did receive a split vote that evening amongst the board finishing at 3-3 on whether to proceed with further study. So that's why it's separately on the agenda this evening as opposed to being on consented or not on the agenda at all. The material of the application has not changed. I can dig into or answer any questions on any portion of it you wish. We do also have the county's best-dressed lawyer here, Mr. Petler, on behalf of the applicant. All right. Does anybody have any questions? Any questions for Mr. Petler? All right. So, board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chair, I would like to make a motion on this that I'm concerned that we're at the leading edge of our Comprehensive Plan update. And I think as part of that study, basically, you ought to be asking a few questions. How much new residential do we need in this community? And what types of new residential do we need? We have a number of areas by right that are being developed right now. Specifically to the Pine Hill area, there's one road that leads back in there, Justice Drive, right now that goes back to two schools, Evendale and Allen. Admiral Byrd. There's also a fourth high school broke ground recently. So there's going to be three buildings back there. And I'm concerned about the safety aspect of three buildings being served by one road in and out. Beyond that, I've heard a lot of input on concerns about traffic congestion, overcrowding of schools and other things. So, I am opposed to this, to further study until we get through the ComPlan update. So I would make a motion that we deny this resolution directing further study. All right. We got a motion to deny. Do I have a second? I'll second. And I'll concur with Mr. Liero's concerns. I mentioned at the meeting that while Frederick Water has that in our plan for water and sewer service, that development, basically everything in that whole area needs to come in together because that's going to be a major pipeline. So to cherry pick just one aspect of it, I think, is premature. I think that whole area needs to come in. If we need to change the land use or the type of housing, then it needs to apply to all the properties around there, not just this specific one. So I think it would be better to have Planning Commission look at this as part of the Comprehensive Plan and not as a separate item. So, there's my second. So, Mr. Bishop, being the new Director of Planning, this will be a part of the Comprehensive Plan The SWASA will be part of that discussion as well, correct? Yes, sir. Because one thing I did, I had a lot of, actually your constituents reach out to me and apparently they've been trying for 20 years to get the SWASA moved. So, that is a real concern. So, I think it's something to take into account. Okay, we've got a motion. We've got a second. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Gouverment. I'm just, I'm trying to understand if the resolution is to conduct further study. This is to allow it to go forward as a consideration. With his motion, it's to deny it, to deny it moving forward. Okay. So, Mr. Bishop, I want to check in with Supervisor Orndorff to make sure he understood that. Yeah, well, he was agreeing with you. He said aye. Right? Supervisor Orndorff, you know this is to deny moving it forward, correct? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Perfect. Absolutely. Um, okay. Aye. No. All right. Aye. All right. Vice Chair. Aye. Aye. So, we're going to depend on planning staff to make it part. Yes, we will, as any of these that you chose not to go forward at this time, we will continue to keep the request in mind as part of the overall comprehensive plan formation and deliberation. So, this topic is not going to go away. It will just be part of that. Well, going back to my motion about the data centers, this is exactly what I'm I mean, all we hear, we've heard about, is data centers and now transmission lines. And yet, there's a lot of tremendous work that's being done by staff on a lot of different fronts, including the comprehensive plan, and that's where we need the community to be open, hearing, listening, giving us what they think, so this just goes right along with it. Yes, sir. Thanks, sir. Okay. Board liaison reports. Yes, sir. I have one. Here we go. Public safety has met and station 22, the new station in behind Walmart, is moving along. We've been meeting throughout, I've been meeting with the fire chief and the committee picking out the designs and colors and the signage and the electrical. We've pretty well gotten that to the end now. We're getting ready to present the site plan to Frederick County, and once that's presented we'll get that done and you'll see things starting to happen on that piece of property. So we're not too far away. We're predicting a couple years from now before it's complete. But I think you'll be very, very pleased. You'll be seeing renderings of what it's going to look like. And it's, I think, a very economically sound building that will meet the needs of Frederick County for a long, long time. So I'm very pleased with that. Very good. Anybody else? Yes, sir. Brief comments about the EDA. We do have four confirmed interviews for a new director, and hopefully we'll get the fifth confirmed. But that's going to be happening the latter part of July. That's awesome. That's awesome. Does everybody agree with mine? Mr. Chairman, I'll just make a comment too quickly on fire and rescue on that committee. You and maybe Supervisor Liera, we had the privilege of attending the graduation of many new firefighters coming into our community. It was an uplifting ceremony where we got to see the family and friends pin the badges on those new firefighters. And they all got their first assignments to go out into the county to protect our community. And it was a great thing. And you're seeing the county at work here. We're building up our infrastructure to protect the citizens. And I just commend the entire Frederick County Fire and Rescue team for continuing to improve our readiness. And thank the board for its support. Thanks, sir. Okay. Liaison reports. Madam Clerk, we're going to citizens' comments. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, Vicki Michaels. Mr. Chairman, Supervisors, my name is Vicki Michaels, and I am from the Stonewall District. And I what I intended to say, I don't have to say anymore most of it, but I do want to just say thank you, first of all, for your resolution about the power lines. That's a good start. Now we've got to carry on with the fight. And anything the public can do to help, just let us know. We will be sending those letters. And the second thing I want to say is thank you so much for listening to your constituents about the data. And I want to say thank you to the data centers. Because it is not completely over yet until this has been fulfilled, I am going to continue with part of what I wanted to say this evening. But lucky for you, it will only be half as long as it is. So regarding the Gibson property application to designate a 33.7 acres from rural to light industrial during the June 17th joint work session, Mr. Bishop stated, and I quote, I know there has been extensive talk that Gibson is a data center. That this is not in keeping with anything that has been submitted to us, unquote. Is this just discombobulated? Splitting hairs, slight of hand, or blatant deception on the part of the applicant? I find it ironic that by not simply taking the applicant's word for it, and by googling real estate pursuits LLC, I found that the entity pursuing the Gibson property, real estate pursuits LLC, is an affiliate. Public corporate filings show that its managing member is John M. Peterson of MVP Management LLC of the Peterson Companies out of Fairfax. Which maintains a massive, dedicated, hyperscale data center division. Coincidence? I think not. It appears this is just another attempt to quietly purchase Virginia land before pushing for zoning overrides, or in this case, an amendment to our comprehensive plan. The company requesting this change to our comprehensive plan is not going to be a good neighbor. 529 acres. This project is beyond the scope of anything we should ever even consider. So I ask you to take a stand for transparency, listen to and protect your citizens, and deny this data center when they try to bring it up. And again, thank you for what you are doing for us. Thank you, Mary. Teresa? Teresa Ostertag? Teresa? I was prepared, but I want to thank you guys for doing what you did today, and hopefully the public hearing will turn out great and we'll have a better future. The county is great. We have an amazing place to live, and all we want is just to keep it that way. That's all we're fighting for. But, um, so the comprehensive plan, I know that's underway, and I'm thinking y'all could still work on that and maybe not do the 200 to 400 shovel-ready lots, and maybe like, because that would be fast tracking, and like, just take these things into consideration that we talked about today when you're doing it, because I know it's under work right now. It's in work. It's in process. But I thought about the farmers today. I thought, you know, that land that is so valuable, it's also so valuable to us for food, and the farmers, they could be appreciated a little bit. And if they got a tax break, it'd actually be saving us money. Because if it's sold to developers to build, you know, subdivisions, homes, they will be, feature families with children that will need schools to be built, which will raise our budget. So I thought that would be good for farmers if you looked at the balancing act. But, um, I guess that's it. Because a lot of important things happened today. A lot of important things were said. And I don't have to say anything else. But thank you. Thank you, ma'am. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Is there anybody who would like to come up and speak? Yes, ma'am. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I just wanted to thank you. I don't know if you could see it back there, but I was ugly crying when it was announced for your data center ordinance. And I appreciate it so much. I love this community so much. And this shows so much dedication and care and stewardship. Thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am. I just have one quick thing. She came twice. Name? Penny Smith Opecan. I'm going to break you in. That's my job. I only have one thing to say. I'm really scared about the Gibson property. I guess that's it. I guess that sums it all up. I brought up to one group. It's a mile and a half from the new well that was put in at Frederick, Lake Frederick, that actually benefits Frederick County, too. We'll have, we're estimating maybe 4,000 people in Lake Frederick with the three builders and the condos and all that. The Gibson property, I'm sorry, the Madison you approved, I don't know how many hundreds of people that would be. And then the trailer park. So we're very, we'd be very close. Let me just say what I'm worried most about, that it would be an industrial center and not a data center. And I'm worried about PFAS. I'm worried about contaminants. I'm worried that if that gets approved by the board, I have a definite request, and that is what parameters would you have for what's allowed there as far as especially for contamination? Because you can't add it, and that's the other thing, Peterson developer would do it, so you don't even know who would protect us as far as contamination. That's my main question. Is there anything that happens for, okay, it's built, and now I'll come in, industrial company, and if you have large industry, like, what is it, the WENTREX, they have so much to protect the environment. Please think of the environment. That's my word. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? All right, I'm closing the students' comments. Board of Supervisors comments. I'll look to my left. Mr. Chairman, I do have one thing. I would like the staff to take a look at a zoning ordinance that we currently have in place that is not enforceable how it is currently written in the LRA district. And that zoning ordinance pertains to noise created by animals and fowl and other animals. My concern is how more and more subdivisions that are being created in the LRA district that are done by right that all residents of Frederick County should have the right to enjoy their homes in peace and harmony. And right now how our current ordinance is drafted, it is not enforceable. My other concern is, though, is that we also have to protect our agricultural community along the way. And so I would ask staff to look at and you guys do your work, I may be completely off base on my recommendations here, but by looking at lot size of the subdivisions and also potentially carving out something that's excluding all sorts of agricultural noise, I don't know how to wordsmith that, you guys do the hard heavy lifting on that, but I feel like we do need that in our community. Okay. Do we need a vote on this one? Or can we just move it forward? Mr. Barf, do we need a vote? We need a vote on this? It's always better if you have it. You got it. You've heard the request by Supervisor Akins. Do I have a second? Sure, second. Alright. We'll do roll call, I guess. Yeah, better do roll call. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Alright. Supervisor Grubont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leera? Aye. Vice Chair Well? Aye. Supervisor Oates? No. My reason for no is it's a slippery slope and it's going to impact farmers, especially if it's for animals and fowl. Those are cows, chickens, peacocks, so I'm not in favor. It's strictly for the agricultural community. I'll vote aye to have the staff work on it, but I do have the exact same concerns when it comes to agriculture. But we'll just go with the staff work on it and then see what they come back with. Mr. Chair, I have the same concern. And that's why somehow we need to figure out how to carve that part out. I don't know, again, you guys have to do the heavy lifting to make sure that the agricultural community is protected along with the residents in the rural communities. Yep. So, give them a chance to work. Anybody else got anything? Just like I said, Supervisor Oates, the farmers were here, the agriculture was here. We built subdivisions around them. We have to get along together. And, you know, I mean, horses neigh, cows moo, dogs bark to keep animals away. So, it's going to be very, very difficult. I've been on the board a long time. We've wrestled with this over and over and never come up with a really good plan. I don't know that there is a plan other than respecting your neighbors and doing the best you can. If you have a situation and you want to talk to the farmer next door to you, that's fine. But, you know, I hear people say, well, don't do away with that farm because they're going to build houses there. And I bought this house so I could look at that beautiful farm over there. And my answer is, well, maybe you want to buy the farm. But, you know, I just think it's going to be awfully difficult to come up with something. Not that they... Go ahead and try. But, again, I think it's just getting down to neighbor working with neighbor. That's what it boils down to. All right. Thank you. Super. Yes, sir. A couple things. I know people have been talking about data centers, power lines. The biggest threat we have in the farming community is all the houses out there and the ones coming. And the biggest pollution is hairy homeowner. Fertilizer on the lawns, that type of thing. That's your biggest point source pollution. So that is the biggest threat to the farming community is all the houses. Hopefully, the TDR program that we're trying to get revitalized will help with that. The other thing is, and this is no way endorsement on Gibson or Peterson Group or anything else. And yes, they do have data centers. But I just wanted to point out they also bought property just on the other side of the railroad tracks down in Kernstown. And that's where the chocolate factory is coming. So they do other things. So if they're not looking at doing data centers at Gibson, they may be looking at something like that. So just keep an open mind. Stay leery, but they do other things other than data centers. Supervisor Orndorff, just want to thank you for remotely joining us tonight, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And with that, Vice Chairman, I have one other thing. And this is completely off the target of what we've been talking about, but it's good news. And we all can use good news. The Sheriff's Department is here every year since 1999. The Sheriff's Department has had a summer youth camp since 1999. They've celebrated their 25th anniversary at their summer camp. They started out with, let's see, 70 kids coming there. This is boys and girls. And they've continued to, this year they had 72 campers registered. Their youth community service, they do community service projects. Campers constructed benches for the shooting range, supported our camp for several years with free instruction. They built benches for the Cedar Creek Christian Camp. It's a wonderful, wonderful venue that the Sheriff's Department puts on. I was able to get out there this year and visit for a few hours. The kids just have a wonderful time. There's a swimming pool. They stock with trout. They can go fishing. It's fantastic. If you have an opportunity to donate a dollar or two to them, I know they would appreciate it. You're always welcome to stop by and say hi. But it's good news. Our county does a lot of wonderful things. We don't always see those wonderful things. We don't always hear about them. This is just one example. And I just didn't want to, I wanted to make everyone aware there are good things going on in Frederick County, is as I said, a wonderful county to live in. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chair, can I do a shout out to the Parks and Rec for thankful for their hard work putting on a good event for down at Sharando Park last Saturday the 4th. And I wanted to point out that today is July the 8th. On noon on July 8th, 1776. I know a little bit about eastern Pennsylvania because I was born there. But on noon on July 8th, 1776, that was the first time that the Declaration of Independence was read publicly. It was read in three cities simultaneously. Philadelphia, eastern Pennsylvania, and Trenton, New Jersey. Then the rest of the summer was up and down the east coast. So, happy birthday, USA. Absolutely. All right. Anybody else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move we adjourn. We are adjourned. Good night, John. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.
