Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-04-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=339
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you I don't think he does. Oh, my God. I don't think he does. I don't think he does. I don't think he does. Let's pray. Almighty God, from whom we have received all things, we dedicate this time and this meeting to the service of this community. We acknowledge that the resources, the land, and the people of Frederick County are a sacred trust from you. We ask that you grant a blessing upon every individual here, the leaders entrusted with the weight of decision, and the citizens who give voice to the needs of the people. May your spirit of wisdom, settle upon these proceedings, ensuring that all deliberations are carried out with gravity, clear thought, and sincere commitment to the welfare of our entire community. Keep our focus sharp and dedicated to the long-term prosperity of the county, and may the decisions made today and in the days ahead build a stable and hopeful future for generations to come. In Jesus' name, we ask and receive all these things. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Yes. Vice Chair. If everyone would rise, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one by nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Okay. Next up is adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I move that we approve the agenda. The adoption of our agenda. I have a motion. Second. I have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Any opposed? All right. We have an agenda. Next item up is for citizens' comments. This is for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Madam Clerk. Blaine Dunn. Okay. Bye-bye. 9AB. If you'd like, we can do another agenda. Go ahead. If there is anyone who wants to humor Mr. Tives, and there is one that has a lot of thought about this, name and Steero District. Mr. Tibbs, did you say two minutes? Okay. Mr. Chairman, this should not be part of my three-minute option. I think that, Mr. Chairman, you said you were going to give me 25 minutes, right, or time necessary. Now you can begin the clock, Mr. Tibbs. So, Mr. Chairman, Board members, my name is Blaine Dunn. I'm from Redbud. I couldn't be here last week when you were having a budget discussion, but I want to make a couple comments. The proposed budget, you were looking to not hire eight additional people. We worked 10 years so that eight firefighters would be almost an automatic. Last year, we did hire eight people, and three of you voted for that budget. I'm going to ask you to reconsider this budget so you can hire eight people. Steve Myshak, the chief, says he doesn't need it. He's a team player. He said to me, Blaine, I will go and work with whatever the board gives you. But I'm saying to you as a citizen, you need to reconsider that and hire eight people. Last year, there was a budget deficit, and you hired eight. This year, you need to hire eight. I'm just going to ask you to reconsider. I sent you all an email. If you want to talk further about that, we can. Second issue, why are you raising taxes? You're raising taxes because of the growth of the county. You're trying to solve a problem, and I don't fault you. You're trying to solve a problem, and I don't fault you for that. But I do say that the board needs to go and think through a long-term project on how to go and deal with growth. I've talked before on impact fees. Impact fees brings the cost of the growth to those that are causing it. If you go to a national park, you pay a user fee. If you pay a user fee, you're paying for that. Same thing for impact fees. It covers that cost. So I'd like you to reconsider a way to do that. The 1% sales tax, which was not yet passed, would have brought in $20 million. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. The real estate tax that you're increasing, that you're causing this year, brings in $10 million. And the cost to each taxpayer would be actually less than the 1% than the real estate tax that you're proposing. In the last decade, average taxes have gone up almost 50% for the median household income, or median household, or the median house, in the tune of about $700 plus. So when you say it's only a little bit here, a little bit there, over time, it adds up. And finally, I'd encourage you to go and work with the board. I've talked to a lot of people. I've worked with the school board to make certain we have at least 13 buses. We've worked for a decade to have 13 buses, which are meant to last for 13 years. And this year, I understand the school board is going to go and get 13 buses, used buses, at a lesser price. That's good. But if it doesn't last for 13 years, then it's counterproductive. So I just ask you to reconsider those three things. Thank you for the work. I'll make some other comments at the end. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the only name we had signed up. Thank you. Is there anybody else that wants to speak? All right. We're going to close the citizens' comments portion. Board, next up is consent agenda. How would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt a consent agenda as presented. I have a motion. Second. I have a second. We'll start with Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chairman. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. Okay. We've got that out of the way. Consent agenda's been taken care of. No board comments. Oh, wait a minute. Board of Supervisors comments. Let me look to my right and I'll look to my left. Yes, Mr. Chair. I have a couple comments. Due to the fact that I'm married to a Frederick County Public Schools teacher, I have a conflict of interest statement that I have to read due to the fact that we're voting on the budget tonight and embedded. And the budget is the Frederick County Public Schools budget as well. So I, Supervisor Lero, Shawnee District, would like to disclose for the record relative and pursuant to the State and Local Government Conflicts of Interest Act and specifically pursuant to Code of Virginia 2.2-3112, Section B3 and Code of Virginia 2.2-3115, Section H, that my wife, Deanna Lero, is employed as a teacher by the Frederick County Public Schools and therefore, I'm not going to be able to read that statement. I'm going to have to read it. As a member of a group who is or may be affected by Board of Supervisors votes on educational-related matters, and that I'm able to participate in the transaction fairly, objectively, and in the public interest. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? All righty, we're going to close Board of Supervisors comments. County officials, we're good on that. Next up is appointments to boards and committee. We have before us the Development Impact Model Oversight Committee. We can go ahead and just approve the whole slate if depending on how I get a motion Okay, I've got a motion Second I have a second all those in favor Anybody opposed we're good to go. Okay The development impacts set many business good. All right now public hearings Next up the Code of Virginia voter satellite office Good evening. Mr. Chairman supervisors This is an ordinance to establish an early satellite alternate location for the June primaries Leading up to August of this year at 261 to 263 Sunnyside Plaza Drive as you're aware Renovations will be made To the main registrar's office where early voting is currently done this only pertains to early absentee voting There's no changes to any regular precinct locations. These locations are in the same basic location anyone needing direction from one to the other There will be signage just in case They're looking for the early location at the current location. They'll be directed across the parking lot to the new location And now the renovations or should be completed in time for the general election is If not, of course as those things go will bring a similar ordinance to that to this effect for early voting for the general election in November excellent. Thank you, sir. Any questions? It's just another it's just a portion of the building that we're already in. Yes, sir. Okay Same location. Okay All right, I need a motion Mr. Chairman, that's a public hearing. I'm sorry public hearing. All right, let's open up the public hearing Anybody like to come forward and speak on this Okay now close now what emotion I like it Motion to it's got a less chairman. I movie acceptance. All right. Yeah, we have a second. This is a roll call vote Super vada Guem meas Sue buzzer eight cuts our supervisor Leara, all right reflective survived wondered I said buzzer oats All right And the chair votes aye. All right. We're good to go. Thank you, sir. Next up is 11B, ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code regarding vehicles and traffic decals. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. This one's mine as well. This is a housekeeping matter to update the code to reflect the increase in the vehicle decal fee from $25 to $30, as is proposed in the county proposed budget. So this will just make sure that the code matches the figure in the budget and make that increase so that the treasurer can prepare their bills in a timely manner for the start of the fiscal year. Okay. Do we have any questions or any comments? All right. Again, the public hearing, I'll open up the public hearing for this. Does anybody like to speak for or against? Please step forward. All right. We're going to close this public hearing. I like it. We need a motion to accept. I move. I move. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Warnberg. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Aikens. Aye. Supervisor Gouvernement. Aye. And the chair votes aye. All right. We're good to go. Cut that change in the books. All right. The next item up is 12A, rezoning 02-26 of Plaster's HAB-AC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eric Bittner, planner. This is a proposal by Winchester Real Estate LLC and Plaster's HVAC to rezone 1.21 acres from B2, general business with proffers, to B3, industrial transition with proffers. The property is located at 161 Commonwealth Court in the Bat Creek District and was previously rezoned from B3, industrial transition to B2 with rezoning 09. This is the location of the property identified by the red dot, locating in the Bat Creek District. And then this is the property outlined in purple. It is along Commonwealth Court and in the rear you have Hood's Industrial. This is the zoning of the property identified in B2. It's surrounded largely by B3, industrial transition. And then in the rear it is adjacent to Hood, which is M2, industrial general, and also B2, general business. This is the long range land use map identifying it as business future land use. In the Kernstown area plan, this area specifically is identified to enhance and service the industrial and commercial uses currently present. Due to its proximity to other B3 properties and M2, the rezoning advances the comprehensive plan. There are proffers with the property. Name one is going to be land use restriction, which would restrict the gasoline station, movie theaters, and parks. and parks, which would not advance the comprehensive plan. And then there's also a proffer that they will comply with the zoning ordinances minimum landscape standards for the B3 district. The reason for this proffer is that as B2, the property has a 15% minimum landscape requirement as opposed to 25% in the B3. They are currently at that 15% limit, so approving it would create a nonconformity. This proffer would address that. And then the final proffer is a proffered proffer payment for 10 cents per square foot for any new building square footage for county fire and rescue services. This contribution would be paid at the time of the change of use permit. Staff do want to note that applies only to new building square footage, of which there is none currently proposed. Positives of this rezoning is that it's in conformance with the comprehensive plan and advances the Kernstown area plan of business, and proffer A1 removes uses that would not advance the comprehensive plan. The concern of having a nonconformity is addressed by their proffer statement. This is their general development plan. The area here in red is the area that would be proposed to be removed and landscaped to bring it up to conformity with the zoning ordinance. The planning commission held a public hearing on March 18, 2026, and recommended approval of this application. This is presented to the board now as a public hearing item, and following that public hearing, staff are seeking a decision from the board of supervisors on the rezoning. At this point, staff and the applicant's agent are available for any questions. Thank you, Mr. Bitter. Any questions? Okay. We have no questions. Thanks, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I'll open up the public hearing. No one has signed up. Okay. Nobody signed up? Come on up. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. I just wanted to say, in case this comes up, a planning commissioner was concerned that the applicant was needlessly putting back trees. I think it's a wonderful idea that they do put in more landscaping. The American Planning Association and their falling dominoes, the domino effects of drought, has definitely recommended more landscaping to combat urban heat island effect. So this would be wonderful for our drought in our county for the future water resiliency. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anybody else want to speak? All right. I'm going to close the public hearing. This is Back Creek District. Supervisor Orndorff. Mr. Chairman, I move to approve the rezoning of number 02-26 of Plasters of HVAC 161 Commonwealth Court to rezone 1.21 acres from B2 General Business. This is a zoning district with proffers. This is a B3 industrial transition zoning. All right. We've got a motion. I'll second that, sir. We have a second. I'm going to start with Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Autes. Aye. Aye. And the chair votes aye. This is approved. Thanks, sir. Next up, 12B, revocation of CUP number 03-16. 2-4. Mr. Chairman, how are you, sir? Doing fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got to use the handheld there. The night before you today is a revocation of a conditional use permit 03-24. For 172 Firehouse LLC. The property has an acreage of five acres. Its zoning is RA. And it's in the Back Creek Magisterial District. Again, this was a conditional use that was a permit that was issued back in 2024. If I could turn your attention to the map on your left, it shows the outline of the property. It's in the Round Hill area of the county. The revocation and this board, just for giving you clarification, your code allows for revocations of conditional use permits under certain conditions. And those conditions, and to be honest with you, since I've worked for Frederick County, I think we've only had four that have come before this board and only one has been revoked. So most of the conditional use permits that are seen or approved by Frederick County usually move right along and the businesses operate. In this case, your code allows, and I'm just going to, for the record, read it. The board of supervisors may, by resolution, indicate a revocation of an active conditional use permit. The consideration of the revocation shall precede the following procedures set forth in approving a new conditional use permit. The following recommendation by the Planning Commission, the board may revoke an active conditional use permit for the following reasons. And there's really only three reasons that we have. And it was put in your code for that reason. Because, again, once a conditional use permit is approved, usually it just moves along. You don't. You don't hear about it or staff doesn't hear about it. Those three actions basically are a failure to establish or discontinue an approved conditional use permit. If the approved conditional use permit has not been established within two years of approval or if it has been discontinued for two years, the conditional use permit may be revoked. B, the repeated or continued violations of the chapter, including violations of the conditions that were placed on the conditional use permit. And C, a fraudulent or false misleading information supplied by the applicant. The property owner was cited in 2013 for the conditional use permit. Now, I'll give you a little site history out here of this conditional use permit. The property owner was cited in 2003 for operational landscaping contracting business and storage of tractor trailers on the property. The business name was cut above landscaping. The property owner applied for a conditional use permit after Frederick County filed a criminal complaint and was heard in general district court in July of 2003. The property owner applied for the conditional use permit. The property owner applied for the conditional use permit in January of 2023. And the board of supervisors approved this conditional use permit back in August of 24. Now, there's some leave period, as you're well aware of, when you deal with constituents, their conditional use process goes through different agencies. Once this entity was in general district court, they did come in. They applied for the conditional use permit. So we move forward. However, there were some conditions that this board assigned that it's a conditional use permit. And they are, number one, unreviewable. Review agency comments should comply with at all times. Hours of operations for the site should be limited from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily with an exception of emergency and climate weather services, snow removal, and storm remediation. Customer visits should be limited from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Number three, no more than 60 employees on the property at any time. Number four, a minor site plan shall be approved by Frederick County. And the improvements shown on the plan. To be completed prior to establishment of the use. And number five, any expansion or change of use will require a new conditional use permit. Now, the violation that we're here tonight for, for the revocation, was that the business has been operating for two years. And it has been a violation of that minor site plan condition. Even though the site plan has been applied for, and I'll get to it later in the presentation, they're operating out there. Part of the conditional use permit was that any of the improvements of the approved site plan have to be in place before the business could open. Yeah. The owner did apply for a minor site plan in 2025. Staff did for us to review. Staff did review that plan in July of 2025. It could not grant approval because it had not met the, the owner had not addressed or met any outstanding issues that are still prevalent on the property today. So the recommended, actually the property was in violation of the conditional use permit that was put on it. Of course, it's coming back to condition number four. As shown, the site plan should be completed and be established before the uses. That was all the updates of the property had to be in place for them to get a business license from the operator in Frederick County. Now, the business has been operating without a site plan since 2024. And the violation above references the condition, what's the condition for? Staff is seeking action on this revocation of the conditional use permit 0324. Now, this revocation was brought before the planning commission at its March 18th, 2026 meeting. The planning commission recommended the board supervisors revoked this conditional use permit 0324. Following a public hearing, staff is seeking a recommendation from the board supervisors on the CEUP applications. Mr. Chairman, I'll answer any questions that you or any of the board members have on Mr. Stephen Patler's represent in this application. Any questions for? Mr. Chairman, Administrator Sharon, just a couple questions. Item four on the ordinance that was adopted back in August 14th of 2024. And again, you've read this. The amount of site plans shall be approved by Frederick County. And the improvements shown on the site plan shall be completed prior to the establishment of this use. You stated just a few moments ago that they've been operating for two years. With the use that this conditional use permit was to approve without addressing that. That is correct, Mr. Ornoff. And just to set the record, I'll let Mr. Patler explain what we went through on that. Yes, they have been operating. The simple question is yes. This is 24. They apply for these. I pointed out they apply for the site plan. As the site plan goes through different agencies, they never came back to staff. Or had those site plan cannot be approved or anything put in place until it happens. So yes, since 24, they've been operating. Okay. And I am familiar with the process. Yeah. Another question I have. You've stated that this, and again, I understand the process. It started back in 23. That is correct. And was the ownership at that time. The composition. The composition and ownership different than it is today. It is, but I'm going to let Mr. Patler explain that as representative of the applicant. In the short answer, it had been two other property owners. I'm going to let him, again, explain that. Okay. But it was the same business owner. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions for Mr. Chair? I may have missed. Mr. Chair, I may have missed this. What specifically in that site plan have they not, what work have they not completed? As we're getting. The site plan is getting reviewed. It's a laundry list. We've actually narrowed it down to two issues right now. We have not gotten anything back from some of the reviewing agency comments. And as of April 1st, we had met with the engineer, had reviewed the plan again. One of them was the, not to get too technical, Mr. Leroy, but just one of them was where they were storing some other equipment. And the second part was getting their change of use. And the third part was getting their change of use in order for their office to use in a health department requirement. That's where we're at right now. As of the 1st of this month. So during the planning commission meeting, a lot of discussion revolved around the border fencing or berm or trees. Where are we with that? Actually, the last iteration of the site plan that was submitted two weeks ago did show some of the screening elements. Staff has not really reviewed that yet until we have everything come back. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And the reason I say that is there may be some changes that the other agencies require on the plan, like the fire marshal, things like that to get it in place. But you're correct. At the meeting that was brought up, I know you were at that. You attended it. The current plan that was submitted did show proper screening in place, but has not been signed off by staff. Okay. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Chair, and I have one more. Yes, sir. Okay. Administrator Sharon, should the board take action to revoke the conditional use permit, the applicant will be able to reapply? The applicant would have to reapply within a year. It's just like any land use that comes before you. If it gets revoked or gets turned down, they have a year to resubmit. What would happen on the revocation? Should this board ask for revocation, the next day we would go for proceedings over to the court to go ahead and start court proceedings on that to follow through with the revocation. What the revocation would do, the business could not operate. Frederick County Peer is announcing illegal business, and therefore we would have to take them over to the general district court, circuit court. Okay. Thank you. Vice Chair? This is a landscaping business? Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I just want to make something clear. So, August 2024, CUB is approved, waiting on a site plan. We did not get a site plan until two weeks ago. Is that correct? Roughly two weeks ago. Roughly, but just when it happened, yes, to answer the question real short, Mr. Chairman, what happened is the applicant actually had applied for the minor site plan, back in 25, between 25 and two weeks ago. Don't know what happened. I'll let the applicant explain that. With their engineer, we had contacted the engineer. Staff made the comments. We got some review agency comments, came back, nothing moved. After the planning commission meeting, okay, and again, I'm going to let the applicant speak to his heart content, we started getting stuff that came in. We did review it on April 1st. So, yes, there's a lag period between that. Yeah. I just want to clarify that. It's not that it's been held up from a review on the county side process. This is something that was going on between the engineer and the owner. That is correct. Okay. I just want to clarify that. That's all. Mr. Pedner. Thank you, Mr. Chair and members of the Board of Supervisors. I'm Steve Pedler with the firm with Harrison & Johnson in Winchester, Virginia, and I represent 172 Firehouse LLC. I'd like to start by addressing... what I believe Mr. Jewell just said. The site plan was submitted in July of 2025. I want to make sure we're clear on the terms that we're using. It was submitted with the application in 2025. It went through a review process. There were comments that were issued in July of 2025. Then there were additional comments that were issued in October of 2025. Between the submission in July of 2025 and October 2025, there was back-to-back. There was a back-and-forth between the applicant and staff, which is the ordinary process, as Mr. Orndorff was saying. It's a process. What happened between October 25, 2025, and approximately, I'll say, two months ago when Mr. Pearson happened to be in a meeting with him at the planning staff on a totally unrelated matter, and he said, hey, what's going on with this 172 Firehouse thing? I said, I don't know. What do you mean? He said, nothing's been advanced. It was at that time that I became aware of the situation. In October of 2025, a partner and I purchased the landscape company that's operating on this property. We don't own the property. I'm not the applicant. I'm representing the applicant, but I do have an interest in the landscape company that's operating there that employs 30 people there right now. And has been a long-time good citizen of Frederick County. As you heard before the Planning Commission, some of the neighbors just happened to be here that night and were talking about what a good neighbor they've been. That change in October, I guess, caused some disconnect with the engineering firm that was engaged to move the site plan forward because you have to have an engineer involved because of the technical requirements for the site plan. It's a drawing. That's an engineer drawing. It's a drawing that is submitted as part of the process. I don't know why to this day, and I've had numerous conversations with the engineers since this came to my attention, why it just sat on the desk and there was no response to the comment letter that was delivered from the planning staff until I got involved. As soon as I got involved, we started making, we moved things along. Things were expedited at that point. And I think if those of you that were here for the Planning Commission, meeting, I think three of you were, four, I guess now that I think about it, I said that we would get everything that needed to be submitted in by the next, beginning of the next week, and we did that. It was submitted to the planning staff. And as I warned the Planning Commission at that time, it's a process. We haven't gotten all the comments from the agencies. The zoning administrator has certain discretion on, within a range of, there's options for certain things that he has to take his time and review. I think that some of the things he was alluding to when he spoke to you just a minute ago, that we haven't gotten through that part of the process yet. There's still a process that still needs to be done in order to get it to the point where the planning, zoning administrator, Mr. Cherin, can sign off on it, and then we can install the screening and do all the stuff that has to be done because it would be unwise to do it before it was approved. And if it gets revoked, it would shut down the business, and that business would have to leave Frederick County, at least for a year, and certainly at that location. Now, the, I think it's important to note that we're here on a revocation under the ordinance that Mr. Cherin pointed out to you. What that ordinance says, and I'm referring to 165-103.0, which is the one that Mr. Cherin was talking about, which is the one that Mr. Cherin was talking about, which is the one that Mr. Cherin was talking about, which is the one that Mr. Cherin was talking about, which is the one that Mr. Cherin was talking about, and then 165-103.08, the revocation provision that he cited to you, he's saying that what's been done that would prompt a revocation is, A, failure to establish or discontinuance of the approved conditional use. And it goes on to state, if the approved conditional use has not been established within two years of approval, right? So you have the approval of the CUP, then you have two years to establish that use before it's eligible for revocation. I think Mr. Orndorff misstated the actual date. The CUP was approved on August 18, 2024. The two years has not expired for the establishment of the use. Condition four in the CUP says, a minor site plan shall be approved by Frederick County, and the improvement of the CUP shall be approved by Frederick County, and the improvement of the CUP shall be approved by Frederick County, and the improvement of the CUP shall be approved by Frederick County, and the improvement shown on the site plan shall be completed prior to the establishment of this use. So as I read these together, I don't believe the Board has the authority to revoke the CUP until that two-year period has lapsed. Regardless of that, I'm not here to say we need until August 2026 to complete what needs to be done to complete the site plan. As Mr. Cherin said to me Monday when we sat down and reviewed the status of things, he said, I think we're two steps away from getting this completed. And I still think he believes something along those lines. It's not, there's, the things that need to be done aren't very complicated. It's just part of this agency review process. And until we get back the comments from the agencies, we just don't know how much more back and forth there might be. Because believe it or not, members of the Board of Supervisors, bureaucrats and federal officials, and the people in Frederick County aren't always business friendly. They don't have the same concerns that the business owner might have in how promptly things move along or how things are reviewed. We're at their mercy to some extent. And some of these people are very busy because they don't have the staff to help them. Mr. Cherin is the only zoning administrator. He's the one who's got to exercise his discretion with some of these things. So we can't get that done until he has time to do it and he has other things going on. Besides this application. So what I'm here to ask tonight, I'm not here to make any excuses, because I readily concede that between October and when we got notice of this revocation coming up on the agenda for the planning commission, the ball was dropped. And we would have fired the engineer, except we were too far into it and wanted to get the site plan submitted. So we went forward with the engineer and got it submitted, again. Revised site plan, Mr. Jewell, not the first submission. It was a revision based on the comments that we'd gotten. So what I'm asking tonight is the same thing I asked for from the Planning Commission, which narrowly failed the vote before the Planning Commission, and that is for the time to complete the process. We would ask that the Board table this for 60 days. I'm pretty confident that even though bureaucrats can be slow, any information we're going to need from the agencies and discussion with staff would be completed by then to have them sign off on the site plan. Once that's done, we would still have to install the trees, I think spread a little gravel, mark the parking spaces. There are very few things that have to be done, but we can certainly get that done before August 18, 2026, which is the two-year period before which this would even become eligible. for revocation under the ordinance. So that is what I'm here to ask tonight, and please, don't add more burdens to these it's a small property owner, and again, to Mr. Orndorff's question to Mr. Charron about the ownership of the property. The property was owned solely by Barbara Singhas when the original citation came from the county for a business operating there, without the proper CUP. Since that time, 172 Firehouse LLC acquired half interest in the property. So the property owners did change. 172 Firehouse LLC, the ownership of that entity is not the same as the current ownership of the landscape business either. They're two separate unrelated people. But obviously they've got common interest because the business is operating on that property. But, I think, that's the way it is. But I'm here to ask you to please table this, let us continue to go through this process, get it done, and let this business operate in Frederick County as it has for like 15 years. There's been a cut above landscaping operating at this address for approximately 15 years before there were complaints by neighbors back in 2023 about whether or not they had the proper permitting. So please, don't have this long time business, and I'm a former employer of a number of Frederick County residents be forced to go out of business because of having difficulty navigating the requirements of a CUP in Frederick County. I'm happy to answer any questions. Any questions for Mr. Pelton? You and someone else are the owners of the business now? Of the landscape company. Of the landscape company. Yes, sir. Not the property owner, not the applicant. So your company's name is the landscape company. It's a little complicated. It's a cut above landscape group, LLC. It has a DBA registered with the state corporation commission for a cut above landscaping, seasonal colors, landscaping lawn care, and advantage property management. There are three, we acquired three different businesses and rolled it into one company. Okay. So the piece of property you don't own. No, sir. So as a landlord, I would charge you a lease on that. I'm assuming you're paying some kind of lease or That's complicated also. There's a lot of house complicated. lawn mowing and other things, paying the taxes. It is a lease, yes, sir. But it's not just a straight. There's other obligations involved other than just paying rent. Okay. So you lease the property or whatever. You've got to deal with, who owns the land to use that property. You've got some kind of agreement of money going back and forth. Yes, sir. Okay. So we're talking about 30 people and we're talking about the business. And we're talking, the business is over here. You're leasing a piece of land or whatever you're doing, however you're doing that. And then you've got a piece of land over here. So if my landlord of my warehouse says to me, I'm closing down. My business doesn't go out of business. I go somewhere else and rent another warehouse. So I'm trying to figure out, I understand the sympathy part about 30 employees and a 15 year old business, but you could go someplace else. Am I correct or wrong? Mr. Wells, if you can find me a piece of property in Frederick County that's approved for a landscape business already and it's set up for one that has neighbors that can tolerate one and have tolerated one for years, I'd be interested to know that. But you can't just pick up and move a landscaping business in Frederick County or any county I know in the surrounding areas because of the requirements of the screening and all the different things that you have to do to have a business like that operating. It's not that easy. There isn't land available anywhere and everywhere for this kind of business. This is a type of business that requires a lot of things to occur in order for it to operate on an any particular piece of property in Frederick County. But you're representing the land owner. Yes, sir. But you're the owner of the business. It's not easy to break those in half, but I just did. Well, I think where interests are aligned, most certainly. So... Okay. Supervisor Warner? Councilor Just a point, and then a question. When I read off the ordinance, the date I used was August 14, 2024, which is on the ordinance that was in the packet. But on that ordinance, and I too read the section about two years, and my question is number four. And that says, a minor site plan shall be approved by Frederick County, and the improvements shown on the site plan shall be completed prior to the establishment of this use. This CUP in the very first paragraph says a landscape contracting business. So that's what the CUP was approving. Would you agree with that? Yes, sir. Okay. Then help me understand. The Board of Supervisors in August of 14, 2024 approved item four that says prior to. How do you interpret that? That the use is not established until all the improvements are done. And we have two years to do that. So, I'm going to paraphrase what you're saying. You're saying that under the ordinance, your interpretation is that you have two years, a two-year window to make those, to have that minor site plan approved and the improvements. Yes, sir. I think we're a Dillon Rule State in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The ordinance that authorizes you to revoke a CUP only authorizes this body to do it if the failure to establish the approved conditional use has not been established within two years of approval. That's how I read it. Yes, sir. Okay. Also, Mr. Orenbroefe, just to be clear about where my confusion is about the date, on the first page of the summary page, it says August 18, 2024 is when it was approved. And on the second page, I think where you're looking at it says August 14, 2024. So I'm not sure which date is the right one. I don't, it's sometime in August of 2024. But that's, I didn't mean to suggest you didn't. No, we can agree on that. We're reading it correctly. I see now where it's different in two different places. All right. Any more questions for Mr. Piddler? I'd like a little clarification if I can from Clayton, if you could help me out. I was waiting for that. Sorry, I turned it off. If Clayton could give me some clarification, I'm hearing the two-year and I'm hearing dates and I'm apparently Supervisor Orenbroefe is agreeing with those dates. So where are we with that? Because that tells me where I need to be. From our perspective and Mr. Chair and Mr. Fox, correct me if I'm wrong about anything I say relative to this, they're in violation of the fourth condition, which is a minor site plan shall be approved by Frederick County and improvements shown on the site plan shall be completed prior to the establishment of the use. The business has been operating there since August 14th, 2024. They have failed to advance and get a minor site plan approved. I take exception to the statement regarding county bureaucrats creating this issue. We typically approve minor site plans with less than three months. It's taken them 19 months to still not get a minor site plan approved for a landscaping business. It's our opinion they're in violation of that condition. Mr. Piddler's referenced say their statement is accurate, and that's another reason for revocation of a conditional use permit. A conditional use permit can be revoked for violating the conditions of it as well. That's our position on the topic. Can I make a follow-up question on that? Direct question, direct answer. With the CUP, could they or could they not have operated a landscaping business before all the conditions of the CUP get place? No, the 15 years that they were operating there, they were technically in violation of the zoning ordinance. We simply hadn't gotten a complaint about it. So they were not ever legally allowed to operate on that property. But once the CUP was approved in whatever date in 2024, once it was approved, once the CUP was approved, technically the way I'm understanding things is that all improvements would have to be completed before the business continued to operate. It could be argued that they were in violation of it the day after the CUP was approved because they continued to operate the use on the property. But we take the approach of allowing them a reasonable amount of time to come into compliance with the conditions and not stop them or have them stop operating the business at the location when they're actively working to come into compliance. Does that answer what you're asking? Thank you. Supervisor Grubach. Mr. Sheeran or Mr. Pearson, are there other options other than revoking that could be used? Are there fines? Are there other tools other than, is like revoke is like done? Well, the revoke, what's brought up tonight, what you're looking at tonight, Mr. Armand, is we revoke it, it goes away, it's done. As I pointed out earlier, this land use action, as Mr. Pettit was asking for days, you have, have the authority to revoke it, like you would do with a rezoning or any conditional use permit. You can give them the extra time. You could add more conditions onto it if you wanted to. So it's almost like we're starting fresh, except this is a revocation. Once it's revocated, it's done. In other words, done, they have to come back in years, I pointed out before, and reapply. Now they're in, now they're technically in the legal business and would have to go to the judicial side to take care of it. Thank you. Supervisor Lero. Yes, Mr. Chair, thank you. Am I on here? Mr. Pettler, in your statement there, you confused me on a couple things. You seem to contradict yourself. At one point, you said the ball was dropped after October of 2025, sometime between October of 2025 and the spring of 2026 when you were in a discussion with Mr. Pearson, and you said the ball was dropped. I'm assuming you made that your company or your associates dropped the ball? My company doesn't own the property. The property owner is the one who hired the engineer and is doing the application. So who dropped the ball? I would say the engineer, and the engineer says they did. So it's somewhere between the two of them. That's the part that I'm confused about, because you said the bureaucrats are slow and they're not business friendly, but you readily admit that Mr. Pearson was the one who brought you back to task on it, so to speak. I reminded you about it, but you're saying that the bureaucrats are slow. When I say bureaucrats are slow, I'm not suggesting that it's intentional. I'm suggesting that they're overworked and taxed, and it's a process to go through this process, because you can't just waive it and say, I want this approved. They have to be deliberate about how they review it and how they respond to it. It is just a fact, and it takes a long time to do that sometimes, and it's the point I was trying to make to the Planning Commission about asking for some more time, because simply getting it to Mr. Cherin's desk isn't the only thing that has to be done for it to be reviewed and approved. I don't mean to be thin-skinned about it, but it just seems like we're trying to throw all the blame onto the staff when, in fact, it seems like you're way over the average planning, the time that it takes to get something like this done. Like I said, I'm not saying that. I heard you. I heard you. I heard you. I heard you. I heard you. Mr. Pearson, say from three months to 19 months. I cannot. I have no excuse for what occurred prior to my involvement. I have no excuse whatsoever. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Yes, sir. Any additional questions? Thank you, Mr. Petler. Thank you. This is a public hearing. Madam Clerk. No one has signed up, Mr. Chairman. Please come forward. State your name. Magisterial District, sir. Rocky Keplinger, Back Creek District. Mr. Chairman, nice to see you smiling. I'd like to point out before you all forget, he said two other landscaping businesses he owns move cut above there. He's got some place to move it if he needs to and wants to. Okay. I totally support small business in Frederick County. I actually had a small business in this district. I've been in this community for 34 years. But part of being a small business, you've got to be a good neighbor. You've got to be responsible for your business and you've got to be responsible for your neighbors, no matter what it takes to make them happy. And cut above is not a good neighbor. Things to consider. We're talking one year and eight months from the time you all approved this. The night that you all approved this, I was told by his people that they had trees on order that they wanted. They wanted to get planted, but they couldn't plant until they got to CUP. If they planted two trees a week for a year and eight months, we wouldn't be looking at their backyard. Obviously, they're a landscaping company. I guess they know how to plant trees. All right. So they keep blaming delays. Probably the biggest problem is they're trying to put 60 employees on a four-bedroom per septic system, and they don't know how to financially pay for it. I'm not going to go into that. Okay? It's been sold. We just found out in October. You know what I'm saying? We had a meeting in March. You would think after my presentation in March, the new owners would be very respectful and be dancing on ice cubes to make sure they got to this meeting and everything was good. They did two weeks before the planning commission meeting remove a bunch of junk vehicles that had been sitting around forever. And yes, they've been. They've been there for 15 years. But when they started out 15 years ago, what was it? Three or four trucks, four or five employees. Now they want to go to 60 employees that they don't have any responsibility for. And yes, they do get along good with the independent school, Winchester, because the wind blows from their property away from the independent school and all the neighbors with Chuck Lane and Round Hill Road. And the independent school was the one that paid for and installed the property. And the private school was the one that paid for it. So the kids at the school wouldn't have to see the stuff. Cut above didn't do it. The landowners didn't do it. And there's 10 houses in Woodchuck Lane that this stuff is in their backyard. There's five houses on Round Hill Road that has to look at this every evening in their backyard. What do you think that's going to do for our real estate prices? If we. Whenever we want to sell. I've lived on Woodchuck Lane for 48 years. I have thrown away brand new canvases that have blown into my yard. My buzzer's going off. So since the planning commission meeting, you would have thought that they would have taken care of things. Last Monday, I had to go over at 715 and inform his employees that they were. We're going to go over at 715 and inform his employees that they were. I have to go over at 715 and inform his employees. They're parking their landscape trailers on the property line, dropping the tailgates and run their lawnmowers in my property and their skid steer to get their trees. Now, is that a good neighbor that wants to do something? No. Thank you, sir. Thanks, sir. Name Magistrarial District, please. Okay. Larry Ludwig. I'm in the back. Creek District as well. And I'm one of the, I've lived as residents for 60 years. I'm one of the five houses in front of the landscape. And for, I'm disappointed that they haven't put a privacy fence up because like you said, well, they said 15 years, but anyway, for like, I know the last eight or 10 years of stuff, you know, seeing junk trucks and tires and stuff around, you know, you just get tired of seeing that, you know, and then there were some people that came in and they did clean up and stuff at one time. But then, like you said, for this other thing happened, there was some, they had junk trucks up there again, and then they had tires and stuff. And, you know, and not, I guess until y'all said something, then they moved that. But, you know, it comes to a point where, you know, I don't want to see that all the time. And, you know, it's just, I don't see any action being done with them. So, you know, you get frustrated, you know, who would want that, you know, to look at that every day and stuff. So, I just hope that they do something in a timely manner. Thanks, sir. Thanks. Is there anyone else that wants to speak? Okay, I'm going to close the public hearing then. Supervisor Orndorff, this is Back Creek. Mr. Chairman, I want to support small businesses in Frederick County. However, with Supervisor Aitken's questions for clarification, the way I interpret for, and what I'm hearing from planning is that we really was in violation the next day, but reasonableness would say you have to go through the process and comply. So, I move to move to revoke the conditional use permit 03, dash 24 for a cut above 172 Firehouse LLC and Barber Singh House. All right. I have a motion. Do I have a second? Second. I have a second. Is there any discussion? All right. Yes, sir. Okay. This question might be for Mr. Pearson. We said we could add. Things to the CUP at this point. Is that what I'm understanding? That's correct. The board can amend the conditional use permit as part of this process if that was their prerogative. And if I'm understanding things correctly, and I should have done this, and I'm sorry I didn't, but the back part of the property where there was supposed to be a privacy fence, it was never installed. And the berm, is that correct? Yeah. None of the screening improvements have been installed. None of the screening improvements. Because the, I'm trying to take into consideration for the business owner, along with the adjacent property owners, because I'm a big proponent for property and rights, and making sure that that's protected. But I'm also for supporting businesses as well. So, the, what I was trying to figure out in my head, and I haven't, I haven't come up with it yet, and so I'm sorry Mr. Chair for that. But of anything that we can do to accelerate, and if there is, if anything is on the table, I don't know if you can put a penalty into the CUP, that if something's not done within a certain time, that there's a bonding that could be put on it, that would, that would enforce an action to be done for the screening to be put into place, or not? I'm. I think if the board. If the board is in, and knowing that there's a motion for revocation right now. I get it. I'm just speaking in general terms, not trying to advocate one way or the other. But if the board's inclined to provide options for the applicant, my suggestion would be to table it for a period of time, not only until the site plan is approved, but progress has been made to install the screening elements. Otherwise, as far as amending conditions to make. At your prior meeting. At your prior meeting. On March 25th. Coming out of that meeting, the board directed staff to prepare the appropriate adoption resolution, but to give the board two options. Option A reflects a real estate tax increase, proposed real estate tax increase of five cents. Option B reflects a proposed real estate tax increase of four cents. What that means for the board, if you were to adopt the five cent tax rate, you would have one million, eight hundred thirteen thousand four hundred twenty one dollars that would go into the board's contingency fund. If you choose to go with the four percent real estate tax rate, you would have thirteen thousand four hundred twenty one dollars to go into the board's contingency fund. But otherwise, the budgets are balanced, but there would be a difference of about one point eight million dollars between scenario A and scenario B. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'll be glad to try to answer any general questions. And Ms. Kibler and her team are here to answer any specifics that you all might have. All right. So do we have any questions for Mr. Tibbs or Ms. Kibler? I see no questions. Okay, then I'm going to entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move that Frederick County Board of Supervisors adopt Formula A for the twenty six twenty seven fiscal year budget. Okay. Formula A is adopted. Well, five. Five cents. Excuse me. Okay. Five cents. We got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. Okay. I've got a motion and I've got a second. Any discussion? All right. Supervisor Gouverment? Aye. Supervisor Aikens? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Warnedorf? Aye. Supervisor Oates? No. Chair votes aye. Option A? Aye. Motion approved. Motion approved. Is approved. Is approved. Ms. Skibler, I want to thank you and your staff for all the work. Mr. Bolhofer is not here tonight. He's been very sick, but I know that he put tremendous time in with everybody sitting over here. So thank you for all the time that's been put in, especially you, Ann. We really appreciate it. So, okay. We've got an adopted budget for fiscal year twenty twenty six, twenty twenty seven. Board liaison reports. Do I have any? Yes. Supervisor Aikens? At this week's EDA meeting, there was a discussion on how the EDA can use bonding as a tool to incentivize industrial development. It was a really productive conversation that hopefully, hopefully the EDA can use more in the future. Additionally, I want to recognize Rick Till for his ten years of service on the board. This past week, he announced his immediate retirement from the board. I am honored to be working alongside with the new vice chair. Brian Fairbanks. As we continue to chart a path for the EDA, Brian and I will be meeting with board members separately in the weeks to come to explain the board's objectives that we've got consensus on to accomplish and to move forward with finding a new executive director. Thanks, sir. Very good. Thanks for all the work you've put in the EDA board. Any other? You guys have no reports. Look at my left. Look at my right. All right. Thank you. Next up, citizens' comments. Madam Clerk. Mr. Chair, no one has signed up. Okay. No one's signed up. Is there anyone who would like to come forward and speak under citizens' comments? Do I need to remind? Fifteen minutes, Mr. Chairman. Oh, man. Blaine Dunn, Redbud. This board's going to go and have an in-depth conversation on data centers. Mr. Anderson. Yes. Mr. Bakins, you wrote a very nice letter to the general public, which you said, lay out the policies. Be glad to have a conversation. The response was, do you have a conflict of interest? I was on this board for ten years. During that time, I was accused of getting money under the table or profiting from my votes. In the ten years I was on the board, I did not know of one member, friend or foe, that ever got a vote. I never got a money for a vote. And so for those people in the public, they're saying that you are being compensated or remunerated. Please don't. We can have a robust debate on the pros and cons of data centers. But to go and infringe and make applications about business owners, and many of you are, is just wrong. Mr. Chairman, I believe that you have some expertise on data centers. You've built them. That should not preclude you from participating in a debate. Mr. Bakins, you're a builder. You probably bring something to the table on buildings that I don't know about. That's a positive, not a negative. Mr. Oates, you've been in this business for 20 years, 30 years. You're bringing this perspective on the county that many people don't have. So I would say to all of you, open up this data center discussion for a good, intellectually honest debate. Have a town hall in which people can talk civilly and come back, similar to what you said, Mr. Bakins. But for the general public, you need to stop making accusations about board members on being remunerated or receiving compensation because it's wrong. If you think that somebody here is, then go to the Commonwealth attorney and say so because that's a felony. But just because you disagree with them, there's no reason to go and make smearing comments about them. Thank you. So please don't. Let's have a good, robust debate on data centers. Let's not go and attack the people that make them. We can agree or disagree, but let's have a good, intellectually honest conversation and not go and smear people's names. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks, sir. Anybody else like to speak? Not seeing anybody. Okay. I'm going to close citizens' comments. Board of... Okay. Hi. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm from Gainesboro. I first want to invite the public to join our volunteer-led Frederick County Comprehensive Plan 2026 Community Work Group on Thursday, April 30th at 6.30 p.m. at the end of Valclue Spring, 231 Valclue Spring Lane, Stephen City, for our third community meeting on transportation. I also want to thank the board for the really hard work on balancing our budget and carrying the weight of the budget. And carrying the weight of difficult decisions on behalf of our community. Our taxes are still some of the lowest in our state and our valley. As we continue these conversations, I hope we can keep working together to find thoughtful solutions to our tax revenue challenges that build on the strengths and the beauty of Frederick County. I deeply love agritourism, and I believe our farms, orchards, historic villages, small businesses, and beautiful rural landscape are not only a part of our identity, but part of our great future. I have been spending a lot of time deep thinking and researching through some of my own ideas to share with the Board of Supervisors and the EDA. Ideas that create greater harmony and synergy between economic growth, tourism, small businesses, research headquarters, and uses that work great along with preservation of our land that makes this county so special. Ideas like agritech, financial firms, maybe an eco or rural landscape. Or even a wooden toy factory. I would love to help continue bringing forward ideas that strengthen our economy, while protecting the land, beauty, and quality of life that so many families treasure here. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir. Your name and match characteristic, please. Good evening. Gary Krowse, Shawnee District. Totally agree with Mr. Dunn. I think that's a great example of how we can continue to work together and build our community. And I think this is something that we are all going to be proud of, and I think that we will be proud of, as well. I'm a proud man of my country. And I think that when I come to this place, I'm going to be proud of myself. And I think that's what I'm going to be proud of, too. Good evening. Gary Krause, Shawnee District. Totally agree with Mr. Dunn. I think that a conversation is needed, and I think that conversation has been ongoing and very fruitful. So I wanted to formally invite all the members of the board here, as well as anybody in the public that might be listening, to another event, if you can't make the April 30th one, but next Wednesday, a week from now, on April 15th, from 6.30 to 9 p.m. at Trumpet Vine Farm. There is a community-funded, community-hosted dialogue discussion featuring experienced professionals and a myriad of voices throughout the community. So I just want to encourage everybody to find some time on your calendar and visit that. I understand there's a planning commission meeting that evening, so perhaps all of you might not be able to make it, but I recommend that most of you are able to make it. I do hope you will attend and engage in the discussion. Thank you all, and congratulations on your new budget. Thanks, sir. Okay, try this one more time. Anybody else want to come up? Good to go. We're closing it. Board of Supervisors comments. Any? Yes, sir. Supervisor Gouverment. All right. So not that this really had a lot to do with the budget, but I think it's important in the context of whether it's talking about data centers or anything else. With the help of Supervisor Akins and Mr. Bohoffer, we've been working hard on coming up with a new look at how we communicate. One of the drivers from our retreat was we identified that our ability to communicate with the public sometimes isn't always so great. So we've worked to come up with a new plan to sort of re-envision communications department. So as Ms. Vacchio is getting ready to retire, and we're going to all be crumbled by that, I think the important thing is, this is a chance for us to re-imagine our communications. So Mr. Bohoffer has put together the ability for myself and Supervisor Akins to meet with county staff so we can collaborate on how does each department communicate? How do we get information out? How do we receive information? And we're going to come back to the board with some solutions that I think the citizens will be happy with, because we're going to be able to communicate with the public. So I think that's going to be a great opportunity to, I think, get information out to the citizens quicker, more efficiently, using different tools than we've ever used before. And it'll give the supervisors an opportunity to communicate out as well. So there's a lot more to come on that, but I just wanted you to know that because we're hearing from the citizens that think that needs to be better, we're going to react and do something appropriate. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else want to speak? I just personally want to thank the board. Folks, there was a lot of time, put in a lot of thought, a lot of time, a lot of dedication from members on what to do with the budget. But not only with the budget, how do we, like Supervisor Groovemont said, how do we do a better job of communicating to our citizens what's going on, how we can help, and just focus on EDA. I know I've heard a lot about agritourism. We actually, Supervisor Akins and I met with the tourism, and they actually were a little surprised that people didn't realize how much time they were putting in for agritourism. So that's something that's very important to us because we are an agriculture community still. We are. I mean, I was very proud to be Back Creek District Supervisor. I got Supervisor Orndorff down here, and we've got 156 square miles right there alone in Back Creek. So we're very proud of our community. And everyone up here, loves this county, and everything we're trying to do, we're trying to do for the county. And that's it, bottom shelf. So thank you. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I would move we adjourn. You're adjourned. Okay, go ahead. Thank you. Thank you, do I have any questions, any other questions from you all? No? Okay thank you for happening and sparked an atmosphere in my mind received very much this afternoon, and we just have a beautiful image of what is going very. What have we talked about and haven'tfires come forward but the呀 We talked about is the people of ISAPAN. Ja. Ja.
