Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-01-24
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=264
========================================================================

Out of that bag. Making a mess already, huh? Hmm. You guys need something after this. I think the volume was about equal. So maybe your suggestion is just to take it more when you're speaking. Okay. I know. I told Susan, I said, I have never seen anything like that. At least I was reasonably glad. Is that right? Right. And I'm like, mine was down minus five. I'm like, you've got to be freaking kidding me. It's different. Crazy. Yeah. It's crazy. Oh, is this my pad? You're the one who's walking to the crazy house. Oh, there's trouble. Nobody's going to walk in the middle here, are they? She's really doing great. She looks good. She feels good. She looks like everybody's spot. Yeah. I told her, I said, this is. I think she gave a good check. Well. She didn't give more check than that. She needs to use some of this space. You did my report. I'll come this way. I told her. I'll come this way. She checked it. And I said, I don't know. I don't like that she had that number. I said, I don't know. You're just a standard. Well, I've got it up and down. I can't take a roll. I don't watch anything else. And I'm not bringing it home. I'm not. I'm not. And that's the most expensive. It's not. It's not. Right. It is. It is. It's not mine. And I forgot my check. I don't know where we got it. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I do know. When we did our city. I don't think you said we got last year. I love you. This is our audit. This is special company. Oh, yeah. And they were very good. But they were voting on it. I don't know if they voted on it. We actually hired an outside partner. And they got every desk, every chair, all that furniture. I mean, I tried. Cost some money, though. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you saw those chairs. They held up. Yeah. Yeah. All of these are like. And I did. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Seriously. I am. I don't think. We're not going to get to that today. I don't think so. I'm wrong. We need meeting space. Yeah. Does that help? I looked at this. I don't know what they're going to do to yank those suckers up. They want to yank them up. Whoever put it in initially. So. It's your fault. It's the problem. It's the original carpet that went in. We're doing the carpet. We're doing the carpet. Right. But it's easier not to take them up and cut around it. Just not look at them. Unless you trim the edges of them. Just throw them or something. I don't have to. How we doing? I'm terrible at it. I have to be entertained. You said beside me. You can behave yourself. Right, brother? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I'll behave too. Yes, sir, buddy. Probably put me here for a reason. Keep me straight. That's right. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. How are you this morning? Good. How about you? All right. It's a little warmer this morning. A little nicer. It is. Would you bring in a copy of the ad, the statute with the actual ad? It's your last tab of your notebook. Right. How are you, sir? I was just going to. Yeah. You don't pull yourself. That's not my thing. Morning. How are you? How are you, sir? What's going on? I'm . There's space for you if you need such a space. Nutanix is fun. It's easy to manage. Yeah. You ladies are important. I am. Are you doing their Nutanix Foundation or are you? I'm doing the sales side. The sales side. OK. Yeah. So it's very similar then to the foundation course. Somebody asked me. I'm coming from V.E.A.T. I'm from VMware. That's . Is that the rate or the tax levy? It's the tax levy. But they're running . Yeah. I don't think it's . Whichever way you mold it, it's probably the same answer. It ended up getting bought up by HP and they closed it down. But it was. We had it. We had it. OK. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Because that's when we made the move to VMS. Yes. Yeah. We've got . So we had gone back and forth between. We had VMware at the time. When we had gone back and forth between it and VMware. Sure. That was the best. We ended up not making the transition. When I had gone through the training classes to learn that environment. You were . Zutamix reminds me a lot of that. The one that's done by our industry. Point click, user friendly. So yeah. And it's exhibit what? More? I'll have to go look. It's in . Data storage to figure out how to manage volumes. A page talks about it. A net position. A net position. Yeah. There's a chart showing 30 megs. You can get some data. Increasing . So that net position is going to. It was like cars? I sent you a comment. And I came up to me and said. Yes. I can explain it. And I love the fact that I can. Well, because we paid off the debt. I can expand the server. All of that is going to be . See what I'm saying? It doesn't even go off the channel necessarily as I'm explaining it. Thanks. So there's a whole bunch of stuff. So that's an expenditure. But it's also $18 million. I'm used to VMware where I had to bring the server offline. And it had to go to the schools. Yes. I went to a central area where I would have to do everything. That's a balance. I just hope that it all works out well. Bring it back. I love this. I love this. Do they have that 17 in there? Do they know? The document management system. Where? That, yes. It's a behemoth that continues to grow. And it's just a whole bunch of stuff that's coming out. I go and look. And I'm at 90% capacity on that batch. OK, we're just going to add a terabyte. Right. And maybe within 10 minutes, it's there. OK. I can do that. I'll try to find. The last thing, Patrick, is how much data we're now consuming. Is that easy? Sure. Sure. . The library account. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I know what you're saying. I was one of those history dealers. Because I don't know. You might be here a while. It was almost like that. You know what a consequence is. You can't read. I've got a paper box full of zip drives. I'll never get the data off that. Because you'll never find a working device to read them anymore. That's funny. It's true, though. It's very true. Yeah. I'm sitting here just cleaning up my office. I guess I'm going to pick up my coffee. Yeah, I'm sure you can. Yeah, you're probably right. It's all the same. What's going on, Matt? I know I didn't say it. Okay. You can point on the오 I wanted to. Okay. So, fun fact. They sent me a paper box full of ways I could read my files. So, if I sits there from now until morning 7AM and got there, then I'll stay out for a little longer. Okay. And I'll rest it out for you. Then, yeah. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you How much less than this, since you're very familiar with these things? Okay, I, uh, it's not part of the process. Oh, come on. You haven't been gone that long. Oh, my gosh. I will call Berkeley, uh, yeah. I guess if we can do it yesterday. Yeah, I'm going to have to re-mail him. Yeah, after July 1, everybody's talking about it. Yeah, virtual. Well, they have stuff for everyone here. We're looking at your work. And so, I'm very concerned with the power of our concerns. Yeah, and the first one's here. And my sort of presentation first. You're going to put it in a long-term report. Yeah, I did. Until the process ends. Wait, until it's here, that may not be the final one. Yeah, but at least it's something to start with. Something to put in your notebook to start with. Yeah, I appreciate that. Okay, yeah. And you should have a, you should have all your data. Yeah, I have a few copies of this. Sorry about that. I lost it. And then you start thinking almost that number in your third. It's, uh, it's not working. You've got a little bit of that to pay off. Sure. Are we all ready to start? Patrick, are your people ready? I'm ready. They're streaming. So, this is. I actually, you're lucky you got a second. So, this is a work session. If you have to get up, take a break. Answer a phone call. Use the bathroom, etc. Please do as we go along. So, I think you can recover and everything's going to be recorded. Oh, and you hear my voice come up. I was told by the IT guys that it's not picking me up all the time. So, I'll try and speak up a little bit as we adjust to doing work sessions without those little microphones in front of us. So, please tell your guys to give us a wave or tell us when they're not here. I'm going to try and get them to come up. Okay. So, I'm going to try and get them to come up. Okay. So, I'm going to try and get them to come up. Okay. So, I'm going to try and get them to come up. Okay. So, I'm going to try and get them to come up. So, I'm going to try and get them to come up. Yeah. So, I'll try and speak up a little bit as we adjust to doing work sessions without those little microphones in front of us. So, please tell your guys to give us a wave or tell us when they're not hearing us. Okay. None of us will take offense. We'll speak up so everyone can hear. We, Supervisor Wells will be late today. He won't get here until 10 o'clock or later. I actually am already a caller. have to respond to all I'll find a moment to sneak out later to deal with that with that said this is like usual we're consuming today I don't think we have any hard decisions we have to make and if there aren't any questions we can just go right into the first presentation well thank you all one of the ideas to do this is kind of a new format doing it all in one day is I know you're trying to get as much information as possible before you make any decision including a decision on whether to advertise the tax rate just so everyone knows if if indeed the board decided not to raise the rate more than 100% of last year's raise it once of last year's tax levy then you don't need to advertise all and that's by the state statute so raise it from what one percent of the actual tax levy so the taxable amount on people not the rate did we have not the right yes so if we don't advertise we wouldn't be able to leave the rate of 51 cents as an example you you could not you would be a 21% it would be at the 41 cents plus the 1% is what it would be if you don't advertise if you chose it or be or you can go lower if you don't advertise yes you're saying you don't have to advertise the reassessment no you have to you don't have to ever you don't have to change percentage right you have to advertise and have a vote on that actually I believe if you have the rate commissioner it's the last thing in your notebook the ad and I may be wrong but I know our attorney looked it up I remember I don't know ten years ago we didn't advertise it and we had we rolled it back to within 1% of the time okay but through the Republican政府 you're just part it's an answer to do a Probably gonna hear several times We'll have to go back and get you that information because we may not have every Answers to all the questions you asked our goals to get those questions early and get the answers to you as soon as possible With that Oh, I should know people arrived late may not know We don't have the final budget from the schools yet, which is obviously a big driver But word found that what they presented at their work session had been posted and they printed it off for us It may change but it it might be a good starting point to start thinking about what they're doing Yeah, this is time when they copies for it off the school's website, okay It's alright And one other ride and just I know people have a different schedules. We've rearranged a little bit the the agenda on this We're gonna be bringing back public works at a later date meeting to condense this meeting and Why it's going to come in after Jackie jury and do the transportation earlier because I think it's one of the critical ones that everyone Needs to see and with that we'll move forward This first statute with the state statute just tells you when you have to Do the actual assessment and fix him out this This is the actual time where you have to establish your tax rate by statute it says you have to do it in January of each year or Whenever it is practical to do so by the end of June So you have up until June legally to establish your tax rate per the statute? You have to approve your budget and fix a tax rate no later than when the budget year begins so you have really till June 30th to make that final decision now there's gonna be other deadlines in there that are shortened this this here explains to you about the timing of when you can have your hearings based on your assessment hearing and your budget hearing and you have to advertise seven days it used to be an oval I believe may have been 30 days through that but now the advertisement has to be seven days before the public meeting and that's vote for the budget and for the tax and you have to have your public hearing at least seven days prior to the approving the budget I'm gonna get to a calendar that simplifies all this shortly this is just for you to read a later date look up the items this is one key date you'll see in here and this is by statute that you have to approve the school budget by May 15th or 30 days after you get the information from when the state has it which is always going to be later it seems to be but the goal is is to remember May 15th this has to be done by first statute this is here this is about the levy and the advertising for the tax levy and we're gonna go back and research you know make sure we understand I think it is my understanding if you don't raise it you don't have it advertised but we're going to confirm that so I will give you here these are the important items these are all based on those laws we're going to be two versions of calendars Cheryl and I have been discussing this and this is the preferred version to get things done administrated because it gets things done a little sooner if you use this calendar you would have your reassessment workshop on February 19th and you would have your put your reassessment ad out and have your reassessment public hearing on March the 12th and I would tell you the key date that we use for to back it into all these is actually our April 28th mail date because that's a hard and fast date so we start out with that and work backwards to calculate all the dates you can use the calendar so on this one you could actually go up to February 19th this methodology also works with you were going to establish your tax rate this goes up to you could do it at the March 12th meeting yeah I think the argument against this methodology is as you're deciding your tax rate at the same time almost as you do in your budget however within a close proximity and some people don't feel comfortable doing that but both of these methods are going to be used to calculate your tax rate. grips and you can add things a little bit later as it looks like you want role and I think it's going to angle again that excel session is across the work this a concentration of啊 The dollar project does all that it just needs is the data and execution can be outsourced for right after you put together your potential Fascinating so high cost months the only option is north or south I plan on always using AMAET down over a quarter of the export hours which had a factor on in the ficou at the reassessment workshop and reassessment ad. The idea with the reassessment workshop is that that determines whether or not what you want to establish that maximum tax rate to be. You know, this is where we want to do it. Then you advertise. Obviously, as you go through the process with the budget, you can lower it, but you cannot raise it once you do that. And that is the goal of setting that tax rate. And the idea is if you look at this in 19, you'd have a work session, make the decision, then you would send out the advertisement, and then you would have your public hearing. As you get to the budget, you can actually lower that rate, but you can't raise it higher than what's in that ad. I'll ask you a question. Yes. Back a couple months ago, I think it was maybe December meeting, we were talking about the real estate. The break-even market, 42.5 or somewhere in there. Correct. And do we have new data that's brought it down to 41 cents? No. Okay. It's still at that number I'm going to go over when I get to the question and explain that. Gotcha. That is the same number. It's actually 42.4. 42.4 now. Okay, 42.4. Yes. Thank you. And that's as of January 8th. Okay. Thank you. So I was going to give you some pictures of revenues, and your first graph here is going to show you your real property taxes over time. The columns in blue are actual numbers. The 2025 orange is the budget number for this year. And then you see two columns for 2026. The first one is at the rate. And then you see the second one at the rollback rate, revenue neutral rate. So the revenue neutral rate, your revenues would be approximately $79,500,000. And then I went ahead and put it at the current rate. And these are approximations. If you leave the rate as it is at 51 cents, that's approximately $97 million. So that just gives you an idea of what your range is in revenues for your real property tax. This is a, and as you'll see on here, while I have the 41 cents, but it's actually the 42.4. This here is a comparison. It's called a property plus inflation measure. This is used in a lot of states. Some states by law, and other states just use it as a measurement. This is to give you an idea of where your tax rate is over time compared to inflation. Inflation and your growth in population. So what the measure really is, is just an addition of your population growth and your inflation growth. And the inflation rate you use on this is a CPI. What? Questions? Yes. On that, is that tax rate or is that the actual taxes paid by a resident? Those, with the exception of 2026, if you go up to 2023, it's actual. The 2025 number is your actual dollars, the revenues you receive. And that's budgeted in 26 is the range I showed you in the previous graph. So John Doe has a house. He's paying $1,000 in whatever your first year. My question is, is this simply reflecting the increase in taxes that that person is paying, which is different than the rate? Yes. This is not actually, the rate is just on there to show you how that number above the rate was calculated. And so, for instance, when you look at 2026, $79 million is the amount of revenues you would generate at the revenue neutral. And $90,500,000 is the revenue you would generate at the 51 cents. Now, Arwen's line, that is just simply measuring inflation plus and pop. Let's see. So, if you look at the population over the other time, multiply times your base year of 2014. So, if you adjusted your rate every year to be in line with the population growth and the CPI, you can see in year 2026, you'd almost be where you are at the 42 cents, 42.4. Okay. There's a lot of problems with this model. This model is just a guide, and it gives you an idea of where you're standing. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. There are several problems with this model. I wanted to point out, just since we're using this data, and this is also going to tell you, explain to you a lot of reasons where your costs are coming from and your increases in costs. And this you'll probably see as a theme throughout the budget. You're going to see this everywhere. When you look at a cost over time, first of all, the big problem you have in there, the CPI that they're using in this. Okay. Okay. Okay. does not measure what the costs are for a government. You know, a CPI is a consumer price index, but it's just a standard measure. For governments, you're going to see the cost increase are significantly different. And I would say, first and foremost, the big cost you're seeing in government, and it's in every business, not just government, are subscription costs. I think everybody remembers there was a day you used to buy a software, you used that software for a long time, and you were good. Now everything you do, you don't buy software anymore. You just pretty much rent it, and you're at their mercy. And the cost on this, when you look at it, they're a fortune. It's a heck of a racket. I call it the Gillette racket. I'm not sure if in business school they teach this story of this guy named Gillette. He wanted to make a lot of money, and the guy says, what you've got to do is create some kind of product that people have to keep replacing all the time. Well, they had a perfectly good thing called a safety razor. He said, you know what? All invented razors, you've got to throw it away every time you use it so people keep buying it. So they kind of used the Gillette philosophy. He would software. And now we're paying unbelievable sums every year. There's not much you can do about it because every software company is doing it. The other thing you're going to look at is driving the costs up in government is technology. You'll really see this when you're looking at fire and police on a yearly basis. You're going to see new equipment coming in. And I will tell you, every fire chief and every sheriff, every police chief, always wants the latest and greatest because it helps them do their job. And it helps protect their people. Drones. You'll also look at body cams, dash cams, this, you name it. There's a new and then the firefighters have different type of cameras and visual things going into houses. One, those devices cost a lot of money. They become obsolete fast, so they have to replace them. And then when you start looking at the sheriff and police, what you're looking at is you've got to store all that data, all those cams. There's more money now for storage. So that's the thing that's really important. Really hitting governments. For Frederick County, one of your big costs you're seeing, which is the difference between 2013 and what you have now, you're in the process now of building, you know, bringing in all paid firefighters, where back in 2014 you had a lot of volunteer firefighters. So when you're comparing 2026 to 2014, it's not apples to apples when you look at the organization. So that's one of the things you have to look at, one of your big cost drivers. And this one I put in here because I've been around doing this for a little while. And when you look at the price of equipment, look at the price of ambulances and fire engines. An ambulance today costs what a fire engine cost 15 years ago. The prices on these things are unbelievable. They're playing, is it $800,000, $900,000 for fire engines now. 15 years ago or so, they were like $300,000, $400,000. So the price of that equipment is skyrocketing. The other thing you're looking at that when you look at this using the inflation and the population as a measure, the new services that you've added over time. So when you compare to 2014, there's a lot of things the county does now you weren't doing in 2014. I don't remember the number, but back in 2014, you may have five or six SROs. Now I think it's 23 SROs. So that's a new service you're providing. You go to the Department of Social Services. Every year it seems that the new service or more. So there's four things they are doing for people. Another one we do here we've added over time from 2014 is convenience sites. And the last item is when you look at population, that doesn't look at subpopulations. If that has any impact on Frederick County, I really don't know. But subpopulations means who's moving here? Is it people that are putting a greater demand on services or not? You know, people with families put a greater demand on schools. Elderly families put a greater demand on your social services. When you look at that population, it doesn't differentiate between your subpopulations. The idea of showing you that is just to show you this is a measure, but it's just a model. It is not an answer at all. It just gives you an idea and just something to look at when you're going through your decision-making process. So on this chart, I've been puzzling how to interpret it. It's using overall inflation. So you're taking the value of the population. You're taking the value of the property in 2014. No. The inflation on this is straightforward CPI. You take the CPI from the Department of Labor and you add it to the growth factor of population each year, multiply it year by year. So what you're really measuring is the growth. If you didn't have any, if a government's expenses increased just like consumers, and if the CPI was a good measure of consumer spending, theoretically, and you're providing the same income, then you're saying, well, it's not going to be that way. You're In the math. You're giving it the HAM issued per Zus. You might just say something about this in two hours, and they didn't taste the rest. So you could play scissors in the dump and say this in two hours a week, and then you basically arrive at a nothing count and then learn what the potential equals like. So that's what you're looking for whenonse you see those numbers in this chart. Hopefully I don't need too much further thought into this. Thank you. Rob? Thank you, Jim. Now you look at that orange line, if you multiply the inflation times population times base year 2014, that would show you what your taxes would be if you had just based it on inflation and population growth. That's why they call it the population plus inflation measure. So it seems like this chart's saying if you want to provide the same services you did in 2014, like you would have some more staff for firefighters in proportion, for example, to the population growth, right? Because the population growth is factored in there. And you'd only want to be around 80 million. That ignores the next chart. What it ignores is all these things which make you, what is different with your organization this year compared to your base year? From a simply mathematical perspective, if you really want to do a calculator tax, you would use inflation, if it was a correct measure, times population, plus the cost of all new services. This graph does not take into account the cost of new services. And then, as I stated earlier, the issues with CPI, et cetera. I believe I may even be in Colorado. When they have a tax, they have a tax on the tax. When they have their law on raising taxes, it's based something on this actual formula. And other states have used it. But there are, like I stated, there are many issues with it. You know, they teach you in economics. You know, in economics, you always have to use models to calculate things. You're always using assumptions. And you always use that famous Latin phrase, caritas paribus. All other things remain the same. But none of those things are true. So you know every model you use is wrong. You just try to minimize how wrong it is. You just try to minimize how wrong it is. And you just try to minimize how wrong it is. And you just try to minimize how wrong it is. And you just try to minimize how wrong it is. This is to give you an idea of the revenues. The orange revenues are budgeted. Obviously, the 2025 is last year's budget. 26 is what we have in the budget this year. I put in that number in 2024 just to show you what was budgeted for that year, the actual. And this is one of the reasons I did this. This is because I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. I didn't want to lose money. Some of our revenues are coming in lower than we had expected. And this graph will show you that. When you look at the 2024, our budget was 8.9. Our budget was 9.3 million, but our meals and lodging came in at 8.9 that year. And obviously, we're budgeting for the same amount as last year. But part of that, I think, Cheryl, is the caution because of that. That's correct, yeah. Get yourself some food. Get your sales tax revenue. This is just basically showing you your actual revenue to expenses year by year. This is pulled out of the audited financial statements. That's why it only goes up to 2024. This is hard to read. I know, Brandon, you were asking the other night about a measure of expenses growing over time. What I was able to get in a short time frame, this is by categories of expenses. I wouldn't worry about trying to read this because I'm going to show you it broken out in other graphs. But this shows you when you really look at your expenses, your biggest drivers are, you can see public safety, which is what you expect. That's typical of every government. I actually fixed it and did one you can read a little easier. So this shows you your expenses over time in administration. And I will tell you, you're going to ask questions. Why did it jump up so much that year? And we will get you an answer on that. We just got these done and we're doing our research to get answers on some of these things. But this does give you an idea. I'm sure it's a one-time expense for something. Also, what you'll see is in administration, IT is included in that category. And IT can be all over the place buying. Capital equipment. This is public safety over time. You can see this increase almost $30 million. Public Works is increased, but it's not been significant. This is your health and welfare. This is actually going to increase fairly significantly. And then you have the parks and recreation. Three and a half, 3.6 million. It's gone up. Community development. When you look at the community development number, you can see the big items in there are I think last year there was a software put in there. They've done a lot of studies recently. And when we do most of those studies, they all are put under community development. So they end up under that department. And we've done our, we've been copying all our hard copies to get them in a digital format. So that's the big thing. What else comes under community development? Primarily under community development is mostly the planning department. Yes. Okay. Right. Because the building department and such is under public works. Yeah. And our transfer to economic development. Okay. There you go. The transfer economic development is coming out of this department. And that's a significant amount. So it's the cost that are going up here because we have more rezoning. So. So, what's the biggest driver in there? Is there more time? Is there a software cost? What's the driver? The biggest driver in there is, you know, last year there was a software in there. And the other drivers, they've done a lot of different studies, transportation studies. And they've been doing some, putting a lot of their information in a digital format. And that's been a yearly cost that's gone up. And so, for the studies, we're paying an outside contractor to help get some of that information? Yes. Okay. And another question is, once we get through this, I mean, we're a little bit ahead of the time. But I mean, we're a little bit ahead of the time. So, if we get through this, we're going to look up all this information. I finished putting these together last night. That's fine. I appreciate it. So, these figures are budget numbers not adjusted for inflation? Actually, these ones here up until I think 2025 are actual. These are straight figures right out of the financial statements. So, in all of these areas? Yes. But they're not adjusted for inflation? These are not adjusted. These are straight out of the financial statements. I think that brings us to the next question. Let's go to this one. It's from sq. First question is from the This is to give you an idea when you're looking at it across the board. You know, when you're trying to figure out what's driving your cost. So, this gives you an idea dollar-wise. That one, the third one down, you can't read it. It's in the negative. That is actually just Laurel Ridge Community College. It's a small amount. Should we put a chart together on schools? Excuse me? Should we put a year-over-year chart together? We can do that spending Where did we put the transportation dollars like the seven million do you think that I Don't think it's in planning. I think that's it's in a separate fund a separate fund altogether Yeah There's another category left off here, I think miscellaneous or such and so We're gonna get you more information going forward with that Yeah idea with this was to give you an idea of just departments before they were speaking on the cost and and we probably would Have done the same thing with The broadband the money that we set aside for the broadband. I mean that wouldn't have fallen under I'm trying to figure out this administration one Yeah, we're gonna do with the administration on this that was your personal property tax relief rebates It was it was put in into other because it was not a classification It was under six million dollars in 23 when the board issued personal property rebates That explains it. Yes. Thank you. I was trying to go through ticking through everything Thank you so much and I'd like to say a lot of time there to be many questions we may or may not have the answers so supervisors Find these charts useful. Could you provide definitions as best you can a wet goes into these? Absolutely I've got charts, you know the spreadsheets and all that information This was just put together quickly to have it ready for this meeting Sometimes pictures give it a nice. This is your right out of the audited financials. That's why it's 2024. This is your unassigned fund balance And it's a at the end of 24 it was 20 71 million dollars But At the end of 24 for the 71 for July 1st of 24 that number comes down significantly Show me you might you want to speak to that because we don't I don't believe we have we had that only June 30 But right after that that comes down significantly to show you are just that It comes down because the policy that you transfer Is above 20% to your capital funds So in that case, I think that number that we did after that 71 million was 17 million, right? So I just want I just want the public to understand it's not a 71 million dollar pot of money, but when We cleaned up everything. Yeah, you transfer and also, you know that number needs to go up because it's based on your operating budget So as your budget increases that number per recommended practices increases But just for the record Cheryl after this was Readjusted really had about 17 million not 71. Is that correct? 17 million was taken away from that number. Okay, and then all the carry forwards and encumbrances are reduced that number I think that number now is 40 49 43 okay, we send it out every month in the finance Package. Thank you. Yeah, that's that's a number on one day in time. I just I just want make that clear I mean, this is a number beep. We hate giving out early gets in work, so this order going to be a Rough estimate to give you a ballpark this seems to me number everyone is looking for This gives you an idea to pull the balance right out of I guess the general ledger for the capital fund We subtracted out some of those items at the border decide determined to set money aside before it was the charge downroat part but you know half the county half the children's state and we are thumbs down this half of the state's capital, so what does that do in that season graph in $200 million? And we do think that's a copy of $rologic 4 the Pi times individuals to been working for eight years or higher. Now let's go into terms of we use those numbers. Around schlimming times registrations? What's that says? What does this mean I got the numbers? What's that John Pagod You know, half of the county, half was a grant. The Station 22 money, and I think Ambulance 22 is still, that's funds for that, which brings you down to adjusted balance of about $34 million. We've got ordinary capital in there. This would be for ordinary capital you would purchase this year. We put that in there because if you look at your initial summary sheet, we did it last year, so you need to do that to be comparable to last year. So when you take ordinary capital, and that would be for fiscal year 26 out, it would leave you available approximately $29 million. This number will change, but I think it's a good ballpark number to give you an idea of where you stand with that because I know that's an important number in your decision-making. Mr. Chair, just to be clear, once that 5.5, if it's taken every year, after a number of years, that's going to go away, and they'll be left with a gap. If you were to take the 5.5 plus additional items out, because last year it wasn't just 5.5, for instance, you've taken out stations, yes. Last year the rollover into this was $17 million. We fully expect it to be less this year because there's a little bit less interest revenue. Some of the other revenues are down, and that's always a hard number to estimate. So it appears to be kind of a stopgap measure, a short-term fix as opposed to a long-term solution. Correct. Yes. Is the $17 million shown here? Yeah, that's in there. That's been rolled over into that. This doesn't also show school capital, which I think is usually higher than the 5.5. Yeah. And that's just a rough overview. I like to say, please, any questions? Any more? If you have any more information you would like, email, call, and we'll be working on getting that information for you. It's a good start. Thank you. Thank you. It really does paint a good picture for us. And we'll get some more specific data and some more answers. With that, for the rest of this, we're going to be bringing in department heads. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. That's why we probably need a chart on school spending like you've done with the other areas. I mean, if it's vastly exceeding inflation plus population growth, then we need to find out why that is. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to add one other thing. If you get the charts fine, if you can go through their ordinary capital expense and their capital expense, I mean, to see what's occurring on both sides, because that would be helpful. Yeah, I'm talking about their operating budget separate from other items. We also funded some of their capital, so just recognize that. I'll just ask for a chart for their capital expenses rising as well as their ordinary income expenses rising. I will request whatever the source data is and put it together. All yours, Patrick. Okay. And this is Patrick Lyon. For those who don't know, he is our interim IT director, and he's here to do a presentation. Good morning, and thank you, Mr. Balhoffer. For those of you that sit on the IT committee, this will be a bit of a repeat performance for everyone else. Please let me know if you have questions as I go along. Okay. So. For IT, I've just got kind of a recap in here of some of our major projects and accomplishments this year. The IT department rolled out a new IT help desk. We've been working with the commissioner's office to help them migrate to new real estate assessment software. We're currently working with the county fire department to put mobile command terminals in all of their apparatus. Okay. We did our yearly business refresh of about 75 devices, overhauled the technology in this room, which was a long project. We've been working with the jail to redo their web presence and worked on a new bill printer and assigned about 1,200 addresses over the past year. Okay. Okay. Okay. Right. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. All right. Commissioner Mack, OHM, the permanent subcommittee. Online reborn PCI, and Francine might physically 했어, so everyone at the new��. We've had some success. We've had some north enjoyed, but I'm with premier Carolina so far. So. third that we would like to implement so that those are Nutanix which is our virtual environment that I'll explain here in a minute the Microsoft licensing agreement and then we're looking at some off-site backup storage so Nutanix is the county's virtual environment the that is where all our servers live in our data center it is the compute storage virtualization and network that everything runs on this keeps the the county operational from the IT side three years ago we moved from VMware which we have been using previously due to the increased cost of VMware to Nutanix that initial agreement is up this year and we move into a year-to-year support contract with them the the cost yearly is two hundred and eighty-five thousand dollars and that's a very small amount of energy for the entire company and it's so much more than just the cost of the solutions that we have the cost of the for that subscription that covers all the Nutanix licensing, hardware support, software support that we would need in that environment. Nutanix is critical to keeping all the county's servers running in our data center and supports ongoing operations across our IT infrastructure. The next item is the Microsoft Enterprise Licensing Agreement. This is the server software. The Microsoft operating system is what runs on all of our servers. It is our database infrastructure as well that supports the Commissioner of Revenue and a number of other departments. This agreement ensures we are in compliance with Microsoft and that they can't come back to us and say that we have not licensed all our software correctly. Microsoft is an expensive product, though. The Enterprise License Agreement is estimated to come in at about $309,000. We looked at this last year. We are asking that the county take another look at this, though, to ensure that we are in compliance with all Microsoft's licensing requirements. The third big item is our cloud storage. This is a new request for us. This is something that we would like to do. Wasabi is a resource. We are looking at it as a resource. We are looking at it as a resource. We are looking at it as a relatively new player in the market. We are looking at getting high-performance, secure, cost-effective cloud storage for our backup environment. Right now, our backups of all our servers, all our databases, they reside in the county data center. If something was to happen to this building, to our data center, it is likely possible we would lose those backups. We would not be able to recover or rebuild our server infrastructure as it currently is, or it would be a long process. This particular product would allow us to ship those backups to an off-site facility, a secure off-site facility, that would not be connected to our environment. So if something happens here, we just wipe everything out, pull it back down from the site, and we are going to be able to do that. We are looking at this as a resource. We are looking at it as a resource. We are looking at it as a resource. This particular product would allow us to ship all our servers, all of our databases, and we are looking at it as a resource. keep it continental U.S. and most likely for us, East Coast. I know you've been working hard to help us become paperless. Yes. And this would ensure that if something happened to the vision servers that currently live in our data center, that we would have a backup someplace else that we could pull that from. This is something the county has never done before, though. As I started with, we currently, our data backups live right in our data center, right beside our operating servers. So, Patrick, this would give us a true disaster recovery plan. This would give us a true disaster recovery plan. It would be a warm site, so to speak. So, it would be there and living and ready to go. We would just have to download it and turn it on. Good. That's good. This actually comes in, it is very cost effective at $14,000. We have looked at using... Per year? That's per year. Okay. We have looked at using Azure from Microsoft. We've looked at using Amazon's services. And in both cases, they come in well over $100,000 for us. Well, Patrick, also one of the benefits is you're not locked into a cloud vendor then. Correct. We are... By username. Right. We would be vendor agnostic with this. We are simply shipping our data, a copy of our data up there. So, that's that. How's that for time? That's everything. Questions? I'll raise one question. I think on one of your slides, you talked about a three-year licensing. Yes, sir. Is there any reason that you can negotiate for four or five years to lower the price on a per-year basis? And then if you did that, do you lose something on capability because you don't know what's going to be technology in three to four or five years? Three to five is standard. When we initially did the purchase for Nutanix, they were offering a three-year contract. So, that's what we... We had gone with at the time. Could we negotiate another three-year contract with them? Yes, they would be very willing to do that. If you extended the time frame from three to four or five years, would the cost per year then drop? A little bit. Is that worth doing or not? I'm just asking as a neutral question. So, with our current hardware, I think they will only go out three more years. Okay. Because our hardware at that point would be six to seven years old, and they're going to want us to update hardware at that point. We have not discussed with them, though, the possibility of going beyond a single year. This is then one last comment. When you do a hardware update, at the same time you do a software update, so the two kind of mesh? We do. Okay. Three years ago when we went to Nutanix, we moved off from Dell, we moved off from Dell hardware with VMware as our virtual infrastructure. Updated hardware and the virtual infrastructure at the same time. At this point, we can continue to use the hardware for the next three to four years before we have to upgrade that again. Thank you. Yes, sir. Patrick? Yes, ma'am. You have the subscriptions, a fairly large number of subscriptions, Yes. for IT, but in going through all of this budget document, it looks like there's an allocation to departments as well for long-term subscriptions. Is that a... Are you just allocating some of their costs to their department, but this solely is your cost for the Microsoft licensing? I'm not sure I can answer that right now. The Microsoft licensing is for the server environment. The Microsoft DLA covers all of the server operating systems. So that is your Windows, so to speak, on the servers. And your SQL databases. And I think what you're really asking is how we cost to departments, i.e., are you sharing those costs for servers to each department? Are you sharing those costs for servers to each department? Are you sharing those scripted costs? Is that what you're asking? Well, yes, because I mean, even some of our departments have a fairly large amount for long-term subscriptions. For instance, I'm looking at Fire and Rescue. Obviously, they have a lot of equipment and so forth. So I'm just curious, the Microsoft licensing fee, you gave us the $285 for the Nutanix, the $14K for the Wasabi. No. What was the Microsoft licensing? That is $309. $309. Yes, ma'am. Okay. And then I'm guessing whatever licensing you need for a standalone, whatever anyone has, as far as IT, then you're allocating that specifically to their department as far as software and such? I don't believe so, but I am not sure. Okay. A lot of when you see long-term subscriptions, remember we had to change that allocation so it kind of shows up as an increase when it might not necessarily be one because it's reclassified. Okay. And I do remember the accounting principle that was changed so that we had to allocate it by department. So I'm just curious if that's… I think it's different than what he's talking about. I think that with the numbers that he's talking about, we don't charge out to departments. Okay. All right. Does that answer your question? It helps. I'm just curious. It's such a large number. It is. And then when we look at the departments and they all seem to have that line item, it sticks out as an increase. So we'll look at Fire and Rescue and we'll give you an exact answer on that one because that's the one you mentioned. I think there's other ones in here too, Cheryl. We'll find some large ones. Okay. Thank you. I'll piggyback on that. Patrick, Microsoft licensing is an enterprise licensing? Yes. Right? So it covers any kind of hardware? In the county's… In the county's data center. Laptops, computers, whatever. So the ELA we're looking at would cover server infrastructure. All right. So it's strictly covering the server. It's strictly covering the servers. It does not cover the laptops. The laptops, when we refresh them every three to five years, and they come with a single-use license. So they come with Windows licensed and installed on them from the manufacturer when we get them. So who pays that licensing? That is covered under the county's refresh. And as I understand it, when we buy laptops, is that billed? I think that you purchase them and then they're allocated. Allocated back. Okay. Thank you. Yep. Anything else? Thank you for the work you do in keeping our government safe. We appreciate it. Really appreciate you focusing on disaster recovery. That's a huge thing. Government's going through a lot of stuff. Some of them are learning real quick. If you haven't done the backup, you're in trouble. Yes, sir. Thank you, Patrick. You're welcome. We're very fortunate to have you helping us, your team helping us over the past couple days to get our folks together. Get that started. Appreciate you. Thank you. Thanks, Chris. We're all excited. That's great. Standard. Okay. Right. As long as they're good with it, you know. Strong Lutheran is here for a good reason, I guess. Yeah, just a reminder. But we can speak to that with my. I guess some days for sure, you know, from the regional individual and where that speech is Zeus, Rick, you get it about somebody being hard on you and the. Yeah, that said, you brought up the quarterester diaposit, acer forests? I'm sure folks are going to love it. Yeah, because I was kind of, everybody is supposed to love donuts. I like classیںheuhs I love when connoisseurs as good as you are. And you are. As long as you're dealing with. does align with our department's mission and vision statements, and it outlines our financial plan for delivering parks and recreation services to the citizens and visitors to Frederick County, and it lays the foundation for some of the things we hope to achieve in the future. Just a brief snapshot of some of the things we did accomplish in fiscal 24, and I'm not going to read all of them, but the one I would like to highlight is the launching of a new registration platform. We were using a system that was incepted in like the early 90s. It was hard for people to navigate externally and our internal staff. So something we launched in April of 24 was the Civic Rec platform. So from April 1st to the end of 2024, we registered 21,000 people, and most of those, 75% of those were online, which is exactly what we were trying to achieve. We wanted something out there for the community that was easy to reach, and we wanted something that was easy to reach for the community. So we wanted something that was easy to reach for the community. for them to use, easy for them to navigate. And not in those 21,000 registrations are ticketed items such as the Winter Wonderland, our pool admissions, some of our special events, our race series, and things like that. So people are utilizing the system. We feel like it's been a good investment for the department, and that does kind of speak to some of that long-term subscription discussion that's been previously held. That is one of the items in our budget is for that Civic Rec. It does cost a little more than the RecTrack system, that we bought in, I think, 92. So that is one of our ongoing expenditures. Our department is broken down into four divisions when we do our budgeting plan, the first one being administration. And this provides the leadership team and three support staff personnel to the entire department, and it covers like the administrative operating expenditures, such as office supplies, telephones, softwares, postage, just those type of typical things that make the department run. One of the items within this division as well is our marketing. That's our printing and advertising. This is the first budget put together by our current marketing manager. So we do have a little increase there. He has a little more social media presence than our previous one, and he likes to do a little more in print, local print advertising, as well as signage to help attract the department's attention. So that's one of the things that we're doing. And then we have a little more of a print, local sponsors for our programs and things like that. So he likes to recognize those with print materials. So there is a little bit of an increase over that. Throughout the year, we employ about 300 part-time staff and use another 300 plus individuals in a volunteer capacity. So within the 7101 numbers are the expenditures to provide an annual background check screening for all staff and volunteers, as well as certifications such as CPR, first aid, lifeguarding, certified pool operator, pesticide applicators, playground safety, as well as behavioral resources for our recreation technicians. That's the staff that operate the before and after school care program and our full-day summer camp program. So we do provide trainings for them as well. One of those items in that technology is our staffing app to facilitate scheduling for all of these folks. The company we were using, they raised their prices, so we went out to bid, and you do see a kind of a jump in our subscription line because of that staffing app. The largest portion of our budget is the recreation division. We do employ 18 full-time staff, and the majority of those part-timers are accounted for in this part of the budget. It's 7101, if you see that in your documents. We do provide over 220 recreation programs, and last year we had 86,000 participants in those programs. You know, recreation, as unique as everybody in this room, so we try to offer a little something for everybody, young and up. So last year we offered 23 special events that brought another 65,000 people into our parks, and we provide the before and after school care program at all 12 elementary schools, serving over 800 children a day. And in the summertime, we go into a full-day summer camp. Last year we had eight locations. We're trying to work with the school division to get a ninth this summer. Last year we had 490. We're trying to accommodate those families with care, and those expenditures for a ninth location are within this budget. So should we, you know, come time for you to make a final vote, we'll know if that's happening, and then we can pull those expenditures out if we need to. Also within this budget is an increase to absorb an impact to increase in the minimum wage. We have a lot of entry-level positions, pool cashiers, concession stand workers, score keepers, and when they're, you know, they're starting wage increases, you kind of have to trickle that increase all the way up to everybody. You have to kind of make it equitable throughout. So we do have kind of a large increase in the part-time salary line for that, as well as that ninth summer camp location, and we are offering additional programming, so the staffing for those. Some of our new things we're offering there on your screen, we do have a jump in trips. Our trips have been really well-received. We offered eight this past year. We've had a lot of community requests for longer trips, overnight trips, things like that. So we do have 44 plans for the coming fiscal year, as well as, I think I talked to you all last year about our senior mystery trips. We load them up, we take them somewhere, they love it. We've had like a six-month waiting list for that. So what we're proposing for the next fiscal year is to offer an additional day. So it's the same trip, but there's two day options for it. So we're not turning people away. There's another opportunity. As well as in that line is the busing for that ninth summer camp location. It actually accounts for all the busing, but we utilize the school buses in the summer to take children to the pool and on their field trips, but there is an increase because of that ninth budgeted location. Now these are all fee-based programs. People pay to go on our trips. Our costs are covered, and there is an offsetting revenue on the revenue side of that projection. Other increases in the recreation line are rentals for our programs. We utilize the schools and sometimes we have to go outside of the school system to find a place to hold summer camp, like the YDC, the Youth Development Center, or some other place that we might find a private school or something like that. We're proposing additional sports leagues. So you'll see an increase in uniforms. We're taking on another 5K in our race series. And so there's additional awards and things that go in with that type of funding request. I'm going to look at our parks. There are two different lines, two separate sections in our budget, but I'm going to look at them at the same, because their costs are similar. We have 7109, which is Clearbrook Park. It's also the funds for Stonewall Park and Frederick Heights Park. And then 71110, which is Sharando, is also the funds for Rose Hill Park and the trail around the Bowman Library. In addition to maintaining all those park areas and the trails, we do the outdoor field maintenance. We do the outdoor field maintenance at all the county schools. That includes athletic field prep for all the middle and high school athletics, plus all of our trails. And then our youth sports partners, the Little Leagues, Blue Ridge Soccer, Top Virginia Hockey, things like that, that are providing other alternative sports that we don't necessarily offer to the community, as well as the facilities for the Area 13 Special Olympics. Our parks are seeing a record number of new parks. We're seeing a record number of new parks. We're seeing a record number of new parks. We're seeing a record number of new parks. We're seeing a record number of new parks. We put a record number of visitors every year. We put in traffic counters. They're one-way traffic counters at Sharando and Clearbrook last year. And last year we had 251,000 cars come into just those two areas. That's not Rose Hill. That's not Frederick Heights. That's not the area around Bowman Library. Nor is that accounting for pedestrian or bicycle traffic. So people are coming into the parks. They're utilizing our services. And, you know, we're adding more. We're upgrading and things like that. So people, you know, they want to come into the parks and have a good time. have a good time with their families. Within your park lines, we did basically a 3% increase for utilities, your water, your electricity, heating, fuel, and those type of things. We do have a couple of larger repairs in both park lines, and that's for the outdoor pools. That's re-roofing the pool buildings and white coating and tile replacement for both pools. Those are very expensive projects. It's been a long time since we've done a white coat for the pools, so that is kind of pricey. You can see from the pictures, we did do the siding on the pools last year. I took over pools in 2001, and the siding needed to be replaced then, so it was a long time coming. So we finally got that done. The pools look great. The staff has done a phenomenal job of taking care of those areas, and they look really nice. I have two other large kind of items in the park budget. One. One is for an overall of the keys, lock replacement. There's no concern for security. It's just an industry standard, something you should do periodically. And then I do have an expenditure in there to replace a 25-year-old set of soccer bowls. So they've been welded and painted about as much as we can. So you put those four divisions together. There is our overall budget request. I didn't really. We talk about revenues, but that is a collection of fees for admissions to programs, to come into the facilities, facility rentals, sponsorships, grants, donors. And we're projecting to recover roughly 49%. Last year, we recovered 53.5. We submit our data every year to the NRPA, National Recreation and Park Association, and they do a program called Park Metrics. So they compare us to localities of similar size, similar population, similar resources. And so you can see the national average for a Parks and Rec Department of our size is 24.6 for revenue recovery. So we're doing a lot better than that with 53% and even still with our 49%. And you can see how we rank there with expenditure and revenue per capita. This is a list of our operating capital needs. A replacement van for the recreation division, replacement trucks, one for each park, trail expansion, out at Clearbrook, sod replacement out at Warrior Drive, a soccer field. Actually, it's a rectangular field. And then asphalting the back parking lots at Sharanda. We did the pool lot this past year, as well as the front Little League lot. It's made a huge difference. Just in aesthetics, you get more parking spots when you actually define the parking. We've been able to add some pedestrian marking on the asphalt just to, you know, for a safer environment. And then we also have the school ground maintenance fund. For those of you who don't know what that is, in 2018, we established school ground maintenance equipment fund. We build the schools for the mowing, outdoor maintenance we do. About 20% of the revenue brought in is dedicated to replace the equipment utilized in those locations. So there is an offsetting expenditure and revenue in both sides, if you see that in your budget documents. These are our CIP items. They've been a lot of them. Been in the. CIP for many years. I believe you guys already have those documents. I'm not really going to go into that unless you have any specific questions about any of those items. And that is really all I have. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. Stacy, when you talk about the repair and maintenance building and grounds, and I don't know whether you know the blue sheets that we've been given. But they're showing. I'm guessing the pool white coating for Clearbrook Park, an increase of $60,064. And I'm guessing, I guess I should back up and say, how often do you do the pool coating? About 10 to 15 years. And it's been over 10 years since it's been done. So Clearbrook has an increase then in cost, I'm guessing, to do that coating, the $60,000. So it's actually $170,000. Yeah. Yeah. So the $60,000 increase you're seeing is a $60,000 increase over last year's ask. And there's multiple projects in there. So it's not just those two items. It's the bulk of everything. So it's Clearbrook is asking for $60,000 more to achieve those maintenance needs over last year's ask. That's helpful because I was looking at Sharando's. Right. It was significantly different. Right. But what you're saying makes very good sense. So thank you so much. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. When we're finished today, do you think that we, I mean, would you like to have the presentations emailed to you or would you like for us to provide copies or, you know, would that be of value? I would love it. People can mail it to me. Okay. Email. We'll put them together. So, yeah. Okay. I'd like a paper copy. Okay. Does anyone else want a paper copy? Just so they don't have to print too many. Yeah. many? I'd like paper. So we have at least two people. Okay, we'll email and we'll do both. Tracy, the 250 you said that went to Saranda, how much of that is an increase over three, four, five years ago? The 250 in which? You said that people are using, for example, Oh, the traffic counters. So we've only had the traffic counters for one year, so I don't really have any good data to say this is what 23 had. I would say just based on the number of events we have in the park, the number of rentals, the number of just the overall activity is probably greater just because it's a bigger park. There's more, you know, athletic fields. The athletic fields that used to be associated with Clearbrook are out at Stonewall, and we don't have a traffic counter out there. Do you have any incidental data on people saying, you know, I'm glad that we have, you know, we have a traffic counter out there, but I'm glad that we have a traffic counter out there. I'm glad you have these park facilities. I'm glad you have these mystery tours, et cetera, for living here. The reason I ask the question is for businesses to come in here. Parks and Rec, I think, provides a reason to come. So just looking for any comments. I would just say the overall increase in attendance at activities, just a visual, like we had the summer concert series. Most people thought, you know, we'd have 40, 50. We averaged 300 people, you know, every week. So I think just the increase in seeing people come, you see. Increases at like the ticketed items, our race series. We hit record numbers for all our races last year. I just think that, I think that's more of a visual of, as opposed to actual data of people, you know. And like I said, with the trips, people have come to us and asked us to do these trips. That's kind of why we planned them out. And again, those, you know, those are items that if they don't go, we don't spend them. Appreciate it. Thank you. And thank you for your work. You're welcome. Thank you. I think it speaks volumes. The number of people you have waitlisted because of the programs that you're offering. And so I appreciate all that you do. Thank you. Stacey, you know, we're very fortunate to have Mark's microphone. Yeah. I mean, we just, I attended your meeting with Bob, who's on the mics on the board, and I believe it was 90 teams were for basketball. Yeah. I mean, just 90. That's a lot of kids that are being, that are participating. So thank you for it. You're welcome. Thank you all. All you're doing. And of course, we've been involved in swimming for years. So we know on the swimming side of things, you know, it's not only just participation, but the safety factors, the things you're teaching these kids and helping them. So, you know, thanks for all you're doing. And thank you for making it cost effective. I mean, your data says you're doing better than average, which we appreciate. Thank you. So thank you on that. I guess I have one question. Some people have brought me a question. So I'll just pass it on. Sure. Okay. They've suggested we don't charge. Out of county or out of state users of the parks much more than we charge in county. So we charge 20% for out of county or non-county residents for all facilities. We looked at Winchester, Warren, Shenandoah County, Clark County. So we're kind of in the same. We want to be similar. We didn't want to outprice ourselves so that people don't come to us. They go to Winchester for say for shelter rentals. So we just, we have a 20%. And again, that's kind of a standard. Within the surrounding counties around us. So the question, I guess, from the citizen was, why wouldn't we charge more before we go to the next measure of building a new facility or a new park? People from outside the county are not paying taxes for the parks. So if we charge them more, you know, that would be a way. Right, you could charge them more. But at some point in time, you're going to outprice yourself and then people aren't going to come at all. So, I mean. I think there is the, you know, there is an increase to the non-county resident who hasn't paid the taxes that help support the build of that. But there is, you know, there is a cost to them for coming in and utilizing the service. But if they don't come at all, I guess that's the point. If fewer people come from outside the county, then you have more space for county residents. You do if you're turning people away, yes. I mean. You're not turning away, you're just charging more. Right. So they're looking, they're price measuring, right? Right. And they're. They're looking for new people to come in and shopping. Correct. Okay. I'm not sure if that answered your question or not. Well, it's just a question I would have whenever we're building a new facility. Sure. And that is how we would dig into that. Okay. How much we're paying per taxpayer for the new facility and whether that could be saved. Sure. By changing our out-of-county rate. Mm-hm. Do we know how much? of a premium other counties charge for people out of their county for example i've used a clark county site before so that i don't remember that's what we looked at it's it's 20 kind of surrounding areas that's as a county resident if i went and rented a shelter in winchester i'd pay 20 more than the city resident does so you think our premium is similar to right that's kind of how we set all our facility fees we look at the surrounding area to see what they're charging to help us establish our fees again we don't want to be so underpriced and we don't want to be so overpriced that people don't rent our shelters and our ball fields they go to other localities certainly if we're underpriced we're providing a service at our taxpayer expense that other people would then come and use because we'd be relatively inexpensive okay just something i want to keep in mind here in the future thank you i have a question um over last year the trip and excursions i see you have an increasing number of trips from 8 to 44. um are these are that you had mentioned the elderly i think i was overly booked and people are on wait lists um is do these trips are are they full and are they paying so when we we have a minimum number of people that break even you would right so right you have to break even and if you don't then the trip's canceled or you know let's say you need 10 people and nine sign up we'll probably go because we know we have some revenue somewhere else that would help offset that everything all recreation programs are budgeted at a break-even point that's what i was everything right so if they're break even then why would there be an increase in the hundred and one thousand dollars so we've increased the number of trips we offered eight last year we're off we're proposing 44. okay um and then that trip budget doesn't just um pay for like general population trips general interest trips that's also paying for the busing bill for the basic rent program and the summer time okay so and that is part of the program fee that the parent pays to participate in that program that leads into do does the fee that you're charging the parents for the before and after and those summer programs um are they covering mostly covering the cost that it they're providing the services costing that is our biggest money maker yes okay is it before before and after okay thank you if i may interject that gets to be one of the trickiest things with the budget you look at your expenditures because that's when i was talking to stacy i saw that and i go wow you see that big expense but the revenue is in a different place so you don't actually see that when you're going through the budget what makes you hit your attention thank you all right thank you all thank you appreciate the time you're sad Message three Time to go through your finance everybody Wednesday last five months thank you thank you for your give you a little bit of an overview of my program and what we do. I don't know. Right arrow. Okay. So the CSA is the Children's Services Act, and it was legislation that was passed in 1993 that pulled some funds from four of the major child-serving state agencies. It was the Department of Education, the Department of Social Services, the Department of Juvenile Justice, and the Department of Mental Health and Behavioral Services. What it did was it took those funds, put them together to create a program that was much more, I don't know, child-friendly, child-serving, family-focused, and to assist youth who had already had contact with those agencies in other ways. And their needs that were identified were sort of viewed in a very siloed manner. And so when the agencies had their own money, they were looking at just, you know, a behavior or a problem from one particular place versus looking at the child as a child, a whole person. So they pulled the money together and created the Children's Services Act. So we provide funds for at-risk youth and their families. And those funds that we provide are for the children who originally would have been served through the individual agencies themselves. So what it does is it makes sure that the services are multidisciplinary. So we have multi-agencies at the table looking at the needs of the child through each of their perspective disciplines. So we can address their needs in a better manner and more effectively. And the youth that are eligible for services under CSA, for the most part, are called, they're under a some sufficient category. And so the youth that are referred are typically youth who are placed in foster care or needing services to prevent foster care. They're being placed through IEPs through their school system. Frederick County Public Schools IEP team would make a determination that they would need some sort of out of school placement, like a private day school or a residential facility. And those funds would come out of our program. And so the regulations around much of those funds are mandated in that we are required to provide funding for those services, no matter the number of children that we serve or what may have been allocated at the beginning of the year. So, I'm sorry, you should say the school system can refer people to you for these services. Does TSS do that as well? Yes. So those state agencies, the Department of Social Services, Frederick County Public Schools, Juvenile Court Service Unit, and Northwestern are catch, we're in the catchment area for the Northwestern CSB, Community Services Board. Okay, thank you. And do you get state funding and federal funding along with local funding? Yes, and depending on the kind of service, depending on the referral, Yes, and depending on the kind of service, Yes, and depending on the kind of service, depending on the kind of referral, and depending on what by law we are allowed or not allowed to do. So the question comes, on the budget ask that you have here, will this be a function of what the state puts into the plan? Is that still an unknown? Or is this going to be a quite fixed cost to the county irrespective? It is not a fixed cost to the county irrespective. It is dependent upon the number of youth that are referred and the services that we are required to pay for. Okay. And this is something that we can't afford to pay for. We do as much as we can get revenue from Medicaid or federal funding, but we can't access that for all children. Okay. We have local policies, we have state policies and federal policies. And when it comes to federal policies, they just drop everything. And so there are certain things that we can't access for certain kids based on. And so there are certain things that we can't access for certain kids based on. that because of the law we have to do basically an unfunded mandate, correct? Yes, exactly. Okay, thank you. And you've answered my question. And I have the same question. And do you yourself serve a particular region, just the county or an area, or are you representing the statewide program? Just Frederick County. Thank you. So the youth are just like youth that have come into foster care in Frederick County. Youth that are served by Frederick County Public Schools. Youth that reside here in the county. And or legal guardians' parents reside here in the county. Thank you. So prior to 93, the expenditures were paid for out various departments. So you had the Frederick County Schools paying a piece. You had Social Services paying a piece. And then in 93, it was all pulled together to have an oversight. And the funding, based on the situation, has various formulas, which answers respect to your question. Okay. Thank you. The oversight for what your office does, who performs that operation? Is that a state operation as far as auditing and all of that sort of thing? So we're audited by the state. We're audited locally as well. The oversight, we have oversight within our office. So financial oversight, clinical oversight. We have both. Okay. We have our auditing through the state agency, which is the Office of Children's Services. And they have auditors that come out every approximately three years to do on-site audits for our services to ensure that they are eligible for appropriate services. Clinically, we have one staff who reviews the services. We have one staff who reviews and assesses youth that we serve to ensure that they are receiving the most clinically appropriate and effective services in the least restrictive environment and the most cost effective manner, and ensuring that we do the least amount of harm additionally to some of these youth. So the request that you're asking for this year is substantially more than what Frederick County has. Okay. So that's the request. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And we have other questions. There are a few questions in the chat that have been asked for in the past. Could you maybe highlight the major points of why this has increased so substantially? Yeah. So there are several different reasons for requesting a substantial amount more. There are a rising number of children in foster care and coming into foster care for different reasons, behavioral needs, emotional needs, neglect, abuse. and truancy from schools. There's a lot of different reasons that children would be placed in foster care. The mental health needs of the youth that we are seeing now are significantly more complex and disabling for the children that are coming through our program. I've been in CSA for 23 years, and the youth have so much more complex trauma than they used to. And it's impacting them in ways that I've not seen. Requiring more intensive services, more multiple longer services, multiple different kinds of services at the same time to address their multiple different needs. In addition, there's a lot of cost increase with specialized care that's not necessarily covered by Medicaid or third-party insurance companies. And inflation, the cost to vendors to retain staff, retain good staff with good qualifications that can address the more severe needs of these youth, and keeping them... keeping them there given the difficulty and sometimes abuse that they might experience in their job as well while they're trying to deal with the youth too. So it's a very complicated system with a lot of different reasons for increases from vendors and increases from the population of youth that we're seeing. So I also put some data overall for statewide and kind of where we are locally. So overall, the Children's Services Act spent or had a 6% increase in the number of youth served between FY23 and FY24. That 6% increase resulted in a 15% budget increase at the state level. A lot of that is due to the cost of private day schools that have increased significantly. There have been several different initiatives on the state side to try to reduce that or limit the amount that private day schools can charge or can increase their rates year over year. Some has been successful and some has not. Some has actually put more costs onto localities. One of the... one of the... one of the... one of the lines in the budget bill that's going through this year, and since it hasn't been approved or not, we don't know if it's going to pass, is limiting the state from reimbursing anything over a 2.5% increase in prior year rates that the vendors charge. So if the vendor was charging, say, $100, and they increased their rates 5%, the state's only going to reimburse us for the portion of the 2.5% that they're charging. the state's only going to reimburse us for the portion of the 2.5% and then local funds would have to pay for the remaining amount, which is putting a lot of pressure on localities across the state, especially, you know, ones that are very, very limited in budget and resources. So that's one of the issues that we're seeing. So some local data is that the youth that are being served in congregate care settings, and... and the local match rate varies depending on the services that the youth is provided, and the congregate care local match rate is the highest one. And between last year at this time and this year at this time, we have 17.58% of our kids served are in a congregate care setting, as opposed to 8.3% last year. Do you know what the raw number is? I mean, ballpark? We have 16 youth in congregate care this year. Last year, I want to... I think it was nine. So you were like nine to 16? Yeah. Okay. And that's just through this time. I understand that. Yep. What's captured in the term congregate care? Congregate care includes, like, psychiatric residential treatment facilities and group homes. So any... any facility that's licensed to serve basically six or more kids at the same time. So these increases in people served, I guess it's a tough subject to grapple with. If we wanted... if I wanted to know more about the increase in children going into foster care, I know I could go to our Department of Social Services, and they would refer me to some reports or maybe give me some idea of what's driving that. You know, is it abuse? Is it poverty at home? You know, what are the factors? But for the mental health, can you provide a report on what categories of mental health we're seeing these increases in? By categories, do you mean like diagnoses or...? Yeah, the types of problems we're seeing. The reason I'm concerned is, certainly, I can give multiple examples I can imagine. During the COVID period, kids were restricted, and anyone who had teenagers at that time, especially about high school age, some kids handled it just fine. Some kids, it was a major problem for them. They were social, and without being able to get with their friends, I saw real problems with several children I know personally. Families I know, et cetera. And, you know, we've got learning loss in the schools, right? They're looking at what the skills that the kids felt behind in. But here we might be seeing the mental health effects of that. There are other things, trends going on in society that I could imagine that might be controversial to discuss, but also that could be driving kids to be... to have difficulty grappling with. So I kind of like to think that there's some sort of emotional pressure and a strong desire to know. Some of that is really hard to quantify because there are various things that affect mental health. Depression, anxiety, and things like that. COVID, since COVID, we have seen a significant increase in the number of youth that are diagnosed with depression and anxiety. And both at the same time. The youth that we're seeing now, whereas 23 years ago might have one diagnosis, having three or four or five different diagnoses. We're seeing more youth with autism on the spectrum. And the youth out of COVID that are suffering with anxiety and depression, the level of anxiety and depression is disabling for them. So I know there's a debate about a lot of these subjects and social sciences are hard to get concrete numbers on. For example, with autism, people argue we're just catching more or we're counting more, but the population isn't actually increasing as much. And that happens with other medical conditions as well. I thought about not asking the question, but then I realized just after following the Parks and Rec presentation, if we're seeing a particular increase in a particular area, there may be things we can consider locally. You know, more sports availability, et cetera, might help with some of these, but might have nothing to do with other of the drivers. So do you have reports you could forward to those of us who are interested in reading up on this? So I can pull the data specific to Frederick County that I can pull doesn't have specific diagnoses. It has a general diagnosis. Well, then if they're state or national reports, because we wouldn't need that much. Yes, I can definitely get some information about that. Thank you. I'd greatly appreciate it. You're welcome. Can I just make a follow-up? You made a comment that 20 years ago, and now things have changed significantly. And you're asking for money, which I understand, so I'm not arguing that. Are there any thoughts that you have on addressing the cause issue? Because if you can address the cause issue, then the costs come down. So is it, you know, families breaking up? Is it Internet? You know, I'm seven years old. I can see anything. As Josh said, you know, more social interaction with team sports, you know, I go to the park with my friends. So do you have thoughts on that that helps to drop the total issue, which then drops the total cost? I have a huge soapbox. Yes. I don't want to bore everybody else, but I mean, this cuts our costs. I'd be interested in at least having a snapshot of your soapbox. So... Where would I start? So I think a lot of things... A lot of things go back to cyclical family cycles and not being addressed early enough on. And then also the shift in culture of how parents are raising their kids. So usually we'll go from, you know, one side of the pendulum and then it swings all the way to the other side of the pendulum. So you had like... The Gen X kids who ran outside all on their own, stayed out all day, were locked out of their house, drank out of their hoses and all of that, never had any supervision. And all of us were happy with that. And then you have the swing to the other side where the kids that are coming into the workforce now are demanding like... Not demanding, but... Expecting you to give them work-life balance and that you would cater to them. And they might be a little more entitled than other generations. And so the shift in the culture definitely changes how kids' perspectives of things and how they can handle and manage different emotions that come at them. And so when they are... Sitting in front of a phone or a tablet or something all day and, you know, playing games, they may actually really improve like their... Their ability to have like, you know... What's the word I'm looking for? Like better coordination for sports, things like that. But... They're also getting very... Very immediate gratification. They're not learning that you have to like wait a long time for something. And so when they have to wait for an answer or whatever it is that they're looking for, they're starting to feel these emotions, anxiety, things like that, that they don't know how to deal with because they haven't had a lot of experience dealing with it. And as kids grow and are put into different environments, if it's not addressed, if they're not... If they're not learning appropriate skills to manage those emotions, it just builds up and builds up and builds up and then it becomes overwhelming. There's also... There is a lot of violence that's out there that people see on the news and on the TV and the games. And by no means am I saying that that causes poor behavior because there are definitely kids who know right from wrong and... And don't engage in maladaptive behaviors or dangerous behaviors because that's what they're seeing. There are some kids that, again, aren't necessarily able to understand some of the stimuli that's coming at them and react differently to it. Some kids naturally have an ability to manage emotions and manage anxiety and are very easygoing and some kids are more tense. Also, if you have kids more with social... Social difficulties, autism spectrum, they're going to have a lot more difficulty managing their emotions, managing changes going around them. They usually need a lot more structure. There are so many things with ability to tolerate emotions. Which I hope... Thirty-second answer. Is any of this... Do you think that some of this can be implemented through the school? I mean, kids go to school from five to 18. Is that a platform, potentially, outside of a family where some of these anxieties can be addressed, some of these emotions can be addressed, something that you got to, you know... If you play sports, I want to ask you to do 50 push-ups a day. Why, coach? Why run drills? But then there's a point in the game where, you know, there's a payoff if we're doing that hard work. Definitely. Uh... The great thing about school systems is... You have an audience that's right there. You have a teacher that's watching you every day. So a teacher can identify things earlier. And there's a lot of evidence behind having school mental health programs and such to address some of those issues going on in school. Because the earlier you do identify and address those needs, the better it is... The better the outcome. And the better that it positions the child to be able to manage the working day. Right. Right. manage the world around them a lot easier. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mr. Chair, and I'll try not to get on my soapbox either, but, and you may be in the middle of your presentation, so if this is coming later, can you help me identify the differences between the services, and you were alluding to some of them, services that a school division offers versus under the purview of your department? CSA? So, CSA is not permitted to do anything outside of, that's where some of the very rigid federal regulations come in. So, when you are managing, working with kids with, like, special education, who identify, who've been identified with special education needs, CSA is required to pay for private day schools, residential facilities, if they're written to an IEP. And services, like, ancillary services, like speech therapy, occupational therapy, but any other services, so behavioral services, emotional difficulties, mental health services in the school system, in the public school system, we can't pay for. That is specifically carved out for the educational side of things under the FAPE. And IDEA, which is Individual Disabilities Act, and the Free and Appropriate Public Education. So, we aren't allowed to pay for services in the school system. Are there any duplicated services? Typically, no. It wouldn't be duplicated because at the time that we would start paying for something, the child wouldn't be receiving the other one, other services anymore. Okay. I may interject and correct me if I'm wrong, because I haven't worked directly with this. Isn't it oftentimes there's meetings between yourself, DSS, and the school determining who's responsible for what and determining who takes the lead in the care? Yes, because there's a lot of confusion. So, I think that happens often. There's a lot of collaboration. Who is responsible? Yeah. CSA is set up so that there's a community policy and management team. We, that team is supposed to... To look at service gaps in the community and trying to ensure that we have appropriate services and we're using what we need, that our structure is such that it can serve the youth in our community versus the entire state of Virginia. And then there's a more micro team, the family assessment and planning team, that reviews each case individually to determine what services are appropriate to make sure there aren't duplications in services. So, we have a lot of discussion about that. And then there's a lot of discussion about the fact that CSA is not allowed to pay for any duplication of services. And so, if there is, it's a discussion of, okay, if there's another resource that can pay for whatever service it is, they need to pay for it before CSA does, because CSA is mostly, not mostly, partially taxpayer money. And so, we need to use outside resources first. And also, natural resources, and there's a lot of benefit to having the services paid by somebody. And so, it's not just for the family, but it's also for other families. So, that's why it's important that we have a way to have a service that is, you know, a service that's appropriate for somebody else because those could go on potentially longer and be a resource for that family for years to come where CSA services are supposed to be for a limited period of time. You might be covering this later in your presentation, but do you have habitual subcontractors which you typically use for service? Our vendor contracts? Yeah. We do have contracts with. that we use more frequently than others. Okay. For departments that refer children to you, schools, for example, or Department of Social Services, do they pay anything into the care provided, or is it they simply refer? They refer. The agencies that pulled their money into this program, they do have very little funding pools that remained in their agency, but it's not a lot. It's not enough to serve many kids or the more complex kids that have the higher needs usually cost more. So there's no incentive for these agencies not to refer because there's no cost to them. So how do you handle it? I'm not critical. I'm not criticizing them, but if they refer you every child they think might be a need, how do you handle it if you have too many referrals than you can afford? CSA is funding of last resort, and so part of the position that I have that does utilization review, she ensures that there are no other pools of resources that could pay for services that we're going to provide. Okay. So you have to evaluate every child referred to you, and you have to provide services to every child referred to you? We review every child, yes. We have to provide services to youth who fall under the specific mandates. There are several different ways that a child could be eligible for services. The mandate that would not require some sufficient funding, which is not a requirement. We only have $34,000 in that pot to serve kids. So those are for the less severe kids but still really need services and providing something to prevent them from having to use some of the more expensive services or come into foster care or things like that. The state will allocate $34,000 locally. I believe, off the top of my head, we fund about $300,000. 20,000 for those kids. And those are the only pocket of kids really that aren't self-sufficient. So there's not much to serve them anyway. So some kids go unserved or they don't get access to as much service as they might have been referred for. Yes. And likely need. We do make sure that people use Medicaid first. If they have private insurance, if their private insurance covers, even if they have to use out-of-network providers, we go through out-of-network providers. Whatever we can do to prevent excessive use of funds and the more funds that we can, it is self-sufficient, but I still see it as the more funds that we can save from some kids, we can serve more kids and families with that. So it's, I think, mutually beneficial. Any other questions? So I talked about the budget bill. There are a couple additional legislative changes that may impact the cost of expenditures as we move forward in fiscal year 26. We won't know if they're approved yet until everything goes through. The district is going to have to make a decision about that. So I'm going to go ahead and get started. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. it might change over what we're familiar with now so that potentially can open up a lot of the 2.5% I'm just gonna ask if you know that bill number I want to say it's like HB 1262 that may be way off we'll get that to you yes I can definitely get that there's a 2.5% a little number there can that be changed to CPI in other words you have a bill going through process it hasn't even gone through a markup yet if this is a draft bill you can still make amendments to things the 2.5 seems to be a cap unrelated to actual costs so is there any possibility of a response for that bill or finding somebody on that committee might consider changing that to either CPI or changing it to actually increase costs which then you know makes us as a local body but have to tap on an unfunded mandate this is something that's been a significant conversation that we've been having at the state level with all of the CSA coordinators and our state agency because they our state agency is really supportive of us and knows that how much will get pushed off to localities you know and so I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a really good point no other than from the向 efficientstrateg level bonds an everyone the increase is as long as the local CPMT approves that increase. Thank you. You're welcome. And, of course, there's benefits to having the services there for kids and having the funds there that we can make sure we have timely, effective services. We really are trying to shift to use more evidence-based practices, which has clinical studies behind it. We know are effective with certain diagnoses and behaviors that these kids are dealing with. We're shifting towards them at the same time. Those aren't covered by Medicaid or other parties, and so that is CSA funds. But they are more effective, and in the end, it's more preventative that they get the appropriate services, address the behaviors, and hopefully not keep going on and having more difficulty as they... grow up. Reduces long-term costs, promotes community safety and well-being. We want to catch these kids as soon as we can and really try to provide them the services that they need and strengthen those partnerships between local agencies. We do work well with our vendor partners. So we support at-risk youth, and they are at risk. We do a great job of a Ciiti which is a local center that helps with Children's health Programs and will start regardez Flora and Chilis who are having a tough time making children avoid... Low public health issues and families. So we're badache. Does anybody have any more questions? I'm happy to answer. Can I get a list of how many referrals you've gotten from the different agencies that referred to you for the last couple of years? The agencies? Yes, absolutely. So if DSS has a larger increase than schools or other places, that might tell me where some of the need is growing. I can get that. Thank you. Please. Cheryl, this question is for you. If the board decided to make the additional appropriation, the increase, and as Ms. Jury said, if they didn't use those resources, what happens to those resources? Let's say in the general fund. It's like a monthly billing that we... You get a monthly billing. Okay, that's what I wondered, because if we allocated the full amount, right, straight up... Beginning of the year. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chair, if I may. Please. This isn't an inclination of any kind, but just trying to better understand, if the board decides not to allocate additional dollars, explain what would happen then to the population that you serve. So if the funds are needed... Okay. Are we required by law? We are required by law to pay for it. The funds that are being requested aren't the non-sum-sufficient funds. It would be for those who that we are requiring the funds. So for simplicity's sake, we fund nothing, and you have a bill of $1,000. By law, we would have to pay that $1,000. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. That's the definition, unfunded mandate. Yeah. Yeah. And hopefully we won't have to use that, but... No, I just want to make sure that we're clear on what we're talking about. Yeah. I mean, I think you did a good presentation. I appreciate that very much. Thank you. I'll say to all of you, in this county, to all of you, if you know people that would be interested in being foster parents, there is a significant need here for people that would like to be a foster parent. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for caring about the kids. That's all I care about. Mr. Chair, if I may, just as a request, I know you were talking about things that may be helpful to get breakdown then of what is an unfunded mandate, as you described it, Mr. Bolthoffer, within the request may be helpful for the group. Clarification, I got you. Just what are the requirements versus requests. Got you. It's easier to make a decision when you know you don't have to make a decision. Amen. If I may suggest, Mr. Chairman, because there's a lot of information, maybe perhaps a 10-minute break for everyone to get a coffee, drink water, get back to the table, clear their heads, and get lined up for the next subject. We're going to go from children to roads. Yes, good idea. 10 minutes. How about time? So 11.05. 11.05. Well. Thank you. Perfect. In that case, we have orange juice. Thank you. Good job. QUTIVELIN sucks! Okay, its then Lee fists belt. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for watching. Olivier, thanks so much. I appreciate it. And you're very welcome. Our juntes will be NCRaráonSocialOnAPP, Haiti, Canada. Our numbers are Nate Arnault, David David D pmalle, Dave Moony, Muholateria, Jamie D, Sencha Rubio, Hank Drake, Pat Till, Keith Jones, Bri Brown, Dave Norman, Jeremy Orger, Mike Peromino,ım Robert networking for bachelor legacy. Any more questions to find where where the ethical Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for turning that on. Thank you very much, and I hope you got it. Give me two minutes. Bye bye. You just unconnected me, okay. I think everybody knows why it's gone and we're going to go from children to rogues. What an introduction. Couldn't have hoped for anything more than that. Thank you all for having us here. We're going to talk about our transportation program and John's going to take you all through a slide deck kind of explaining where we've come from and where we're hoping to head. Just a reminder, we've been doing this for coming on three to four years now. I think the transportation fund formally got set up in like 2021. But when John's done walking through some of the numbers of it, I have some closing thoughts for you. Then we're happy to take any questions you all might have about the presentation. I also have my regular budget, but we didn't prepare a slide deck on that. If you have any questions about the line item budget that we submitted this year. So take it away, John. Thank you, everybody, for your time. I know you've got a long day, so I'm going to jump right into it. I'm just going to begin with a quick summary of the projects you have in the pipeline. I know I'm not unique, even though I know what's coming and sometimes feeling like this stuff's never going to get here. And I see out there on social media and everything else, you know, the comments of the citizens, you're not doing anything. And I guess I'm. I'm just going to start off by just kind of reassuring you that you are. And sometimes it's easy to see easier when you just kind of list list them all out. And actually looking at adding some of this to our website to hopefully help our citizens a little more. But I'm first going to begin, because I think it's a good juxtaposition with the with the projects that are coming with which you have not committed funds to. So these are some of your older smart scale awards. This is the 81 fund. Very lion's share of it. It's the 81 fund. Which is that 81. And it's a $380 million. And I know I said it's not county funds, but we all know this is still your money coming back to you. So so there is that, of course, we have the exit 313 bridge replacement capacity upgrades, which is long overdue. That's expected 29 smaller 7 access management project. The roundabout at 11, old Charlestown road, as well as a turn lane on 277 to make that right. And then the exit 317, which is the turn down into sharing the high school to warrior drive. And now the projects that you've made happen through your leverage funding. And as you can see, without these efforts, our conversation would have already been over. So that's to the leadership of the board on that. Very quickly glossy through this. You have your exit 317 interchange ramp and ramp realignment, which is upcoming Shawnee drive widening and intersection improvements, as well as the warrior drive. And then the exit 317 interchange ramp and ramp realignment, which is upcoming Shawnee drive widening and intersection improvements, as well as the warrior drive. And then the exit 317 interchange ramp and ramp realignment, which is upcoming Shawnee drive widening and intersection improvements, as well as the warrior drive. The right side is the county fund. And then the extension of Brandy Lane upgraded are your two most recent revenue sharing approvals that have come in. I have asterisks over there on the right and the county fund side because those are both. I guess I'll call them preliminary approvals to get to where we can get those up to a full 50, 50 match. Because those are both, I guess I'll call them preliminary approvals to get to where we can get those up to a full 50, 50 match. We're going to need to do a reapplication in the coming cycle because now that they have money on them, they will be treated as tier one applications to give an higher priority. because now that they have money on them, they will be treated as Tier 1 applications and given higher priorities. We should be able to bring that county number down on those. 522 and Costello Drive, getting the double left-side entry there by the Costco is one of your smart scales. The Redwood Road relocation, very nearly underway, so that one's coming very quick. You see it has an advertisement date of 25. Your Renaissance Drive project is underway. Happy update on that. Briefly, we are expecting to see some CSX personnel on site in February. It's still going to take them a number of phases to get their portion of that project improved, but they're supposed to be out there boring for the electrical in February, so we're finally seeing something there. Valley Mill Road, pedestrian upgrades, Warrior Drive Pass, and Emberley Way. Pedestrian upgrades are also transportation alternatives. We're going to see some of those projects, which are coming. I would also note on the county fund side, if you're looking at that, you're listening, you're going to come up with all that money. With the exception of your two most recent revenue sharing approvals, these are all previously budgeted dollars. You've already accomplished these things. Quick summary on that. Your total projects without county funds, $551 million. That's gravely skewed by the I-81 fund. If I have used my time, I'm going to say that. I'm going to say that. I'm going to say that. That's my mental math. You've got about $70 million in outside dollars coming in without that project. However, when you look at what you've been able to accomplish with using county funds, your outside funds have jumped to $55 million. So that's what you've been able to leverage against $22 million in county funds. I would note that includes the potential that some of those revenue sharings will come down. And I also note, since I was focused on these sort of outside dollars, that I have accidentally left off your Gainesboro project, which once again, you've funded already the lion's share of that. I will note I believe the leverage amount is good, but I also don't believe it tells the full story. One of those is the private investment near the projects. Carbaugh property is a great example over on Shady Elm Road. Staff, through our, it's not unusual that potential purchasers or potential end users, are contacting the planning department staff asking about properties, what's going on. And with this one, every inquiry we have ever gotten on that property has been about when's the road coming, when's the road coming. I do not believe Peterson Companies would have bought it without you moving the road forward. And I don't believe any of the end users, and as I understand it, there may be a potential end user at this point, would want it without the road either. So all those likely tens of millions in private investment you get on that site will be because of the road. And it's a very important part of your efforts on this road. And finally, the economics minor in me has to point out that economic multiplier construction activity averages two to three dollars. If you look at industry stuff, I've seen as high as six dollars. So all these projects that you managed to make happening happen are also injecting money into your economy. The goal as we took it from the Transportation Committee back in 2021, was to take full advantage of outside funding opportunities. You've been doing that by leveraging funds to increase your smart scale success, which has increased your smart scale success without question. Take advantage of available federal funding opportunities. That is a highly competitive space, but we have had some success there. Last year, we were able to complete through a grant approval and 20% match. Actually, it was 10% by you all and 10% by the city since we did it through the MPO, the Safe Streets for All. And we want a 20% to 20% overillah long grant, for private projects giving students 15 points. Even though with these funds, because our lieber have the money, who really Geckos doesn't play Yuval officials, but we have access to the fact that we may need 2021 $25 million in finding the gauge of hero through a 1990s until we can use that, the kinds of things that were going on for. Thank you, parents a lot of division. Thesimilarly great to you. Thank you everyone. application but it's an annual allocation so that ten million dollars would be allocated over the course of two years but ultimately that means if we are 100% successful on revenue sharing you're looking at five million a year on your side of that VDOT safety programs the residency does have dedicated safety funds for Frederick County that frankly get fully expect expended every year already and also the transportation over internatives program which I referenced earlier with some of your approvals on that side so our current budget request for 26 is seven million dollars to give you a quick snapshot of your last few years I believe FY 23 was in the 8.2 range that you that you budgeted 24 6.5 last year 3.2 I don't know that those were the same numbers that you were talking about in the last year but I won't get into Cheryl's details in terms of whether those were capital funds or general funds that's not my forte but just in terms of money that got put into the program that's the money they got put into the program and of course this year were seven million and what that would accomplish for you it would complete our Gainesboro safety project it would fund the project development fund that fund is about a million dollars a year that is used for studies low-level design all the things that frankly lead us to be competitive in various application processes doesn't mean that full amount gets spent every year because we leverage V dot and the MPO as much as we can but in terms of flexibility to be able to do the studies that are needed to get you to application approvals that's what that fund does and it also finds the safety improvements and contingency fund we've been working hard to partner with V dot to accomplish additional safety projects over and above what they can afford a accomplish with their funds the one of those that hopefully quite soon now is coming to you for approval would be an extension of turn lanes at the interchange of route 7 and 317 specifically on I'm sorry 315 317 just owns my mind I apologize exit 315 so route 7 on the eastbound side right there at the interchange to extend extend the right turn lane onto Valley Mill as well as the left turn lane on to the interchange itself and and perhaps most importantly it does build up your funds for your next potential independent county projects like you're doing with Gainesboro as well as not really yet realized grant opportunities like I referenced earlier as we're going to be looking into safe streets for all implementation grants this year so what's sir the difference again between the second and fourth bullet I thought the second one was the fund that we make proposals with this second fund fund is that you're doing design on that you're so for example one of the things that we're supposed to be doing in now that we're we're actually just signing our contracts now with our on calls we're doing a 30% design on the alignment of first town and Hopewell Road we have upcoming studies to do basically I guess I'd call it a costing analysis or something like that on route 11 south whereby we've got a comp plan on the route 11 south and we've got a an engineering level analysis to do a four lane divided road which would cost frankly an unrealistic amount of money we wanted to do an engineering level analysis through that corridor as well we're not doing a four-lane divided what what can we do what's the least we can do to get two lanes north and two lanes south and what's that project going to cost its it's the same sort of focus as as we just went through with your Eastern Florida County transportation study we're trying to work these these these sort of dream projects and have a variety we're interested in in the future where are you planning to do a four into buildable projects. But the second bullet point, the difference between the second bullet point and the fourth bullet point is the fourth bullet point imagines building a fund for doing projects that don't score well for grant applications. Right now, where that second bullet point is preparing for those grant applications, when the fourth bullet point says a fund towards potential independent county projects, those are like Gainesboro, where we know the state's not going to give us money or not going to give us money on a timeline that is acceptable given the safety concerns that are out there. So that's the difference between second and fourth bullet point. That's kind of a key point there. Okay, thank you. So as we look still further ahead, because this program, you know, as you can see from how long it takes projects to get here, this is a bit of a momentum building exercise. You've started the boulder rolling downhill, but as we get to the point where instead of every few years you're having to put up a big, $15 billion fund activists, and your particular city, this is where that gets whatever you call it. This is where we were anterior to Peak Angie and where we were curious to kind of were returning to the swing of things, looking actually at the big and later small scale events, as we have over these past years there was that school doesn't affecteneca to level up the schools that we already need and we're following up on as we get there. So yeah, I get the question. I love drills back there. That students want to climb, you know, two feet up. Yeah I'll carry that. doing this round and the point is we're in that same wheelhouse for roughly 8 million and potential leverage funds assumes so that assumes current rate of success it's highly variable we never know from from one round of smart scale to the next when we're going to hit on one of our bigger asks so that's it's so dependent on what you get approved for but that's based on what we've been able to do so far five million assumes five million a year in revenue sharing like i said that assumes growing success from where we are doing more projects still holds the one million development fund per year the one million safety projects and contingency and i've just got question marks frankly over potential independent projects you know your next gains borough etc etc and and what we might manage to accomplish with federal success so in an odd year you're talking about 15 million a year potentially now in an even year it's a little less because that's not your smart scale matching here you're still talking about five million dollars in revenue sharing in even years you do have your 800 000 currently noted for transportation alternatives program if you choose to continue to pursue that consumer that assumes the current rate of success one million in project development fund one million safety projects and contingency i'll make another note about those two i mean they're really placeholder numbers from year to year you may you may look at that say you know we looked at it with now over the İs the road map it has been things like i put into an account it's also a good reference to students who've taken the student model fellowship training and if we encounter something like internet overload one in eight students bring that we just say what the current rate is different Limited then i've got six to 12 million an hour on budget it means that last couple years you typically would put out three million in a year especially for one year then in times like today you know to do something big and just change all this completely i i don't know that's that's your decision but just in terms of if we continue the way we are right now that's what you're likely looking at um and with that i'll take that over to to why yeah and this i only have one slide to just summarize some of the key points that i thought i wanted to resonate with you all um john mentioned that you know in 2021 we went through the transportation committee and there was this directive that we should be trying to leverage as much state and federal funding as humanly possible and that's still our overall goal so most of what you see are those projects that will be what we call good grant projects and that is not always the things that you might think in your mind might be the best transportation projects but they score the best for money and that's our focus and that's where we're spending our leverage money on so that we can bring back as many of those state dollars as possible to our community we're still continuing to focus where vdot is going to be the most important part of our budget and we're going to continue to focus on that and we're going to continue to focus on the construction of these projects that is kind of a double-edged sword it's great that we don't have to stand up the internal staffing to manage those types of construction projects but we all know vdot moves at their own pace and in turn they could get delivered a longer timeline than we would hope for we really don't have that much control over how they administer those projects either john mentioned the boulder and getting it rolling we're still getting this train moving even four years into doing this um we're about to head into an area where we've paid a lot of money up front and the needs are not going to be so great as far as matching funds probably up until 2030 and then it's going to scale back up to where money starts becoming due again and we're keeping that in mind as we think about our requests with you all on an annual basis when we propose these uh transportation fund requests on an annual basis we tell ourselves to assume what we used to call wild success like if we won everything that we went for and then for the past two years uh wild success has just been our reality we've won the most money in the stanton district last year and it's looking like we're very likely to do that again this year um and that's where to john's horn a little bit those bottom two bullet points exit 313 partial median u-turn which we did not get approved last year but is on the staff recommended scenario for smart scale and this year and we'll know for sure in june and then the gateway drive extension which is another really large project that actually correlates with um the rezoning you all saw that's the washington commons rezoning to bring gateway across seven up to valley mill that got approved as well or is looking like it's going to get approved again on the staff recommended scenario and i think we're hopeful we might get one more safety project in the western portion of the county with the support of our ctv members awarded through smart scale this coming year before june as well so that's kind of go ahead you said we're doing well compared to the other counties in the stanton district is that true even testing for population size per capita we're doing well compared to the other counties in the stanton district yeah yes we're doing the best last year we did the best and this year we're trending to where we're going to do the best in the stanton district which includes us harrisonburg and stanton obviously is like the population centers are we putting in more funds against projects than they are yes we're still hovering around 20 matches for our projects in order to get them to score as high as they possibly can we don't think it's proven to raise that amount right now given the success that we've seen it's also due to all the work that goes the leg work that's getting done prior to that making sure these studies which we just launched and and accepted the other night that those are in good order so that these projects can move forward yeah and and kind of that some of the new things are that have been completely boxered over superfluous seizure seventeen you're you just kind of brought us into this and not just applicable within the actual district i'm trying to think sometimes of the different kind of the not only on this maybe they are capable and they just don't see it as a priority at the time. So that concludes my remarks. We're happy to answer any questions regarding any of this information. Mr. Chair, thank you. And I just want to commend not only the board for placing a priority on it, but I know Mr. McAnslaughter, the committee, and obviously your team. I think obviously doing really well and leveraging it, a lot of success that I've seen over the past couple years. But I do want to just bring up the point of kind of you talked about the good scoring of the good grants. And so obviously in order to leverage those local dollars, they're looking for projects that are specific to safety concerns and all the other things that they talked about. But there are projects that just would not score. And so I think it's freedom for the board to think about those projects as well as needing some dollars in support. And that's what we're talking about when we're talking about those independent projects. So I fully agree with you there. Again, that is a secondary priority that we're building alongside of this. But still, our primary focus is to get as much money back to this community through the grant programs that are available to us. If we were to go heavy into doing independent projects, it would have implications on what we have to think of as far as county structure and staff, because typically VDOT won't administer your independent projects if there's no grant funding associated with it. So the burden's on you to figure that out. And in turn, we have to think collaboratively at Public Works about the administration of those projects and what that looks like as far as demands on our time and staff. Do you have a summary of the balance? There are projects we put dollars against. We didn't win all of them. So are there... I was going to give a transportation... Bear with me. You're talking about the current pending applications, yes? For SmartScale? Yes. And last year's projects. Didn't get approved. That money doesn't get spent. So do we have... Does our fund have a balance from these things? No. No. Everything that was in your budget last year... Got rolled into... Exactly. And as I know, you might recall... So Wyatt misspoke a little bit earlier when he said last year for SmartScale. The last SmartScale round was two years ago. Now that stuff, yeah, you've already put that money in. But there wasn't additional... There was additional money that needed to be put in to match those. That drew you down. Okay. The two revenue sharing projects that are up there, the second and third lines, that is what we applied for last year successfully. Those funds are not yet budgeted. So other things that we applied for that were not successful... Actually, every application last year that we put in was successful. And that's why we're not sitting here saying... Well, you put aside money for this, but we didn't get it, so we have it. We're just not in that position right now. And since your current pending SmartScale applications, yeah, that could have been... Gosh, the math off the top of my head is $30, $40 million in potential if we would have gotten them all. But those weren't budgeted yet because you don't even have to pay those until 2031. So that's why you don't have that situation. And we will be in a scenario where we receive approvals and the money hasn't come due yet. And we have... We have money sitting in the account for more than one, two, maybe even three years before VDOT requests the money to be paid for those grant applications. But those are on projects that were already approved, so we keep the money in the account. Yes, sir. For these second and third items, you said they're not budgeted yet. So these are proposals we have made or have not made yet? Those are applications we've made. We've gone into the agreements. As I noted earlier, we plan to seek more money on those to draw your obligation down. But that would be part of what would be funded in 27, actually, since that's when that particular revenue sharing starts to become available. Do we have to set that aside in this year's budget since we have made application? You could do. I would have recommended probably doing that as part of your fiscal 27 budget. So we don't have to this year? Correct. And I would just note on those two projects, our state legislators are working. We're working with the state to obtain additional funding, as John said, to reduce the amount of county funds that we would have to put in there. And so we really hope they'll be successful. And that's an example, too, that speaks directly to Mr. Ludwig's question, perhaps, with the Gainesboro project. So right now you have $5 million on your Gainesboro project, the most recent cost estimate I received literally the day before yesterday to accomplish the surface road improvements, as well as the internal squalor. The total amount of school improvements is about $7 million. I'm going to cover this with the Transportation Committee on Monday. With this budget request, you would be fully covering that. But we have on the backside, Delia Wiley has put in something at the state level to try and get us some more money on that. I think he's put in for $2.1 million for us because we saw this coming. If he's successful, then you would potentially have that situation where you have budget. And funding that we ended up not needing. And we would have that conversation. And when do we find out? Is there a concrete time when we find out whether we're successful or not? Whenever the state budget's adopted. Yeah, when they adopt the state budget is when we'll know if he was able to get that. Usually after we have to adopt that. Yes, unfortunately. So with your budgeting exercise, like I said, assuming you fund the request as it is, you're covered. But? It ends up being a case of if he comes in with money, you're $2 million to the good. And the thing that I try to remember about our requests on an annual basis is it operates a little bit differently than most of the other budget requests you all are seeing. We're asking for $7 million to go into the transportation fund in this budget cycle. However, we don't have proposed expenditures in this budget cycle for that $7 million. We're thinking about matching grant applications. You're then approving those grant applications. And if they get approved, they'll get spent in future years. So it's like three levels of board review and approval as to when this happens. But we're looking forward with our budget requests of how we're actually going to afford these things if we're successful. So it's a little different than the typical departmental request that you have. Any other questions? Yeah. Mr. Chairman? So I'm going to throw out some things to all of you. I saw some listing here. But this is what I didn't say that is there. So first of all, we've had conversations on Route 37 on the eastern side. In three weeks, we're going to have a budget discussion or a proposal on rezoning that will include a segment of a road between Sensity Road and Route 7 as the first part of Route 37. You saw John's. He proposed on Wednesday where he said this is what happens on roads. We do nothing. Here's what happens in 2050 if we do something. You all saw those numbers on Wednesday. I think his budget request is too small. If you take a look at the $7 million over our current proposed budget, it's a little bit more than 2%. Take a look at what this county is meant to fund. You have an obligation to fund education. You have an obligation to fund public safety. That's sheriffs and police. You have a desire to fund parks and rec. You have some unfunded mandates. But that's one of our functions. And transportation is an issue that the state ideally funds. The state's not doing it in red butt. I have over 1,000 homes that are being developed over the next couple years. And Sensity Road used to be a country road and it can't handle it. Nobody's here to issue. These were all proffered 20 years ago or more. But that's going to be an issue that has to be addressed. In Bob's district, in Opecum, you have a bridge over I-81 that is always packed. If you have a fire emergency, you have a big problem. If you have a medical emergency, there's been discussion on even a lane or fixing that bridge. So there's certain things that they have not put on here. I'm not faulting you. I'm just making the comment. They're not on this. If we had a 5% dedication to transportation, that's someplace in the neighborhood $12 to $15 million per year. In three weeks, I'm going to talk about this road from Route 7 to Sensity. There's a bridge that has to be built if this occurs. So this is a road that ideally would be built by the state. The state's not doing it. I think we're going to have to have a combination of state money, private money, and county money. In the proposed hearing here in three weeks, the developer is essentially helping to build a road, which is not his obligation. It's a thruway, parkway to do this. There's another developer that I'm having a talk with on Monday to see if he'll complete the second part of this. As I chat with you right now, I don't know what those results are. There's then a bridge. Neither developer can legitimately say, well, why should we fund the bridge? The state doesn't have money. That bridge will cost probably in the neighborhood of $20 million. The question to all of us is, if we want to go and build 37 to address some of the issues that John raised on Wednesday, I think we're unfortunately going to have to put in state money or county money to do that. Loudoun County puts in money. Fairfax County puts in money. Arlington County puts in money for roads to supplement. If we can put in some money, then that increases our leverage for issues that we're dealing with. So I'm looking at this as projects that are not funded, not even mentioned. And I can say to all of you, if we do nothing, 10, 15 years from now, there's going to be another board here that's going to say, well, why is the traffic? I have to sit here for 10 minutes, 15 minutes. And for all of us that have lived here for a while, just take a look at 20 years ago, 2000, 2001, 2002. If you went to Jubal Early and Pleasant Valley, if you had two cars or three cars at that light, it was a lot. You're smiling. And today, if you go there, you can have 20 or 30 cars at that light. And that's what we're seeing in the reflection of the growth. Go down to Stevens City. 20 years ago, I could drive through Stevens City, no big deal. Now I can drive through Stevens City. I can probably walk through Stevens City for a mile faster than I can drive, literally. Take a look at the bridge that goes over I-81 in Stevens City. If you're on the wrong side of the bridge and you have a medical emergency, I'm having a heart attack, I'm having a stroke, and it's 4 o'clock in the afternoon or 8 o'clock in the morning, there's so much traffic there that even if you hear the siren, the person at the front is not doing anything. Even if they can go and trigger the light, which they have the capability of doing, you're still talking about time for all that traffic to move out. We have, you know, Peckin in Back Creek, sorry, in Gainesboro and Back Creek, you have people that are saying to you, I'd like to have a paved road. I have a dirty road. It's been dirty for 18 zillion years. It's snowy out. Holes there. How do you solve that problem? And so I just think that we are underfunding transportation. As we go through a budget discussion, it's purely a discussion. I think that the county needs to figure out how to put more money into this or acknowledge we are not going to do the things we need to do. So between now and the 12th, any of you are willing to talk to me about, you know, the leg between Cincinnati and 7 for 37 would be the first leg that's being built, hopefully with two private developers putting in the bulk of it. The counties would probably have to put in something because I don't think we're going to have any state money on that. If you take a second leg of a judicial district from 7 going up to 81, how does that get completed? Down near Kernstown, the same thing. So I'm looking at this and saying, if we can go and increase our transportation funds and put in X dollars each year over a certain time frame, then we're not going to go in 10 years and say to the taxpayer, we have a need, and now you have to raise your taxes significantly. You can save as you go along. All of us save money. We're all private citizens. And I'm assuming that all of you go and save money for a kid's education. You're saving money for retirement. You're saving money to buy a new car, a new truck, et cetera. Why shouldn't the county do the same thing? And a number of years ago, Bob and I were having this conversation. Bob made the comment, you know, sometimes taxpayers will say, well, you're holding my money. What are you doing with it? And that was a good comment. But if we're also willing to spend the money where we say we're going to spend it, and say this is being used for this project, and we're willing to spend it, then I think that answers that question. So I'm going to say to you, I think the number needs to go up. I think it needs to go up $7 or $8 million. 5% of our budget. If 5% of our budget went into our budget, right now you're probably 5% of 200 and what's your budget? $279, $280, give or take. You're talking about $13, $14 million, not $7. And next year it's going to be the same thing. But I'm just laying out real projects for you. And if we as a county are going to build, for example, 37, it's going to cost us money. We're going to have to have money to leverage. And when the state says, well, you want this? It's a $100 million project, put in $20 million. That's going to cost something. I'd rather just save money as we go along as opposed to that. And each of us has priority needs. And I'm not taking red butt over anybody else or anybody else over red butt. I'm just saying as a county, but the areas that I can take, Sesame Road, Sesame Road, the country road, I'm going to have to take that road. And today, if you're going to try to go and cross-cut that road, you're going to have to wait there literally three, four, five minutes to cross. I've done that from the lawn. There's a proposal to have Sesame going to four lanes, not two. There's also a proposal to have Sesame have a middle lane for traffic for turns left and right. But something has to be done in Sesame. Bob can say the same thing for areas that he knows because Peckinary is growing significantly. So I think as we go through this budget, we just have to have a budget. We have to have a discussion on what's funded. We ought to have a discussion on the increase in this amount. If not, how do you solve the problems? You go through. So I've laid out my thoughts and comments and be glad to have any feedback you want to give. Kind of related to that, John, I got a question for you on your last two slides in your slide deck where you look out about five years on an odd number a year and even number a year. We had given the fact that we had about over 1,000. Residents is new residences built this year. Is that assuming kind of a steady growth in that in that in that arena? This is purely project based and application based. It's not specifically tied to population growth. It's just meeting the transportation needs. Mr. Don, what I would say to your thing is it all in my mind, it all boils down to what is the optimum number of residents? Is it the minimum number of new residences per year that Frederick County needs? And I know that's a very complicated question. It's got a lot of facets to it. But that's what I'm trying to dial into is like, what can we expect? What do we really need for our for our population to to keep housing prices reasonable? Affordable for new people becoming college graduates and coming, moving back into Frederick County? And I grew up in Frederick County coming back to attract employers that's going to pay a good wage that's going to meet our revenue needs to me that that kind of underlies every other question that we have is what is optimum level of residential growth? We all know that we want to attract good businesses that are going to be good bill payers and provide good paying jobs and so on. So, Bob, two years ago, two or three years ago, before you were on the board, if you took a look at the county map, there was this thing called Route 37 East. It was literally drawn on a map where there were no property rights. It was just here we have this map. And that's been there since the mid 90s. And I raised the issue, I said, you know, we have a map, a road here that's been here for 30 years. So we want to build it or we want to get it off the map. Because when you have rezonings and somebody looks at this map, so I want to put a building here. The county has said, well, please don't because someday in the future we may want to go and build a road here. We've now had situations where a couple of people built a warehouse in the middle of what is supposed to be a road. So a couple of years ago, we had a member of Congress, a second member of staff there. A U.S. Senator's staff there. We had three delegates or three legislators from the state. And we were talking about do we want to make this to go or not to go. And I think there was a consensus at the time to take a look at how that goes. So that's what's occurred a couple of years ago. And John has been working on as part of that. Then I put the proposal back to you. I agree with you on your comments that you just made. But there's some projects that are just beyond those comments. 37 is one. So my comment to you is not a rhetorical question. It's a think question. It's a really good one. It's a really good one. It's a really good one. So my comment to you is if we're going to build a road on 37 to the east, some way to get around on the eastern side, it's not going to be an interstate. It's probably going to be more like a parkway like from the capital down to Mount Vernon, that type of parkway, two lanes in each direction, median strip in the middle, et cetera. If we can do that, then it provides access for roads. It relieves some of the internal traffic that occurs within the county. So I'll just speak for a minute. I'm going to go to my area of the year. You know where Greenwood is. And so Greenwood has significant traffic between Cincinnati and 7. And as we have these new developments that are occurring in Redbud, a thousand homes, that all feeds onto Greenwood one way or the other. If you're going to go to D.C. If you're going to go to D.C., yes, you can go down Cincinnati to Triple J and make a left. I've done that a lot of time. But if by the same time you're just going to Winchester, that doesn't work. So the proposal that I'm going to show you in three weeks on this rezoning is going to have a discussion on a road that says, fine, we can connect these two, which takes the traffic off of Greenwood. It also takes the traffic off of Cincinnati going into town because now, wherever that is, you go up to 7, make a left, and go into town. So that's one example, simply an example. I'm sure that Judy can show you examples up in Stonewall that do the same type of thing there to relieve some of the traffic on 11, et cetera. So I'm not putting you on the spot. I'm just saying if 37 is needed, then we ought to go and fund it. If you think it's not needed and there are other options to do, then raise that as an issue. But if we don't do 37, according to John's stuff, you'll then have other roads in this county that become traffic. He talked about the yellow stuff on Wednesday. But it's red. My word is not his. But it's red during P. Ch. . . We've got traffic. You know, traffic in the morning. We're trying to go to work in the evening. So that's what we're dealing with. And no one likes to spend money. But Fairfax County put out money for a parkway. Loudoun County has put money out for a parkway. Unfortunately, we are a growing county, and if you can get the state to put money in, that's my first choice. But we're not doing that. So I think if we put in a small contingent of money, and I know that 20 million or 30 million is not a lot or, you know, it's a big budget. But if we do that and we can get the state to put money in, that's my first choice. do that and we can leverage others. And that's the plus. I mean, John's comment was we put in $20 million to get 50. That's a good return. So that's what I'm kind of advocating for. And that's on top of, unfortunately, you know, the roads that we're having as population increases. So it's not a you or me versus them. It's just let's solve a problem. I'm putting that on the table as a potential issue, how to solve it. And if we really disagree, we do that. But I'm just trying to solve a population program that is going to be here in 20 years because you can go back 20 years and look where we were. Look what's occurred now. That's what I'm trying to address. And I appreciate it, Bob. I appreciate your comment. So, Supervisor Town, I would just say for over a decade this long ago, this county didn't put any money into roads. And that may be partly why we are... Mm-hmm. ...behind the way we are today. I was one of the supervisors three or four years ago that was pushing that we start doing this. And as we see now... Which is good. ...we're getting, what, two and a half times as much money in matching funds, $55 million for the $22 million we put in. The public, that's something I bet you all have heard about traffic, all of us from constituents. We put that money in. Where is the construction? Well, it takes years to get going. But they're going to be seeing a lot of these projects going on soon. That doesn't mean we haven't gotten things done. To your point about the ambulances in Stephen City, we're building a fire station to cover some of the southeastern part of the county that those ambulances and fire trucks had a hard time reaching to cross 81. I've been on that bridge twice last week in the morning by pure chance when an ambulance went by. They weren't delayed at all. They can control the light now. And because of the setback where the AILA Road was kicked further away... And the crossover from, I forget the name of the road, south on the east side of that bridge, it's all been redesigned. There was no backup like there used to be that just gridlocked the bridge. So that's a big improvement in getting emergency services across that bridge. There's going to be some from VDOT bridges replaced. Exit 313 is going to be rebuilt and provide not much more in capacity, but a little bit, as well as a walkway. And bicycle way across. On the city side, Jubal Early, you mentioned, they have projects that are approved. They're also going to kick back and change intersections so it won't back up into the county. When you go into the city, you'll at least be able to get a few blocks further. And to that Y, which goes downtown or toward the southern end shopping much more efficiently than before, it looks like. So we... And I-81 is going to be widened. And the two of those will be on the east side, along Sun Lake. So we are getting there and the publics and Route 11, you know, you're going to get the new intersection and the kickback of red bud run. So we're getting there. And I only say that, not to counter you, but to make the point, you know, there's an optimum level of spending on roads. It's not unlimited, especially when we've just undertaken major school projects. It's going to be hard to fund a whole lot of projects along Sun Lake. But we're going to continue to do that. And of parkway work or additional projects you know even the independent projects that's going to have to ebb and flow with our other commitments why it you know on other capital projects no doubt but we I think we all unanimously appreciate what we're getting out of our transportation applications with VDOT and and we all hear from constituents on the road so I just don't know how much of this will be able for budget this year until we figure out where we are in taxes and revenue mr. chairman I just asked you to consider okay how do we fund if you think 37 is important then how do we find out I'm just gonna put it all down how do you fund that and over what time frame so that that's all I want to say I'm gonna talk a lot more about this on the 12th with this project comes through I'll probably take 10 or 15 minutes and say here's what's being proposed here's how it's being proposed here's my thoughts but I'm just saying to all of us right now because we're having a budget discussion on transportation on that and mr. chairman I fully understand your concerns on budget on the schools etc I'm just trying to work with you solve a problem so that 20 years from now 30 years from now they don't come back and say you know what that stupid board in 2025 could have done X but instead they did nothing and now here's where that's all I want to say we're not doing nothing no no I concur with you we are doing we're doing good stuff I'm not saying that but I'm just trying to just appreciate stuff thank you chair mr. professor June John can you go back to the unfunded the smart scale I guess the second one where we've got we've got applications in sorry so so that's we don't have that we're not funded for those projects right the only thing on this list that is not previously budgeted by you already and covered are the य तिन様कात्रांक  minority best Vitamix Have already gotten transportation funds to cover the majority of those County funds as a matter of fact so Costello and 317 you've even already cut that check because of kind of a Side deal is the completely wrong word because this is something that went through the board for approval, but the board immediately following submission of the applications for those projects agreed to Forward money to help those projects move faster. So by agreeing to pay sooner like normally you're not paying for that project until you hit Sears year six of the coming program you agreed to pay sooner To allow design and things like that to happen sooner and make the project come sooner So that's why those checks have already been cut. You did not do a similar deal on your current round of applications So that some of the money that would come to depending on final success in June in 2031 I was down in Richmond last week top of Virginia Chamber regional with down focused, you know business and transportation and I Sat down with Doug and I know she's working on the brandy Lane and that's not that with Wiley and we got a chance to talk to the chairman of Appropriations and the chairman of transportation and We also have voices in the community that are trying to help us by Lobbying Richmond, you know to to help us with the additional funding. So I mean what you've done is I mean the matching Smart scale you've done for knowledge job. You all have your team to set you and John. I'll note the board's leadership has made that possible. Yeah, well the even to the point of the bills that are put in by Delegate Wiley delegate oats. These are not things that are happening. I Won't say never because politics are politics in my opinion in general These are not things that are happening for communities who don't help themselves, right? And it actually was When we were sitting with when I was sitting with the chairman of appropriations I was also the Commonwealth transportation board because they're all three members and that was devastating. They specifically appreciate the work that's being done here with Frederick County and trying to match funds and do what we can to to move things forward. So, thank you Yeah, John, I'll say I think you've done a really good job really good. I appreciate it. Thank you We done with transportation or any last just quickly mr. Hard subject to end because we all care about the roads. We're gonna switch back to kids after that And I'm not in a position to agree or disagree with either the supervisors, but I would remind Folks that is supervisor done shared all these Developments were approved years ago but Transportation and the ease of that could impact the triggering of that development and that's a touchy Conversation because it's going to happen one way or the other but if we make it more convenient on transportation it may happen more Expeditiously, so I think that's something to keep in mind is there's an if-then of roads if it's much easier to access a part of the county That was more difficult before but already has development approved Then it's more likely that that development would occur on a more rapid basis Mr.. Mo mejores brought that topic up at the transportation committee a couple of times and the Thing that I thake can give you confidence about the way this is running right now is these projects don't score well for grants if they're at all speculative and So these are meeting existing needs not building capacity that somebody could deny utilize and then make it take advantage of if we were to do an end of war independent projects that concern would become a little more real because those projects could build additional capacity incidentally well thinking about the 37 oh yeah I've heard from actual angry citizens saying do not build route 37 it's on the east side of the city closer to the capital region it'll urbanize quickly what is there people will move here for this lifestyle because they can commute from there easily so that is a sentiment and a consideration and it's a balance right that some are going to be moved no matter what so it's just a matter of how quick are you putting the pedal down so it was to reduce the man is like a real thing when you're building roads and we've talked about this again with the pedestrian projects as well we are very conscious of balancing amenities that should already exist for the residents that live here versus extending amenities to people who will be moving here that is not our folk the second part of that is not our focus and those tap projects exemplify that we're connecting sidewalks between existing neighborhoods not putting sidewalks where there might be a future neighborhood so that's John and I talk about this a lot as we scope these projects so mr. monk let me make a couple comments to you and on that score in Loudoun County this is a number of years ago loud I think had a three I write three acres build a house and loud County went through a situation where they would have no growth what you saw was a lot of buy right houses that were built the roads work and it to it it's like I have the right to build a house and Bob has right to build a house and Judy has right gun and Josh has right and so a lot of houses were being built and the roads just weren't there so they have a population went from hundred thousand to eight hundred thousand or so allowed County Fairfax County similar situation so I concur with you that you know if it makes easier to go but right now we have six thousand or so lots ready to be built we have another six or seven thousand that's by right could be built the stuff that we deal with two weeks hundred acre farm think about twenty houses there nothing zero the would be a lot of jobs and you know the the other thing I would say is that the we can do on that. And that's, and that's, that's, that's the, you're right. It's a balancing act. That's why I make my comment that I think that like 37, in my opinion, and we can disagree, helps to go and alleviate some of that traffic for the stuff that we know is coming already, not for new stuff, but if we had no new rezoning at all, just to deal with what we have, that's all. Fair enough. Yeah. Just one quick thing, if I may, I'm going to interrupt a little bit. So, it's interesting on 37, because I was here when 37 went in, used to bicycle on 37 because there was no cars. My young kids are down their 50s. And Mr. Chairman, your, your comments about the people not wanting 37 to be built. Years ago, we had a board that was anti-growth and I'm in business. So a woman called me and I went in and I said, I want to build a new building. And she said, I want to build a new building. And she said, I want to build a new building. And she said, I want to build a new building. And she said, I want to build a new building. And I went out to do some work at her house and in her yard was a sign, don't Fairfax, Frederick County, no growth, slow growth down. And I did the work and I asked her where, you know, where she grew up in Frederick County. And she didn't grow up in Frederick County, she grew up in Fairfax County. And she moved to Frederick County two years ago. But she didn't want anybody else here. And it just, I'm not a resident, I've been here 60 years, but I wasn't born and raised here. But it's just fun for me to watch folks that move here and don't want anyone else here. And they say, don't build 37. My God, those people from down there where I was from will be here and they'll just screw up my wonderful Frederick County. Well, if I'd felt that way 30 years ago, you wouldn't be here either. I would have built the bridge and the tunnel and whatever to keep you out. We're going to have growth. What was our average? Were we at 1200 this year? It was a little less than that. Almost 1100 new buildings. So for a long, long time, we ran 600 or so homes a year. That was just kind of the average. I'm in the building business and that was just, we just looked at it, you know, and that was it. Then all of a sudden we move up. And I think that's an average now, aren't we about 1100? Yeah, pretty much. For the past couple of years, it's been pretty close to that. We're growing and 37 is going to develop whether there's access or not. It's just, it will. It's going to be there. They'll find someplace else to go. If you go into Stevens City, Jermaine Street, which is a back street, everybody knows the back roads now. And if you ever worked in the city, you know every road there is to cut through and get wherever you need to get. You're hoping that you'll be able to get there faster. So people are smart and they figure out ways to do it, but we're going to grow. We're going to continue. We're going to continue to grow. And we need to look at our road system. I think we've all got feelings about it. I know Blaine feels very strongly about my area, his area, but it's going to happen. It's coming. We just have to manage it as best we possibly can. To me, it's always fun to listen to folks who don't want anybody else here and they just moved here two years ago. So, thank you. So, we're near lunch break. We're ahead of schedule because of two changes, right? Because we already dealt with the Transportation Board. We're kind of on schedule, but we have lightened in the afternoon because WAG won't be coming back and we moved public works to a different day. I know we're trying to get this done as early as possible. I'm not sure how this board wants to proceed. If you wanted to stop, eat lunch. If you wanted to shorten the length of the lunch break, you could do that. But we're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. We're ahead of schedule. I'm sure we'll be working together on all four of these. I think the board also wants to go and discuss the truth of the meeting. So, if we were to do a third but in the same period for lunch, we also need to go into closed session to discuss the attorney. So, that's an option we can do now instead of later. I know some people may have to leave earlier and we can get that done. But it's how this board and committee would like to move forward. What we could do if we so decide, we could go into closed session. I don't think it would take more than 10 or 15 minutes and then come out and then at least we could get that out of the way. But it's the board's decision. Would you like to handle it? Let's do the closed session. Someone's got to leave early. I'd say bring your food in, too. You can eat during the closed session. So do you want me to do a motion? Then I move that the Board of Supervisors of every county enter into a closed session pursuant to Virginia Code 2.23711A1 for discussion and consideration of prospective candidates for employment as the county attorney. That's the motion. Second. We have a motion and a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Then we're moving to closed session. Grab your lunches as you go, if you wish. This is the Board and not the Finance Committee, of course. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I move that the Board of Supervisors turn out a closed session. move to a vegan office. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair. I THINK THE MOTION IS SECONDED. ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE. AYE. ANY OPPOSED? I DO THAT THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF EVERY COUNTY CERTIFIED THAT TO THE BEST OF EACH MEMBER'S KNOWLEDGE ONLY PUBLIC BUSINESS MATTERS LAWFULLY ACCEPTED FROM OPEN MEETING REQUIREMENTS BY VIRGINIA LAW AND TWO ONLY SUCH PUBLIC BUSINESS MATTERS AS WERE IDENTIFIED IN THE MOTION CONFIRMED POST MEETING WERE DISCUSSED OR CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN THE CLOSED MEETING IN WHICH THIS CERTIFICATION APPLIES. WE HAVE A MOTION TO ROLL SECOND. SECOND. AND THIS IS ROLLING. SUPERVISOR LACKRID. AYE. SUPERVISOR JEWELL. AYE. SUPERVISOR LIERO. AYE. WHAT ORDER DO WE HAVE HERE? SUPERVISOR DUNN. AYE. SUPERVISOR WELLS. AYE. VICE CHAIR. AYE. CHAIR VOTES AYE. AND WE'RE OUT OF CLOSED SESSION. WE HAD SCHEDULED ABOUT 20 MORE MINUTES TO FINISH LUNCH, MAKE HOME CALLS, SIT IN THE ROOM, FIND WARM COFFEE SOMEWHERE, I DON'T KNOW, WHATEVER YOU NEED. THANK YOU FOR JOINING US. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you so you you so you so come and visiting And he has to get his money out for that. I'm familiar with that. I had a client. He said it was rough. He was scared to death. We were fortunate. That would have been tricky to do. A couple of years ago. Great. Thank you. Are we ready to go, everyone? I'm ready. Okay. I just want to ask if someone has to leave. I know people might have kids to pick up or cattle to feed. I won't point anyone out or business to attend to. I want to make sure we either have the discussion now or for the sake of time, you can e-mail me what you think about doing this all in one day as opposed to the many little work sessions we had in the past. It's not anything we have to answer today. But in case we have a lot more to do that doesn't get done today or for next year, it would be good to see how this worked when we're all done. Maybe it's fine now and two hours from now you'll be saturated and you'll have a different opinion. So I guess afterward let me know what you think. Everyone here, appreciate it. And let's continue, I guess. Yes, we have from the Lord Fairfax Health District, Tara Blakely and Leanne Sweeney. And in your general fund summary, the blue and white pages. It's page 9, department code 5101. Pretty straightforward. It's all yours. All right. Good afternoon. My name is Tara Blackley. I'm the district health director for the Lord Fairfax Health District. And so I have been with the district a little over a year now. We've been working really diligently. And so we've been able to implement our strategic plan. We have four priorities. Really implement a lot of performance management to include our goals and objectives. Individual unit scorecards. We've been focusing on internal process building, partnership development, and recruitment and retention. And I'm really excited to share that we're fully staffed with the exception of some nutritionist positions. But they're not in Frederick County. They're in Shenandoah, Page and Warren. So I wanted to share, you know, I think one of the things that public health doesn't always do well is talk about our successes. We kind of go about things with like, you know, we're not always successful. We're not always successful. We're not always successful. And so I wanted to go about things with like, if everything's going well, you just don't know public health is going well. So I wanted to talk to you guys a little bit about what we've been working on and sort of what we do in the community that I don't think everybody always is aware of. So we have a clinical department. And they focus on STIs, sexually transmitted infection screenings, family planning services. We do a lot of tuberculosis screenings and treatment, immunizations. We were. We spent a lot of time this past year going through the process. We're doing a lot of work. We're going into schools to provide immunizations so that parents didn't have to take time off time out of work. And kids could start school at the beginning of the school year without being unvaccinated. We also provided homebound immunizations to those who requested them to include flu and COVID. Typically people who are home and not able to leave their houses. We did flu and COVID outreaches to businesses, local governments. We also provided homebound immunizations to those who requested them to continue to work with social services to do long term screening services to help connect individuals to either in-home services or nursing home placement. We've also spent the last year really rebuilding our environmental health program post COVID. Frederick County has approximately 240 permitted facilities that include 140 food service establishments. These numbers only include the what we are doing in the in Frederick County. So we're doing a lot of work. We also do similar types of services in Winchester. So the data I'm going to be sharing with you is specific to Frederick County. In 2024, our environmental health specialist conducted nearly 461 inspections at permitted facilities located in Frederick County to include routine follow up and pre opening inspections. And one of our goals is to really increase our inspection frequency. As you guys can imagine. If you go to Subway, most of that food, for example, is prepared. If you go to a more of a mom and pop or another kind of restaurant, they may have more complex processes and more critical control points, which leads to more risk. And so our goal is to really be able to ensure when people are going out to eat that the food they're consuming is safe. So we also conduct temporary. We also permit temporary food events. So there's numerous events held in Frederick annually. So examples are like the Apple Blossom Festival, the county fair, the Ravenwood Fair. And this results in a significant number of inspections that often occur after hours or on the weekends. And so as you're aware, these temporary events have many food vendors that participate in our environmental health inspectors ensure that they obtain food from approved sources and that they're capable of preparing, holding and serving food safely. So you do that for food? Yes. Prior to them being on site? Okay. Yep. And then we go out and make sure that things are happening properly when they are on site. So we also inspect tourist establishments for sanitation. So this includes hotels, motels, campgrounds, bed and breakfasts, and pools associated with tourist establishments within the county. Hotels and motels are inspected annually. Pools, continental breakfast operations, and other food service facilities are inspected as well. And the goal of this is to really ensure that operators are meeting state code and to help promote a pleasant experience for visitors to the county. So we also receive complaint investigations. On average, we get about 95 complaints annually within the county. The majority of these are related to perceived improper food handling at retail food establishments, but also include complaints including improper sewage disposal, waterborne hazards, and other food safety concerns. The majority of these are related to perceived improper food handling at retail food establishments, but also include complaints including improper sewage disposal, waterborne hazards, mosquitoes, and other vectors, as well as general environmental health concerns. Another big role of public health is investigating animal exposures. So if an individual is bit by an animal, it is required that that's reported to the health department. Over the last five years, on average, we've investigated over 430 animal exposures per year in Frederick County. The majority of these are related to perceived improper food handling at retail food establishments. So if an individual is bit by an animal, it is required that that's reported to the health department. The majority of these exposures are related to perceived improper food handling at retail food establishments, but also include complaints including improper sewage disposal, waterborne hazards, and otherша Ware Xiaodong, is a person whose mother had pigmentous Hae Vater before she had some ponieważ for shipping onto her life, and is혹 Verb numbers also exceeding her knowider, into the United States. Her mother was an Pich derja, a Canadian native of the깊 helfened me leash clagerly at the time toeh Jackson Bay. However, I eara not have each one without her. In the doubt. I have a hold of можете me. B schon, I ll beburgi to usuare It may be expected that in the elderly population withiniz there will be exclusion. Hey, if proper medical treatment is not received. So that is why this is a huge priority for us, and we work really diligently to follow up with people who have been bit by an animal or have exposure to saliva. As you all know, the best way to prevent the spread of rabies in domestic animals is vaccination with rabies vaccine. If I may, sorry to interrupt. Yeah. For animal coverage, we have, I forget what the disease is called now. It's slipping in my brain. But from deer ticks, people have gotten deer ticks. Lyme disease. Do you do anything with that? We do. Yeah, we do. It's one of the, so by law, and I'm going to talk about this a little bit later on, there's reportable diseases in the state of Virginia. There's a whole long list, and anybody that receives a positive diagnosis is reported to the health department. And so in a later slide, I talk a little bit about how many we received last year, but the most frequent diseases reported in Frederick County are chlamydia and Lyme. Thank you. Yeah. What's a chlamydia? A sexually transmitted infection. So we also do blood level, blood lead level investigations. So we do environmental investigations at homes when a child who's six or younger has a reported elevated blood level at or equal to 20 microliters per deciliter. We have two licensed lead inspectors that go out and do these investigations. Frederick County has two zip codes that are considered high risk for lead, and they include 22645 in Middletown and 22654 Star Tannery. So housing built before 1978 is considered to be at risk due to lead-based paint in one or more interior or exterior surfaces, and deteriorated lead-based paint is a health hazard. So that's another service we provide in the community. Can I interrupt again? I'm sorry to throw you off. Yeah. Do you report the lead-based findings when you get a positive result to Frederick Water? They're currently engaged in a survey to make sure our pipes from the older homes. Yeah. And so far they're saying zero, but they can't go into the homes. They can only respond to the surveys for the people who do respond, and of course for the portion of the pipes that they're responsible for. So we're a zero lead county as far as we know in our water system. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So we've jardiners. Actually, we have this question. So we can't get this right. Can we read the question? So the question is, what kind of data did you get through the town hall today? And do you know who the person is reading the whole question right now? So I want everybody to just let them know specifically where we can find them. Because I understand. We've got one of the questions, which is, what can one do for people if they're super ill? That's a good question. So for health experts, okay, So they're the<|nn|>ійсьwon that person that we're good. Yeah. And this includes applications for construction permits, certification letters and repairs, as well as walkovers from the county, building department, subdivision reviews, and other requests for comments from planning and zoning. Our environmental health specialists are responsible for the oversight of alternative on-site sewage systems and alternative discharging sewage systems located within the county. One of the things I wanted to make sure that I talked to you guys about today is our milk sanitation program. So we have a milk program. We have two staff currently that cover all grade A processing facilities and manufacturing facilities within our district. And so that includes two facilities, well, one and about to be another one in Frederick County and then one in Shenandoah County. So we work with HP Hood, Desi Fresh Foods. And then also Valley Milk. And as you are aware, our environmental health technical specialists are responsible for the regulatory oversight of the milk programs. And as I'm sure you guys know, HP Hood is the largest processing plant on the East Coast. They're currently undergoing a 90 plus million dollar expansion. And this has resulted in a significant demand on our staff to include plan review, equipment testing. We have a limit on another basically every�� trilateral negroew criminal testing organization analyzing plant该 Bass emails, testing, coordination with the FDA and ongoing demand on our staff resources, once the plant is even fully operational which will include increased equipment testing, product sampling to support the plant and ensure regulatory oversight our dairy team has been heavily involved with plan review. as HP Hood, it will also strain our staff resources. We are requesting funding to support an additional FTTE dedicated to the dairy program in Frederick County. The increased volume of regulatory work due to the implementation of a new grade A facility within our district requiring additional pasteurization equipment, filler, product sampling, lab analysis, inspections, and plan reviews, as well as our staff being on call 24-7 in the event that they have to go out so that the plant can restart operations that is part of the regulatory process. We generate zero revenue. We collect no fees. This is part of code. There is no way for us to increase revenue to be able to support the work that our staff do, and we're very concerned about our ability to continue this process in an efficient way without an additional staff person. So I wanted to make sure that I shared that with you all as well. And the two staff we have are split between the two Frederick County facilities and then the Shenandoah facility Valley home. So we kicked off our community health assessment on October 24th. This is the first time we've done a community health assessment, and we're doing this in partnership with Valley Health. And we did our first meeting yesterday on what we're finding so far in our data collection efforts in our survey. And our publication date for this large report will be early 2026. We're using a methodology through the National Association for City and County Health Officials called Mobilizing Action for Planning and Partnerships, also known as MAP. And so what the goal of this is is to collect primary data from the community to understand what they believe are the greatest health issues within the community. We're looking at social determinants of health, so that can be anything. From health conditions, access to health services, mental health, housing, education, it runs the full gamut. And so information from the survey that we're collecting from the community will be used to compare it to secondary data sources. So what does the data tell us are the greatest concerns? What does the community see as the greatest concerns? And then we're able to work together to identify three to five priority areas that, as a community, we'll look at. And we're able to work together to identify three to five priority areas that, as a community, we'll look at. So we're really grateful and excited to have started this process, as part of a national model. So we're really grateful and excited to have started this process, as part of a national model. And we're also assessing our community partners to really identify all the assets in the community, and the strengths of our community organizations and local partners, as well as identify gaps throughout the health district. So, so far, yesterday when we looked at data, we've collected over 1,700 data. So far, yesterday when we looked at data, we've collected over 1,700 data. surveys. If any of you guys go to Valley Health, you probably received an email through your health, your MyChart, thank you, to complete the survey. And this is also a link to the assessment. So we hope if you haven't taken that survey yet, that you'll take an opportunity to do that so we can get your feedback as well. All right. So additionally, we received a federal grant, and we have been able to procure a mobile health unit. We went out and did focus groups across our entire district. And one of the things that came up as a big barrier was access to services as well as transportation. So the goal of this mobile health unit is going to be able to take our show on the road and really go to communities where they may not be able to access our services. This was fully funded by a grant, and we're hoping to receive it next month. So we're really excited about that. Another thing that where we've been leading efforts across the state is our CEMPAC program. And so CEMPAC is a national program under the Department of Health and Human Services. And what it does is places containers of nerve agent antidotes within local communities to allow for a rapid response to a chemical incident. And these antidotes must be administered quickly, and about 90% of the U.S. population is within one hour of a CEMPAC location. And so here in Lord Fairfax Health District, we have three CEMPAC containers, and we've been working really closely to do training and exercise with Valley Health, our local emergency management partners, law enforcement, EMS, to really train on how these antidotes could be accessed, managed, and utilized. So we've worked to develop a CEMPAC guidance policy that's being used now as a state model. We've conducted a tabletop exercise in 2023. We did a drill in 2024, and next month, we'll be doing a full-scale exercise. So we're really excited to be able to practice this. So in the event that we need to utilize these federal assets, we're able to do so and access them properly. So epidemiology for Frederick County. So epidemiology is really the study of disease spread and the impact on our population. In 2024, we investigated 10 outbreaks, and we had 560 cases of reportable disease in Frederick County. That does not include COVID-19. And the most reported conditions were chlamydia and Lyme disease. We also did 16 site visits, mostly to skilled nursing facilities and outreach events. So some of the trends that we're currently seeing are a significant increase in invasive group A strep infection, which is the same bacteria that causes strep throat, and, you know, the infection that's present in the blood and enters the blood street or another invasive site causing severe infection. And then also streptococcal toxic shock syndrome, which results in low blood pressure and organ failure that develops from invasive infection. We investigated 20 cases in 2024, and in 2023, CDC issued a notice of increasing pediatric cases. We worked closely with our central office in Richmond to get out a letter to clinicians in 2024. And we're doing continued local education to our healthcare providers and group settings on strep prevention, identification, and treatment. In the event that we have a case in a long-term care facility, we do have a protocol for rapid response and intervention to those cases. We also wanted to talk a little bit about H5N1. I'm sure you guys have seen a lot about that in the news. On January 16th, we had our first H5N1. We had our first case in Virginia in a commercial poultry flock on the eastern shore. And we are closely collaborating with VDACs on public health response related to detection. We're doing continued outreach to high-risk populations and healthcare providers. We do have human testing available through the state lab. And there's a clinician letter coming out soon with specific guidance as CDC has ramped up subtyping of positive flu-A cases so that we can monitor human transmission. This is our respiratory illness tracking so far this year. So several sources of data are used to track respiratory viruses that include seasonal influenza, RSV, and general diagnoses in COVID in Virginia and LFHD, Lord Fairfax Health District. So this graph... shows the weekly percentage of ED and urgent care visits with any acute respiratory diseases. The blue line shows the expected percentage based upon previous year's respiratory illness, and the orange line shows the actual percentage of diagnoses. So as you can see, right now, everything that we're seeing is higher than expected. Yeah. From that chart there, because we've only had here three weeks, if you go back to December or October, I mean, does that still change where you're higher than expected? We're right now in a contagious timeframe of January, February, March. But if I look at over the course of 12 months, do you hit over a 12-month timeframe you're expected, or is it still running above your expected? So expected looks at previous years, and so it compares what we're seeing this year to previous years. And so if you go back, right, so typically we see a curve, right? Because of COVID, we've seen a bump typically in the summer, June, like July, August, and then the curve goes back down, and then we see a bump again, like around the holidays when people are gathering. And so different times, we see different things. So if we go back to, let's say, October, November, it's probably pretty on trend, because that's when we see that, you know, the drop in the curve. And then when the curve starts going up, either, you know, we're below it usually, or we're above it, or we're kind of at it. And this year, we're sort of going above what the curve is and what we expect to see. So additionally, I'm sure you guys have seen in the news the increase in pneumonia, especially in children. So there was a national increase in pneumonia. It was specifically related to mycoplasma pneumonia in children. So we saw an increase in September. And this was from syndromic surveillance. So this means us monitoring data sources as well as reports from the schools. And you can see here the graph shows the weekly number of discharge diagnoses from reporting hospitals and urgent cares that include pneumonia in patients 0 to 17 for our district. We are finally seeing the cases decrease. We continue to provide education to health care providers, affected populations like schools and daycares, and we provide testing for our state lab. And we're also working with our state health department to provide training for our state health department in the event that someone's not able to access it through their health care provider. We are seeing an increase in pertussis, which you guys probably know as whooping cough, over the last year. And this has been observed. We're mostly seeing in Frederick and Warren counties. Our epidemiology staff conduct pretty extensive contact tracing for each case. And we're continuing outreach to community organizations and health care providers. So another thing that I wanted to talk to you guys about today is syphilis. We are seeing a pretty significant increase in syphilis both nationally and in Virginia. There's been a substantial increase in the last 10 years. As you can see, primary, secondary, and early stages of syphilis have increased 200%. And then the unknown duration and late syphilis have increased by about 20%. And then the number of cases that have been reported have increased 324% over the last 10 years. So another thing that we're seeing is the increase of congenital syphilis. So that means when someone's pregnant that they have syphilis. And then when the child is born, the child also has syphilis. And so previously, it was prior to 2013, 2014, two cases was considered a really bad year. And you can see from this graph, we saw over 20 cases in 2023. So this may not sound high, but it's completely preventable. And it's considered a health care system failure in the event that there is a congenital syphilis diagnosis. We did grand, oh, I think go to the next slide. So when we look at maternal risk factors for congenital syphilis, we see that there's a lot of risk factors. And we look at maternal risk factors for congenital syphilis. What we found is that a proportion of cases are self-reporting substance use, homelessness, housing instability, and incarceration of themselves or their partner within the last 12 months. You can visit at the bottom there. There's a link that goes to the Virginia Department of Health's syphilis data dashboard. And so we conducted grand rounds at Valley Health in October to really talk more about syphilis, what we're seeing in the community. And so this is a really important public health issue. Untreated syphilis is associated with high complications such as organ and nervous system damage and can facilitate the transmission and acquisition of HIV. And historical data demonstrate that untreated syphilis in pregnant women, if acquired during the four years before delivery, can lead to infection of the fetus in up to 80% of cases and result in stillbirth or infant death in up to 40% of cases. So there has been some national changes related to screening with pregnant women. So it's now recommended at the first trimester, the third trimester, and at birth. And this is regardless of where people live. There's also been a change in syphilis testing. And Virginia has, you know, we've been doing a lot of research on this. We've been doing a lot of research on this. And Virginia has 38 localities that meet this change. And within our health district, Frederick County is the only county that meets this high threshold testing. And so we now recommend that anyone in Frederick County receives screening if they are sexually active between the ages of 15 and 44 due to the high syphilis rates in the county that are great. So what the... The sort of ratio is, is it's 4.6 cases per 100,000 people. So there's 38 localities in Virginia that meet this definition. And Frederick County is one of those. So we've been working to get the word out about this, work with health care providers, community partners to really share this information. You mentioned that congenital syphilis is considered a health... It's considered a health system failure for any occurrence. Is that because it's not caught before pregnancy or is that because it's not being dealt with and treated during pregnancy? A lot of people don't go to regular checkups before. So I don't know if I blame the health care system for that. But if something's not being done after pregnancy, so it can be treated in the first trimester, for example, if it's detected. Yeah. And it's part of it, right, is access to health care too. Yeah. You know, if you are uninsured or you have other barriers that prevent you being able to access the health care system. Also, in Virginia, the code doesn't require testing at all of these intervals, which I know is something that's being looked at. And previously, there was just screening typically... I think it was typically during the third trimester. And so now they're recommending that it's done in the first, third, and at birth to increase the chances to be able to catch it much earlier. And provide treatment. I just didn't think it was a health care failure if it was before or really for access. Because we have facilities and OBGYNs, et cetera, that could provide care and testing as a standard. Of course. But it hasn't been happening. The testing has not been happening. And so that's why it's considered health care. Even during... Yep. People who are going to receive care during... Yep. Okay. So in that case, we want to have standards so that these providers are testing for it, right? Yep. Okay. Thank you. All right. So I'm Leanne Sweeney. I'm the business manager for the Lord Fairfax Health District. So I'm going to talk the numbers. Just want to make... I'm sure everybody's aware that we are run by the Code of Virginia. There is a code requiring our having a health department in every city and county in the state of Virginia. And this is just... This is the code and how it's portrayed. And so what happens is we actually send a government agreement every year for the administrator to sign off on. It agrees to what we're going to provide as far as services. And those are all by the Code of Virginia. Those services are not something we choose. It's what the code tells us we have to offer under the law. I just want to make sure everybody is aware. We actually provide two offices for Frederick and Winchester together. The office located in this building is actually for environmental health. Health and Vital Records. And the one on Baker Street, two blocks over. We do our medical services, our WIC services. And it's the home of our administration staff, which includes the business... Myself, our having accounts payable, physical tech, accounts receivable, physical tech, IT analyst, an HR analyst. And then we have the main office for population health and the epidemiologist. So we're spread between two offices, but we serve both communities, the city of Winchester and Frederick County. And we have a lot of different services. So we're spread between two offices. So we're spread between two offices. So we're spread between two offices. All right. So I'm not going to go through all these, but what I have done is provide you slides that show every code and the service that we offer and what code it falls under the state of Virginia. So Tara's hit these really, really well in her presentation. So I don't want to go through them again, but I just want to make sure you guys were well aware of everything we do offer in this area. So as we come into the FY26 budget, we are... Budgeting a 3.4% increase in general state fund from FY26. We took the last three years and figured out what the general fund has been over the years, and it's been about a 3.4% increase. So we have put that into our calculations for FY26. So with this projection, we are requesting $679,091 from Frederick County. And that will allow us up to $830,000 from the state with their match. And we're... We have about a projected revenue of about $340,948. Sorry, sir. You said $679... That's fine. Gives you how much from the state? $679,000 local gives you... I just didn't hear what the number was. Yes. So the... $830,000. The $830,000. Now, with this 3.4% increase, that's the general fund, but we also added that FTE for the milk position. So that increased our personnel expenses. And we're going to also want to tell you about the why. So we also are looking at the percentage of Frederick County to Winchester residents that are being served in both offices. And when we did this research, we did find out that Frederick County is actually paying about 20% of the expenses at the Baker Street office. But it's... It's actually about 40% of the population. So there is going to be an increase in expenses for Frederick County as we find that equity of Frederick County and City of Winchester fairness and make sure it's all going by the population and the clients we serve. So your FY25 request, that was to who? So FY25 request, we... You all approved. We actually had to come back and ask for an additional $6,000. Almost $7,000. Yeah, almost $7,000 to get the state match this year. We were not approved for what we asked last year. The approval was the $5,007. We did come back and ask for the additional $7,000 to get the state match or we would have lost... We would have had to give money back to the state. Is that a 70%? Yeah, 55% state, 45% for Frederick County is how the JLARC is calculated for Frederick County. Well, so... Your request for the 35 or... Yeah, around 35%. So it's an increase. You've got one personnel position in that. The rest is administrative costs rising and new programs? Yeah, and we have a three... Well, it's not new. So what we did is we looked at how much the state cooperative budget has increased over the last three years. So it was 3.4%. So we increased our ask by 3.4%. We're asking for funding for an additional milk position so that we're able to properly provide at the milk facilities. And then we looked at the costs associated with running... With essentially running the business. The situation calls. Yeah. And so, you know, facility rental, medical supplies, all of that. Yeah. When we looked at our client base over at the bakery... Your street office, 60% of our clients are Frederick County, 40% are Winchester. Frederick County is paying for zero administrative costs at that facility. And so we have to address that because we are providing services to Frederick County. When we look at our district as a whole, Frederick County is about 40% of the population. Frederick County provides about 20%. So we have to address that. And so we have to address that. So there's a huge difference in the services provided to the county and what percent of our budget they support. With regard to the space in this building that Frederick County is providing, right? Yes. How is that calculated into... We pay rent. You're paying rent. Yes, ma'am. It's not provided in a book. And I'm guessing... I'm guessing that we evaluate that rent on an annual basis if we do need to increase the cost. Because obviously our costs are going up, too, to maintain the building and such. We'll have to look at the funding formula. It might help us offset if we're going to incur an increase in one place that we might be able to... We're paying the utilities and all of those sorts of things as well. And we don't negotiate our... We don't negotiate... We don't negotiate those real estate agreements. That has to go through an office of the state. Possibly what... The new position you're asking for? Possibly what's the total... What range are you running on that position? I would say it's between 90 and 100 with salary and benefits. Okay. So I'm looking at these numbers and the balance of it is for other... I'll keep the 3.4%, et cetera. Okay. So the... The... There's the 3.4%. That's... So every year or every two years, the governor determines across the board what... If there's an... Like if state employees receive an increase. So we're projecting this year what's been approved in the budget is a 3% increase. When we go back and look at other little adjustments that happen related to health insurance or IT or whatever it is, when we look across the last several years, that 3.4% increase... That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. So the 3.4% increase includes both the salary increase for our staff and those little tiny adjustments. And if you may not know off the top of your head, but the percentage increase here is like 35%. So if I take out the position, then do you know approximately what the percentage... I don't know, but I... We could give you those numbers. Okay. That'd be fine. Appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have a question about the assessment that you're undertaking... Yes. ...with Valley Health. How is that structured in terms of... Yeah. ...who pays for it? Does your department pay for all of that or is Valley Health contributing? So currently, I would say it's much more staff resources and resources we already have. I don't know that we've incurred a ton of extra costs at this point. We have used some grant funding we had for some of the additional costs. We have the person who's sort of leading that process, she's currently funded by a federal grant called Public Health... It's the Public Health Infrastructure Grant. We're using Valley Health's platform to conduct the survey. So a lot of it is in our internal staff resources and most of it's federally funded. And it is part of the code that we're required to do on a regular basis. Yeah. I did have that question. Thank you. Yeah. Sure. Are we getting... I'm sorry. Are we getting reports on a periodic basis? I'm presuming we don't just write the full check on this request once the budget's approved. Is it handled the same way the prior one was? It's handled like other contributions and it's paid quarterly and billed quarterly. So you would have an accounting of what's been spent before you make the disbursement? No. It's like, no. I don't. There's... It's... You know, it's interesting. I think it's interesting to see that through local government budget processes, the health department is sort of seen as like a nonprofit or an external entity, but the way the relationship is established in the code is that the county or city is required to have a health department and they contract with the state for those public health services. So their relationship is a little bit different probably than other nonprofits. And it was established that way a long time ago because the way the code was previously written was that you're required to have a physician lead a health department. So that's the way it's been established. Okay. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. And that was a very expensive proposition. And so local governments established the relationship with the state to provide those services. And that's why a lot of times districts were created. So like, for example, my time, Leanne's time, our services that we provide as part of the health department, you guys only pay a percentage of that. Instead of having to pay that for each county having to pay to have a health director and a finance manager. And so this sort of structure was set up a long time ago. It's here in the state. It's considered centrally administered public health system. Other states have locally administered public health systems where the health department is actually part of the local government. So it's a unique relationship, I would say. But if there's additional information you guys are interested in, we're always happy to come and talk about what we do or what's going on and provide more insights on what's happening with public health in the community. And you are audited then by the state? Oh, absolutely. Yep. Three questions, if I might. Yeah. There was a state-supported clinic on Amherst Street. I think it's in the city, not in the county. Okay. Was that a few years ago, at least, there was. Are you familiar with that one? Is that part of your program? It's not. No, I'm not familiar with it. Okay. Our county school system has a clinic. Yeah. Are you involved with that one that's off Jubilee? No, I think Valley Health has been working with them on that. Okay. Yeah. So you don't have any part in that? We don't provide primary care. We do preventative care. So. They do immunizations and some of the things you listed as well. So if they, we work very closely with the schools on providing both immunizations as well as access to data sources to understand how children have been immunized. But we don't sit within their clinic and provide those services. Okay. And then my last question. I was at the very beginning on the list of services. You listed clinic for school physical immunizations, flu, COVID, et cetera. So those are free services that people could go to? Or is that income tested or? So immunizations, state required, like code required immunizations are at no charge. Physicals have a charge, but things are done on a sliding scale. So it's based upon your income. Okay. I think the clinic on Amherst did it that way. That's why I was wondering. That one's the federally qualified. It's called FQR. FQHC. Yeah. FQHC Health Center. So it's a federal one, not a state. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Of course. Any other questions? We really appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you for sharing. Appreciate it. Mr. Huck. You mentioned that Frederick County. You felt like the numbers were skewed off in terms of percentage of population and budget. Does that fail to factor in the fact that there are locations in other counties as well? Like Page, for instance, has its own location, even though it's serving a smaller population. So all of our local governments contribute to our budget? Correct. So I think he's asking if our office was in Frederick County. Is that now? No, no, no. What I'm saying is your assertion is you just looked at population. And budget. Correct. No other factors in terms of administrative costs of each local office. Oh, it was. Yeah. Yeah. So all all each one is by that county. Just population solely. Well, it's population clients served. But what what we are charged in different localities, different based upon that locality, too. So. There. Would it be correct to assume that the administrative costs of a county like Page, which with a lower population would be greater than the higher than the administrative cost of per populace in Frederick County? We could we could come up. We could come up with those numbers. I can't tell you off the top of my head, but we can give you those numbers. Just think there's a little bit of skew there. And then does that also factor in the kind of the milk inspection component that you're you've talked about with, I guess, the three localities? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. OK. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we're not saying personnel. What we're talking about are non-personnel costs. Frederick County is paying their share of personnel costs. It's the non-personnel piece. So what does that make sense? What do the increases look like in other counties compared to this then? They're all paying their costs. So there's no increase. It's a flat. It's 3.04. So the budget request for every other county within the health district. is flat this year it's not flat it's three points here three point four percent thank you right any other questions thank you very much thank you very much thank you thank you sir I don't know if any supervisors are gonna have to leave before we get done today I noticed on your agenda there's an open discussion there's one item maybe we can dispose of in one minute or two we're done in five minutes or your father you please join this in that seemed really simple one that was you wanted our decision by today and I don't want it to get missed on refurbishment very yes very quickly if we discussed at the last meeting we were looking at everything in painting and what we want to look at one thing that we're trying to do is we're trying to make sure that the whole plan was we want to remove these broofs these views out of here if envoyooked hey well so anyway we're looking at the last meeting with members of economic and territorial nine we would like to know about your their various fair Sister sports activities, Ireland out on the When we get ready to do the carpeting and the painting, we want to remove the pews and put in stackable chairs. One of the questions was at that time, what would be the price? So we've looked, and they range anywhere from $10,000 to $30,000. My guess, if you were to decide to go that direction, it would be probably closer to $20,000. I know no one wants to get the most expensive, but if you get the cheapest, they just won't last. And the primary benefit, if you wanted to do that, is the versatility of the room. The fact is, if you have the chairs, you can rearrange it. You can break these up and split them up into extra conference rooms or rooms if you need be. I know it hadn't been done in the past, but obviously with the rows, it was difficult to do in the past. The reason we just need to know an answer is because we're getting ready to go out to bid, et cetera, and need to make that decision. So it's really how this board would like to move forward. Would you like to keep the pews or go with the chairs? Yes. Mr. Ross? Being in the budget season, I'm saying if we can save some money, I'd say just keep it the way it is. I'm not paying my house this year for putting the carpet in. That's in this current budget. I understand. I'm just saying it's, you know, not only that, but you can throw chairs. And I'm, you know. You can't throw the pew. I don't know. I'm in favor of keeping the pews and putting chairs back. I'll give you a second opinion. I'm in favor of the chairs. I've held a couple of meetings in this room where all those people were sitting looking behind. So I'm an advocate for the chairs. Yes, I know it's a $10,000 to $20,000 increase. That's insignificant on a $270 million budget. The decision here that you do today is going to run for the next 20 or 30 years. So we're in a budget process. I understand that. But from a functionality viewpoint, I'd say chairs are much more efficient and practical than that. If we can make the change, fine. Bob, you know. It doesn't increase the size of the people in the room, though. I understand that. Mr. Fire Chief said we have a certain amount of people who are allowed in the room, correct? That's correct. I understand that. But, yeah, the meeting we're having here. The meeting is where a bunch of people there have to lean over. So we'll agree to disagree. Absolutely. Judy. But I'll say take the chairs. And then if you have the versatility to break this into other items, to do so. But that's what I thought. It's a one-time decision over a 20-year time frame. So any other discussion? And then we'll go around for a consensus. Mr. Chairman, I just, I mean, last year when we were doing the nonprofits, I was trying to get $500 for nonprofits. I know. So I'd rather hang on to that $20,000 than maybe give to a nonprofit. So I'm good with the pews. They're here. They're good. I'm good with the pews as well. I feel like we're trying to cut budgets everywhere. And they look completely brand new. I'm even looking at the painting and I'm upset. Everybody wants to steal my name. I mean, are we locked into painting and the carpet? Because there's been some talk of even moving our county administration to Sunnyside. Right. So it may not be a 20-year decision right now. I say hold off on. I'm in support of the bid for the painting closes on Wednesday. So if I were to cancel it, I would need to cancel it like today. Okay. I'm in support of canceling the painting. If my walls looked this good at home, I would put a host some functions. They don't look this good. I don't want to put money into that. That's just my thoughts. I'm good with painting the room. You want to paint the room. I just don't think we need to buy the chairs. So. There's a $7.25. $7.25. $7.25. $7.25. $7.25. $7.25. $7.25. Don't bother me. I concur with that. I wouldn't think we need to spend any money in here at all. As far as the pews go, I'd say leave the pews in. If we want to increase versatility, take the back row out and buy some chairs, but not en masse chairs. You get a little bit more flexibility there for people that want to view a meeting like this. That's the only thing I'd say. Any more discussion and then we'll go around. Someone can throw it out as a motion, more or less. I'll have some fun. I'll take the chairs and pull up with the painting. They'll come to your class. Well, I'm going to go ahead and make a motion to remove the painting, the carpet, and don't do anything with it. Leave our room as is. I'd second that. Okay. So we have two supervisor tools. So you don't, we're not going to do the carpeting. I don't want the carpet done. I'm just, I think, like I said, I think it's a discussion that at some point the county administration, so I don't think it's a 20-year decision. And I don't think the carpet looks, that's just what I put out there. I don't think it needs to be done. I guess, I guess the question is why was, why was it put up to be replaced? Why was the carpet put up to be replaced? Why? Well, the carpet, the painting looks pretty good. I don't believe it. If you walk around, the carpet's in pretty bad shape. But I don't believe it's just this room. We're doing some more parts of this building as the ongoing maintenance. Yeah. So I'm a no for both. Which is a yes for not doing either. Carpet painting anywhere? This room. Just this room. I want to see the carpet replaced. I think that if you're doing the carpet, that's fine. So you want to amend it maybe? Yeah, amend it to replace the carpet. Okay. Anybody second? I guess I'm on my own. This is survival. No shoes, no pews. We can vote first on the motion. So right now, I think what it is, is no pews, no paint, but do the carpet. Am I correct? I didn't want the carpets on my motion. There wasn't a second on the amendment. So it's no paint, no carpet, no chairs. Yeah, no change to this room. Okay. So nothing. So I'm going to vote on that. That's her motion. No change to the room. That was my motion. And then... Chair, we can vote on that. If it doesn't pass, we can go to the next discussion. So we've got a yes on that motion, a no, and a yes. So here's my question. If you just broke it down, we have paint, carpet, and chairs. Just break down each one. I mean... You made the motion. Okay. Well, my motion to you would be no. If you win, you win. If it doesn't win, I'll come back with, you know, one piece of that. I'm not keen on a paint carpet. I'm not keen on a paint carpet. I'm not keen on a paint carpet. I'm not keen on a paint carpet. I'm not keen on the floor. I would support the chair. So my vote's no, but we'll see what happens. Supervisor Wells. Aye to the motion. So it passes. So no to everything? Just don't do the room at all. And we'll just have to adjust the bid to pull it out. Yeah. So am I doing the rest of the building? Yeah. This was just on this building. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. So I'm going to vote no. Okay. This room? Yes. 30 succeeded. 30 succeeded. That was the question about the room? Correct. Right. Okay. Yeah, we got a risk here. It's hard to follow that. The timing's perfect, Chief. . Just kidding. Mr. Bonhoeffer? Yes, sir. We have a Steve Monk. No, I think we have one question. Well, for the rest of this cost of doing this, what other areas are we addressing? And I don't need the answer right now. I know Chief is geared up and ready to go, but maybe before the end of the meeting, what else are we looking at? What's the total cost? Yeah, what else is included in the bid other than this room? So the bid was all of the wallpaper removal in the phone session. Okay. So the painting in here, and then all of the second floor. Wallpaper removal, redoing the doors, painting, refinishing if it needs to. You got to go look. I was going to get up and look, too. It's a project that was approved in the current budget that was approved for maintenance. But we could put it off until next year, by January. Okay. I mean, we could. It's already funding for this. And give us a chance to look at these areas. The clip. Oh, he's... He told him. I'm just going to PowerPoint it. I just downloaded my picture. Right. Thank you. Do you know where this is up on here? Oh, there we go. You can't get through the door. You were on the front. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll be left everything on the side, and you need to post from the back. Any other questions? Okay. I'm going to say two or three people. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . So, that's all for the mikheer session. We have ainta here to explain what we are looking for and therefore we should also be considering more organizations to approach more tissues . are moving closer together with the cast assembly working closely together. last several years and our presentations we have over the last several years taking a sort of fundamentally different approach and looking how we approach fire rescue as a system as opposed to a set of individual entities volunteer companies with the support of the career staff and the difference is not just semantical it is in every sense of restructuring in particular one of approaches and this is something we certainly heard loud and clear from the board and community is to have a comprehensive plan moving forward with particular direction not ad hoc decision-making and so as part of that over the last three years we've continuously engaged with our stakeholders to develop a service plan over the ten years and then we sort of steer clear of calling it a strategic plan for a very intentional reason most times of public safety that becomes a one-time document it's very large because it's on a shelf that's forgotten about afterwards this is really a living and breathing this is how we do business this is how we're making plans to move for the future and meet our challenges that go forward and developing that over the last several years we've had occasion to speak here we've talked about expectations for service delivery an important part of the fulfilling that is is the very common pillars and I'd say we have a three-legged stool it starts with people it is a people business of the people-driven operation whose resources to have the right people properly trained to being able to respond to the challenges that we face. It's not just about providing the best services to the people that we need to provide. It's about providing the best services to the people that we need to support the people that we need to support the people that we need to provide. At the end of the day that is a funding question and we're very cognizant of the fact that you all there are scarce resources in the community you have to make difficult decisions about how to allocate it. Much like any public safety thing we're a it's a risk assessment trying to figure out what level of tolerance that you have as a community to be able to address the real and potential challenges that we face. The real potential challenges that we face. The real potential challenges that we face. And there's no easy task. And all through that that piece which is we keep that piece which is we keep fun as developing that plan development is making sure that we have pieces in place that support our annual operating requests in our capital improvement budget as we go forward. Again just to kind of go over I have so the data I want to ...bleh too much we just go over the high level points as you can see over the last five or six years the call volume each year has dramatically increased We have seen a 4% increase in incident calls. And I'm going to make a little distinction here because later in some of the data, if you look into it, there's a distinction between an incident and a response. An incident is a unique emergency, that it was a fire, it was a heart attack, it was a car accident. Responses usually reflect on the totals for each individual company, so that that station or units from that station were sent in response to it. So a fire obviously does not take just one fire station to respond to it, it takes multiple ones. So that's where some of the totals, if you look at the response totals for each individual station, they'll total out much higher than our 13,882 calls for last calendar year because multiple times, multiple units and multiple stations are required. But again, the top line number is right here at the bottom, which is we saw a 4% increase in calendar year 2024. Is there anything else you'd like to add? I think we're going to go to the next slide. Okay. Certainly. Thank you, John. We'll move on to the top and then turn it back to you, John, to get in touch with all our Ó and Kurt. Thank you, well, we all know that some of the fires are two faster and some of them are even excellence. And thus all our proposals do lead to an increase in accruals for multiple hours. And so, ultimately, if you look at it this way, I'm going to direct you to a four-�ть fine- Bureau of Medical Control. We're doing what we were doing yesterday. Greenwood is not too far back, over almost 3,200, and then places like Clearbrook in particular has gone up over the last several years and is approaching 2,000 calls. Other ones that are more geographically isolated out into the rural areas have much smaller call volumes. So it is one of the primary tensions that we have in the public safety section is that population density creates volume, and then when you look at the outlying areas, it's about coverage, being able to provide it because our principle, and I think which this Board has certainly endorsed, is the idea is a heart attack is a heart attack. Whether it happens in Star Tannery or in the middle of Greenwood, they expect the same type of resources to be able to get there. The differences are, I think we recognize, is that the time resources to get there or the collection of resources to be able to do there, that's the inherent tension in much of our work. MS. So the smallest number is from ALS 10. That's the reserve. MR. I went too fast. But the smallest is Star Tannery, which is 280 calls, 280 responses. MR. So the second smallest is ALS 10. That's the reserve? MR. So there's two, which is, and I'll come back to that. I'll let you speak to that. So there's two, we have two chase vehicles. ALS 1 is a chase vehicle that's at Greensboro. I'm sorry, I'm going to punch me in the back of the head. At Gainsborough. And so in the western part of the county, we do not have ALS providers, paramedics at every station. So ALS 1 is a chase vehicle with a paramedic in it that is able to get to the various things, notably Gore, Bridal Store, and then even down going as much towards North Mountain and Star Tannery on occasion with different things. So that reflects that call. It's staffed by the same people that are at Gainsborough. So it goes together with Gainsborough's run total because it's basically taking a unit out of Gainsborough to be able to do that. ALS 10 is a different piece. That is a surge unit that we created in the last year and a half to serve. We have high volume times to sort of address some issues. What we were seeing is that in the inner loop, if you will, of the service, we have a lot of people that are in the service. And so we're trying to get that out of Gainsborough. MR. So that's the first one. And then the second one is the service unit. MR. So that's the first one. And then the third one is the service unit. MR. And then the fourth one is the service unit. So the llamers for the service unit are becoming part of a stronger, more consistent lines. الك И вступлении мы все-таки In charge of the minimum cost of the service unit is call team member. So by a group of services we have a release cabinet and JK eg de clientele wat we do have some citizens that we serve for analysis, helping out. So these services are someone that will multiply ca them with based on spectrum. So the C Korean business unit can Now they're around the previous area a lot and in there it's kind of like a Arthur's쳤 some classroom desk, you can go in there and vacc conservative things that are on board for slipping to your attention or exhale charges終者 to also processes. You can focus on basically eight-hour shifts to be able to address that. One of the principal things we saw is that our numbers for mutual aid requests from the city of Winchester reduced dramatically, almost proportionally to that increase. And so if you look at 200, I think it's 294, is the calls recorded last year. I would say when you kind of consider that, that's only 25% of the available hours that it was actually working. So it only works in a surge period of time. So that's how many calls it was picking up when it's only in service 25% of the time. Does that answer your question, sir? I think so. And is that a particular location? So it works out of the PSC, public safety building and floats, that goes area. And so it sort of migrates where the call volume is going. So it may go a little south, which is if, which often happens in Station 11, Steven City is having months of correct calls. It will come and sort of fill in for that area and stay in that area. If it's Greenwood, it would fill into that area. If we have large events on the west side, it will gravitate toward that side. So it goes where the action is based. So that helps our individual stations from having to overstaff to cover those peak periods. And the big thing is it's the ALS provider, and that's one of the pieces, which is we have limited numbers of those. And so that was the thing that we'd often call for additional help from the city, for instance, because also the city is geographically located close to where our population densities are. And so when we get multiple concurrent calls, it's more likely to be in that area, though it could be anywhere. Okay, thank you. Chair, just quickly, I think that's a great idea. Just more so for my information, is that unit able to, I know every call is different, but able to handle the call on its own, or is it just, is it just supporting other stations? So it's an SUV. So it brings the ALS resource, paramedic resource, to the scene, and it's usually matching up with a non-ALS ambulance. So support. So often we have a non-ALS ambulance available to do it, but we need the paramedic there for the nature of the call, and so that's able to marry together, and then it's split off if it's appropriate. Sure. Thank you. Absolutely. And again, I think that's an example of what we try to do is we try to be analytical about what the problems are, and find alternative ways to do it, not just throw large sums of money at it. Try to figure out if there's targeted ways to do it, and this has been a very successful one. Just again, for educational purposes, this shows the water are hydrated areas in the county, and this sort of gets into the issue of why we need tankers, water tankers to be able to fight fires. The blue is the areas in which they have local fire hydrants. The yellow is the water tankers, and the blue is the areas in which they have local fire hydrants. Yield to a local fire hydrants. The yellow is the water tankers, the other blue is the water tankers. yellow is obviously all the other areas. I bring your attention to two areas in particular, this area off of Greenwood and Millwood's area, and then here in Stephen City, and then also this area that's west of Kernstown, going down towards Middle Road and different areas. Those are historically been areas we do not have well served with tankers without being able to get there. So, in fact, in the run orders for rural areas in the Stephen City first-due area, it's actually Clearbrook's tanker is often called to go down there. So you can imagine what that response time is like. It also creates a coverage gap in another large volume area. So as part of the funding to do the Station 22, Station 22 will have a tanker which would offer coverage, direct coverage in that area. We also requested funding for a tanker for Station 21. So both these areas now become covered with first-due tankers, which is a significant improvement, and obviously support each other instead of having to rely on resources from further out. The other piece which is less obvious is also this area with Middle Road, because with crossover, the ability to get a tanker over to that area is much closer than coming from Clearbrook or some of the other farther northwest areas. So it's, again, it's relatively, in the scheme of things, in terms of after-sales, it's relatively, in terms of after-sales, it's relatively, in terms of after-sales, it's relatively, in terms of after-sales, it's relatively, in terms of after-sales, it's relatively, in terms of after-sales, there are people needed afterETR mode of Ronald this time, because as Hope mentioned, once the land became completely clear that there's even no need for a tanker over the emotional Are those new housing developers required to put in water hydrants or not? I think it depends on the zoning. It's a planning issue, basically, in terms of it. Usually dense housing with development will come with it, and if it's developing more rural areas, it's a zoning issue, really. So, for example, on the Lenar property in Redbud, do they have hydrants there or not? I would have to go back and check. I just comment to everybody here, though, is as we go through these zonings, if you do have a situation that's not having hydrants, we want to have a discussion whether that would be required as part of the offer to build three, four, five hundred homes. Could I ask two questions on hydrants? So Frederick Water is going through a change in policy. They give access to the hydrants themselves to developers when they need to flush out lines, and also to water haulers. They're going to do a pilot project. They're going to take it over to filling stations, so the water haulers won't use the hydrants anymore if that's successful. They're doing that for their own reasons. They want to reduce water theft. They've also said there's some damage to hydrants. Have you ever had a problem where you find damaged hydrants when you need them? So, in the fire service in general, it's a recurrent problem. I would say we haven't had a pronounced problem here, but it is something new coming from time to time. That's why it's important to have the Water Department go out and do their annual inspections. So you've answered a call and found a hydrant that was problematic? I can't specifically recall one particular instance that I'm not aware of, but throughout my career it's certainly happened on different occasions in which there's damage. Some of it's damage. Some of it's debris that gets built up. People unscrew them, and they have to build up with different things. So they can slow you down. It can potentially be provided. So their new policy may help as far as the... Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. And then the second question might be silly, but based on what happened in Los Angeles, do you always know that... Is there always water pressure at the hydrants? And does Frederick Water let you know if they're doing some major maintenance? That's a good question. So the majority of times what we have is if we have significant incidents, we probably communicate with the Water Department to tell them that we're going to be in the area and we're going to need some assistance. Without getting into large commentary, about California or whatever, no municipal water system set up to fight 1,000 simultaneous structure fires. That's just not the scale which is designed for, notwithstanding what other issues they may have. But those are challenges in that... So again, it is an infrastructure question, right? What are you designed to support? And most of it is it's not designed to support large volumes of water for multiple incidents. But it's designed to support large volumes of water for multiple incidents. So that would potentially be a problem. I wasn't thinking of that because we're on a much smaller scale here. I just meant, do we have water outages to hydrants from time to time due to regular maintenance? Usually we're aware of them though. So again, if that happens... So they let you know if there's going to be a second... I'll be proven wrong tomorrow and there'll be an outage that I'm not aware of. But generally speaking, when there's a known problem that gets reported, we built that into notifying our crews. And make adjustments whether we need to bring our own water haulers to be able to offset that. Okay, thank you. And just... There's two... Actually, there's two versions of that. One shows the actual hydrants. The second, which is it's a little fainter to see, you see the green. One of the ways we offset that is have what we call dry hydrants. And so there's water sources out in the rural areas. And so they're predetermined locations where we can go and hook up and know that we can have a water source. And so that takes an additional... It's a very useful engine to go there to draft the water from that source. And then they fill the tankers and the tankers proceed to the scene. It's very useful. So instead of having to go back to a hydrated area and have the tankers go back, it cuts down time. But you also need an additional resource to be able to utilize that resource. So it all kind of fits together into a system of how we operate. Again, this is the map of population. I don't think there's any surprises there. Where the higher density, darker green is more densely populated. Lighter greens are less densely populated. And that's basically an intro into showing where our... This is a heat map of where the density of our calls are. And so... I'm going to use this more to do side by side. But it does as would you expect, which is there's a higher density of call volume where there's more people. And that's how our load management works. So as we talked... So my introduction talked about our discussions we've had about setting expectations for community service level expectation. There's two particular factors that we looked at, which is response time, which is what everybody is very acutely concerned about. How quickly can you get someplace? And that falls into two criteria. One, which is where are resources pre-staged and how close is that to where your incident is? And the second is what is the availability of that resource at any particular time? And the third is what is the availability of that resource at any particular time? And the fourth is what is the availability of that resource at any particular time? And the fourth is what is the availability of that resource at any particular time? And to answer that call becomes a call concurrency issue. We have... Which might be a little unexpected, which is in our high volume areas, which is actually our times are... First is what we want to do is get challenged because of the concurrency of calls. And that has to do directly with staffing in terms of how much staffing do we have at those locations to answer multiple calls or multiple calls in a certain area within a time. The western part of the county, it's all about distance. Generally speaking, the different things. So that's one piece of it. Then the other part is the effective response force. Again, if you're having a simple medical emergency, two people in an ambulance coming is probably sufficient to be able to meet your need. You go... You have a motor vehicle accident, a structure fire, certainly. Even more serious medical events where there's more resources needed. It's how long does it take us to assemble an effective response force to be able to respond to that issue. That becomes the other tension in our... In our outlying... The western part of the county. Because those are currently typically two-person staff stations. So, I mean, you can just do the math yourself, which is, you know, Gainesboro, Round Store, and Gore are two-person... That's a total of six people. So you know that geographic area and how much it covers. You look at the response for initial alarm for deployment for a structure fire. And again, I can't take credit. I stole this. I stole this from someone else's drawing. That's not my artwork, certainly. It would look like stick figures with rectangles next to it. But it does illustrate why do we bring so many apparatus with different things. And that gets to be a special challenge for us with our minimum staffing of two. Because it's not so much necessarily all the time the apparatus needs to come, it's the personnel that support it that need to come. And so typically when you look at... For just a run of... You know the bill of residential structure fire, when you look at all the different resources and roles that need to be done to successfully and safely the operation, you're looking north of 15 or 16 individuals. So if everything's two-person staff, you know that you're going to have to... If you're lucky and all of them are in their location, you're going to have to... Eight different stations are going to be basically called to be able to assemble that kind of force there, not respective of the particular apparatus or particular needs. That is one of our drives and obviously looking at getting our staffing up because it has a two-fold effect. One is that it increases the speed at which we can get an effective response force into those localities, number one. Number two is you don't have to cannibalize the rest of the system and leave gaps and services for others. And so wherever you are, it's a bonus. It's a benefit to the system because whether you're the receiver of the aid or you're the person that's in charge of the system, you're going to have to be able to get the benefits of the system. So if you're going to be able to get the benefits of the system, your resources are going someplace else to help somebody else. It helps balance out the system. In looking at how we accomplish that, there's two sets of standards, the NFPA standards, 1710, which is typically for career departments and typically aimed at more municipal areas, calls for a very aggressive... All first-due engines will arrive within four minutes. So that's the geography there. As you can see from this representation of the map, the red is areas where we would be unable to accomplish that just based on the geographic location of our stations. That is not a realistic goal or expectation for us to be able to fulfill in any reasonable period of time. You look at 1720, which is typically geared towards volunteer fire departments, but it also is used for combination fire departments, which we are. It has a tiered model. It's basically based on the density of your population area. It assumes that there is a difference in response times. The more rural, if you decided to live out in a more rural area, there's an expectation that it may take longer for an effective response force to get there. If you're in a more suburban urban area, the expectation is it's quicker. And so that's, in our discussions before, that's the model that we've been moving towards and being able to do it. As we've shown you, that's the model that we've been moving towards and being able to do it. This is a representation of that. The areas in yellow, tan, and red tend to be areas where we're further away from that expectation. Station 22 addresses the southeast portion of the county. The one that's up towards 37 and 81 interchange there is actually a small part of a... It's actually because of the way the roads are designed, why it becomes a larger... It's not a miles distance issue. It is a, can you get from here to there because of how the roads are constructed. That's Route 7, isn't it? It's off of Route 7, yes. So it's some of those manufactured homes and communities back there. It just takes just a harder time to get back into. Then you see other, there's obviously other places that you would probably expect, like Holloway. The community is just around the lake. There's one way to get to it and one way around. And so even though we have fire stations actually in a triangle around it, being able to hit those response markers, because it is a, it's close to, it's certainly a suburban, almost urban density in terms of its population growth in that area. And so we fall far apart of that. And then looking at the Star of Tannery, North Mountain area, some of those areas, we have some of those areas in there where we have, we have some development. Both of those are probably more likely dealt with as we look over time with stations. We do, we construct new stations, not a, if we do renovations or other things or modifications or moving stations that you can kind of narrow those out with potentially doing slight moves with the location of that to even those out. So I wouldn't say those are in the long term things to add more stations to address that, but it probably has to do more with making sure that when we make, when we make smart decisions in the future about what if we do replacement stations or whatnot. So again, 1720, I think as we've talked to the, to the support before, and we've all sort of universally nodded appreciatively that 1720 is a goal that we want to work towards to be the best interest of the community. And I just talked a little bit about the, looking at how we get to those things. So at the end of the day, we're not going to be able to do that. We're going to be able to do it. I think that the key thing that we're looking at today, we're looking at, in our long term staffing plan is getting to a minimum of four person staffing at each station. As I've said before, a two person station, we call it a fire rescue station. That's really a false term. It's either an EMS unit or a half staff fire station. It's not both at the same time. They can only basically do one function at the same time. Getting to four, and I wouldn't ever sit here and tell you that I think four is actually the correct number. I think it's a, it's a good number. I think it's a good number. Ultimately, for in terms of staffing fire apparatus, but certainly it's a substantial improvement from where we are and to represent a huge service upgrade for the people in those areas. And our high volume stations, again, our issue is call concurrency. It is, especially now, and again, this is why the additional stations that break up the Stephen City area is so important. It is not uncommon on a day to have four concurrent calls going on at the same time. And so if you have only four persons, you have four concurrent calls, it's just the same as having two people at the station. And it's actually worse than having two persons at the station having two calls. So, so that's what we're looking to do to be able to look those pieces that were on those ways. Clearbrook was one of the first stations that got moved up and to have minimum four person staffing. For that, we're in a position this year, we believe by the end of the year, we will have both Gainesboro and Middletown, which are now, you know, we're going to be in the middle of the state. So we're going to have a number of stations that are going to be in the middle of the state. We're going to have a number of stations that are going to be in the middle of the state. So that's our goal. And then we're looking at the number of stations we need to move up to. And then we're looking at the number of stations that we need to move up to. And so you can see the numbers here. And then you can see in the next, in the call volume list, to be upgraded to four as well. So that's our goal, assuming Patricia and everything else wants to come. With those numbers, I can sit here and say tomorrow morning, I need 80 more people. And that's a reality. If you happen to have that much money hanging around that you were willing to give the fire department, we integrate that and grow over time. We typically see, depending on whether we're running a higher life, four to eight positions of attrition a year. If we have retirements, which we're starting to get in now, because that's the age of our workforce, we have people who have 20-plus years of experience, that number is going to start ticking up a little higher. We have had the most luck usually in higher studies targeting between 12 and 15 hires a year, so somewhere in that range. So eight is the number that we've tried to hit because it accomplished two things. One, which it fits in with what we think we can support, both from a training standpoint and from a hiring standpoint, what the market will yield for us in conjunction with what we have to fill with attrition. And it also provides a very good round number because that also is the number that helps us move one station from either two to four or four to eight. And so it's a good synergy there. Again, if you ask me, I said, how many people do I need today? I'd tell you 80. If you ask me, can I make that happen? The answer is no. This is a reasonable plan to be able to get us to that over time and hopefully something palatable for the community to be able to do that increase. What's considered to be full VRS retirement for those positions? Is it 25 years? I believe it is now. It's both. It's age and age. I think you have to have 30 full or you have to have 25 over certain age. Over 50. I think it's 25 over 50. I'm newer to the system, so I'm not as versed on the retirement things. So again, that's where we are. So that's our manpower thing, and that drives the substantial part of our operating costs, obviously. It's personnel, the associated costs with that, the equipment and things that go with that. I'm going to real briefly touch on two other things. It's really part of the capital budget, but it all goes hand in hand. We talked about sort of the three-legged stool of bailout response. Obviously, people was the first piece. They don't have the proper apparatus and the proper equipment to do it. It doesn't do much good to have the people. And looking at our historical approach, we've talked about the combination system of volunteer companies. It has been essentially on them to come up with the method of funding to do those. The county has done annual. Annual appropriations to them, but not specifically targeting apparatus. As you've had the discussions and you know what our apparatus costs, those costs have exploded over the way from an inflationary standpoint over the last three or four years. So fire engines, a basic fire engine now is probably north of $1.2 million. I probably, if you, the first day I started here in 2019, you asked me how much a fire engine cost, I probably would have told you it was $600,000. And that's not. That is not a gold-plated, that's what you need, basic different things. Ladder trucks are north of 2.4. Ambulances are going up to $600,000. I would have told you those cost $250,000, $300,000 in 2019. Nobody's happy about it. Nobody wants to pay that. We'd like to invest the money as best we can in other ways. But those are the realities. And the problem is, aggravating that problem is that the turnaround times to get those apparatus is now, the only word is ridiculous. It's probably go to three years. Our engine that we have ordered over a year ago for Station 22 will get here in 2027. And that is, that is. Is that COVID-related lag times for production? It would be hard for me to get to dissect the whole piece, but it's a combination. It's a combination of factors. So there's, there were supply chain issues probably on the front end. It created backlog issues. Funding created opportunities for different things. And so it is not readjusted back now. Thank you. So the engine that you think you need tomorrow, you better order three years in advance. And that becomes quite a challenge because that puts you in further strength, particularly on our volunteer companies, to be able to plan that far in advance. And being able to do things. The county has been forward looking that we were able to secure a reserve engine and a reserve engine, a reserve rescue engine to be able to support that. Part of that is to help rationalize our fleet. Again, every company has been responsible for their own provision of apparatus historically, which means their engine goes down. They have to have a replacement that you cannot not have a fire engine at a station, whether it's repair, maintenance or regular service. There has to be something to be able to take its place. We've been able to help them rationalize their fleet a bit by having these reserves. But the reality is, is that in addition to all the pressures we've seen with the purchase of new apparatus, repairs apparatus, lag times are again astronomical. So things used to be you get back in a week are now taking months for doing different things. That does go to the availability. Availability of qualified work, qualified individuals to be able to service it and the demands coming in. And I think again, referencing back in California, one of the large stories is how many apparatus they had basically in the boneyard being ready for repair without a service at that time. So even if they had more people for it, they didn't have the apparatus to get people in place. And so there's nothing unique in our situation of that, but it is yet another strain on the system. In looking at our apparatus, one of the things we went through is to go and think of it collectively and had a rational model of how we assemble the fleet going forward. And part of that is looking at it again is to right-size it. Again, we probably had a very plentiful fleet, but it wasn't a very in-service date fleet. And so part of that is, is if the older the apparatus is, the more wear and tear it has, the more often it's not, the more often it's not, the more replacement, the more substitute or reserve vehicles you need to have. So companies were having to maintain multiple apparatus to keep one in service for a period of time because they weren't able to switch out or timely replace the primary apparatus and needed to have another apparatus. And oftentimes it was putting good money after bad. The best example of this is that when we went to the reserve, Millwood actually kept a reserve rescue engine that undoubtedly cost more, to keep it around than it was worthwhile to do. When we were able to get the reserve fleet, they were able to move that out and reinvest that money into upgrading some of their other apparatus. So rationalizing the model is important. And again, just to put it into some context, NFP 1901 basically has the standard, which is frontline fire apparatus, which engines, tankers, aerial devices should only have a frontline life of 15 years plus or minus. There's some variances that you can consider in terms of usage. And they get totally replaced with it within 25 years. When I first spoke to this board about that, almost none of our apparatus would have fallen within that parameter. All of it would have exceeded it by substantial margins. Over the last several years, we have been able to do some significant replacements. Some of the actions this board has taken in terms of giving relief to the companies in terms of fuel and the insurance payments allowed, a surge of basically companies being able to invest in seven or eight frontline apparatus that dramatically took that turn. That's been very good and that's been useful, but that was kind of their shot at being able to do that. And now all the other things with price increases create concern. I show this, this is going to be reflected in your capital budget. And I presented it as this is our, this is the systems. If we were to do things the right way based on existing, existing resources with replacement schedule is, you can kind of see some of those dates and you can see several that are in the 19 somethings in terms of the age of the apparatus that need to replace. So you don't have to be very good at math to figure out how far out of date they are for replacement. We looked at basically a 15 year replacement for engines, tankers and aerials, a 10 year replacement for apparatus or for ambulances. They obviously, or specifically, and they have a different status. They have a different standard to them. And, and for brush trucks, even though the 15 year standard that would apply looking at over 20 years, just because the wear and tear go through those apparatus. Again, most of these dates and this sequencing reflects if we could have got it that year, which we won't. So everything that's going to be two or three years later, even if we can accomplish that, this is an aspirational chart that's in front of you. The companies do not have the ability currently on their, on their own to meet that, that replacement schedule. Something will need to change and looking at how cost sharing or doing different things to, to make that a potential reality. Otherwise we'll be back into a similar boat, which is the, the times until the apparatus can be replaced will slip and slip and slip, which will increase operational costs because then they'll have to do more repairs, more maintenance, more reserve vehicles, and it'll be a slippery slope. So at some point coming to terms with being able to, to have a, a, a long-term funding stream that allows to support the companies so they can accomplish realistically getting these apparatus turned over. In the long run, it will help us rationalize the fleet. We'll get actually smaller over time because we can keep a tighter group of apparatus better, better quality, better in service over time. But like I said, this is, this is the aspirational chart at the moment for apparatus. And I, I, I would prefer to have a long-term funding stream than a navigational dam, that will allow us to manufacture more operations in the near term. I thought it was pretty clear. Thank you, thank you, actually Michelle, thank you, it is very clear. You need to be were you atellee when you are, when you're providing these apparatus. If you're providing them or the wind is its like, we are every day of the day we get basiceft物 to make like últ maybe zero Race's so, and we store it at our every day production facility in the summer. So every day it is getting his link or the cost of building. to be able to go through. We've had a couple companies, Clearbrook and Greenwood in particular, over the last year that undertook significant renovations, almost $1.7 million, over $1.7 million of renovations to those, to make those house the better facilities for those people in the long term. So that gives you sort of a sense of scale of what kind of funding. We followed up of that, and part of the 10-year primary passes is we consulted, had an assessment done of all the existing stations to see where the needs are over the next five to 10 years. And, again, this is an aspirational chart in terms of, and it is, again, included in the capital improvements plan, that shows where those improvements are. Just to give a couple of thumbnails, Star Cannery is an example. A community is given graciously of trying to support things. There is a creek that runs through the middle, the middle of the fire station. When we had the floods back in September, it flooded. That is the reality that we face in some of our facilities and things. They do not have, but many do not have the basic facilities that you consider to be in a modern fire station having hot and cold areas in terms of decontamination for the safety of our people, don't have areas for, you know, work out, don't have sufficient space to look at some of the up staffing that we have. And, again, they are not able to do that. So, they are not able to do that. And, again, we are looking at some of the things that we are looking to do. They are going to make it work in the meantime, but at some point, it is good money after bad trying to patch and carry over on some of these things. And some long-term work needs to be done. And so, again, and we provide the details of that assessment and also, again, it is included in the capital improvements plan. So, there are significant numbers over the course of 10 years. But if the differences are also the same as they are before they 우리도 신rike 수치� infrared 대안 국립공학질원 to add these affected or most Kyushu are collecting those SPAC elements and 나는 재제작이로 부자연성해 주신hua but under the secondary investment fund to be run the first. We will indicate how we will do . driven to is our increase in staffing numbers increases certain mandatory pieces that go with that in terms of with members support overhead expenses that go along with that our big ask obviously is the eight new positions our plan without any questions man any questions we already had an update recently on the fire station with the new one where that stands some years ago we invested in updated SCBAs and I don't know at what point those will need to be replaced but it seemed to me that we invested in updated SCBAs and I don't know at what point those will need to be replaced but it seemed to me that we did a blanket sweep of those and it's quite costly when did would you anticipate that those will need to be so I think we have a few more years that is something that's on our radar screen to be looking at because I remember that and it it hit us pretty hard it's it and if I base it which is another it's a good example which is again as further we get to rationalize the size of the fleet those numbers will come down a little bit now again like everything else even if we're x percentage fewer than we did the time before the cost of gone up so I'm promising some big windfall savings but it certainly would reduce the the cost of going forward so that there's those those pieces we're trying to put together in terms of going forward with that so I'm gonna have a couple systems the number one on the eighth when the eighth new hires you want sir I fully support that I think that was of course the next ten years you need to continue to do that I think that makes a nice that's number two I'm in Greenwood Greenwood does a request for money each year and we're concentrated area they have an ability to do that other places like rental store or they're in the middle of nowhere and I'm assuming they have a much harder time raising money than Greenwood is that accurate I would say the the best way to describe it is if you were to look at the fundraising mechanism of all 11 companies it's all very different they're able to do it and what what ways do some some rely on they've developed a corpus of money and they have it invested and so they live off for the most part the return on the best others have bingo or have some direct revenue services other rely purely on donations and then the other the other side of it worth noting this is how we distribute some of the money like revenue recovery is based on based on volume and different things and so that gets very disparate distribution of funds out there so as we're going through a change going from a all volunteer staff 25 30 years ago to having now a higher number of paid staff and going from a situation where the volunteers were all raising the money for equipment now you have equipment costs running my question to you as the chief is does the county need to consider putting into your annual budget annual some type of capital funding to meet some of the costs. any kind of capital funding to meet some of the costs. I'm not sure if you're talking about the needs are coming up or do you think that the stations themselves are so to be able to either I'm concerned on that station 18 for example the family that's run station 18 for the last 30 years. The key three of them are gone and so we'll see what happens but the people that set that station up one side to removed away so that's that's the concern as the volunteer participation drops the needs are still there so comments or thoughts on whether. I have two things which is and I've said this. To this before which is I'm very thankful and glad to be in a combination system. It has. Certain challenges and as certain advantages one of the great advantages from having a volunteer component. Is that one it has historically raised money to be able to offset the expenses the other is the operational volunteers and I probably have those in the reverse order actually. Again we talked about instances being able to have a surge capacity of people to be able to come in moments we've seen that when we had the wildfires. The wind of it driven wildfires we had earlier in March being able to get a group of people quickly to be able to do it. Like everything that is diminishing and the ability of the companies to raise money is diminishing. The costs are going up exponentially and so my basic answer is we have you'll face a choice. You face a choice of being able to figure something so that there is a gradual slope. And would you continue to get value. For the volunteer companies and take it be able to use. The fundraising they'll be able to do and support that and extend out the life for that you have that cooperation for a period of time. Where you'll reach a point where things will jump fall off a cliff. So for simplicity's sake. If the county would provide us $2 million. Arbitrary number. That provides an engine and the ambulance or some combination there. If that were built into a budget over a ten year time frame. It starts to give you the ability to have a. A. A. More current fleet. More properly. Is that I think terms of looking at those things? I think that is I mean, that's obviously the board decision. I like I don't run for elected office. So that that. Stevens. But I think looking at a long-term there's coming with a long-term plan on what needs to happen. And then there's long-term funding that goes along with them. Being able to support that and as I step through with the apparatus in the facility, there is no way. there is no math that works out that the volunteer companies on their own in the current environment will be able to actualize that plan. 30 seconds more, Mr. Chairman. On one of your slides here, I was just reading across the bottom on capital needs, and I'm just going by memory. If you want to pull up that slide, it was like $4 million, $3 million, $6 million, then it was down to $2, $3, etc. If you take a look at that, I think $3 million was the minimum. The question is if this is a combination system, and that's what the need is, as a best guess, what is the volunteers going to be able to provide for that? And then does the county need to go and do that supplement? I know Mr. Jackson is in the room. He might be able to address that issue. That's the issue. If that's what you're saying is a need, which is running $3 to $6 million over that time frame, then I would say as a county, we need to figure out how to solve that problem. The only thing I'd offer, which is I'd be hesitant to follow a number for a variety of different reasons, but you typically see a couple different models. Either you have localities that have sort of said, I understand, I'm very happy to have the operational volunteers, but we understand facilities and apparatus are a public necessity and need to be done. And so they assume those responsibilities. In other jurisdictions, you see where it becomes a partnership and there's a split. And you see things like 60-40, 55-45, something that says, which is, it does that because they do. Volunteer companies currently raise about $2. Between $2.5 and $3 million a year in terms of revenue. That is, they're self-generated. It's not revenue recovery money. It isn't other different things. So there is funding sources there. So there is the ability to do things. And I think ultimately coming up with a scheme that would be because at the end of the day, I go back to the, each individual company has different circumstances. The fire engine at each station costs the same. The ambulance at each station costs the same. So the fact that one company can raise a lot of money isn't very helpful for the fact that another company can raise barely any. And so that's the struggle, right? Is to finding a formula and a model that will allow us to realize all the apparatus replacements and all the facility improvements in a timely manner, as opposed to whenever is any one singular company be able to do it on their own device on their own. And I think that's ultimately the challenge. Thank you. Sure. Just quickly in similar to your question, but mine is more as opposed to kind of the structure, but more about the people. And I heard you mention, and I know there's been fuel assistance and insurance and all that to kind of help with the volunteer components. And the idea is to supplement, not supplant that. And I can agree with that concept. And I also heard you're around apparatus and structure investment. And groups in those areas, those are sort of our experiences, our perspectives, the societal and the structure constraints that we would talk about. So did you guys discuss purposefully utilizing your on the ground environment to help with the volunteers? I think that those are some smaller dollar items that aren't included in the budget that would help with the culture of volunteerism to sustain that a little bit longer, or at least, and I know that that's kind of a witty… Yeah, it's a good question. And I think there's various different things. And again, our system really has two sides of the house. Yes. the uh we have looked at and there's been discussions at the chief's work group and at the association um about them coming together for um and i believe they intend to and they're moving forward with doing a safer grant which is recruitment retention which are there's some things which is there's federal grant possibilities there to help with recruitment and retention and doing different things i think the fundamental part is is part of this is that we need to make it easier to volunteer um and so there's a lot of things in company the upkeep of the fire station upkeep of the fleet the upkeep things that's that's very time consuming and taxing um and we have 11 different entities trying to do it at the same time so i think looking at things some of it is um getting common purpose and getting them together so it becomes easier and all the time isn't spent on on operational management yeah right different things so i think i think there are opportunities we look for those and and that is i think the really exciting part of what we've had one of the very exciting parts that we have is that we have a very strong working relationship um working relations not even the right way to say we are an integrated operation at this point and now everybody has sort of taken the position is we gotta just look what's the best interest of getting the best the best outcome and it's a lot about individual well this is my station this is my i mean this is how we do it it's about figuring out how what is the most effective way and efficient way to be able to provide the service and so there are things and i i if if it if give me a few minutes i probably come up with a handful of lists yeah that'd be fine any other questions for the chief thank you for that question um i see that your overtime is obviously a big factor in your budget um is that because of attrition and people so i mean how does that oh yeah so there's two different things so it's a really good question so uh our overtime like i said is a really good question and i think that's a really good question so we have a there's a work schedule and obviously for firefighters they're uh flsa guides with the overtime thing it's different than a 40 hour a week so typically it's 53 hours before you get switch into overtime with our shift schedules there's multiple different ways to do shift schedules um our shift schedule is based is that we have the people work would be the overtime as opposed to having them off and having even more people hired to backfield to be able to do it we work on what's called a nova schedule which is um we have a shift schedule which is a shift schedule which is a shift schedule which is a shift schedule where we have a day on one day off one day on one day off one day on and then four days off and so basically in every pay period there's a uh there's six to eight hours worth of built-in overtime regardless and every third um there's another 24-hour period and we have the people working other places do what they call a kelly day which is basically tell the person to be off on that day and then somebody else has to come in and fill it so it's it's kind of from a financial İshaq it's there to tend to be everybody tries to come up with a very clever way of doing it and the math all comes out the same way which is you're paying for it one way or the other the question is what's the most efficient way of doing it so a large proportion of our overtime is just that fixed because that's the schedule and that's how it is um other things that are in the overtime budgets for instance is holiday pay so instead of people don't get the holidays they get reimbursed for it it's straight time it's not over time but it's called the over time overtime budget so those things every time we add people that makes it go up so that's part of that for more people we hire that goes up incrementally it's not necessarily because we're having more overtime okay we're not proportionally having more overtime it's just if our staffing model goes up it goes up so i was thinking when you hired more like as we get up to date with those eight yeah um and if attrition were a factor of losing four to eight then i would think that overtime would go down but it sounds to me that it's going to continue as you grow it's going to continue going up some it's just constrained right okay thanks every every fire department in america no matter what schedule they use they're battling the fair labor standards act requirements firefighters and they all have in building overtime so every time you had a firefighter you had more overtime it it's just the way the flsa applies to them okay thank you yeah absolutely i i, do want to let people know that we do have um our locality does give a half rate for one vehicle yes for our volunteers that perform so many hours or like say someone that participates a lot in the fundraisers and such so we do have some benefits and i think that that's advertised more than we can get yeah i think those things are all very helpful and i think there's some other things there's little tidbits yes there are some nice there's like some things that the community is recognizing their effort and so yeah i think that's a great example yeah i think you know you talk about over two million dollars and so the county loses that you know and we are but we can keep that uh for as long as possible with a small investment of that or other pieces i think that only stands to benefit yeah just a little bit thank you all right thank you thank you thank you and if i may uh suggest another five or ten minute then do our last presentation of the day yeah we don't i think it's stand-up well i could do it before nothing crazy we've saved the best for last is that uh I'll let you start with that one, and I'll thank you very much for saying that. And if I may interject before you start, I hand it out to everybody. This is the infamous vehicle matrix. I waited until this point in time because there's no 90% of the vehicles are all coming from the sheriff's department. And you know how the vehicle matrix, just because a vehicle is on here, it doesn't mean it's going to be recommended to be replaced. This just shows you on the very far right the determination for each vehicle. We also have on there for the vehicles, those vehicles that were initially donated. The reason it's that way is because if a vehicle was donated, it never went through a budget process for this board. So the board has to in some ways look at it as almost it's a new vehicle. It's a different approach to look at it. And I just wanted you to have that before the sheriff started because a lot of questions will probably be about vehicles. Thank you. And just in case you do have questions, I brought Captain Kiddo because he does fleet maintenance. And then I have Missy back here in the back and she takes care of other things. And then I got Missy. Thanks, Missy. Okay, here we go. Thank you all for wanting to listen to me at the end of your day. Here's an organizational chart. Currently, we have 152 sworn personnel. We don't have 152 field positions right now. We have five in the academy, seven in FTO, which is field training. So hopefully, you know, within the next three months, those seven will be out on the road. And 20 weeks from now, the five that are in the academy will be able to, at least a little bit, be able to do that. Yeah. go to FTO. One of those that's in the academy right now had COVID on Friday, was diagnosed with the medical center on Sunday, and missed three tests on Monday or Tuesday. So we're dealing with that right now. That's how days go. Total calls for service for our patrol division in 2024 was 92,569. There were 7,162 warrants that were served, 3,416 criminal arrests, 5,862 traffic summonses that were issued, and 5,492 incident reports that were written. If you break down my patrol division, I have a captain, A-shift, I have a lieutenant, three sergeants, 14. We have 14 deputies, two animal control deputies, and for what it's worth, we handle close to 4,000 calls for just our animal control officers. And if you want to stir something up, you don't handle a dog call or a cat call. And it's every day. Captain Gosnell, he's now working with the patrol division, and he can tell you that nothing makes sense. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I feel like we're doing great work there. I feel like we're doing really great work there. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I have a question, after thinking through the system, do I have materials. Sanghain? Sure. Thank you. Sanghain. Things like cleaningazo's, we have this kind of stuff here. Villanova. handle a snake or a bat in the house. I have a dog handler who handles mean patrol dogs, and he got bit the other day on a call. So go figure that out. B-shift has a lieutenant, two sergeants, 17 deputies. Average personnel on B-shift are 10 per shift. C-shift, lieutenant, two sergeants, 14 deputies. Average personnel are eight per day. And the traffic unit, I have a lieutenant, a sergeant, four deputies, and the average person working are five. This just tells the daily staffing, and it tells you what sector there is in Frederick County that our people go to. So if you look at sector one, A-shift has one deputy assigned. B-shift has one. It has two deputies assigned, sector one, and so on and so forth. And we have supervisors that are assigned to each one of the shifts because it's hard to have people do something if you don't have a supervisor. Oh, I thought John was waving to them. Criminal investigative division, CID, has a captain, two lieutenants, 21 investigators, and there's a breakdown of what these departments do. And I think that I have told you this in the past, that the personnel that we have that handle, whether it's the forensic computer investigations, whether it's ICAC, cell phone, adult protective investigations, every one of those, in order to replace them for the amount of training that each one of them have, they have probably close to $200,000 for training. Right. And that's not just throwing it out there because it takes time for them to go to the forensic academy. It's like 10 weeks that they go down there. Forensic guys or cell phone guys, they handle cases that nobody else in this area can do. We've solved homicides by the use of our telephone guys and our computer guys, and we've got one polygraph. We've got a staff operator now in the spare, and he's ran 122 polygraphs. And we run those polygraphs for our personnel, fire and rescue, the jail, or criminal investigations. Civil division has a captain, a lieutenant, a sergeant, 13 deputies, and five part-time deputies. And their functions are prisoner transport to and from the adult jail or to and from the juvenile detention center. We do prisoner pickups, and that's either statewide or national. If we do extraditions, we can go anywhere in the United States and all the way to Hawaii, which we did on a homicide. So bailiffs handle all the courts, fingerprints. There's an average of 10 deputies daily. They serve civil papers. And there's an average of four deputies that do that daily. And if you look up there, you'll see that there's a full-time deputy. Right. And if you look up there at the top, we serve 1,400, yeah, 14,830 civil papers and completed 887 extraditions and prisoner transports. That's a lot. A whole lot. Transport TDOs, and, you know, I hate to say that, you know, those are people that are having mental issues. And any time that we have one, we have to send two people just in the event that something happens. You know, we're working with the Department of Justice. We're working with the Winchester Medical Center because they've got $5 million to take them to the medical center once everything gets worked out, which probably will save us a little bit of travel time going back and forth. But, you know, there's times when we get a call and we have to go to Virginia Beach. You know, that's four hours down, four hours back, and I don't have two hours while you're there waiting to get them booked in. And times two times the overtime. So the governor last year, you know, he was a little bit more than a year ago. He was a little bit more than a year ago. He was a little bit more than a year ago. You know, one of the things that we .5 million dollars in there in that last three months because what they were doing, they were helping to reimburse the cost that took to do TEO's because there was no place . So after it took three months to spend the $5 million, we're pushing to try to get 10 million in there now. So that should help us in the long run. I think we have like $30,000 in the nämlich in particular. What's your son think of that in response to that? think they're reimbursing us. And it helped. Administrative division, I have a captain, a lieutenant, two sergeants, two deputies, seven deputies, as I said, were in the academy, five deputies in field training. So I had that backwards, but I think it's backwards. I think it's five. Their functions, the administrative division, they do accreditation, and we just got reaccredited for our fifth time, and there's 192 standards and 968 proofs that have to be done in order to be accredited. Departmental training, 40 hours every two years. Academy field training, all the new recruits take 19 weeks, three months of field training. We do recruit hiring. They deal with the budget. We have DRMO, which is our 1033 program, and we have. Currently, over $4 million worth of stuff that we've gotten from the 1033 program, and that's, you know, like a lot of our dive equipment and stuff like that. So, Mr. Sheriff, so just 1033, what is that program? That's the federal government. Yeah, all the surplus stuff. You know, we had the conversation about the four-wheel drives and everything else. That's where we got, you know, our MRAP, which is our armored truck, and our Humvees and everything else came through. Thank you. Firearms training twice annually. Surplus property sales. They take care of the impound lot and the range. They assist with fugitive apprehension. Project Lifesaver, none of you know what Project Lifesaver is. There's a transmitter, kind of like a watch, and then there's a machine that can pick up to a mine, and it can work up to a mile from, if you're a Project Lifesaver person, it can work up to a mile. It's got 100% success rate, and I think we have close to 40. Yes. Forty out right now that are on Project Lifesaver, and they're either people with autism, Alzheimer's patients, and stuff like that, and we use them. I mean, we have people that call that, you know, have a loved one who wanders, and they're not free of charge. We have FOIA officer and then asset forfeiture. And quick question. Yes, sir. Are these officers here separate from the other shift, A, B, and C shifts you have? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Special Operations Division, that's something that Captain Kiddo is responsible for, and he makes sure that, you know, like our SWAT team, 16 hours a week. Okay. And then we have training a month, search and rescue eight hours a month, and those are the amount of people that we have on those. Underwater search and rescue, we have 12 deputies that are assigned to that. Civil disturbance, crisis negotiation team, honor guard, and our drone team. The Sheriff's Office provides school resource officers to Frederick County Public Schools. SROs received 6,018 calls for service in 2023-24, and they completed 657 incident reports. I have a captain, a sergeant, and 20 deputies, one of which is a DARE deputy, and there's one deputy per school. Mr. Sheriff? Yes, sir. I know when I was on the school board, you all did a lot of work, searching through students' phones, identifying. There's one deputy that was particularly talented there. My assumption is that's not listed here. It's just a cross-training that they had. Yeah, I mean, that is one thing that one of those deputies can do. So. I just want to note that there's a really useful resource for the school division. Well, and like I was saying, our phone people, our phone techs, you can't replace these guys. And, you know, I've got one. I've got one right now that, I think I told Mr. Bolhofer, that there are two agencies that have offered him the moon, because there's nobody who has the authority to do what he can do, and there's nobody that has the knowledge that can do what he can't do. So, you know, it's kind of stuck, you know, whenever he's like, hey, you know, can I go here? Can I get this training? Yeah, you can. Unfortunately, in the real world, you know, you're letting these people get this education, and, you know, maybe one day they're going to walk in and they're going to go, hey, somebody offered me $300,000 to go to work. And like I tell them, you know, I can't tell you not to go, but I can't not train you, because if we don't have the knowledge and information and technology that is needed to handle the complexity of these cases that we're getting anymore, we're stuck. I mean, we truly have ICAC crimes. And, you know, a lot of times you'll hear where a jurisdiction made an arrest on, you know, some kid for, you know, sending pics to underage kids. We could post that, and we could do things with the press every day, but we are too busy to do that, because we have, you know, like 10 or 15 of them going a week. And I could take any of you over there right now and take you into one of my investigators' offices, and he could probably pull up three or four people who think he's a 13- or 14-year-old kid and carry on a conversation with them. And then it gets to the point where they want to meet and everything else. I mean, we've had people come from Texas to meet with a 13-, 14-year-old child. So, but these are the kinds of things that we're doing. And I think that's what we're doing. And I think that's what we're doing. And I think that's what we're doing. And I think that's what we're doing. And I think that's what we're doing. So, but these are things that you can't teach this in six months. You can't teach this to a new hire that's going through the academy. This takes time, knowledge, and experience. So, move. Question then. Yes, sir. Going back to your previous slide, where you had some people that have critical skills, and it's like at some point in time, you know, you're young, can you cross-train somebody else so that if the person doesn't go, but breaks his leg, breaks his back, dies, unfortunately, I mean, that you can't do that? That you don't do the same thing on that floor? We try to, but the thing is, it costs time and money to send them to go get it. So, we try to cross-train. You know, I've got three people who can probably do what all three do, but they're all busy doing singularly what each one of them is more trained to do. Does that make sense? Yeah, I understand. Thank you. So... The salary for a new hire is $49,510. For a deputy two, that's after they've been there for two years, is $51,985. The deputy three, after four years, $54,584. And recently, you all approved to do the master deputy, and that's after 10 years of service. The base cost is $63,188. And that really went over very well, just for what it's worth. Because, you know, once you get to be a deputy three, there's no chance for any advancement, you know, unless you get promoted to a sergeant or a lieutenant. And the average deputy, they would prefer to be a master deputy than to have rank. Because, you know, with rank comes responsibility, and, you know, a lot of people just don't want responsibility. Why don't we write in there? We put this on there because we had a workshop on the LPR several months ago. I don't think we ever resolved it completely at the end of the meeting. I'm in a situation now where, and Captain Gosnell will correct me if I'm wrong, I believe due to the obsolescence in the current equipment they have, their dash cams are getting ready to expire. Is it for the general public? It's for the traffic patrol. The dash cameras we have now are about 16 years old. This thing on my shoulder here is the body mic for my dash camera. Not only are they breaking down and we can't get replacement parts, we're down to only having three in the fleet, mine being one of them. These vehicles are soon to be replaced, and when that happens, we won't have these dash cameras available. That will leave us with the four current Axon cameras we have to cover the 427 square miles seven days a week, every month of every year. When we talk about the LPR, this all came to be because we wanted to replace our dash cameras. Axon supplies our body cameras that we wear. They now have a dash camera system that can work in conjunction with the body cam. So I get rid of this extra piece of equipment on my vest, and the two communicate with each other. What has happened since we wanted to do this is Axon has created a software that now allows that dash camera to also act as an ALPR, an automatic license plate breeder. This has benefits that can be talked about. But the bottom line is we need to replace the dash cameras for evidentiary purposes. It's also a tool that has decreased our liability in situations where we've had either our vehicles involved in something or our deputy involved in something, and a claim was made that was disproved because just like the body cam can capture, the dash cam captured what really happened. The bad thing about the body cam is we don't activate those until we get out of the car. And even if we activate them while we're sitting in the car, you're going to see my steering wheel, my cell phone in the holder where it should be, not my hand, but you'll see my laptop. But you're not going to see anything that's going on out in front of me. And so when we get down to these last three cars, we will only have the four Axon systems available. So what we are looking to do is to establish a system that will allow us to replace the seven for the traffic division who make about 65% of the agency's total traffic stops, work about 70% of the agency's reportable crashes that we handle and such. So we're looking to replace those first. There were two others that we were looking to replace. The old license plate readers, the big units that you might see on the trunks, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, all they do is scan. They don't give us anything else like the dash camera systems would. And then I believe there's one that's part of the heat grant award that we were given. So basically, if we purchase that in time before this grant expires, we will put the money up front to get it, but that money is going to come back. So that's really a big part of the reason we're looking to replace the four. And then we're going to have to get the license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, the old license plate readers, and the new license plate readers. So that's really a freebie, so to say. And it's based on our past success with getting stolen cars based on LPR hits. And costs, we have four now. Yes, I'll go ahead. Costs? If I may interject very quickly. When we had this discussion last time, I think at the very end, we were discussing it. And I think where we didn't make a decision, or the board didn't make a decision, but there was a discussion on, were you willing to pay for the license plate readers? And I think that's a very good question. I think that's a very good question. And I think where we didn't make a decision, or the board didn't make a decision, but there was a discussion on, were you purchasing them versus were you leasing them? Because the information was confusing. I think the true fact is it was because of the obsolescence, it's going back to that very initial discussion earlier this morning. The whole world now has changed into this new model where people don't really buy anything anymore. That's I think the model going forward, correct, is either leasing or even if you purchase them in five years or obsolete. So the costs decrease, or the number of cars that are sold is decreasing. And I think that's something we need to be thinking about as we go forward. So I think we have to work towards getting the license plate readers released so people can get them Correct is either leasing or even if you purchase them in five years or obsolete so the cost Differential is minimal the cost to get this the seven at this point in time is ninety thousand dollars Approximately my correct Cheryl Very little 90,000 total 90,000 total Thousand years made up front and that went on a five-year plan. Yeah, okay, so that was so that is Ten seven for traffic due to replace the LSACs and one is a heat award grant that we will get reimbursed up to $12,500 for And so the total amount this year you need is one hundred thirteen thousand Yes, and the yearly cost would be on it that that is everything if you pay it all up front So then you would own them at that point. Yes, so you would get those like this and you get the twelve thousand five back No, that that is for five. I asked him to see what the cost was to buy them outright versus annual So that purchased them for outright so 113 minus 12 is a five year we put that down and we all and we bought them feeling yes, sir Five years from now, then you'll have to reevaluate the effectiveness of functionality up And then to missy if you least the same items Over the same five-year time frame, you know what that approximate cost was. I'm looking to see if I can find I'm rolling Mr. Sharon, yeah, we can get them replaced or we can keep them because it would be at the end of five years They will replace them Where if we buy them straight out, they probably won't replace them No They'll replace them at five years if we ask them to or if we decide not to we won't you got to remember this is also a It's all our data storage if you look at every time we go out there's a traffic infraction We have to keep that video for one year You make a felony drug arrest. It might be a minimum of ten years. We had to keep that video So we have terabytes on terabytes and whatever is above that of data. Then mr. Sheriff. My question to you is Do you have a preference on buying versus leasing from a functionality viewpoint not a cost viewpoint for a functionality viewpoint? Do you have a preference or either? I don't think that it means That much the fact is we need them so whether or not, you know The board wishes to buy them outright or if they want to break it down in I'd like to hear and not this very minute I'd like to hear your recommendation on whether you want to buy or functionality I'm a mountain climber just to put it in perspective. I buy high quality equipment because I have a mistake I don't want to say I wish I'd spend an extra $20 of my life at stake. So if you're in the same situation Okay, I'm looking more from functionality The price and yes present to be a factor if you have a preference one or the other I'd like to hear it Here's what you have right now. You have 16 year old dash cams of which we had 16 When we started and we're down to three now 16 years later Did we get the value out of what we spent then I would say yes but Technology now these dash cams that that I have I have to take the the box out of my car Go in we have a computer that's set up just for that with old Windows operating system so that it will read it. It'll save it I didn't have to transfer that to axon to save it into the database So when you're talking about the steps involved in the technology if it's my preference I'd rather lease and then as they as technology changes they upgrade us If we're talking just from the standpoint of ease of use technology advancements and not talking about money because I know I much about that You answer my point. That's what I want. I'm wondering from a functionality I appreciate it if if I can throw this out max to lease years ago when I heard you decided that I thought that we needed to have tasers which we Continually upgrade our tasers were up to taser tens now But what it happened then was the fact that we had two situations where we I mean It's on body cam where we literally would have been justified in shooting that person and I came Before the board back then and said, you know It's gonna cost a couple million dollars if we get sued if you had a taser, we probably wouldn't have this issue I think that I showed mr. Bolho for a video of a pursuit that we had a month ago Yes, and we followed yet And I literally have video from in car camera from where the guy who was revoked and messed out and everything else Ran and went through the traffic light at court in Pleasant Valley and t-boned a lady. So these are reasons why we feel that It's a liability issue. We don't have I concur with you. Mr. Sheriff. It's like I've been currently both That's why I'm just asking the question on the functionality versus cost is this is one of these cases where I think Functionality trumps cost. I don't think anybody's being gold-plated, but I think Trump functionality trumps cost And that's why I'd say you listen to the people that use it and go from there from a safety viewpoint And if I may the key point is if you look in your budget You see there are 25 of these this has nothing to do with that This is More is okay with this would be to take the money out of contingency to purchase those now These 25 are all an additional request that would go through the budget process of this to get the 12 for the total of 10 10 the total of 10 they need now at this point in time. I Think the differential between the leasing and purchasing was not significant and we could review that So so mr. Bollhofer are the 25 that are listed in the budget Are they is that the exact same piece of equipment? I believe it is the same piece And the reason I ask you that it looks like we'll get 25 for Our three hundred twenty seven thousand And it looks like you could do that at eighty one thousand seven fifty one a year right That's at least what's on this printed page All right twelve thousand Like twelve thousand a piece so whatever that number comes out and They are both of the same price and but the question please Judy, but I mean, that's just what is that? That's a purchase price not least price. Is that correct? Yeah, so now we're talking Judy on that's a purchase price Well, is it because it says the four-year cost there? Okay, so it could be that we're not going to lease it for eighty one Seven fifty one a year, right? We're gonna outright purchase it But if you amortize did it would be the cost whether it's leased or purchased. They're very similar Okay, just broken down. The only difference is that the least is a liability that we have to report and it's Sounds like from Captain guys now His preference would be for us to please them in that way. We would be getting You stay up to date Equipment you don't need the iPhone 20 plan because you've you've done the free upgrade with your cell phone provider So every time they upgrade they just switch you out. You're not well, I should have bought this one like Cost I mean you start you start And to at least these just for these ten, it's $2,313 and 20 cents a year for ten So two thousand eight hundred dollars per Really we can't vote here but I Support a leasing if that's what the recommendation is for professional viewpoint as opposed to purchase. Well, I mean We all deal with technology. We all have seen how it's constantly changing and improving so it makes perfect sense to go the lease route If you're if they're not it's not that much of a difference You don't really make Save money by buying it then leasing it then you then it is on the provider to be able to Upgrade for you and take care of that. So it makes perfect sense You raise the issue mr. Ball, however the one you're taking a contingency now Do we want to consider that conversation either now or mr. Chairman, you know budget another budget work session later or do you want to wait until we get through with this budget we've already approved contingency funds that we still have those resources available so I presume we've already appropriated okay that's what he is a consensus wish to move it forward today there should be no issue okay okay thank you the other benefit to leasing is something happens to the equipment it's replaced it's not we bought it it's ours to include if something happens to the cruiser so the lease price is not guaranteed for ten years right the lease amount no it is yeah during the term yeah it is guaranteed during yes we're paying such a high premium for software subscriptions I wanted to know if you'd be paying twice next year if they decided to raise no it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed it's not guaranteed so it's gonna stay the same and we have been fortunate a couple of our major incidents have been caught on the few dash cams we have to include the rest area shooter a couple of years ago the day after Christmas who shot four people we found him we tried to stop him we eventually had to take him off the road and after taking him off the road our cameras caught that he himself took his own life and that there was no question that no deputies no state troopers were around him with guns drawn or anything, so if anything would have came up, it was all right there. We've been fortunate. We're down to three cameras, like I said, when we go to zero. Mr. Sherman, do you want to see if there's consensus to go forward with this now or not? I support that if there is. Just a quick question, Mr. Chair, and maybe I'm behind. I see in the capital request as Supervisor McCain's letter was mentioning, that's the cost to purchase. I don't see, and maybe that was part of the conversation, what is the cost to lease? I know it's negligible. I've heard it's negligible, but I also heard that we were just told it was $12,500 a year, right? To lease and purchase? To lease. To lease price. So the lease price is what's listed in here. I don't know what number it is. How many? $25,000. You have the $10,000 for $28,000 a year. But I think, yeah, $10,000 is $28,000 a year. That's the lease price. Yeah. So if it's $25,000... It's $2,800 a year for each one that's leased. I can't do the math in my head. That's the annual cost. $28,000 for $10,000 for... One year is $28,000. Correct. To lease $10,000 for one year. Correct. That's how I took it a few months ago. Yes. $28,000 for one year for the lease. $2,800 per year per camera. Right. Okay. And I have no opinion. I mean, whatever the recommendation is, that's the will. But I guess that's where my confusion was because the ones that we currently have have lasted 16 years. So it looks like $70,000 one year if we lease it. Okay. So we're going to have to pay $1,000. But that's why I was explaining we have to manually download every video on the cameras we have. And at the time we got them, hey, that was state of the art. Right. Whereas now with these cameras and the lease, we don't touch anything. It's cloud-based. Once everything's done, it's uploaded. It's in our system. You're paying for the change in technology. And if we bought them outright and then that technology changes and we no longer have that cloud-based service, right? Right. Then instead of having everything historic and was simplified and above the attention donuts Not for ever reaching слушvision signatures. Yeah. If they had arriving interviews, getting aisles to have patients, and then just getting a camera and trying the But at the same time, as Steve said just before we go there, it's the cost of the AXON. So, you understand? The AXON device has $ d, including the audio, the mic Alumni Assistant and the handset. Yeah, and then has the handstand. Yeah. Okay. So now we have to figure out the impossible? . If I may, you know, electronics nowadays are not up to par like it used to be. I work with electronics a lot. And if you're going to release it for five years and they replace it, that might be a better deal than buying it. And the next year you've got to turn around and buy another one because one went down. It's a concern that you all should do that, too. Mr. Gustel, you said one was a grant. So we're putting up the money up front. Then we're going to be reimbursed that grant. Yes, which is under a time constraint. If we don't use it, we lose it. So we get one back, if you will, for free, which is a good deal. Because we lost last year's. Yeah. That's nice. Mr. Brandon. So we're going to get with the service department and see if this 327 is a good number. I think it's causing a lot of confusion. I believe that number would be to buy outright. We were on the assumption. And, hey, you want to buy outright as opposed to leasing. So we gave you the number to buy 25 at 300 and some thousand. Leasing will be much cheaper. Per year. Per year. But it would essentially over that five-year period add up to that pricing. We'll look at it. Because I think that Missy said there wasn't a lot of change. So we'll figure it out. Mr. Gustel, do you have a time frame where this grant dissipates, where the board has to make a decision yes or no? February 1st? February 1st. The prices. The prices, I believe, with Axon are going to increase. As far as the grant, we have until June. Yes, until June to submit it to the state of the state. But that's to get it, install it, prove that we've gotten it, installed it, and it's in service, and submit for the reimbursement. So it's not like we can wait until May 30th to buy it and say, no, we want our money back. Do we need to do something this last week of January if you have a February 1 deadline? I would request that we do it today. I truly would. Because the money's appropriated. I said the money's appropriated. Let the sheriff's office figure out whether they want to lease or buy. So, Mr. Chairman. So I'll let you make a motion. Go ahead. Okay. I have another suggestion. I was thinking we put it in Mr. Bolhoffer's hands to research to see what is the best. I think that's a good solution for this. And you already have the capability and authorization to use the contingency fund. So for the 10 and moving it forward, I would say that's what we should do. I agree. I agree. I'd look at the lease and the purchase and weigh everything. And if Mr. Bolhoffer, I would let you make that decision. Cheryl already told me she was going to look at both those items and determine the best. Which is the best. I'll just throw it. Then one comment on that. On a functionality viewpoint, I think that plays a significant role for the price. If the price differential is small, then I think that you go what they want from a professional viewpoint. Absolutely. That's just a cost viewpoint. Absolutely. I think that's why Cheryl's going to check that number because there's something not right there. Okay. So we have a consensus suggestion that we let Mr. Bolhoffer make the best financial decision. But then we're. Okay. I'm good with that. I would agree with that. I'm in agreement. I'm all right with that. So we have enough now. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate all you do. Certainly. So is there more to our presentation? This, I believe, was the last slide. We want to end on this. Okay. So we have questions about the overall presentation. Yes, sir. And if I may, just before your question, this may or may not answer. Exactly. If you're looking at your capital amount. Sure. And Lenny will correct me if I'm wrong. You'll notice in there it has a command vehicle. This is on page one capital. Command vehicle 1.4 million. You have the. You see that 1.4 million. Yeah. But you also see down further where it says mobile command post upgrades, grant funding. Yeah. Those are, if you did one, you wouldn't do the other. Because one is to repair the old vehicle and the 1.4 is to get a new vehicle. Just so you realize you're not really asking for both those items. Yeah. That's right. So. There. Questions? Please. So when would you know about the grant funding for the. I can't be sure. I'm thinking we're supposed to know when the next one comes. Yeah. Yeah. Captain Beeman was doing that grant for the. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. So I don't know the timeline. We won't know before the budget is. No. Yeah. Question time now. Yes, sir. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interject. No, that's all right. I have a few, but I'll let the board go first. Anyone have questions for the sheriff on his presentation? Any questions on the presentation overall? Yeah. Thank you. For sure. Because I do have a few. So the first one is there are two bills in Richmond. Right now. Senate bill 1209 and House bill 2041 that are concerning me if they get passed. FACO is asking us to weigh in with our representatives against. Are you familiar with those two bills and what they would do to. If you tell me which ones they are, I bet. So one of them is to take all the funds generated by speed cameras. Okay. And allow. Us to pay for the vendor. That's something we had just debated and approved. And any remaining, any profit, if you will, would go back to the state for the highway. So it wouldn't go into the local fund. And FACO doesn't like this. I don't like it either, Mr. Lever. The other one seems to be, as I read it, and I just got this much worse, it would take all the funds, period, and send it to the state, which means we would have to pay for the speed cameras as I read it. Do you read it that way? Yes, sir. I do. And that's the reason. I haven't made any headway on anything. I'm waiting to find out what they're going to do. I have been told that there are some changes that are being made and possibly it's going to be vetoed, but I'm not going to do anything until that happens because I can't do that. Like I said in the beginning, it's not about money, but I'll be darned if I'm going to let them give it to VDOT if it happens at Frederick County. Well, then we would have to appropriate and take up the cost of paying the vendor to operate the system. It's the reason. It's the reason why I'm not doing anything until they make that decision. Thank you, because I was going to ask for a consensus to ask you to wait until we know. Yes, sir. I'm right there with you. I don't like it. I've been on the phone for the past few days on it. I mean, if you signed a contract, I presume it's a contract. I have not done that yet. And then they did this, what's going to happen? Yes, sir. You know, they're going to sue us if we don't want to appropriate the money to pay them for what they've installed. Well, without calling somebody out, there was another company who, from what I was told, made a deal. They got a substantial amount of money. And that county got that substantial amount of money. There was a delegate or a senator who knew how much money that was made, and they felt that the state ought to have that money and not them. So that's how that all started. So I want to see how it plays out, and we're watching it very closely. I'm not doing anything until that happens. And you've got to speed it up. And you've got to speed it up. Yes. Yes. Well, none of us on your side or ours said we wanted to do this for fundraising. So one bill is not too alarming, although it takes some authority away from the counties. Yes, sir. But the other bill would be a disaster for us if you had signed the contract. Yes, sir. I have known that this was coming for a while, and that's why I'm just waiting to see what happens. Mr. Chairman, do you want to see if there's a consensus among the board to, you know, postpone this or whatever? Then do you want to write a letter as chairman to our local delegation saying, you know, these reasons we oppose these bills? So as far as postponing, we never had that authority. That's a law that gives the sheriff the authority to. Our local representative already knows. I'm just wondering if a letter from our chairman to them helps, because then they can take it and say, you know, our local government says no, and they could go talk to other delegates. I don't think it would hurt. I honestly don't. I think Bay Corps would probably be. I think it would be a better spokesperson, but. We could add to that. I don't mind generating a letter, but if you want us to send a letter from the county, I'd like to know what the consensus is. For example, it's unanimous. It's a stronger letter. So I'll go around. There's, again, we haven't had a chance to read any details, or you might have, but I wasn't aware of this until today. I can send it to you. The actual bills. We actually. Do you have the bill? I thought we got them, but. I got the notice from. I haven't read. Okay. Well, the Bay Corps sent it to you. It's the same thing. So do you want to read them and then email me and let me know if you're in favor of opposing both bills, and then I would draft the letter that way? Because maybe you're fine with one bill and not the other version of it. Or are you against both the way I've described them? I'm good against both. I'm against both. I'm against both, too. Okay. Absolutely. Are you unanimous? So I haven't read the bill itself. So if anybody reads it and I've misunderstood Bay Corps summary, then let me know right away before that letter goes out next week. And you'll send a letter on behalf of Frederick County. To both. Opposition. And the Senator. Yep. To oppose both versions. Both bills. One's in the House, one's in the Senate, and they're different. That'd be good. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yep. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another question I have is, can we go to the slide for the special operations teams? And I'll admit to you, I'm always struggling over a couple of these. Okay. There you go. And we have new people on the board since we've done this, gone over this perhaps. So the hours per month means we're not paying these people full time to do this. That hours per month is for the team or it's per deputy? Well, what happens? That's how many certified required hours. So that's how many hours per month that these personnel have to be in training. That each one? Each one. So for SWAT and just taking the first one, that's 16 hours of training when they're not doing their other duties per month times 16 deputies. Correct. So that is a cost to us taking people out of service. Well, it's not a, theoretically not an overtime cost and they don't all come from one shift. I don't mean a cost in time. I mean, it's a cost in time. They're not patrolling or doing whatever else they do. Exactly. But there's... That's two days per deputy per month. And there's not really a good trade off for that because if you look at the 13th, how many did we have last year? Over 20 some. And you know, these are life or death things that we're doing that the SWAT team... I wasn't picking on SWAT, although I might pick on one in a moment. I was just picking the first one to do the math to understand. That's the truth. I mean, we were required. We were required by certification to have that training per person for a month. So one of the ones I want to ask about, and is the third one, underwater search and recovery. We don't have any public swimming areas in the county. We have private like Lake Holiday and Lake Frederick. Right. So it's not my impression that these would ever be lifesaving operations that we would get there in time when someone's underwater. These are... If someone throws a gun into the creek or the lake, this is evidence recovery? I can tell you right now, well we actually recovered a fatality out of Lake Holiday just two years ago when a swimmer didn't return and couldn't be found. It was our team that located that person for closure for the family. But yeah, it's more of a evidentiary recovery that you're speaking of, yes sir. And we do the quarries and everything else up in Clearbrook. I forgot about the quarries. Yeah. But it could be an accident or situation there. And also we do search and recovery like at the low water bridge off Sulphur Springs Road. And we've had up there where you are, Ms. Slaughter, where the back road is going to Charlestown, right there at the state line, old Charlestown Road, we've recovered two or three people out of there. Yeah. Yeah. And they were in the park? And they were deceased? Well, I think one was deceased and two of them were stuck in the car because they went off the side of it and turned to flood. Yeah. So my question is the cost of maintaining these teams. We have other localities nearby that have these teams. I believe Warren County, since they have the Shenandoah River and a lot of recreational sports there. We normally help them. Not them helping us. We normally are the ones that help them. Because they have the people in the water, right? They have the recreational. Yeah. So, can we have a dollar figure on what it takes overall to maintain that team? Yeah. I mean, we could get that for you. We could. Most of that is covered by the Port of Virginia. We cooperate with them and they supply a lot of our dry suits, wet suits, and any other masking needs we might need. Please include at any grant, any of the grant funds, any of the other things. Because I wouldn't want to have an opinion on a wrong thing without understanding if we get. So, we submit. Yeah. You know, back to the main issue for the 하겠습니다. Sure. So you mentioned that the thing that you had were looking to change was the encounter with fire. Right. What did you intend to finish? What was that thing? You mentioned fire. Fire? guy that recovered one of the guys from the PD who was about ready to get no we are our your officers went into the city yeah yeah I remember and I have no idea about crisis negotiation that's the CNT any time I know what it does I just have no idea with the problem don't even have an opinion on the proper level well we we use them in the event that somebody's you know threatened to commit suicide they got a gun on somebody the situation that they had down on Westmoreland you know we used their crisis negotiation team and tried to talk to him so and that's what it is and drone team is interesting I think everybody yeah I mean would like you hear more someday about uses of that I mean we can I'll be more than happy to show you what it does but just our drone team alone that's what we used at Westmoreland to send into the house into the basement to find out that he had passed out from the tear gas we used it many times for like a barricade subject we had one in Steven City that had taken his family members hostage and everything else and we literally flew the drone into the house and found where he was upstairs in a bedroom with a self-inflicted gunshot wound so we'd have been there all day waiting for him to give up to talk to us or do something to our drones we have a long flight time are they used in search and rescue in the woods I mean we we do it all I mean we can we have different batteries you know when it gets close to time for the fall we'll bring it back put it and send it right back out to the city and we'll be able to do it again in the same spot so the only one part of the rest of the board that I want more information on that's the underwater okay I want to understand I'd be more than happy to give it to you as a follow-up question I'm sure on the capital request there's a five hundred seventy five thousand dollar item there for dive team search and recovery vehicle is that an additional vehicle or what is that where's that team using presently well currently we have a unit okay that is outdated we got it on 1033 program oh so what that is is the cost in order to give the new one okay and just later on those you know I'm going to go through a lot of this and if you've seen in previous years a lot of the items a staff perspective we will recommend pulling a lot of those things and we'll give you a little more information on that so just to let you know it's a little more if you haven't already done that that's okay we'll give items out some of these arms you may have seen that are on there year after year how often does that underwater search I know you mentioned some but roughly on a yearly basis the underwater search and rescue vehicle how often is it actually utilized it's probably utilized more often than on an underwater situation that vehicle has six seven hundred thousand dollars worth of equipment on it and that's either confined space equipment anything that you need in order to do some kind of search and rescue is on that vehicle in that vehicle but it is designed for the underwater search and rescue that's what it's called a user's okay and how how exactly is that done and what do you call the search and rescue equipment? reliable? I know you said it's old, it's getting up in age, but how often is it letting you down, I guess? Because you only have one of them, right? And if I may, all the vehicles on there that'll be considered for replacement should be on here. Okay. And to go through this list, you'll look at repairs, the miles it's used each year, and the year. One of the things I'll tell you about this list that we're changing our philosophy on in the past, a lot of times they wanted to replace vehicles. Once they got older than seven years, you get at seven years, our collision insurance doesn't cover the vehicles. We've changed our philosophy on that because that actually makes no sense. What really happens in effect is you're just self-insured. There's really no need to replace it. You just don't have collision. It has all the other insurance. So you really, when you look at this, you base it on mileage, how often it's in, the shop, and if I may, the most important vehicles of all are your everyday patrol vehicles. Those have to be extremely reliable. So where is that? I'm not sure if we spent $21,000 replacing the Detroit engine in that one vehicle. And you'll see on the yearly repair costs will be on that chart. Because for the dive unit, we spent $21,000 on an engine. Okay. So that's not listed on this matrix? It's not been requested to be replaced on this list. We'll go back and see why it's not on the list. But anything to replace should be on here. Okay. And you said you spent $21,000 this year, this past? It was previous, last year. Yes. It was last year. Thank you. Mr. Goldhofer, on the matrix with the 18 replacement vehicles being requested, I presume that this is the one that's going to be replaced. Yes. This is the 18 that coincide with this matrix that you already have since we have so many that are already backordered. They are not even showing up on this list, right? Correct. Okay. Yes. So 18 is the number? Yes. Okay. And also to Captain Kiddo, just curious on the long-term subscriptions for 63,622. We weren't sure this morning. We were talking with IT. And I didn't know if that was something with the Microsoft or... What is the subscription? It says long-term subscription 63,622. It's your Axon. Okay. It's the Axon products. So Ms. O'Neill is saying it's the Axon products. I don't know what that is specifically, but that would include... It's speedo. Speedo. Oh, the speedo breakdown. It would be, you know, the hardware, software for body cameras, taser energy, whatever. Okay. So it's not the Microsoft with IT or anything that they did. No, it's... I just couldn't... It was in some of the departments, but there was no explanation. And I think that like when, you know, like Parks has software that she was talking about today for the positions and the part-time, you know, those are all not done through our IT department necessarily. They're done at a department level. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. Thank you. For the... You had asked Wednesday about the time. Yeah. So we have a timeline for vehicles. So we are averaging 520 days from the time we issue a PO to purchase a vehicle until they're all back in our lot. So from purchase to upfitting, 520 days. And it's just unbelievable. And I think that I told you last year that we literally had some in Norfolk that had weeds growing up through the engine. Yes. And we couldn't get parts. So, you know, we're in a predicament right now. We've got three vendors that we're trying to get. Nobody wants to upfit. Yeah, we might as well try. And, you know, we are to the point where we are more of a volume agency than the smaller agencies. So they'd rather do two or three for Strasburg than 10 or 15 for Frederick County because they're going to sit on a lot somewhere where we're going to have to taxi them back and forth. And it's too much of a... Yeah. It's too much of a headache for them. So they'd rather just go with a smaller agency because they can do them all the time. Where us, we'd be sitting there going, when's it done? And that's where we're at right now. But, Sheriff, five small agencies times three equals Frederick County. So do they not recognize that if they do Frederick County, they're essentially just doing five small agencies? We were using the guy in Norfolk and it just, it got too much for them. And we ended up going to Ilderton in North Carolina. I knew that. And Ilderton, they didn't renew the contract with the Virginia Sheriff's Association, unbeknownst to them, I think. Yes, it was unknown to them that we were actually... I think it's, they had a new person who didn't renew it yet. So we can't go back to them until next year whenever they renew the contract with us. So there's another place then, or Dana? Dana Supply in Richmond and they have one in Lorton. Oh, in that company. So, you know, we're actively trying to find people that can do it. But the fact is, once you order the car, then you have to order the equipment. And then I hope that nothing changes between the time that you get the car and get the equipment. Because if you order the equipment, it's wrong. So you've got to have the car before you do the equipment. And like Missy said, it's like 520 days. You do the math, that's like almost the place to do. So you only have three years before you can actually... It's like any car that you see on the list that say, it meets consideration. If you disapprove that, you've got to realize it could push us back four years to even replace that one vehicle because we're waiting. Anytime it gets close, we need it because we're looking at two years from the day you approve it. If vehicle ordering is even open, like right now it's closed for certain vehicles, so we may have to wait until August or September to order that vehicle. And then we start our timeframe. Thank you. And that was some discussion. We had in years past because as you say, Captain, the vehicle ordering, there's only certain windows of time you can order. So are we better off to make an approval of something earlier than waiting to the budget, and particularly as related to vehicles? We would appreciate that, but I can't, you know, I can only ask you guys to consider that. We had that discussion. It seems like we had that discussion almost every year. Yeah. And it puts you all further and further behind to get replacement vehicles. And that's something that, you know, we can do through the budget process. The difficulty with that is, and it's all a matter of a policy decision for your position, if indeed you would need to make that decision before you make your budget, it's just simply having deciding we want to approve this before you have your final numbers on the budget. You can do that, but it's just something the board would have to decide as a policy to look at it in that way. But the money would come out of the capital. Yeah. And the capital count, which we have sitting there anyway, so if it helps facilitate this issue that we're having. Correct. And in the past two years, I believe, the money for those vehicles came out of capital count anyway. They did. They did. And every year they go up, you know, like $5,000. You know, so it's just, you... It's a racket. Ford does not make what they used to make. They make like two units now that are police related. Chevrolet only makes the Tahoe. Okay. And Dodge makes two now. Just the Durango. And the Chargers. Chargers is getting ready. Yeah, they're getting ready to do away with Chargers. So you know, we're stocked. Pretty soon we'll be, you know, driving some other... It might be a discussion we want to put for one of our budget meetings that we take that up. And then... I concur with Judy on this issue. I just concur with her on that. And then just to throw this out, if we hit a deer, and I think we've had five deer strikes, and... Yes, sir. All you have to do is hit a deer, and it's total. You know, you... And then you've got the car, you've got all the equipment, everything else, and they total it. So then, you know, we're 520 days before we can replace that car if it's total. And we don't have any sitting on the back line going, okay, Mr. Ludwig, today your car is that one back there, because we knew somebody was going to wreck one. So we don't have spares. Captain, when did you say the deadline was in order for you to get in the car? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I got it already. I mean our car was—and it needs to be... It was in the early part of this year, the order place. I will have to—I have to call up the four dealerships, Dodge dealerships, and say, hey, when are you opening, when are you closing, so I don't know if it's currently open or not right now. You have to constantly call. You don't get an email or a phone call if you miss that window. It's closed, and you're not able to order any vehicles, and as far as the upfit— Sure. Yeah, upfitting is concerned. I was speaking to many vendors. This fleet that—just the sheriff's office is overwhelming the vendors, so they're not used to third and fourth. 30 or 50 cars from one agency coming per year. What they see is small departments, probably 20 officers total that may order one or two cars a year. And, you know, it's pushing towards at some point we should probably look at or maybe discuss, hey, should we do this ourselves, hire the people to upfit and maintenance our own vehicles? Mr. Chair, that was going to be actually where I was headed because I thought previously we upfitted with a local vendor and then there were some procurement challenges or something. I mean, is that in consideration? It was a mini nightmare. Well, that's good to know. Just trying to understand, I mean, if it's a two-year challenge, it seems to me that there may be some financial benefit to seeing if there's a local group that gets started. So Virginia doesn't allow a local preference for procurement and we're spending $400,000, $500,000. It's on this and the individual who is doing this has a pickup truck with tools. And I'm talking about, as the captain mentioned, hiring an actual, an FTE to do that as opposed to... And if I may interject, one of the things this board is going to be looking at very soon is we've talked about the RFP in regards to the fire department. One of the component units going through this process that we've recommended breaking out is to have someone do an analysis of our vehicles. Vehicle maintenance, vehicle purchasing, and to look at that whole system to see if there's ways, one, can you do any of those components yourself? Two, does it make any sense to partner with the schools? Or three, any variation of that? So that, I think, is something that we really need to look at as part of an RFP is to look at that for vehicles to see what makes sense. I have one last question. I remember in past years, you wanted funds for a storage building. You had very expensive equipment, including some indoor training equipment. Did we fund that? I don't see it on the CFP. Well, it's in here. So, yeah, we talked about that, the finance committee. And remember when they came to the finance committee and it was a donation? So that's the same building? I think that's the same one. And just for what it's worth, I'm having the... old dog kennel where the firing range is. I'm having it surveyed. So, planning and zoning is on board. Where we decide we're going to do it, everybody's happy with where it's going to be and it's not going to be in anybody's way. And I think Mr. Tibbs moved where the antenna was going to be, towers, so where we wanted to put it, I think we can put it there now. Did we get an answer how close we are in having the funds in the donation? Well, I think we have enough to start. Okay. You know, but at the end of the day, the only thing that I think we would have to do would be once it's up, put concrete in. And that's... we can still do everything we want and do the concrete when we get the money for it. But I honestly think that that's... I have tried for four or five years to come up with enough money because I just hate to see this stuff sit, you know, at the office without being covered. You know, one of which is our commandant. We have a commandant, and we're going to have to get him to do it. And then we're going to have to have to get him to do it. And then we're going to have to get him to do it. We're going to have to get him to do it. And then we're going to have to have to get him to do it. Because, you know, it's worth a lot of money. And it didn't really cost the county that much because it was given to us from DRMO 1033 program. And then we got everything else, the TVs and stuff like that, to make it work, so... Thank you. Any other questions for the sheriff? But don't hesitate. If you do have it, just call me. I'm an open book. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Not anymore. Oh, you... If I may ask one last question. Oh, let's see. One, this year, a lot of what we did is we had the partners kind of... The people that came to give you an idea of what they do and a lot of their structure, because a lot of people are new on the board and such. You know, we thought it would help in the decision making. And two, it would be nice... I know the chairman asked if you all would let him know what you think about this. Any comments? I think it's very welcome. Whether or not you want to do it again. If you did, how it could be done better. Is it worth everyone's time to do this? And so one of the things I would think is going forward is put more information on cost, et cetera. But that's it. In the past, for the new people, we would have like six morning, two-hour work sessions rather than... Or one-hour work sessions rather than... I really like... So what we'll do now is our next meeting is February 5th, is that right? Yes. Okay. So next week, we'll work on getting everyone copies and we'll go through our list of questions and try to touch base with everybody on, you know, is this what you needed and give you his answers. We had an other category, and I stole the one printed item off it. We already dealt with it. Was there anything else? We've taken care of it. The other category. Thank you. All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Have a nice evening. Thank you. Have a nice evening. Thank you. Have a nice day. Thank you, Ellen. Chair. Sir. Thank you. Sorry, I said chair.
