Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2022-02-16
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=120
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Before we begin, I'd like to welcome Mr. Markart to the Planning Commission and also congratulate Ms. Dawson on her reappointment. So next up would be the adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion? Do we adopt the agenda? Second. All those in favor? Aye. Adoptions? That's approved. All right. Next up is meeting minutes. I need a motion to approve January 5th. Move that we approve the minutes for January 5th. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Adoption or motion to approve the January 19th meeting minutes. So moved. Second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. All right. Committee reports. We'll start with Northeast land use. Yes, we've moved along a pretty good clip. Tomorrow we're having our meeting. I'm hoping it'll be the last meeting to finish up the land use maps. And then next week we'll take a look at the texts and possibly a third meeting. But I think we're about done and about ready to send this off to Stonewall here soon for public reaction. Excellent. Well, Stonewall right here. How about transportation? Anything? Yes, sir. Okay. Mr. CPPC? Mr. Taggart? CPPC? That is me. That is you. Mr. Triplett. I'm sorry, Triplett. Sorry about that. That's all right. Yes. We did have a meeting Monday night. It was an informational discussion. I think we had a meeting with the state. I think we had a meeting with the state. I don't know if it was a meeting with the state. I think it was a meeting with the state. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's a meeting. We discussed the item capital improvement plan, and we discussed the future of that from 2022 to 2027. So that was presented to us, and it is here in front of the total commission tonight for discussion. Finally, Mr. Triplett. Thank you. Thank you. me uh the frederick water board of directors met february 15th uh 2022 5 p.m the board adopted the fiscal year 2023 to 30 2032 capital improvement plan which contains 27 projects totaling uh 56 million over the next 10 years uh operations the quarries are really in good shape december we only had a little over a half inch of rain or and then in january we're 2.64 so but the quarries are looking great uh winchester planning commission i'm in liaison direction hi everybody not too much from last meeting the main thing that we passed yesterday um we worked on for a month and a half solar energy systems we didn't have anything on the books at all they already exist in the city so they've worked through just some basic rules really about panels in the front yard and things like that sorry about that is that as i sign it to that whole thing so not too much from last time the main items solar energy system ordinance that we passed yesterday out to city council just for the planning commission uh the idea is to encourage folks to to get solar energy panels if they want them and just some basic rules about where panels can be placed sizes not in front yards things like that but it's meant to be pretty important flexible um at least what we have now and the only other item is the city council is having its comprehensive plan uh open house march 5th and 6th i think they've been working on that for like a year and a half and so it's a pretty big milestone um just across the way so thanks thank you uh we have online uh borderly board of supervisors ladies i'm mr ludwig yes i'm here there we go welcome um do you have anything for us as a liaison to uh for the planning commission no nothing dad all righty thanks sir um this point we're going to next item up but i'm going to take some questions from the audience is citizen comments. It's open for any items that not before the commission are on the agenda. Do we have anybody come forward? All righty, seeing no one. I'll close that portion. The next item up is an informational discussion regarding the capital improvement plan. Mrs. Perkins. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. This is a discussion for the 2022-2027 capital improvements plan. The CIP, it's a document that consists of a schedule of major capital expenditures for the county over the ensuing five-year period, as well as long-range projects that are more than six years out. So just a little bit about what the CIP is. It's a capital facilities planning document that serves to identify capital projects that are needed in accordance with the broader policies contained within the county's comprehensive plan. Now, the comprehensive plan and the CIP are mutually supportive documents. Your comprehensive plan identifies areas suitable for development, as well as the infrastructure that may be needed. The CIP then translates those needs into capital projects designed to support the goals and policies which are put forward by the county agencies. So I would note that while this plan does serve as a long-range item, it is reviewed annually and updated based on current needs and opportunities. The adoption of a CIP, it is neither a commitment to a particular project nor limitation to a particular cost that may be in the document. It does serve as a basic planning tool for identifying ranking projects. It is strictly an advisory document. It is not used for requesting funding applications. And as I stated, it is subject to changes and updates. It is updated every year. Another note with the CIP is that the Code of Virginia does require localities to adopt a CIP in order to accept proffers for capital improvements. And then once adopted, the CIP is kind of rolled into the county's capital impacts model, which projects impacts for new residential development. So jumping right into the document, there's three tables that you see within the CIP. First is general government expenditures. There's 59 projects shown. From schools, parks, library, county administration, fire and rescue, including the volunteer stations, sheriff's office, and public safety. Table two is the transportation projects. There's 27 projects in that. And then you have the airport, which has nine projects. They're broken down into these three tables just to kind of separate where the funding may come from. Typically, your general government would be county funded if it were to be constructed. Transportation is a mix of local, state, and federal. Same with airport, local, state, and federal. So the CPPC, Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee, discussed this Monday night, and they did endorse the document. So CPPC then forwarded that to the Planning Commission and the board. So tonight, we are seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the board, as well as affirmation that the CIP is in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan. With that, I'd be glad to see questions. And if you do have any questions regarding the school CIP, Mr. Wainley is here on behalf of public schools. Questions? I want to crush my memory, Candace. If a project is in the Capital Improvements Plan and the county accepts proffers, but then the county doesn't build the project, what happens to the proffers for that project? The county has so many years in order to use a proffer. It's kept in an account and tabulated to either be used for that project or the state code does allow it to be used for similar types of projects that are still in general conformance. I had a question. The old Aylor Middle School is now listed as an academy, and I'm not aware of any of that happening. How would I find out what's going on? It's a lot of money that they're projecting to spend. And Mr. Wainley from public schools is here to answer any questions regarding that project. Anybody else for Ms. Perkins? Ms. Brim? No. No questions? Sorry, Candace. I have a question about the Aylor Middle School as well, because I was at the board supervisor meeting when they voted to build the new Aylor School, and what was said was that school was so unsafe it couldn't be implemented. So what's changed? Well, we'll give Mr. Lee a chance to answer. And then I'm surprised for some extra questions, but Candace, or just go on after for the next round? I can try to answer them. And if not, I can forward the question to Parks and Recreation. Well, I'm just concerned. Like, I love Tucker County, and I moved here from Western Lansing that was rural, and then the D.C. spread occurred, and it took a community with a lot of generations and a lot of heritage into a transient area of expensive, and it took a lot of people to get a place to live. And when I look at these projects, and I look at what inflation is right now, I just don't quite understand how we're going to pay for them all. And I'm not even sure that we should. But, for example, I was athletic. I was a swimmer in the track room, and my kids were athletic. My grandchildren were athletic. Like the ice rink. That's one I really don't understand. Why? Ransom plays ice hockey. And I know, because I'm involved in that sport, that the NHL promotes different ice rinks and will pay for them to be built in different areas. And they did look in this area to build one, but they felt that it would interfere with the Hagerstown rink, the Haymarket rink, the Leesburg rink. So they chose to build a roller rink, a roller, hockey instead. So I'm not sure if professional hockey players that are trying to promote their sport don't think this is really a great place for an ice rink. Why we, the fun one, and seeing a little bit of the pool. You know, I read all of this, and I think why it's in this memory. And one part, we're saying spend $23 million to build an indoor pool. But then the priority down at 12 is take the back and boards out of the pools and put in slides and splash pads because people aren't going to pools anymore. Well, if we're a community that doesn't want to go to pools, but maybe that should go up on the priority list and see is there more interest in pools? Because we can't afford to fund for a few people. So we're going to have to do a lot of things. And clearly, we must fund hockey. So. Right. And with the CIP, the agencies that put this together, they do take it to their respective boards, like the Parks and Recreation Commission, as well as parks, the school board. So the projects that are in here are based on the needs that are identified by those agencies. Just because it's in the CIP doesn't mean it will be constructed within the time frames or the cost. There are a number of projects that have been on the board, and they're not going to be in the board. So they're going to have to be in the board. So they're going to have to be in the board. So they're going to have to be in the board. So they're going to have to be in the board. And they're going to have to work on the CIP for many years and just get carried forward. So it's really just a future planning tool to identify what the agencies feel are necessary. I think if we're going to keep our Like, one thing I really love about the county. I go to a church where there's three families in my church with four generations. And me and some others have three generations in the church. Three. of all these things that a few people are going to use and have to raise the taxes to pay for it we're going to end up like loudon where i wanted my family to say i loved western london until it became a suburb of dc and we ended up moving here because my children couldn't afford to start out living in mountain county and i think the heritage of this town is wonderful great even though i've only been here 11 years i love it and i love the generations of the families we've learned from our planning meetings before the summer years yeah i've been on the planning commission well 16 years the uh indoor pool that's been on that agenda since i think roger was probably about 20. yeah it's been nice time for six this is more of a christmas wish list for the departments i think maybe four or five things over the years have actually gotten funded feedback i think mr rodman's feeding back um but yeah this is more of a christmas wish list they're prioritized by each department and what they think they're going to need mr glad to make we're picking up some uh sound from your end i think a conversation as echelon or anyone who's on that list as well thanks Kimdred that was awful well mine's now that you've gone over y упi when rome talked about the lee stretched ugly earth right a y upi whatever a hyden made for it and what that turn up to make it sound like well and then the other thing that's good for if it's not on the cip you can't the county can't accept proffers I want to build this community, and I'm going to build a pool and donate it to the county. The county couldn't accept that money for the pool without having it on the CIP. So that's one of the advantages of having it on the CIP. And as Gary said, most of that stuff on the CIP, I think I've been on the planning commission now, I don't know, 25, maybe close to 30 years. Most of that stuff's been on there for the majority of that 30 years. So just because it's on there doesn't mean it's going to get built in any time of our lifetime. Now, what should be concerning on the CIP is the cost escalation. I mean, the last time we looked at the CIP, and maybe my memory's wrong, but I thought last year a high school was $55 million to $65 million. All of a sudden now it's $100 million. So it's almost doubled in price in a year. Of course, now that's escalated out to the midpoint of construction, and that probably is $3 or $5. I don't know if it's going to be $3 or $5 years from now, but I think that's the biggest concerning thing on the CIP. I think it was $55 million back in maybe 2005. Last one I saw was, I think, $89 million, and that was about two years ago. Yeah, it keeps creeping up. Might be time to redesign the whole thing to build a more economical building. Yeah. Again, even the road construction, you look at the road projects and how they're going to be built. You know, the road, how they're going up. You know, it's just, you know, the idea of the CIP is to give us, it's just a roadmap, right? Like Roger, Mr. Thomas said, if it's not on there, we cannot have any progress. And at the end of the day, it's up to each department to put forward what they think is needed, and it's our role to decide if it meets the comprehensive plan or if what they propose doesn't meet our comprehensive plan. All this makes sense. But getting to the poppers, I'd rather see poppers to move some of the roads than poppers to build a swimming pool that we're then going to have to pay for in the end. So should I have a question, or should we? That's the supervisor's discretion. Anybody? Anybody else? Mr. Orndorff? Mr. Orndorff? I just think that that was a good question. That was a really good point there. And, Roger, just as a little bit of rebuttal to what you said, I mean, I fully agree that something has to be on there, get that proper money so it can be attached to it. Let's just assume for a minute, if we're going to have a wish list, that, you know, you take a dozen of those things off of there, you get that proper money, and it goes to it, and swells something that we're really doing back here. You know what I'm saying? And you would ask for the proper money for a road situation versus asking for a proper money for a pool situation. Now, I'm not against either one of them. I'm just saying, is there a problem? I mean, that's a rebuttal, kind of a rebuttal type of conversation. It just seems to me, if any event you could, in fact, narrow down your focus and put all the property you want in an area or two, then maybe we could give them all a role. Is that just my two cents? I think your description of this is each department's wish list. And which department are you going to cut out to cut it down to? No, I fully understand that. And apparently that's not our role. No, it's not our role. I'm in favor of maybe just cutting out our bikes. They're for transportation. Sorry, Wayne. Right. And when you look at the CIP and separate discussion of properties, your transportation isn't really going to kind of play in with the capital impacts that a model may show because they're different. They're really different animals and they're different types of impacts. I was kidding. Right. I just wanted to clarify. If you eliminate one piece of the puzzle, you're not typically going to get more funding for something else. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. The thing that I've seen when I was looking at that thing, I find it still a little fascinating in the year 2022, you know, with this digital age that we're still looking at brick and mortar libraries. You know, because, you know what I'm saying, every library that I need, I have in my pocket. You know, every piece of information I ever wanted to find in society is in my pocket. And to think about your goal, spend two million bucks for a library when you have it on your phone. You know, I just think that maybe we're a bit behind when it comes to that. Now, I'm just, again, I'm still an old school guy, but I do see what the future is. I don't understand brick and mortar facilities. Careful, you're going to have librarians coming after you. You're going to have librarians coming after you. That's happened to 30 years ago. Anything else from Ms. Perkins? Yeah. Mr. Lee, would you like to come up? We had this conversation, so I'm looking forward to you. Sir, good evening, everybody. My name is Wayne Lee. I am a representative of Frederick County Schools. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I think the concern is the cost and the safety of the project. So the safety part of that project was that the old 1969 HVAC system was not designed to meet current standards for fresh air. And so, indeed, when we tested the classrooms with students in them, there was a problem. was too much carbon dioxide in several of the classrooms. You're very astute in recognizing that that problem has not gone away simply because we're proposing a new use in that building doesn't make those problems go away and so that's the expense of the project is to solve that problem and to rearrange the facility to house the projects or to house the programs that are proposed. So am I remembering wrong? The school didn't come in for the Board of Supervisors and they said it's too messed up, not worth renovating? For a middle school it was more fiscally prudent to build a new middle school. What we're trying to do with this project and the study is not complete yet is to be a little bit more specific. Okay. So I'm going to ask you to go ahead and ask the question. So I'm going to ask the question. So we need to be a little creative, think a little outside the box and come up with a way to use that facility and because we are reusing an existing facility be fiscally responsible. And like I say that project is not done being studied. We've hired our RRMM architects to study the facility for us to take the uses that we propose and put them into the facility to give us a better understanding of how to use that facility. better idea of how well it would work and in the end they'll give us a an estimate of cost and then we'll know whether or not it's a fiscally prudent thing to do why not just sell the building instead of looking for a use for it that might not be the fiscal irresponsible thing to do really you'd have to explain that to me yeah when the funding was coming around for ailer I believe it was offered up that ailer would be put on the surplus to help all set the cost of the news Baylor school so you know he's ready for that question next week with the Board of Supervisors why it's not gonna be surplus to all set the cost and that yes that would be expected so why are you calling it Academy what's the idea there you're calling it Academy what's the idea there the idea there is that it would be a career in technical education Academy you have Daljee Howard we do there are some uses that our business community members are saying are needed that we could add and so this would be could be a potential place to add them so there's a lot of space at Daljee Howard that's empty some but not enough to house these programs what we're talking about extremely Catalonia these are heavy there were times when we had this. those struggles and the companies are not production the opportunity will be in the future so that we have all of our overcrowding that we have at the high school level at the moment. It's not a magic bullet. It just simply delays the need for the fourth high school a handful of years. I have one more question on the academy. So, they're not going there just for the technical. That will be their high school. That's their English or math. It's a or are we busing in for a time to be in the school and then they're going to a different school. So we've discussed both options and where we last landed was that was to make it an academy with a full full course offering. So it would be English, math, social studies. The difficulty is what to do with the sports teams. We don't know whether to house additional sports. There or to say that students have a home school and they go back to their home high school for athletics. Now has the school system considered rather than have one place for all the technical a school specializes in different ones because that's what it was in the school system. I went to like there's one where you learn nursing, one where you learn printing, one where you learn HVAC. So that idea has been discussed several years ago. I'm just curious. It's been on the floor for sure. We decided not to pursue that at that time because of the transportation issues. Anybody else have any questions? Thank you, sir. Appreciate you coming out tonight. Okay, so this it's an action item for us. Information. Information, but we do need to We need a motion. We need to Yes. We need a motion for that. If there's no further discussion, I will move that the CIP as presented is in conformance with our comprehensive existing comprehensive plan and should be passed to the board for their action. Second. All right. Motion and second. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. No. No. No. No. I'm a no too. Do I need to take a voice count? I mean an individual? Roll call. Roll call. Do chairs call and if somebody has questions, they can I'll do a roll call. So we'll start with Ms. Broombach. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Chair votes yes. Okay. So it moves on to the Board of Supervisors for information discussion on February 23rd. Is that correct, Mr. Pearson? Yes, sir. Yeah. Okay. Next thing's other. We'll start with Mr. Pearson. Do you have anything for us? Nothing as far as current planning applications to note for the Commission at this time, but I would like to thank you all for your candid and informed participation in our retreat recently. If you have any additional feedback or thoughts on what we could do different or better next year, please let us know. We're going to plan to do that again on an annual basis. Also, as you saw, our IT Director was here earlier today and he reminded me, that he's going to be reaching out to all of you individually to get you set up with new email addresses through Frederick County, the FCVA email addresses. And so they'll be contacting you individually on that. And on the same topic, especially since we have Mr. Ludwig on the line, if everybody can just try to make a conscious effort to turn on and speak into their microphones, both for people participating electronically, watching from home, and for the record as we do minutes. So thank you all again. Happy to answer any questions you may have. Anybody have any questions for Mr. Pearson? Mr. Oates, you wanted to? Yeah, anybody out watching from TV land that's in the Stonewall District that's ever had a desire to do something on Wednesday nights as a planning commissioner, go ahead and move your name forward to Judy McCann Slaughter or myself or Wyatt Pearson over to the planning department and you can have my chair. So it's going to become vacant here soon. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What I have is we've got Mr. Rhodes-Marston and Ms. Diane Kearns have agreed to join the CPPC committee. So we have two former planning commissioners that'll be joining. And then Mr. Chris Bowen has agreed to join the DRC. So I appreciate them stepping up as citizens and helping us out. So with that, I'll take a motion to adjourn. So moved. Yes, second. We are adjourned.
