Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-12-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=308
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you We're going to do a short term here. We're going to do a long term. We're going to do a short term. We're going to do a short term. We're going to do a short term. Thank you for coming out tonight. Thank you. Let me go to the Lord here on our behalf. Father, I thank you that we can come gather together here on behalf of the many things going on in this county and Lord for your provision. And as we approach Christmas, Lord, that just be reminded and reflecting on. The love that you have for us. That your grace came down to us. So, Lord, as we reflect in this time with family and friends. And that we would reflect on you as our creator and Lord. That we would as a county, Lord, be honoring and glorifying you and all that we do. I pray for the supervisors. And they wrestle with the various business matters of the county and that you would provide wisdom and discernment. The questions to ask and the insight that is needed for the many challenges before us. And Lord, I pray for the many civil servants throughout the county that are serving the citizens of this county. Lord, I pray that you would bless them. Give them. Give them the endurance to run the race that's before them. That your hand of protection would be on this community. That you would be directing the affairs in a way that's pointing us back to you. And in all things, Lord, that you would be honored and glorified. We thank you and we praise you and commit this meeting to you. In Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let it. Excuse me. Let us please stand and join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. How would the board like to handle adoption of the agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda. As presented. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor. Aye. Any that opposed. All right. We've got an agenda. Next up is citizens comments. Mr. Chairman, we do not have anyone signed up for this comment period. Thank you, Miss Phillips. Is there anyone who wanted to speak? This will be strictly on agenda items that are not part of the public. Okay. Move on. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion. Second. We have a second. This will be a roll call vote. And I will start with Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lier. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. Okay. We've got a consent agenda and it's been approved. The next thing up is Board of Supervisors comments and I'm going to take the lead on this one first before anybody else speaks. Miss Phillips. Vice Chair Slaughter-McCanslaughter, would you join me please? A resolution of appreciation for Stonewall District Supervisor Judith McCanslaughter. Whereas Judith McCanslaughter began her long tenure of service to the community when she was a member of the Board of Supervisors, she was a member of the Board of Supervisors. And Natomiast I'm also the chair of the Board of Supervisors, what I repeat my application has been to the GOPf and all of theter lands, as I said before, and that самeng DUHHGs and Would you join me Julian Johnson is the vice chair of the Board of Supervisors, what I repeat and what I appreciate here, if you join me, to get an overview of what we've learned in this recovery. Moving on. Adult-ca Rusia? Whereas during her tenure, Mrs. McCanslaughter was appointed to and has given tirelessly of her time and talents while serving on the Conservation Easement Authority, the Economic Development Authority, the Development Impact Model Oversight Committee, the Finance Committee, the Joint Finance Committee, the Information Technology Committee, the Metropolitan Planning Organization, the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, the Public Safety Committee, the Northwestern Regional Jail Authority, and the National Health and Safety Committee. And whereas while serving as the Chair of the Transportation Committee, Mrs. McCanslaughter saw the completion of Crossover Boulevard. And whereas Mrs. McCanslaughter was known for supporting conservation measures to encourage the protection of the county's rural heritage and was a strong proponent of the county maintaining the glass recycling program. And whereas in 2024 and 2025, Mrs. McCanslaughter was elected by her fellow board members. As vice chair of the board, later serving as acting chair in September and October of 2025, following the resignation of the elected chairman. And whereas as a valued member of the board, Mrs. McCanslaughter was known for her devotion to her constituents and her thoughtful, calm, and sound approach to the board and staff. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors extends its highest commendation and gratitude to Judith McCanslaughter, honors her years of outstanding service, and is a member of the Board of Supervisors. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors extends its highest commendation and gratitude to Judith McCanslaughter, honors her years of outstanding service, on behalf of the citizens of Frederick County, and conveys its best wishes to all to her in all of her future endeavors. Be it further resolved that this resolution be spread across the minutes of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for all citizens to reflect upon the accomplishments of this public servant adopted this day, December 10, 2025. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors extends its highest commendation and gratitude to Judith McCanslaughter, honors her years of outstanding service, on behalf of the citizens of Frederick County, and conveys its best wishes to all to her in all of her future endeavors. Resolution of appreciation for Redbud District Supervisor Blaine P. Dunn. Whereas Blaine P. Dunn began his long tenure of service to Frederick County when he was elected to the Board of Supervisors in a special election on November 3, 2015, and then was reelected to the Board in 2017 and 2021. And whereas during his terms, Mr. Dunn was appointed to and has given tirelessly of his time and talents while serving on the Code and Ordinance Committee, the Finance Committee, the Human Resources Committee, the Information Technology Committee, the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, and the Public Safety Committee. And whereas in addition to his many longstanding committee assignments, Mr. Dunn also served as the Board's liaison to the Social Services Board, the Tourism Board, the Fire and Rescue Association, the Hanley Regional Library Board, the Parks and Recreation Commission, and the Planning Commission. And whereas Mr. Dunn spearheaded efforts that successfully led to the preservation of the Clouser House and was instrumental in the development of the Frederick Heights Park. And whereas in 2023, Mr. Dunn was elected by his fellow board members as Vice Chairman of the Board of Supervisors and admirably served as Acting Chairman from September to December of that year when the Chairman was unable to fulfill his duties. And whereas as a valued member of the Board, Mr. Dunn was known for his service to the Federal Government and the Federal Government. And whereas as a valued member of the Board, Mr. Dunn was known for his unwavering efforts on behalf of the County and his dedicated approach to seeking solutions for the betterment of all the County's residents. And now therefore be it resolved that the Frederick County Board of Supervisors extends its highest commendation and gratitude to Plain P. Dunn, honors his years of outstanding service on behalf of the citizens of Frederick County, and conveys its best wishes to him in all future endeavors. Be it further resolved that this resolution be spread across the minutes of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Phillips, thank you. Okay, now the Board of Supervisors comments. Is there anybody who would like to, if we have any comments? Yeah, I wouldn't try to follow that one up, so. Absolutely not. Okay, County officials. We have LWCF Grant Award Acceptance Approval, Old Charlestown Road Park. Yes, please. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Phillips. Mr. Phillips, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. Thank you. I might need Patrick. Sorry. It did show me how to use it. Technology is not my thing. That's okay. Sorry about that. Thank you, Patrick. As many of you know, we've been working on the development of the park on Old Charlestown Road for a long time. This property is located within the Stonewall District. It consists of 25 acres adjacent to the Jordan Springs Elementary School. The original 24 acres were proffered to the county as part of the Snowden Bridge development in 2003. In 2015, the county took ownership of that property. In 2016, an additional one acre parcel was purchased by the county that has a storage unit on it today. The master plan for this park was developed with the guidance of the Parks and Recreation Commission and was approved by the Board in January of 2023. This plan provides for the community three rectangular grass plain surfaces, walking trail, a parking lot, a playground, restrooms, and a hard surface court that we'll use for futsal and basketball. In March of 2024, the Board approved for staff to seek a grant, a federal grant, provided by the Land, Water, and Conservation Fund, which is administered by the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation on behalf of the National Park Service. This is a 50-50 matching grant. It's a reimbursable grant. We recently received notification that we have been, our project was selected for an award. So at this time, I'm seeking Board approval for the project agreement, and you have that in your packet. That's really all I have, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have about the project. Are there any questions for Ms. Hurbaugh? No. All I'm going to say is thank you for all that you do for Parks and Rec. We are very fortunate with the programs we have in this county. Thank you. And you've been doing it. A long time. Thank you. We appreciate the support, and thank you to Mrs. McCance-Lauder and Mr. Dunn for all your support through the years. Most appreciate it. Ms. Hurbaugh, I just want to say thank you, too. I know this has been a long time coming. We have worked on this for a very long time, and I know your staff and yourself have worked very diligently to make this come to fruition and try to find some resources to make this project whole. So thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'll say the same thing. The public doesn't know what you and your staff have gone through, and you do make a great contribution. We just see a nice park, but they don't know the work that's done, so thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? Good. Okay. We need a roll call vote for this to go through. We need a motion. Oh, I do? I'm sorry. I'm jumping ahead. How about if I have a motion? I'll entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move to accept the approval of the Old Charlestown Road Park LWCF Grant Award. Second. All right. I'll make a motion and a second. Now we can go for the roll call vote. I'm trying to get you that money. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. You're good to go. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. This is awesome. All right. County Administrators Report. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Hello, Mr. Volmoff. Thank you and I also have some assistance back here who are going to help me going through this. I will tell you, and I know many of you are familiar with this because you receive an email that the Department of Social Services has had a roller coaster the last three months with the shutdown of the government. We weren't sure what was going to happen with SNAP, then we found out the State was going to provide SNAP, then we found out the State was going to do it in weekly benefits, then we found out they may not be able to do that. So we're going through that roller coaster. to the department to get the money to go to the department and we had a meeting with the department to deal with all the crisis and we had several meetings going through that. And then we found out as the government was still closed down we may not have money for salaries to keep our department going which would have been catastrophic because if you lost your employees and don't pay them they will leave and go somewhere else and try to hire someone. The good news and all that was that was settled and we didn't have to do anything we did have to do to get the money to go to the department. We had a meeting with the department to discuss if it was necessary and discuss with the board a contingency plan if we were forced to deal with that issue but thank goodness we didn't have to. Going through all that process we also discovered a significant issue I sent you all out an email last night with some verbiage and also a spreadsheet and what we found out was if you look at the spreadsheet the key thing was when we had our benefits program we had a vacancy as a manager and we had a vacancy for all four supervisors. We had to find a way to solve this issue because it was a critical issue for our department of social services and I want to give a lot of thanks to county administrator Jay Tibbs and to Tammy Green and Delcy Jobe because they have been working on this diligently and have gone through several iterations to fix this because when you adjust the salaries of the supervisor for benefits you also have to look at the other salaries of comparable supervisors and managers. So they came up with a comprehensive plan and we have to look at the other salaries of comparable supervisors and managers. So they came up with a great plan where they adjusted the minimum for the range and the whole range adjusted everybody accordingly and they made further adjustments to some of the employees who had experience so that increased everybody up. The spreadsheet will show you those numbers. The total cost of doing that for a year is $130,000. There is no need to ask for any money for this year because there is plenty of funds left in there for salaries that haven't been spent. I wanted to come to this board to let you know when we move forward with this you will see that additional $130,000 in salaries in next year's budget. I think that covers most of it. I'm here to answer any questions. Tammy, I'm sure they can have a question for you. I may be wrong. Any questions for Mr. Bolhofer? Mr. Chairman, I will put out a couple of comments and questions for the record. The request for additional salaries is something I fully support but I want the public to know why this is occurring. Mrs. Green has 20 plus vacancies that she is not able to fill. The liaison for social services. They have had people that have said I quit, I don't want to come back. They have been hired by adjacent counties and municipalities at a higher pay raise. They have had people that have said can you work part-time. They have said no, I don't want to do it. They are burnt out. They are basically understaffed. The people that are working there are working one and two jobs. We have a person right now here on finance. It is 7.20 at night. She has been here since early this morning. She does finance. All of this counts. So when you say why are we going to spend an additional $120,000, $130,000, we need to go and fill this. The flip side of this is if we don't have the money, we don't have the money to do that. If we don't do that and the state comes in and says we have not made the merits to do that, this county will have a multi $100,000 fine. I will give you that again. It is a multi $100,000 fine if we don't meet standards. She can't meet standards when she doesn't have a staff. That is why this needs to be supported. Mrs. Green, if you would like to make additional comments on that, feel free. I am just laying out the case on why this is needed. Go ahead. If I may, I may interject something that is very important I left out. When we started looking at this, we were in there, this was a crisis situation, we started saying let's treat this as a triage situation. We were going through this with a triage mindset, let's fix it for the temporary. After going through that in several iterations, we said we need to do more than triage. This not only gives you the immediate need you need, it is going to help Tammy going forward. If you would like to elaborate on that. Thank you, Mr. Dunn, for your kind words. I think one of the things that we have noticed, I have been with social services for 30 years, and over the 30 years, we have, when we talked about salaries, we always looked at Northern Virginia. Don't compare yourself to Loudoun or don't compare yourself to Fairfax. We are having difficulty, our salaries are well below Winchester City and also Shenandoah County. And so Frederick County not being able to compete at social services with some of even our neighboring partners was making it very difficult. And in my 30 years, I have never had any difficulty with social services. I have had a lot of difficulties with my family members, my friends, my family members, my family members, my family members, my family members, my family members, my family members, my family members, my family members. We've never had any difficulty in terms of hiring in comparison to our neighbors, whether it be Winchester or what we noticed when we did our salary study, we were about $10,000 below Winchester City as well as Shenandoah. And so I think this certainly will help us with not only recruitment, but also retention of staff that we are losing to some of even our neighboring counties. And oftentimes, you know, we didn't look at Loudoun or Spotsylvania, but looking at Shenandoah, looking at Fauquier County, looking at some of those neighboring counties made it difficult to see a huge difference in terms of why we're finding that we can't recruit staff or why we're losing staff in addition to places like Prince William that offer, you know, a lot more salary and also full-time remote work. What I will tell you about our locality, we value the human experience. We find that a lot of our citizens still like to come into the office, so we're not able to offer full-time remote for all of our employees. About a third of our benefit staff are full-time remote. But we have a very high traffic in our lobby. And so we're not able to offer full-time remote for all of our employees. We have a very high traffic in our lobby. And so we're not able to offer full-time remote for all of our employees. But we have a very high traffic in our lobby where citizens, whether they not have access to Internet or just because they're elderly and not really know how to navigate the system, I think having people in the office and available to meet with constituents is really important to provide quality service. And so we always appreciated the support of the board in previous years, and I really appreciate the support of Mike and Mr. Tibbs in terms of helping us try to address this critical staffing issue we're having. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. One other comment, Mr. Chairman. In talking with Mrs. Green, she has said it's difficult to hire staff. It's not only a money issue, but people are wanting to get into this. So I would say to all of you, if you can help her go and figure out how to go and hire additional people, that would be helpful. She needs to be able to have a pool of people that she can hire. It's difficult. Money is partly the issue. And you in the audience, if you know people that are interested in social services, like to help people, call her. She has openings. She has a pool of people. She has plenty of them. And they all are good paying jobs. But this is something that needs to be addressed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Green, thank you for all that you do and your team does. I know you spend a tremendous amount of time helping this community, and it's one of those things that people don't see. But I hear from all the different other departments, like the sheriff's office and other agencies. So thank you for what you do. And really, we don't need an action on the board tonight, because we have the funding. But it would be nice to have at least a consensus vote knowing that next year it will have a financial impact of approximately $100,000. So I had read your letter, and I'm looking at your spreadsheet here on the phone. So does this get us to where you need to be? I mean, it might not be the pinnacle, but are we going in the right direction? We're still below Winchester, but it makes us more competitive. And I don't think it yes, it will help us. It certainly is. I think it's very gracious, and I think it would be a help to us. I understand it's helping. Do we need to do more? It's okay to say yes. If there was an opportunity to do more, yes. Okay. All right. I think that's good to know. I mean, we're solving a situation right now and for a year or so, but we need to continue to look. Am I correct? Absolutely. That's why I said we went through several iterations. We'd have an iteration, and we'd have a discussion. We'll just fix it. Is this going to help us in the long run? So each iteration, it got better and better to address the issue. I'd like for the board to know by doing what we're doing now, it's a start to get to where we need to be. Okay. Thank you. But it's not a finish. So that will be, we'll start, and then we'll talk with the county administrator during budget season and have this conversation. We need to. Mr. Chairman, it's one of the concerns I have is it seems like not so very long ago we did a salary survey, and we went through a lot of expense and updates, and we were told that this survey would be kept up to date, and it's concerning that we're in a triage situation because something has fallen short here, that we didn't keep those numbers up to date, and I think it's really a sad state that we're here, that you've lost people. There is a cost associated with training people. So I don't really understand how we make sure your department is critical, but there may be other critical departments that we're not seeing, and I really don't understand why we haven't kept those numbers up to date. And I will tell you how we've been doing that, with the staffing we have, we haven't been able to go out and do these, but we've had all our department directors let us know when they need this, and we work on those departments. We've worked with the sheriff on his salaries. You remember we created the master deputy. We also adjusted all his employees. So we have been working with some of the departments. This was kind of unique because what happened was here, it wasn't a crisis situation, and it was the city of Winchester just recently, and I won't go into details, they raised their salaries significantly, and when the city of Winchester did that just recently, it threw everything out of whack and got everybody else doing things. So this was a recent action by the city that got us on that. I just don't want something to repeat itself if we can get ahead of this. So thank you. Well, the county administrator would like a consensus from the board. Mr. Chairman, I would make a comment of consensus to support what Mrs. Green and the county administrator are proposing, and if necessary, to increase it. Okay. Let's do a voice vote for just consensus. All those in favor? Aye. Absolutely. Okay. Good to go. And then we'll be talking during budget season. We'll go over to number two. Just recently I've had discussions with some of the members of the board who approached me and talked about doing a strategic plan for the county. As you know now, we're currently working on the comp plan, a strategic plan generally is a plan that's designed for a shorter period of time, for three to five years, and it's usually done in conjunction with a comp plan. So I was asked to take a look at that and bring this to the board to give everyone on this board an idea of what a strategic plan is and the cost of a strategic plan. We have Berkeley on contract as we speak. They've been helping us with the comp plan, and we've used them for other services, as you know, also for hiring an attorney and such. So I contacted Berkeley. They have a very good reputation with this and received some information. So if you were to do a strategic plan, the cost is anywhere from $25,000 to $35,000, depending on the scope of what you're doing. It would initially start out where you do the planning and coordinating. That would be done by the vendor who would be doing this. And then it would also start out with an individual interview with each board member. That's followed by a standard one-day workshop where they provide the facilitator to what the facilitator's job is to do is to get all the board on board to get them in a to agree on some type of sense of a direction. An outside facilitator usually is essential for this because they can be more objective than members within the board, and that's generally how it's done with all the governments. Once you do that and you have that, they put together a beginning report for a strategic plan. The next step is they take the plan and then they start working with staff and other stakeholders because one of the primary purposes of a strategic plan is once the board has it, it says you always start with your vision, your mission and your goals, but then it provides specific direction to your staff so your staff knows what the board as a body desires to do. Otherwise the staff sometimes is not really sure what their direction is. So that's generally how a strategic plan works. $25,000, $35,000, three months, it could be four months and it can also be shortened. If you were to go that route and wanted to use Berkeley, you do bypass the RFP process so you don't have that three month delay going through the RFP process. Also, myself and several of our staff are familiar with one of their facilitators, a gentleman named Doug Walker, when I spoke to him and said if indeed we were to choose you, we would prefer to bring in Mr. Walker because he has a very good reputation. He does very well. I also stated with them if the board were to go in that direction, the first step I would suggest is a meeting with whoever that facilitator is with the board to see if they can work together and get along because I've been in these workshops where facilitators weren't good or they didn't relate with the boards and there's nothing successful. So I always believe the best thing is have your initial meeting, meet with your facilitator and say, yeah, we can work together. But that's an outline if this board would like to move forward. I think it's important to have that in mind. If this board would like to move further with this, I can actually get a more detailed idea from them, schedule a meeting, bring the facilitator in and meet with the board, perhaps a work session or such. But that's the report on the strategic plan. Do we have any comments? Mr. Akins. Mr. Chairman, I think it's imperative that we go down and establish a strategic plan for Frederick County due to the copious amounts of problems that we have relative to the funding of the schools, transportation, how we're going to pay for it, and being able to have a long-term strategy and outlook of where we need to be as a county to truly solve our problems that have been, I'll go as far as saying festering over the last 10 years. I think we'd be very short-sighted as a board if we did not go down this path. Thank you, Mr. Akins. Anybody else? I'll concur with Mr. Akins. Mr. Chairman. Well, I really, I did a strategic plan at work, and they're still using the strategic plan. It's like Mr. Boalfer says, it helps put the guardrails down. It helps put the tracks down, and you have an idea of where you're going. I think it's a great idea, so I would fully be in favor of doing this. So, how about a voice? We'll do a voice vote. We'll do a voice vote again. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. All those against? Aye. Aye. Anybody against? There you go, Mr. Boalfer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appointments to the boards, and committees and commissions. First one up, 9a, Mr. Orndorff, this is going to be your district, Sir. And I know you're coming up, Ronda Sargent has done a fabulous job as I know you've worked together with you. How are you doing? How's it going? You're doing good, sir. up there in Shawnee land for that committee and she was willing to serve again on it. Mr. Chairman I'll move for her reappointment. All right. Yes. All right we have a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? There you go. Congratulations Rhonda and thank you for serving. The second one up is Board of Zoning Appeals. This is for John D. Klein. Mr. Chairman I would move that we reappoint John D. Klein since he wishes to be reappointed to the Board of Zoning Appeals. He's done an excellent job. Vice Chair? This will be a recommendation to the judge of the circuit court and and I would concur with Supervisor Wells that JD has done a wonderful job and that he wishes to be reappointed and and so I would concur. Thank you. Mr. Chairman I'll move for her reappointment. All those in favor? Aye. He's another citizen on this that we're talking about tonight. It's a wonderful guy who does a lot for this county. So all those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? There you go. So then next 9C is an information item. Ms. Phillips. The board is seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Extension Leadership Council, Redbud District Rep. There's an unexpired term ending in October of 2027. Board of Equalization. This is an off year for them. But they're going to be on the board for the rest of the year. We're going to have to fill the seats. There are two vacant terms due to two folks not wanting to be reappointed. So these are four-year terms that will begin in January. But we are still seeking applications and hope to have that on the agenda the first January meeting. Thank you, Ms. Phillips. Next up is committee business. We have none. Public hearings for non-planning issues. We have none. Now we're up to planning commission business public hearings. Mr. Klein? Aye. Mr. Klein? Aye. 12A, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is an ordinance amendment request to Chapter 165, the zoning ordinance to modernize our outdoor lighting standards and to review permitted illumination levels. Revise photometric plan requirements and incorporate LED standards. This ordinance amendment was actually initiated by staff at the request of the Board of Supervisors over the years and specifically when we brought this item to you in September. You all expressed concern with the maximum illumination and fixture height of lighting in some of our commercial and industrial areas where they adjoin agricultural and residential uses. And you cited new LED fixtures. And this section was last comprehensively updated. Up to the date of 2009, there's of course been significant changes to the lighting technology in that interim period that require our attention. So this is your existing or proposed standard. I copied the intent, which states clearly that the purpose and intent of this section is to establish outdoor lighting standards to reduce the impacts of glare, light trespass, and over lighting, promote safety and security, and encourage energy conservation. In preparing the ordinance criteria, it's not just what comes out of our head. We do quite a bit of research to make sure that we're getting it right and able to provide you all with the highest and best quality standards. We reviewed model ordinance templates. There's a number of professional organizations that prepare lighting plans and certify lighting equipment that have model templates that we took a look at. We did a cross comparison with other Virginia localities. We always like to see what our neighbors and like localities are doing to address this issue. We also reviewed industry recommended standards to understand common illumination levels for various uses. There are a number of professional groups that provide criteria for when you're doing loading docks and industrial buildings, what is a safe lighting level to accommodate their operations. We reviewed best practices. We're lucky that the American Planning Association publishes a very thorough guide known as the Planners Advisory Service that handles a variety of different topics, one of which is the lighting. And then we also consulted with the county's Parks and Recreation Department to understand their lighting needs. They want to know what the lighting needs are, and how they can use the lighting in their facilities. We're gracious enough to refer us to a lighting consultant that they commonly work with to help us understand how lighting is done for recreational facilities and why it's done in a certain manner and provide the guides that we included as reference. We would note that many of the proposed changes that you'll see reflect what we're already doing in practice. The zoning administrator has been fairly gracious and generous with the development community to accommodate new technologies that weren't necessarily clearly reflected in our ordinance. And we sought to maintain the business-friendly nature of our ordinance in these changes. One of the things that I think we get quite a bit of feedback on from the development community is how friendly our ordinance is, how legible it is, it's easy to follow, and it's easy to implement. So we wanted to maintain that business-friendly nature that we strive to achieve. So this is your proposed standard section. The first Section B deals with general outdoor lighting standards. We clarified and provided specificity for requirements for shielding and downcast of light fixtures. We provided specific requirements for lighting and the lighting in the next section. The second section is for the use of light fixtures. We specified the use of light fixtures and included a reference graphic. While we implemented this in practice, it wasn't clearly stated exactly how we determined that, so we made that very clear. We specified a lighting color and maximum illumination by the use type. We did make some further revision to this as a result of our development review and regulations committee. And when we went back and looked at some of the guides, we felt that it was necessary to differentiate between commercial and industrial lighting and residential lighting, which I'll cover in a subsequent slide. We specified a standard lighting and a number of different lights that were available for residential lighting. We also got a certification for fixture types. There are a number of organizations that actually provide like a physical stamp on the lighting fixture, noting that they meet those downcast and lighting level requirements. So we've included Dark Sky and the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, or given the zoning administrator the opportunity to determine an equivalent standard if it's proposed by a developer. You could actually go to Lowe's and buy lights that have those stamps on them for residential lighting. So it's a very common standard. It's easy to find in a quick Google search. It's just a good way to get a hold of the lights that are going to be available for residential lighting. So we wanted to give this a little more basic look at the lighting requirements and then we'll get to the next slide. some of the industrial lighting providers, you can actually sort by their lighting types by those standards if you're required to meet them. We found that to be fairly common in other localities as well. We also reduced the fixture heights where it was adjoining residential and agricultural uses. I think the combination of lowering the lighting levels and the lighting height was a best practice for reducing light trespassing glare, which is one of the concerns that you all cited as a common complaint from residential property that adjoins commercial and industrial areas. And then we modified the minimum setbacks from adjoining roadways and property lines. This is the graphic that we included. It's a very clear, easy to understand graphic, what we mean when we say fully shielded, which means the lighting element, whether that be an LED fixture or some other fixture type, is fully contained within an enclosed area and only shines down. You can see what the difference is between unshielded and partially shielded lighting for comparison. And this is a comparison of that change. The way we did it. We made to include the lighting color temperature and specified the lighting type. On the left-hand side of the screen is a 3,000 Kelvin soft white light. On the right is a 4,000 Kelvin bright white light. It's a very subtle difference. It's not just pertains to the color. But in high security areas, they sought a more crisp, clear color because they're moving around heavy equipment. They've got very valuable materials being stored there. They're operating security cameras. So we recommend, we're recommending a 3,000 Kelvin lighting for basically all residential lighting types and non-high security areas. And then in those high security areas that are necessary to have that kind of clear, crisp white, we're allowing up to 4,000. That came out of our discussion with the Development Review and Regulations Committee, which we thought was a worthwhile change when we dug into the standards. Part C deals with photometric plan requirements. When we're seeking, when someone is submitting a site plan for approval, they're required to provide their lighting types and all of the information about the lighting levels on the site. And we review that as part of the site plan approval process. So we've clarified the requirements for who may prepare a photometric plan, specifying that they meet the certification by one of those lighting organizations or their professional engineer. We specify that all plans shall include freestanding and building mounted lighting fixtures and include the mounting height and correlated color temperature, going back to that earlier standard. While we've always required lighting height as a checklist. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And as we know, the GMO at least item of the site plan submission process is actually not as stated in the zoning ordinance. So we wanted to codify that requirement, especially if we're going to be lowering the height. We want to make sure that in cases where it adjoins a residential agricultural or at least we know the exact height of the light where it is placed on the site. And then we also would require aiming angles and diagrams for recreational facilities lighting that came out of the discussions with Parks and Recreation's consultant about evaluating light for recreational facilities. D deals with albumint. outdoor lighting standards for non-residential uses. That's going to be your commercial office and industrial lighting. We clarified how the lighting level is measured at the property line. That helps with enforcement. So when the zoning administrator receives a complaint and he or she goes out to the property, they measure from a very specific height to capture the light. So it may be one level at your foot, at your feet, but it's a different level as you move up the body and into a higher height. So we have to measure from a certain height to determine the actual lighting level. We specified maximum illumination levels for outdoor storage and loading docks, and we reduced the maximum illumination at common property lines with property zone for residential or agricultural uses, and we added a requirement for the fixture to be turned off when no one is present to use the light, except where designated for high security areas. That's a best practice we found in a number of locality ordinances that specified that the lights be turned off when they're not in use. In regards to the illumination levels, we found in many cases we were several times high security areas. We found that the lights were turned off when they're not in use. The lighting levels were higher than what was the recommended standard a lot of times and they recommend a range of lights between, you know, a certain foot candle and a high end foot candle and that in most cases we were at the highest end or above the highest end. So we brought those lighting levels down to what is considered best practice for certain types. So subtle changes, but they would make a significant impact if you were adjoining one of these properties that had high security area or other types of lights potentially. Section E deals with outdoor lighting standards for multifamily uses in residential parking lots and we reduce the average maintained lighted levels where it joins right-of-ways, building entrances, parking areas and common open spaces. Again, just trying to get this kind of like reducing light trespassing, lowering the overall lighting level in the community. One point of clarification which is captured in the ordinance already is that residential lights or true residential lights at your house, your porch lights, street light, security light at your house have always been exempt from the ordinance and we continue to maintain that exemption. So this would only apply to multifamily uses in residential parking lots and developments. Section F deals with lighting standards for recreational facilities. We've added a cutoff time within 30 minutes after the last event or 11 p.m., whichever is later, ran that through Parks and Recreation. They were more than willing to comply with that requirement. We also specified lighting levels within a certain distance of the facility to avoid the light trespass issue that commonly comes with ball fields and other rec facilities and we clarified. How the maximum height of a recreational lighting is determined. There's a couple of guidebooks that Parks and Recreation was utilizing through their consultant that we included a specific reference to in the ordinance now. So it adds a bit of clarity if someone is producing a plan, they know exactly what guidebook we are using to evaluate the lighting levels for. Again making it business friendly and easy and accessible. And then Park G deals with exemptions. That's where that residential lighting exemption was contained and we clarified that lighting for holiday decorative purposes is exempt in all zoning districts. Right now it says only for residences but that would exclude lighting at like a car dealership or car wash where they may decorate for the holiday season and noting that the holiday lights are exempt in those districts as well. So again for your consideration this evening we're seeking an ordinance amendment to the outdoor lighting standards. Your Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item in September. They had some really positive feedback and made some recommendations. They recommended revisions that they'd like staff to explore further. We did take those into account, did some additional research and are happy to report that we did incorporate those into our draft. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on November 5th and they provided a unanimous recommendation of approval. This item is presented as a public hearing this evening and staff would be seeking a decision by the board after the public hearing. I'm happy to answer any questions you have about this proposal. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Yes, Mr. Chair. Mr. Ray. Mr. Klein. Okay. Mr. Klein. Mr. Dr. Lear. On the November 5th Planning Commission meeting there was a citizen concern about public safety in terms of reducing light and there was some discussion about maybe checking in with the Sheriff's Department. That's a great question. I apologize I didn't cover that in my presentation. We did reach out to the Sheriff's Office. We did not receive a response from them. We don't believe that it will have a significant impact on safety and security. We're in those kind of recommended lighting levels but should they raise any concerns, we'd be happy to bring them in. We'll be happy to bring this back to you with any further changes if they raise those. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mr. Akins. A few comments, Tyler. Thank you. I've got some questions regarding the foot candle levels because there's not a, it doesn't seem and if there is and I've missed it I apologize for entry requirements. So from a pedestrian standpoint, somebody walking on a sidewalk, typically your entry, your foot candle is at the entries where there's cars coming and going. Are cars coming and going or well or excuse me, are lit more than say the general parking areas? So I didn't see that. Is that in here and I didn't miss it? It is. Under the outdoor lighting for multifamily and residential parking lots, we specified the lighting levels at the property line. We had a basic flat five foot candle and then what we did is we specified it out based on the adjoining roadway classification. So those higher travel roadways like an arterial roadway like Westfield, we had a flat five-foot candle. We had a flat five-foot candle. And then we had a flat five-foot candle. So there's a lot of different ways of looking at it. So I'm curious, would the entryways at the public road 11 have a higher lighting level of the common property line than those kind of like local internal streets? Should we? I'm asking, should we clarify that because most entryways are 10 to 20 foot candles and a commercial, even a multifamily development for that reason. And I mean, two to five seems a little low, especially, and it's not just really for the entryways for that but it's also the, and if I'm reading too far into this, please educate me. But the, it's also the entryways into the buildings. Okay. So that if you have a large site that, because then here it also talks about the lights automatically turning off and possibly motion sensors. If you have a huge site that there could be vandals that are coming and how do you make sure that the entire site has motion detectors, I think we might be stretching a little farther. And also it's a, it's a safety and security thing that, you know what, many, many individuals, um, have a lot of, um, a lot of, um, a lot of, um, a lot of, um, a lot of, um, a lot of ladies. They do not like to walk in a parking lot that is completely black. Uh, and, and it's just too dark and they just, they feel uncomfortable. And I, and I feel like we're setting ourselves up here for being, we're being very aggressive with this change and I know it doesn't affect the current properties, but I don't think we want to have in our, in our, in our county, um, areas that are, could, could be potentially seen as dangerous. Sure. I think it's a valid concern. Certainly about the building entrances, we had a do not exceed 10-foot candle rule, and we dropped that down. We specified that it would be a one-foot candle at the building entrances, walkways, and pathways. Again, we pulled those numbers not out of thin air, but looking at what we've recommended lighting levels. I don't remember the exact range that was given, but I tried to be kind of in the middle of not at the high end of the range, but not the low end of the range, looking for that kind of happy medium, and again, cross-comparing with our other localities. So all of the numbers were either pulled from an industry standard or from another locality. Like I said, in some cases, our standards were several times, sometimes as high as 10 times as high as what was considered an average. I'm understanding the intent. I'm just concerned. It's certainly valid. I'm just concerned. And then as far as the light cutoff, that applies when the light's not in use. So, for example, if it's a 24-hour business, we wouldn't expect them to turn the lights on and have it be motion-censored. They could keep it on. They could keep it on all night. It'd be, let's say, an office complex where no one is accessing the building between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. The lights should turn off. But what about the property owner that wants to make sure his building is well lit and protected so people don't come and spray paint the side of the building? It's a valid concern. We certainly can revise that standard if there's consensus to do so. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Blaine. Blaine. Done. Let me just follow up on Mr. Aiken's comment. In this proposal, though, there is an item that says you have 4,000 Kelvin for areas of security, correct, Mr. Klein? So there's two. There's the lighting level for high-security areas, and there's a provision that says all outdoor lighting, excluding lighting for high-security areas, should be turned off. So if a building owner deemed the front of their building to be high-security, which building entrances typically are, they could leave the lights on. But then let me... There'd be kind of those other lighting on the site that's not necessary to the security of the building or the operations going on that would be turned off. So let me just take a step further. Mr. Aiken's also made the comment about parking lots, you know, a woman driving to her car and concerned. I would say that's a security area. So maybe it has to be a change in what's the definition of security. But, Mr. Aiken, if you wanted to pursue that more, I think that's a valid point. You don't want to have people going into the area and being robbed, mugged, et cetera, which unfortunately occurs. Yeah, and typically parking lots are considered high-security areas because people are in and out of their vehicles and circulating on a site. Those are typically considered high-security areas. One other question. Mr. Aiken, do you have anything you want to say on this at this point? One other question on this. Overall, though, this modification reduces the overall light and reduces the light footprint, if you will, in the county. Is that correct? That would be a correct statement, yes, sir. By the same token. The 3,000 Kelvin versus 4,000 Kelvin on your slide, the brightness was a little bit different, but the overall light emitted was about the same. Is that correct? That is correct. And, again, that 4,000 Kelvin level is typically preferred for its crispness, especially when you're operating, like, heavy equipment or trucks are going in and out of loading docks. They prefer to have it at that higher range than the 3,000. So I'll just simply make the comment that as we expand from a business viewpoint, you need to have some light for those people that really like dark skies, which I do. You might just have to go to the western part of the county. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Correct. And the changes in the lighting levels and lighting heights only affects where, sorry, the lighting height in particular affects where it adjoins residential property. So if you're in an industrial park and your neighbors are all industrial park, you can utilize the higher standard. It's only when you adjoin those residential areas that you actually lower the lighting level. Okay. So it's less than the current light standards we have, correct? It's five feet less than what we currently allow. So it's not a significant change. But it's still an improvement over where we are. It would certainly, as you stated, reduce the overall light trespass, light footprint, whatever you want to call it, for the sites. Thank you. Any more comments from the right? Any more comments from the left? Mr. Klein, thanks, sir. All right. This is the public hearing. Mr. Chairman, we have one person signed up, Kurt Krieger. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Back Creek District. I want to applaud your efforts to bring lighting standards up to modern standards. I think technology has moved faster than your regulatory framework has. So it's time. I am concerned about a couple of things. One is that this really only applies to new permits. There are many instances where... existing properties are unshielded, casting light on adjacent residential and ag properties. At the NextGen substation hearing in October, I spoke about a concern, because your lighting standards weren't good, and that was adjoining a residential area. You've heard from those people. So one item that I entered into the record in October was this monopole, 60 feet high, with one broad... broadcast light over the entire substation. Looks kind of like an airport from a distance. It's a very... a lot of glare. Instead of your intention is 20 to 25 feet high, ideally they'd be at the corner shining in and they'd be fully shielded. But since this ordinance doesn't deal with current lights, it doesn't do anything to correct egregious situations like that. I urge you to perhaps communicate with property owners about best practices. The other concern I have in Section 5D5, and we were just talking about this issue about high security areas, I didn't see any place in the ordinance where high security is actually defined. So I think that's a... that is a subjective standard that any property owner can apply. You might want to actually be a little bit more objective about that and actually have a security standard. I generally like the idea about lights that cycle off. And I agree that parking lots are prone... areas for vandalism and for... for... for personal injury and safety. So I want you to make sure that there isn't a loophole by having everyone just decide that they are a high security area, therefore they don't need to abide by the standards that you're setting. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Krieger. Is there anybody else that wants to step forward? You know the routine. Three minutes. State your name and magisterial district, please. Leslie Spencer. I just want to say that on the North Shore of Hawaii and all along the beaches of Hawaii, there's a very strong lighting ordinance to save wildlife and everybody loves it. And those are multimillion dollar homes and hotels. They all abide by them and it makes the place really beautiful. I do remember that by heart. So good evening and thank you so much for this thoughtful work. Thank you so much. I do think that we should go back to some of the 3,000 Kelvins and really look into the safety of driving glare for the 4,000 Kelvin as well. Where I live, my family still has a very dark night sky. We can step outside and see many stars on moonless nights. We hear owls, we see bats and moths and often hear a chorus of frogs and crickets. Our night has a healthy circadian rhythm. We live in a very special part of Frederick County. And I believe families in more developed areas deserve more of these same experiences. And even the loss of that nighttime peace is real. A librarian, a talented gardener I've talked with for 15 years shared how a new commercial building near her home on Route 50 has changed her backyard. The lighting is so bright that her garden began and continues to struggle. She believes the constant night lighting disrupts the insects her plants rely on. The quiet helps her. The trees are the only papers that make a backyard ecosystem resilient. When the night stays dark, the soil stays healthier and more alive. And living soil even recharges more water, making our farms and communities more resilient in both drought and heavy rain. This is a part of the quiet balance that helps preserve Frederick County. I recently saw a photograph taken from the mountains above Elkton down our valley. Here at the town you could see how the light dome from development was bright enough to wash out the sky so people couldn't see it. Yet the photographer could capture the beautiful, beautiful celestial sky right above it. It's still there. We just have to help make it more possible to see it. And the good news is that it is a change that benefits us in every direction. It improves our health, supports our ecosystems, and strengthens the quiet balance that makes our farms and communities more resilient. It's also a long-term economic investment in tourism and even in attracting headquarters because our backyards, our daily lives, will be even better. And it aligns with what the American Medical Association and the Department of Fish and Wildlife have encouraged. Thoughtful lighting and darker skies support both human health and landscape health for all. Our Shenandoah Valley, daughter of the stars. So we can all do it together. The sky of the mountains, the sun of the stars, still holds a sky of wonder. We are fortunate that the mountains have protected so much of that night from the glowing east. And if we make small, thoughtful choices now, we can become even more beautiful, healthy, and resilient. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Spencer. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Thank you. I hadn't realized this was on here. But as I'm not here, I'm going to take a few minutes to ask a few questions. I'm listening to this discussion. John Van Drouin from the Back Creek District. And just reflecting on this from a context of our church parking lots and thinking about things. With our previous lighting that we had before we upgraded that to LED lighting, we used to find significant amounts of drug paraphernalia of people parking in the parking lots overnight. Since we've upgraded that, that has significantly diminished. And so I'd like to ask you, Mr. Spencer, what are your thoughts on that? Because I would love to know a little bit more about that. Well, the fact is that if we did a car wash in our area, we would have to take a lot of money for that. And I know that we've got a lot of other projects that we're doing. And so I'd share with some of the concerns about what would cut-off requirements look like for existing properties. And if there were any renovations made, what would that do for facilities like that. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? All right. I'm going to close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to entertain this? How would you like to speak to that? I'm going to ask that they come forward to speak. Yes, please. All right, Mr. Spencer. I'm going to ask the public to come forward. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? All right, I'm going to close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to entertain this? How would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I'll make a motion that we approve what a step is laid out as is. Mr. Chairman, I will second that. I think this is a step in the right direction, but I think that we should take into account the public comments and that staff maybe come back with some revisions to address the concerns that have been brought about by the board. I think that, as Mr. Crager pointed out in his remarks, this is long overdue, this update, and I think it goes a long way to helping the situation. So while it's not perfect, I think it's certainly better than what we have. So thank you. That would be my second. All right, we have a motion. We have a second. This will be a roll call vote. Mr. Chairman, I just feel like I need to make a point. I really feel like this should be brought back for us to look at one more time because we're making some substantial changes here, and I'm just really concerned about the safety of our citizens on some of these changes as they are, I apologize, good heavens, that some of the changes that are going to be made here could have some detrimental impacts, and I think we really need to consider that. Okay, we have a motion. We have a second. Mr. Pearson, when we talk about the security of this, my understanding, I mean, it's fairly subjective that maybe we need greater definition, that it would allow some leeway for business owners as far as what they would deem as security. Is that correct? Yeah, that's correct, and I think Mr. Krieger hit on a point that requires further elaboration as it relates to what you said, which is the lack of a definition relies upon the zoning administrator's interpretation of what high security qualifies as, and I think he's been very liberal in his interpretation of that definition as it relates to any security concerns and likely would continue to be. Staff certainly hears the board's concerns. We're happy to handle it via tabling. And further consideration of the ordinance or through a separate amendment to bring through and make the corrections after, we think there's certainly additional work to be done, and we're happy to help. One thing, since you've given me a quick platform here that I know Tyler has mentioned to me many times but didn't bring up in this specific presentation is when you see the lighting levels changing from the old ordinance to the new, it's important to point out the change in technology as well. The old ordinance was written prior to L.A. D.S. proliferating the lighting market. They are far more effective in what they do, and in turn many communities have been dropping their foot candles because incandescent lighting and some of the other options prior to that required higher foot candles to actually get the coverage, but L.A. D.S. are far more precise. That's not to say these comments are not valid and we don't need to look at it in additional detail, but I would offer that for your consideration as well. Okay. How about that? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, a question to staff and a question for Mr. Akins. So if the board voted for this today, approximately how long would it take for you to come back with a separate amendment to address the issues that Mr. Akins has raised and Mr. Krieger has raised? Yeah. We would start over the process, so it would be probably two to three months to come back with fixes if this was adopted through a tabling depending upon the scale. And then the next couple of meetings, if there's any detail of the research we have to do to answer the concerns, it could be the next couple board meetings. Then to Mr. Akins, I've been in your situation, so I'm empathetic. If this were passed today and if the consensus of the board was to come back and then make further amendments, does that meet your concerns or are there some other things here that you would prefer have all addressed in one? I guess if, I'm not sure, I think you made the motion. You did. I did. I can modify it. But if you would be inclined to change the motion to just make sure that high security areas is defined and that the staff takes a closer look at entry requirements, not only to the site but also the buildings for safety, and that for under five, let's see here, that would be D2, D5, and the site for D5. Do you want to see the bibliography of the filing format, the spring form for D25 one, or the否- That's a good question. But if I had to sobreончat the logic of glow onié sign, you would please only be mindful of the instilling suggestions that we offer and not only the closing emergency logistic requirements for the site but then the downtown olanock, the demolition yard of the signs, what items andielewa would be the outstanding Dean let me ask a question. Okay. What def 과ting R modèle auEil??? It's complete that same question and you're saying if it was free logging or res eyed Fisher or reliability or lights or thrillingly Quit andeel woman it in נה the site and the building. Building entrances. Building entrances. Mr. Dunn. Mr. Pearson, would it be easier for us to go ahead and table this? We would request, given the conversation, that you table it and let us work on these issues. I understand you have a motion on the table, but staff would prefer that over adopting something that you don't feel confident in. So, Mr. Sherman, I can withdraw my motion. If there's a consensus among all of you to go and address this issue, let's say within the next 90 days, is that fair? We'll let them set the time because we have a specific time limit. Just let them set the time on this. But I would entertain that. Then the second withdraws. Okay. The motion's been withdrawn. The second's been withdrawn. This could be a consensus vote. I mean, this could be a voice vote. You just want a motion to table and a second to vote. I'll entertain a motion then. Mr. Sherman, I make a motion to table this until such time as staff come back. Hopefully within the near future to address the issues that were raised by the public and Mr. Akins. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Dunn, just one clarification. Mr. Tibbs reminded me I would actually ideally be a motion to postpone consideration rather than a motion to table. Same effective language. I'll make the motion for consideration. Postpone. Postpone consideration. There you go. I'll second it. I've got a motion. I've got a second. Ms. Phillips, voice vote. Voice vote. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Anybody oppose? There you go, Mr. Pierce. Good to go. Thank you, Mr. Sherman. Absolutely. Hello, Mr. Klein. Long time no see. We'll go through these next two ordinance amendments fairly quickly. They're certainly less complex than the lighting ordinance. The first pertains to the R4, your residential plan community district. And this is a proposal to amend the design requirements contained in that section. And this amendment was initiated by staff. It's been one of those items as soon as we work through kind of our cleanup items that we've had on our list. So we're working through that. And this section for R4 was last comprehensively updated in 2013. I would note in that time, no one has utilized this district for rezoning. So the properties that are zoned R4 were in existence prior to that last update. So the current standard states the intent of this district. It's really a mixed-use district where we expect high-quality design. It's typically tied to land uses. It's not a residential area. It's a residential area. And it's not a residential area. So we're going to be looking at the design requirements that we've designated as neighborhood, village, or urban center. And in the design requirements, the current standard states that the minimum size required for a R4 district would be no less than 100 contiguous acres and a residential density capped at four dwelling units per acre. We are proposing to remove both of those standards. It's important to know why we think that's important. As far as the 100 acres implementation of the R4 district. Currently requires a rezoning. There are a very limited number of tracks in the county that are 100 acres or more, making it difficult to implement. Over the years, we've had a number of entities approach us about using this zoning district because it's a true mixed-use district where you can do commercial, industrial technology, and residential uses all in one kind of comprehensive planned area. And they lack the 100-acre threshold. And then for the density component. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So that's where we first started. Research shows that the R4 district typically corresponds to our planned land uses that envision residential densities in excess of 4 dwelling units per acre. Our plan notes that that could be 6, 10, 15, or 20 dwelling units an acre and capping it at 4 seems counterintuitive to utilizing the zoning district in the areas where we want our highest density in our mixed-use communities. So again, for your consideration this evening, this is an ordinance amendment to amend the design requirements for R4. The committee discussed this item. September and they were supportive of the proposed amendment and your Planning Commission did give a unanimous recommendation on November the 5th This is also a public hearing item and following that public hearing we would be seeking a decision by this body on the ordinance amendment Happy to answer any questions you have My right any questions All right to the left look at mr. Clive. No questions This is the public hearing mrs. Phillips. No one has signed up. All right, nobody signed up Would anybody like to come forward and speak for against this? I See, you know, no one running up to the podium. So I'll close the public hearing Board how would you like to heal this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the ordinance amendment modifications amend design requirements contained in section 165 dash 501 06. All right. We have a motion. So we have a second any discussion All right, mr. Akins Hi Mr. Lero vice chair Supervisor Wells Supervisor done. Hi supervisor wonder. Hi and the chair votes aye. All right this passes One more time mr. Klein right the last last item of the year I think public hearing item at least This is an amendment to amend the dimensional requirements contained In your traditional neighborhood design business overlay district or the TN DB This ordinance amendment was initiated by staff at the request of a local engineering firm hoping to utilize this overlay district for our project And this section was last comprehensively update in 2008 And staff would note that this overlay district is actually not in use anywhere in the county currently And has over the years been cited some of the concerns have been cited are those design requirements contained here though, which we're seeking to modify this evening So the intent of the traditional neighborhood design business overlay district is intended to implement comprehensive plan goals of supporting business climate conducive to economic activity and To provide a variety of housing types and locations to meet the variety of needs in the county what you see with T and D would be a true mixed-use district where you may have a Building or structure or development where there's some ground floor retail with some or office with second third and fourth floor Residential uses you've seen a lot of that actually in the city currently which utilizes a similar standard So for those Houston density dimensional intensity regulations There are two areas where we think requires some revision The first is maximum height which is capped at 45 feet and then the habitable floors, which is capped at 3 So we propose increasing that maximum height to 60 feet and removing the habitable floors requirement 60 feet was chosen because it corresponds to the maximum Height allowed for a multi-story residential building currently in the ordinance If you were in a district where you could develop a multi-family building you could go as high as 60 feet we wanted to maintain a similar comparison with utilizing this overlay district and This could enable true mixed-use type structures with the ground floor commercial and retail and residences above furthering those Comprehensive plan goals that we have as it pertains to mixed-use development throughout the county So again the committee discussed this item and they were supportive the Planning Commission held a public hearing On November 5th, and they also unanimously recommended approval. This is a public hearing item and following your public hearing staff would be seeking a Decision by the Board of Supervisors on this ordinance amendment and we appreciate your consideration and happy to answer any questions you have Thank You mr. Klein. Well look to my left this time any questions about the right Mr. Klein, thank you batten You're doing well Miss Phillips, no one has signed up. All right. Nobody signed up. Does anyone come forward? Speak for or against All right, we're gonna close this public hearing Board how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman on move that we go and approve as mr. Klein laid out the modifications for this All right got a motion Second we got a second any discussion Yes, ma'am Mr. Klein was at the podium, but is there a reason that we do not address the side yard and rear yard setbacks in this district? Yeah, when the request originally came in for somebody trying to utilize the district they didn't identify it as an issue And so we hadn't evaluated it. We really just focused on the height and habitable floors So we're going to move that to the next item All right, we've got a motion we've got a second Mr. Dunn Mr. Pearson But if you do that you still have some minimum Items from the Adjoining property owners, right? Yes, of course There's I think Tyler was saying that the side and rear yard correspond to the base zone in districts Since this is an overlay district But we'd have to look into that further it wasn't part of the the original assignment there are setback requirements Then this is slaughter. Do you want to add anything to that? Okay? If staff is comfortable that we are meeting certain minimal requirements, it doesn't appear that there's an issue There's not an issue and also the overlay district doesn't exist anywhere in the county so you'd have to process a rezoning and at that time If you felt like there was a concern with the setbacks you could ensure that proffers were provided for additional standards at that time Okay, everybody good Supervisor Warren door aye Supervisor done by supervisor Wells. All right vice chair Supervisor Leera. Hi supervisor Akins. All right chair votes aye. All right Good to go We have no planning comments Commission business Board liaison reports. Do we have any yes, mr. Chair? Supervisor Leero planning Commission met last Wednesday, December the 3rd Madison 277 rezoning Requests came up before the Planning Commission that was tabled until the Planning Commission's January 21st 2026 meeting also Parks and Rec Commission met last night. They passed their budget request unanimously Then that will be coming to us in the in the budget process I just wanted to point out a couple of things are out of the parks and rec meeting from last night There's just a lot of participation in the county and the programs. It's really good to see I'll just cherry pick a couple of those for you. There's 778 currently 778 full-time basic rec participants at this time and that's before and after programming at the mostly at the elementary schools couple other examples Thanksgiving Day 5k was sold out with 1649 registrants that which is 286 more runners than they had last year for Senior holiday lunch luncheon will be held this coming Friday the 12th 50 participants The 25th annual winter wonderland at Clearbrook Park is underway with strong attendance particularly since it's been so cold out there, but these still have people Braving the cold to go out there and that'll be open through the holidays the winter youth basketball league Has 97 teams and 947 total participants those games start on January 3rd and the youth basketball cheerleading program has 49 Total participants. So every time I go to those meetings, it just seems like the trend lines are up higher participation in all those programs So I'd like to shout out to director her ball and her her department therefore given ours Our children and even our adults Recreation opportunities here in Frederick County. Thank you Absolutely. Thank you Supervisor Leara. Anybody else have any things on ports? Okay Susan comments, Mrs. Phillips Yes, sir, mr. Chairman Larry Allen Clauser Webb I'm Larry Allen Clauser Webb president of the Clauser Foundation. I'm here tonight to thank former board members Mr. Chairman board members Good evening, mr. Chairman board members I'm Larry Allen Claus web president of the clouds of foundation. I'm here tonight to thank former Board members Charles the Haven Along with the current Chairman John jewel and Bob Wells along with outgoing members to use my can slaughter and Blaine Dunn clouds foundation wants to especially Thank mr. Dunn without his support and guidance the entrance of Shawnee Lane would now be a vacant lot Mr. Dunn is a member of the Clauser Foundation with only Two Marcus with clouds of names Mr. Dunn bucket allows Tuesday . mark this which was only two markets with clouds names on you made differs house in 1764 for 12 stories buried in our family cemetery, only a string and a ball field Mr. Dunn changed what the tower lands are built in the 1800s will stand as a model as to what can be done. Will stand as a model as to what can be done. we Тогда want to thank Sonoma's resister at the arrested house as a model bardzo wine in setting off a night equity Isaiah Wells bond which have ended long as the signal that will be necessary when we get home Lightning hurlovers today and Music ganzen se迪reinem you want to save an ancestral home from destruction. Thanks to Mr. Dunn for the past nine years, the Cloutts Foundation has held memorial services which members of this board have attended on the anniversary uprising of 1764 and the signing of our 100 year lease with this county. The Cloutts Foundation will be always indebted. But I'm here before you to ask some help again by making sure that what we have accomplished so far lasts long after we are gone. I ask that this board utilize its resources of the county's Historic Resource Advisory Board to complete and submit to the Virginia Department of Historic Resources the step two formal nomination of the Cloutts House to the Historic Rest Program. I have flash drive information assist in this application. Please don't let the groundwork that these spine representatives have laid down over the past 10 years to be lost to the next generation. Thank you, Mr. Allen. Thank you. Any anybody else for skills? Gary Krause. Mr. Krause. I didn't get it with Larry. So what's that name and match to your address? Oh, yes. Yes, it's all in here. Good evening, Frederick County Board of Supervisors. My name is Gary Krause, and I am a resident of the Shawnee District. I'm the director of the Shawnee District of the Virginia Department of Health and Human Services. I'm here today to speak to you about the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our community. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today and for your service to our community. Tonight, I'm calling for a change in how we govern ourselves, one that builds on our strong foundation by empowering we the people even more directly. With greater public involvement, we can ensure our decisions truly reflect the unique values and priorities of Frederick County, not those in Richmond, Northern Virginia, Hampton Roads, or anywhere else in Virginia. To achieve local success, we must proactively pursue public referendums, both locally and at the state level, and to ensure that we are able to meet the needs of the community. Thank you. to ensure that we are able to meet the needs of the community. I call for this board to expand public referendums on key issues, giving every resident a meaningful voice in our governance beyond elections alone. Our county should be guided by local wisdom rather than external consultations. One such key issue is tax revenue. One such key issue is tax revenue. We need protectionist tax policy to make revenue and safeguard our resources, ensuring non-residents who benefit from our lands contribute to our community's future. We need protectionist tax policy to make revenue and safeguard our resources, ensuring non-residents who benefit from our lands contribute to our future. VO We need sticker fishing and principals who make sure our strategy proud and progressives provide sufficient financial support composed of citizens and public officials to prepare and propose a public referendum for the next 2026 elections. This group would craft a comprehensive plan based on the protectionist principles I mentioned, ensuring it's ready for the people of Frederick County to decide directly. We'll need to advocate for state-level changes to make this possible, but should not be deterred from enacting the will of we the people, should we so choose, and if the advocacy falls short. I would be happy to lead or serve on such a working group. For any Frederick County citizen who might be listening, I call for support of leaders who champion Frederick County first and foremost, seek out candidates dedicated to our well-being, ready to navigate any changes with vision and strong leadership. This calls for collaboration and innovation from all of us. If you're a resident or a board member and agree with any ideas I've expressed here, please amplify your voice, call for referendums on such vital topics that will shape our future. Only together can we forge a vibrant and self-reliant community. So let's work together. To make sure that we the people protect our lands, our values, and our future with bold, proactive steps to ensure that Frederick County has prosperity for generations to come. Thank you. You can find me at my office at 106 Purdue Drive right off of 313 Exit on 81. I'd be happy to discuss anything further. Merry Christmas. Patty Lyman. Bless you. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. I do appreciate the privilege of being able to speak with you briefly tonight. I am not a resident, but I am a native Virginian. And I don't mind telling you my granddaddy strung the first telephone line starting in Loudoun County coming right on up to Winchester back in the 30s. So there's a lot of history here. My name is Patty Lyman. I am the RNC National Councilor. I'm the committee woman for Virginia, which means I'm one of three statewide party officials of the Republican Party of Virginia. It's my privilege and pleasure to represent this state to the National Party. And I'm here because I think it's a special night because someone who's been very, very important to our party is having his last night on the Board of Supervisors, our friend Supervisor Blaine Dunn. I first met him back in 2020. I was right. I was running for National Committee woman for my first term. And Mr. Dunn was running for U.S. Senate. And it was something of a lively primary, as I recall. And we were all doing it in the midst of COVID, which made it even a little bit more funky because I got to meet a lot of people over the telephone instead of in person. But that's when I first met Blaine. And when he would get up to speak immediately, first I said, this guy is really brainy, which is quite obvious. But what I liked is that he had appropriate on-point solutions for specific problems. He was solution-oriented, whether it was a local problem, a state problem, or a national problem, since he was running for federal office at that time. He impressed me tremendously. Did not become our nominee that year, but I have watched him ever since then in the Republican Party. He's been a faithful participant in the. He's been a faithful participant in the Frederick County Republican Party. Wherever help is needed, wherever his input is needed, he's there. He volunteers for it. And I get to travel the state all the time meeting Republicans. But I very, very seldom meet one more dedicated and more of not just a gentleman, which he is, but a statesman for our time who's very, very much needed. Thank you, Blaine. Thank you for everything that you've done for the party and for our state. And I look forward to what God has for you in the future. Thank you so much for your service on behalf of the state Republican Party. Thank you. Willie Deutsch. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I just wanted to come here. Name and master. My apologies. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I live in the Opecan District right behind the Martins in Stephen City. I just wanted to come here and thank Supervisor Dunn for his years of service. It's a takes a lot of time and work. And we all know that here on this board to be on the board of supervisors. And Supervisor Dunn has done it for quite a few years here in this county. He always comes with a policy idea. People may agree or disagree with it, but it is a thought out idea to any any issue that's there. He also is very been very proactive on taking time to speak with the community and the public about their concerns. And whether you disagree or agree with him on an issue, he hears people out. He listens and holds town halls, has long dialogues and make sure people are engaged with and heard. And. You know, the time he served on the board is a long time of service. It takes time from family, from business, takes time from having another life. And there are people who will appreciate you, people who will hate you. Everybody here on this board ends up being in the crossfires at some point or another. And so it's it's quite a service. So Supervisor Dunn, hats off. Thank you for your time. Thank you for the energy you've poured into this county. That you pour into your constituents. You pour into the policy issues at hand and for always taking time to listen to people. Thank you. Thank you. Joy Dunn. I'm Joy Dunn from the Redbud District. Mr. Chairman and fellow supervisors. Ten years ago, I received an email from the district. I was in the district. I was a member of the district. I received an email stating that no one was running for the supervisor in Redbud against the incumbent who had been appointed by the board. The email stated Redbud should have a supervisor who was elected by the people. So for two weeks, Blaine and I talked about it and we prayed about it. Next, he decided to run for the Republican nomination. We had two weeks to do a campaign. doors. Blaine won the nomination. That put him into a four-month campaign, and the incumbent decided to run against with another party. In four months, we knocked on over 1,500 doors and held many events. Blaine ran not as a politician or a people pleaser, but as a problem solver. As a financial advisor, he wanted to help the county with the budget, and he wanted to hear from constituents through town hall meetings. In November of 2015, Blaine won the Red Buds Supervisor Chair. He then ran again in 2017 and in 2021 and won those. It has been a pleasure to support him and help him on his campaigns. I am so proud of Blaine and how he helped to save several different things, one including the 18th century historic Clouser House. He wrote a resolution with Americans for Prosperity for the Right to Work in Frederick County. He supported fire and rescue, serving seven years to help purchasing new vehicles and building a new fire hall in Lake Frederick. Creating Frederick Heights Park, which is a new fire hall in Lake Frederick, is a new fire hall in Lake Frederick. Creating Frederick Brigade Park, which is a new fire hall in Lake Frederick, is a new fire hall in Lake Frederick. Creating Frederick County, a new fire hall was built in mid-2018. He helped the students build a new park near our home. Co-authored the second amendment for Frederick County. Helped Sense Any Place for low-income seniors. Supported building of the fourth high school to relieve overcrowding. We traveled to Richmond many times as he spoke on impact fees. He voted to lower personal property and real estate taxes. He was supporting AbaCare, the Winchester the Laurel Center, and Eucharia Christian Academy. He did town hall meetings for 10 years, just to name a few. It has been my pleasure to support Blaine as a supervisor. Whether going to meetings with him or meeting our constituents, Blaine has never been a schmoozer, but he's been a servant. Thank you, Blaine, for serving on the Board of Supervisors. You have served the people of Frederick County well, and as Matthew 2523 states, well done, good and faithful servant. Thank you, Ms. Dunn. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Is there anybody else that would like to come up and speak? Oh, yes, sir. John Van Drunen, Back Creek District. Mr. Chairman, I apologize for not registering in advance, but I would just like to say thank you, Vice Chairman McCain-Slaughter and Supervisor Dunn, for your work. On behalf of the Eucharia Family Center and the school there, the academy, the preschool, just thank you for your support, as well as the overall board. I'm proud to report that we are now serving over 600 children, on a weekly basis, and the facilities there have been a great blessing to many families in this community, so thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else that would like to speak? All right, I'm going to close the citizens' comments. Board of Supervisors' comments. Mr. Dunn. Mr. Chairman, it's been a privilege to serve on this board for the last 10 years. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, thank you. I'm confident that we are continuing to do our best to offer the best of us in the community, in this new environment, to go and try to solve problems. This board here are all good citizens, and they're going to have to deal with some tough budget issues next year. So when they make solutions that you may or may not approve of, recognize when they're trying to go and solve a problem. If you have ideas that could help solve that problem, please bring them forward. But bring forward solutions. Just don't say, I don't like your idea, because if you say, I don't like your idea, then come up with a solution. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. here I've had the privilege of working with a lot of people on this staff this county has a good quality number of people that really work hard for all of you you don't know their names you may not see what they do but without them you would really be surprised at what is missing so let me just tell you some people that I've worked with and really appreciate mr. Ball Hoffer County administrator thank you for your work you've taken calls for me in the evening in the morning you've worked out solutions I really really appreciate your help we're glad we hired you this is Phillips and Phillips you're a gem you are a top-notch person I really appreciate your help you've always been helpful I couldn't do this job without you really really really appreciate you mr. Tibbs I've known you for 10 years you're an asset to this county you're an asset to this community and I luggage or any job so I really appreciate your help how about sir Barb and mr. 문 w organ will be very grateful to have you thank you and thank you I am charles shephard Dr. Hayward. Joe Reilly who's not part of this hearing is here but I'm proud we're all great candidates our Republican candidates in New York City work with you every day but I'm thankful we all worked so hard you've had jobs done very well and I hope if you did, legs out. Mr. Fox I'm glad we hired you. She Hutnam who will be your replacement to the White House in the current administration office but Karen Vekcio We appreciate all the requests you've had you do a great job under adverse circumstances. Mr. Fox I'm glad we hired you you're going to be a great replacement for Mr. Williams and you had big shoes to fill but he will fill them and we needed an attorney he's an excellent attorney and we're really really truly glad to have them� CRISTRM Richmond Cheryl Schiffler, I appreciate all the work you've done on this Finance Committee, all the work you've done for the County. You and your staff have done a great job. Thank you. Mr. Klein, appreciate your help. Mr. Bishop, without you this County would have a heck of a hard problem with roads and you need to find somebody that can also know roads so that when you do retire at some future point in time we're not, we're ripped of your expertise and knowledge. Mark Shearin is a person who I've talked with lots of times. He's been extremely helpful on solving problems. Mr. Pearson, in one sense you may be glad that I'm going, because I'll tell you about Mr. Pearson. I've called him multiple times a day. He's taken the time to go through and answer questions pro and con. He's an excellent Planning Director. He's an excellent Planning person. He's a good person. He listens. He learns. He contributes. Mr. Pearson, thank you. Mr. Pearson, you are a top-notch person for this County. This County does not know how much they really need to appreciate you. Mike Marciano, appreciate the work we've done together on development with human resources. Joe Wilder and Gloria Puffenberger, I've enjoyed working with both of you. You've done a great job as well. Patrick Fly in the back, without him these things don't work. Plus he has excellent technical skills that we've all used. Thank you. Mr. Harborough, John Turkle, thank you for the work you've done on Parks and Rec. Things that we look at as a, it's nice to have, are because you do that work there. So thank you for all that effort. Pat Barker, thank you for bringing businesses into this County. Those businesses offset the County taxes that you as a resident have to pay. The more business development that comes through here, the lower the tax rate can be. Nick Sabo. When we talked five years ago, you had a situation in which the airport was draining money. You're now in a situation where you have a positive economic contribution to this County. So appreciate all the work you've done over the last number of years to make that airport a good, sound, viable economic entity. Sheriff Mbeholen, Steve Hawkins, Warren Gosnell, thank you for your service. And although there are no officers here tonight, on many, many nights, you've had two officers here for the safety of this Board. They're here. In that case, let me say something that's really important. I want to thank you for being here. You provide a safety measure, and tonight's a calm night, and I understand that. But we've had nights here which have not been calm. I remember one situation in which the Board made a vote, and there were multiple people that came up. Mr. DeHaven was chair. It was like a threatening situation, and we had an officer come up and say, No, this is far enough. So for the officers that have been here, please tell your fellow officers, we thank you for being here. We really, really do. To the residents of Redbud, thank you for letting me represent you. I appreciate the support in helping you make Frederick County a better place to work. And to my wife, Joy, thank you for all the hard work, support, and help in these last 10 years helping run my campaigns and attending Board of Supervisors meetings. I appreciate all the help you've given me. I really do, Joy. Thank you. And now maybe we will have a little time to go dancing. Thank you again to the residents of Redbud. Thank you for your support. Thank you for attending town hall meetings. Thank you for going and giving me input so that I can be a better supervisor. I appreciate the opportunity to have represented you all. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunn. Ms. Begann Slaughter. First of all, I'd like to thank the citizens of the Stonewall District for their support and allowing me to represent them this last 10 years. It has been an honor and a privilege to be your supervisor. Secondly, I won't go through and name every staff member because I feel sure that I would certainly forget someone, but each and every one of you each and every day makes such a huge difference in our community. And you can't do this job without the work that you all put in each and every day. And many of you have given your working career to Frederick County, and you have done it with distinguished service. And I'm eternally grateful for your work. And I'm eternally grateful for all of your help. I will really miss the staff and all your hard work that you do. Lastly, I want to thank my family for supporting me over this 10 years because, as you all know, the time commitment is extreme at times. And as people have said in Stonewall District planners, Stonewall has been under siege. We are in the UDA. It has been an honor. It has been a very, very busy 10 years. So I'm very thankful for the support that I have received from my family and from all of your all's hard work. You truly will be missed. I just want to say keep up the hard work. We have, as you know, another generation in our family. And the reason we do that work is for these generations. So be mindful. We are a family of our children. And how we live going forward and the decisions we make, what impact those decisions will have on our tomorrows. I know that all of you do. Mr. Pearson has a beautiful young family. Mr. Klein, you all are like family to me as well, knowing your families and the work that you put in because you love this community as well. And you want your children to grow up. And your children to grow up in a beautiful community as well. So thank you from the bottom of my heart. My fellow supervisors, I very much appreciate each and every one of you. I wish you the very best in everything you do. Your success will be Frederick County's success. So God bless you and thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody on the left? Anybody else? Anybody else on the right? Supervisor Wernherff. Mr. Chairman, there are a lot of books written on leadership. Stephen Covey, Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, the second book, The Eight Habit, and then his son wrote a book, The Speed of Trust, The One Thing That Changes Everything. I've had an opportunity to work with the vice chairman, Judy McCann Slaughter. And Supervisor Blaine Dunn. And that term character fits both of them. Professional character and character caring about their communities. During their questioning, they were looking out for their communities, looking out for the citizens of Frederick County. And I was always treated with respect and dignity. And I greatly appreciate that. That's a quality that. You should be proud of. And knowing that when you're in a tough position. Whether you agree with everything. You ask the questions, but you ask them in a respectful way. And that was conveyed. And I greatly appreciate that. And I do wish you the best in retirement. Well done. Thank you. You ready? Good. I want to just thank both of you for all you've done to help me. Actually, when I was back on the Planning Commission, we talked many times. And then on the board. So thank you both very much. And with that, I want to also say I wish everybody a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I hope you and your families have a wonderful safe time. If you're traveling or if you're home, just enjoy it. You know, I was kidding around with the vice chair here. You know, with her granddaughter. Just the joy. Just, you know, enjoy that moment with those little ones and the laughter and the cheers. So thank you. And with that, Mrs. Vice, I mean, Vice Chair. I move we adjourn, Mr. Chairman. We are adjourned. Carry Out. That carries 5 seconds. All right, everybody. So we're adjourned. This is a visual worlds shines here in Nice. Sexy 2017 returning développéHHich www.adventure- говоря you Thank you.
