Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2024-12-04
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=253
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'll call the December 4th meeting, 2024 meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission to order. Mr. Thomas, will you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, please? Please stand and join us. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. The next order of business is adoption of the agenda. One. Revision. I'd like to make item four. We do not have any meeting minutes to go over this time. Is there a motion to adopt the agenda with that change? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And the agenda is adopted. Committee reports. We have any committee reports? Okay. Mr. DeHaven. Mr. Chairman. The comprehensive plans and programs. Committee met on Monday, November 18th and discussed one item, a comprehensive policy plan amendment for Apple and properties. The committee supported the item going forward for public hearing and the following recommendations to be incorporated. Ensuring text speaks to the properties developing as age restricted and extensive buffering and screening from Opec and Creek and the Bartonsville South Historic Area and removal of planned transportation improvements across the subject property north to Shady Elm Road. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. accounting principles were in good accordance and that the region also is in a drought watch continued and our rainfall is still below normal for this time of year that's it okay thank you and we have a representative from Winchester Planning Commission good evening good evening so at our last Planning Commission meeting we approved a conditional use permit that was about rebuilding a fence that was an existing legal non-conformity we approved rezoning a small parcel that was across from the post office in Winchester from be to commercial to medium density residential to better fit in with the surrounding neighborhood our bigger news was we discussed an ordinance to amend the City of Winchester zoning ordinance about the neighborhood design districts we are still working on these specifics for the neighborhood design districts we currently don't have the indulgence of design districts. These are districts introduced in the city where we want to direct growth that is coming into the city. We are making excellent progress on it, but decided we still have a couple wrinkles to iron out with this, so we ended up tabling that. Thank you. That sounds like quite an undertaking. Thank you, and thank you for being here. I have one report. This is from the Transportation Committee, who met on November 25th. The Eastern Frederick County Transportation Study update was discussed there. The support that the Planning Commission had demonstrated at our work session that we held was discussed. The county is still collecting comments on this on this transportation study through the website, so if you'd like to comment on that, you certainly can do so. Presentation was made by Mr. Ed Carter of VDOT about the prioritization process. for road maintenance, and this is basically pavement. How do they go about determining when to repave a road and when to perform maintenance on a road? It was quite the lengthy process and quite technical, so I'll leave it at that. There was also a discussion about a capital improvement plan update that will be upcoming and a discussion about an MPO study on I-81 at exits 321 and 323, which is on the way. This will be part of the planning process that will lead to a full compatriot support plan update and will take into perspective of what improvements need to be made with within each corridor for the suburban road network. So those are the key areas that are happening. Just one lastm as an example, the one comment or two here that is come to terms with job construction that will be included in the philosophy of Keep Perfectown, is which is a partial stop sign, if usage at all, in both directions. The site will be part of the much-needed maintenance plan update that is coming with the implementation of essa Schulman construction or permi notDelegate Ads commission report. While there is still no prospect point or your interest is discussed, we can provide a brief description of the completion code you could settle 91. Okay. So this had previously been considered by Virginia's General Assembly, and they said, no, thank you. And now it's going to the Congress, and that would increase the weight of trucks and allow them to be six feet longer. So that's the report from the Transportation Committee. Are there any other committee reports? Seeing none, we'll move forward to item six, which is citizen comments. If there are any citizens here who would like to comment on anything that is not a public hearing item, this would be the opportunity for you to do so. I would ask that you please state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes if you would like to speak. Would anyone like to speak? Seeing nobody, we'll close the citizen comment period and move along to public hearings. This first public hearing, 7A. Rezoning number 0924 for Middletown, LLC. B. Hester, trustee, and W. Hester, trust, being presented by Mr. Klein. Good evening, Mr. Klein. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is rezoning 0924 for Middletown, LLC. You all will recall that you held a work session on November the 20th regarding this application, and staff will highlight throughout the presentation changes that have been made to the application as a result of that discussion. As you all are aware, this is a rezoning of a public hearing. This is a rezoning of a public hearing. Approximately 101.25 acres of existing R.A. rural area zone property. The applicant is seeking to rezone the parcels to TM, our technology manufacturing park zoning district, and the property is generally located east of Route 11 between Mustang Lane and Interstate 81 in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. This is a countywide locator map showing you the general location of the property in the southern portion of the county, just north of the town of Middletown. This is an aerial image of the subject property outlined in purple as, again, for your orientation. The eastern property boundary is Interstate 81. The western property boundary is Valley Pike or Route 11. Mustang Lane traverses the site, and the property adjoins to the south Middletown Elementary School and the Laurel Grove Community College campus. In regards to comprehensive plan conformance of this rezoning request, the Middletown Lord Fairfax County Board of Trustees has a request to rezone the parcels to TM, our technology manufacturing park zoning district, in which the property is in agreement with the state and a marketing branch appearance. All transfers can be madeaign as they follow груbely if required later in code. The None Destiny Arabic Arabic Arabic That includes your manufacturing, food and beverage manufacturing, specialty manufacturing components, and the like. And Chapter 4 of the Comprehensive Plan pertaining to business development refers to the value of office and industrial business development to Frederick County as being immeasurable. So in that regard, the proposed zoning district, our TM Park District, is consistent with the plan identified future land use for this parcel, again, that being mixed-use industrial office. This is our long-range land use plan, again, showing that designation and the boundaries of the sewer and water service area. The mixed-use industrial office designation is that tri-colored striping, and then to the south, the other land included in the area plan is designated as institutional, and that reflects Middletown Elementary School and the community college campuses. In regard to transportation and site access, the application proposes two commercial entrances from Route 11, and they would provide... The proposed And then in the applicant's proffer statement, again, this has been... revised as of November 25th as a result of your work session. They're continuing to make a monetary contribution towards future regional improvements, including signalization at one of those intersections... at those intersections, rather, and they've proffered a 10-foot-wide multi-use trail along Route 11 consistent with Comprehensive Plan policy. So I'll walk you through the proffer statement again for clarity. Changes that have been made to the proffer statement since the work session are identified or highlighted in yellow. Proffer A pertains to the generalized development plan. And they specify conformance with their GDP. Proffer B pertains to the industrial use development area. That is the 70-acre portion of the site, which they intend to develop with TM, Park District uses. That limits the area of the property to 3,239 daily trips. And they have agreed to prohibit uses involving the manufacture, storage, testing, and processing of munitions. This was a comment raised at the work session, which the applicant has intended to prohibit to address... planning commission concerns. As it pertains to access to the industrial development area, they have agreed to prohibit industrial vehicle access from Mustang Lane... against allowance for up to two commercial entrances from Route 11. And they have agreed to construct a right turn lane on Valley Pike into the development to aid in the flow of traffic. Number three under the industrial use development area pertains to buffering and screening. They have agreed to a 150-foot-wide landscape buffer. Along Valley Pike and to preserve the existing stone wall that is present on the property as a decorative landscaping feature. They have agreed to a 150-foot-wide landscape buffer along the common boundary with Middletown Elementary School... to buffer the industrial development area from the institutional land use. And they have agreed to a variable width buffer of 75 feet to 150 feet along Mustang Lane up to the school boundary. And they intend to utilize existing mature vegetation... as the... buffer in this area of the project. Proffer C pertains to what they call their public use development area. This is a 10-acre tract of land between the Middletown Elementary School property and Route 11 south of Mustang Lane... which they've designated as a public use dedicated to Frederick County. They did remove some extraneous language about other entities and what the public use site could be used for. It simply states that it's a public use area dedicated to Frederick County and Frederick County would have purview over the future use of that site. They also agreed to landscaping in the public use area along Route 11... including ornamental landscaping along the frontage between the stormwater facility and Route 11. They've agreed to create a stormwater management facility on the public use site that would serve both the public use development area... and the industrial use area. And they've agreed to a $3,000 monetary contribution for interpretive historic signage that would be located on that public use development area... which I'll show you on the GDP in a subsequent slide. In regards to Proffer D, transportation enhancements, this is an area where there was extensive discussion at the work session. They have increased their monetary contribution from $200,000 to $280,000... for a proportional share of future regional transportation improvements involving the ramp intersections of Interstate 81 and Reliance Road. The proffer specifies that those improvements may include signalization, turn lanes, widening or extension of the travel lanes or other improvements. And they've agreed to a $3,000 monetary contribution for interpretive historic signage that would be located along Route 11. Again, they added a provision that the proportional share for improvements may be utilized as a local match for state and federal transportation improvement funds... should the county seek out additional funding to cover the balance of the cost for the signalized improvements. Again, that $280,000 is a proportional share that the applicant has calculated... and Mr. Mone, representing the applicant, can speak to how they'd determine that figure. they've agreed to a 10-foot wide asphalt trail long valley pike as i specified in an earlier slide and they have included a new proffer which includes a dedication of mustang lane for state ownership it's currently a 60-foot wide access easement that serves the middletown elementary school site but they would dedicate that at the request of the county to the common wealth of virginia as to become a public roadway that would cover public maintenance and and the like such finally proffer e is a monetary contribution of 10 cents per square foot to local fire and rescue county services this is their generalized development plan again for your orientation valley pike is here and interstate 81 is here at the top of the screen they are on their generalized development plan they show two key areas again that 70 plus acre area which they've identified for the industrial uses this is where they'll develop their technology manufacturing parking uses and then this public use site of 10 acres which includes the stormwater management facility you see in the green on the slide the 150 foot wide landscape buffer from valley pike a variable width 75 to 150 foot wide buffer along mustang lane and then along the common boundary of the school 150 foot wide buffer with the middletown elementary school site and then the second page of the general development plan shows that cross section for property sizes and yellows for the application. The TM Park zoning generally implements our mixed-use industrial office land use designation implementing comprehensive plan policy. They have agreed to prohibit certain uses that were identified as potentially impactful to adjoining properties, specifically Middletown Elementary School. They've included enhanced buffers and screenings along Route 11, Mustang Lane, and the elementary school property to mitigate impacts on adjoining residences and historic properties and the school to the extent possible. They have made that 10-acre public use area dedication to Frederick County and have removed the additional stipulations about how it would be used, and they have prohibited industrial access from Mustang Lane, preserving the integrity of the access for the elementary school. There are several concerns that remain outstanding. Following the work session and the changes the applicant has made to the application, specifically in Proffer D, they have revised that monetary contribution up to $280,000, but that does not cover the full cost of what is needed to make that contribution. They have also made a commitment to the public property at the State level for short personality for their optimization of those changes. These are the same conditions that today the Beef Office has with regard to theуш. Data�in make a statement about why it's important that the schools use institutional reference Buy on your cost but realize it does not meet this requirement of aboutabilities and provideIMO on the bill. Terry Maynard. Terry Maynard. gly. Lidia Lambert. Lidia Lambert. Sessence диom. Mary迎. Sarah Melop aquí. Lidia Lambert. Said you. Kirsti Chaton. mother. Kirsti Chaton. Tami Grayley. I am an investor in the Oladyssey court in Ici- scaresville and to the Tregalipp<|pl|> So�-Clas Galogly's Eüş обычo. improvements for acceptance into the state system should the existing road not be sufficient to be accepted and we staff believes that the the way that the proffer is worded it may prevent others from making those improvements so that would again inhibit our ability to have that accepted into the state system and we have raised this concern and Mr. Mohn will talk to it specifically with the visualizations that they provided but staff has concerned that the potential massing and scale of an industrial building up to 60 feet in height may not be appropriate given that the adjoining uses are a school and the proximity to historic sites including the bell grove plantation and the current and the battlefield in that area of the county the applicant may be able to mitigate that through proffered screening but it is difficult to determine how effective these tree save areas may be given what we know about the height of those buildings and its proximity to Valley Pike and again Mr. Mohn will speak to those so this item is presented to the board. As a public as a public hearing item for you all this evening I believe you received comments that were received through the e-comment earlier today and staff would be seeking a recommendation from the planning commission to the board of supervisors if it does go forward this evening it would go to the board on January 8th 2025 so I'm of course happy to answer any questions you have Chris Mohn is here with Greenway Engineering representing the applicant Mr. Scott Pline he is also here this evening and I believe that they have some additional presentations. Very good thank you sir. To my right any questions for Mr. Klein Mr. Thomas. Mr. Klein have we heard anything from VDOT as to whether they feel that Mustang Lane is up to their standards that they could accept it without significant work being done on it. We have not received a response to that comment again these we relatively new change in the proffers and we would need to further discuss that with them in concept they're open to the idea of accepting Mustang Lane but again it requires them determining if it meets the state standard or not. I'm going to go ahead and ask Mr. Klein. Mr. Klein I will respond to that question as it relates to the state standard or if additional improvements will be made and how will those be made. Second question that 10 acre area that is designated to be deeded to the county. Is there any purpose in it being re-zoned the county can accept it and its current zoning so it would not need to be included in this re-zoning is that correct. That is correct yes sir. Thank you. Any other questions to my right. No to my left any questions. Mr. Klein yes. Ms. Brannon. You know I always have questions about the codes. So when they say donate the land for TM allowed I look that up comparing RA to TM and I want you to tell me again what the TM means because I know we made it more open but it says public administration and government. Mr. Klein. Yes. Ms. Brannon. Yes. Ms. Brannon. Yes. Ms. Brannon. Yes. If we make a extension kind of and watch it. If we make a donation of a specific nuts to the state. To see when we will be able to continue providing the circulation of the 그래요 there made the H. There was a definite concern about the equity date. Ms. Brannon. it talks about parks it talks about schools it talks certainly that is a question you can pose to the applicant and their representative okay yeah the questions all right Matt I have one question as I looked at this and as I looked at the long-range land-use plan in this area I understand what it's designated when did that designation get applied it's just it seems when I look at the adjacent land uses I'm questioning compatibility we have not we have not updated our Lord Fairfax Middletown area plan in a number of years I believe it's as old as 2010 or maybe 2007 okay from the best of our internal recognition of it it was intended it was designated misused industrial office as to be used potentially by the Community College as some kind of like satellite facility or technical school or something like that so I'm wondering if you can give us a little bit of a little bit of a background on that because I think it's it's very clear that it's a school or something to that extent why it wasn't designated institutional is outside of what we're able to discern from our records but that it that is intent obviously when you look at this area of the county and you zoom out to a larger picture there's no other mixed-use industrial office or industrial plan north of the town of Middletown that's primarily focused south of Middletown and east on Reliance Road so it is kind of out there on an island given that the surrounding area is intended to remain rural and you have these being the Community College and the elementary school that are unlikely to develop as anything other than those campus settings okay all right thank you thank you very much mr. Moan mr. Plia whoever's gonna okay welcome sir thank you that's okay thank you thank you mr. chairman members of the Commission I am Chris moan with Greenway engineering I'm representing the applicant with this rezoning Middletown LLC again I'm joined by Scott Pline who has been already introduced this evening by by mr. mr. Klein and we'll be happy obviously as we go forward to answer some of the specific questions that have already come up and any others that you may have you know mr. Klein's presentation was pretty comprehensive so I'm gonna skip a little bit of what I was originally gonna do to not kind of reinvent the the wheel here but I think an important thing that he said is the you know is the fundamental conformance of the TM proposal with the land-use plan and the comprehensive plan for this area you know it's it's one of those things where this was established I believe you know mr. Stowe you asked the question of a time frame you know looking back for sure it seemed that it was 2012 you know late 2000 you know 10 kind of time frame and you know that is a designation that was applied recognizing that it could be or could result in development of office or industrial uses on this site even though the the National Park had been established in 2002 and that was of course based on the prior battlefield protection plan studies that had been done so I think that from a comp plan perspective that's an important consideration that this does align and it was something that was adopted in full knowledge of what's important you know in that area and those are important resources there's no question what we do believe is that based on the comments that we received that the at the work session the updates to the to the proffer statement that we have addressed the the concerns of the Planning Commission and frankly that we are able to demonstrate that we are mitigating the directly attributable impacts of this rezoning through those proffers and so coupled with the comp plan conformance our belief is and our request is that that you consider providing a favorable recommendation for this application this evening to the Board of Supervisors and of course any items that you would have that you know require any additional follow-up between us and the board that we have those attached to your recommendation and can certainly can certainly deal with those One thing that you know I do want to touch on briefly I mentioned it at the work session and I think it's just important context for the Planning Commission and for your awareness as you you consider this as the process that the applicant has gone through to get to this point in the public review process and I know there's been a lot of discussion about the transportation elements and the TIAs and the studies and things that have been done what I can tell you is that was an exhaustive process and it involved review not only of this information and the studies that were done by the residency office but by you know a staff team at the district office as well so these studies have been vetted very thoroughly as we've gone through the process to the point that it was a two-year exercise from when we first made the submission to agencies which was in July of 2022 so it's been a a a, an extensive process and in that time frame you know obviously there was the TIA that was originally submitted but then that was followed by what's called an OSAR or an operational safety analysis report for the interchange that required the Federal Highway Administration to also accept the findings of that study as well as signal justification reports for the the signals that were identified as being necessitated by development in the area so that's a considerable amount of work and the final approvals on that information didn't occur until July of this year so again a pretty thorough time frame that elapsed and I will say that the applicant Mr. Pline put that time to good use though in engaging the community and engaging staff in particular representatives with the town of Middletown and Town Council on what the appropriate land use should be for this property and what the appropriate zoning designation should be initially the what was proposed and initially submitted to agencies was an M1 rezoning and the idea was that through a combination of proffers and other commitments that you know we could make that zoning district fit the land use designation but what we found through the engagement that that the applicant conducted was that it really wasn't the the method or the mechanism to achieve what the county's long-range economic development objectives are and by our understanding the objectives that are manifested in this land use designation and in the TM zoning district and so the the applicant chose to pivot from M1 to TM and that's a pretty significant change while it's it's a proactive change it's one that takes several uses off the table that are really the more market friendly uses from an industrial perspective locally based on the current market notably it eliminates the ability to to to develop warehouse and distribution facilities on the property the only way in the TM district that that can happen is as a secondary use that's supporting a principal manufacturing use so that's pretty significant what the TM zoning does do and really advances that economic development perspective is it creates an opportunity for recruitment of the targeted Industries for economic development notably advanced manufacturing you know data and technology related uses and and similar things that frankly are are challenging uses and users to recruit in the best of circumstances so I think it's just important to recognize that in this process that we've gone through the applicant has to some degree you have been proactive in trying to achieve what the county's vision is from an economic development perspective and provide an opportunity here for you know for the recruitment of those targeted Industries and hopefully the generation of much needed revenue from those economic development activities in those targeted Industries so I just something I wanted to to provide as an overview before kind of delving into you know the the specifics of the application and again just for your context just to I don't want to kind of recap everything that that Mr Klein already touched on but the the fundamentals of the of the GDP and the in the proposal are are relatively straightforward you know Mustang Lane you know does create kind of the the split in the property if you will with the industrial uses for TM development on the north side a roughly 71 acre land Bay that's left after buffers and stormwater management are removed from the from the area and then on the south side of course the public use Flan Bay which is 10 acres again outside of the stormwater management pond that's also shown there and significantly and I think just to quickly touch on the comments or questions about uh the the public use site remaining RA as opposed to being rezoned TM there's no objection to doing that I think you know there are mechanics involved with including the property probably within the the rezoning or within the proffers so to speak but with leaving the the district alone as RA with proffers to correspond with the dedication just so as a part of the rezoning process and then I think the zoning action that you know those pieces are linked but those are I think logistical elements that we can work on with staff and uh and the county attorney to be sure that works but I think that's a it's an excellent point and we would simply want to also clarify that the regional stormwater management pond is something that we can do as an accessory component outside of the TM district and so I generally I think that's something that staff has accepted in other settings but we would want to confirm that so that's something that we could proceed with I think the other points that um that Mr Klein noted that are significant of course the buffers are a significant contribution to try to ensure that you know the design is contextually compatible uh you know we have been very sensitive very concerned about the the elementary school in proximity to the the balance of this site from the start of this process and that is why we have proffered to you know preclude any industrial access on um and in fact maintain you know the the buffer that is being proposed which rains from ranges from 75 feet to 150 feet in width as it blends with the school buffer that follows the school boundary which is 150 feet wide as well you know the the idea is to try to maintain to to the extent possible the the immediate visual surroundings the immediate condition that the school and folks coming and going from the school experience you know on Mustang on the site itself and I have a few slides later about that indicate the the type of vegetation that exists in those areas now I also shared those at the work session but just to touch on those it's some pretty pretty thick evergreen landscaping that comprises those areas and fortunately the images were taken after leaves have dropped and you can really get a feel for you know the the density of vegetation in those areas also along the frontage of the site the like buffer that's being proposed also 150 feet in depth it'll include a landscaping screen along the front augmented by a six foot earthen berm with six foot tall evergreen trees along the top of the berm at time of planting additionally as as Mr Klein mentioned we have proffered to preserve and rebuild the existing stone wall that extends across the frontage of the property that was something that was particularly of interest to the town of Middletown as as this is essentially an entry corridor to to the to the northern limits of the town I'm obviously happy to to make that commitment so that's a a valuable decorative feature that will help integrate you know some of these adjoining properties for sure but those are really the the uses as represented on the GDP and of course this is a proffered GDP so what you see is is what we will be required to adhere to and just the only other point I would make is that we are limiting access from Valley Pike to two entrances the traffic study did model both two entrances and one entrance and I have received some feedback or some concerns about the integration of school traffic with peak hour traffic for the industrial uses and that is something that had been discussed and I think that would be that when this does proceed assuming a favorable rezoning when this proceeds to site plan those would be some of the the technical elements that we would need to work through with VDOT to ensure that you know whether it be signage or other techniques you know that we're ensuring a smooth transition of traffic in those areas of course along the frontage will be a dedicated right turn Lane you know to serve those entrances so that'll help to separate some of those trips as well so I wanted to kind of step into you know the the topics that were discussed at the work session and which also are reflected in the staff report as as kind of lingering concerns or issues and the first of course being transportation and transportation impacts as we had previous previously noted a traffic study for this property was prepared by Wells and Associates that study of course was prepared pursuant to the methodology and scope that was approved by VDOT and VDOT then of course required subsequent studies as I mentioned the the osar and the and the signal justification reports and that had particular concern for the interchange and impacts to the interchange again all of these studies were approved by VDOT fully vetted and as I mentioned subject to a pretty exhaustive review at the district level and again in the context of the osar it was also accepted by the Federal Highway Administration forming a presque single understanding general manufacturing or general industrial facility, which is kind of a monster footprint on this site, but is kind of what we said is the most intensive land use that was possible, and that in turn is what VDOT expected to be modeled through the studies. That assumption for development resulted in the generation of 3,239 average daily trips. Of those total trips, 212, a little more than 200, were anticipated or projected to be trucks. And then, of course, given that it's the most intensive development scenario and given the range of uses in the TM district, some of which are relatively low traffic generators, it's entirely possible, if not likely, that ultimate trip generation is going to fall below that maximum. But it has been studied. To the maximum, and it did indicate some specific improvements that would be needed long-term to address level of service conditions and maintain current level of service. And as Mr. Klein mentioned and as we talked about at the work session, the specific improvements are signalization at the intersection of Valley Pike and Reliance Road, and also signalization of the northbound and southbound ramps of the Interstate 81 interchange and Reliance Road. Through prior approvals, the Reliance Road-Valley Pike intersection is proffered to be installed. That's a proffer that was accepted with the Village at Middletown rezoning. My understanding from VDOT and the town is that they are proceeding with initiating that process. I know the town is eager to have that light installed. But the northbound and southbound ramps are both projected to be installed. The northbound ramps are both projected to require signalization as well. The northbound ramp currently needs signalization. It's already operating at a level of service that suggests the need for signals. And then the southbound ramp intersection will ultimately require signalization as well with the introduction of development trips to the mix there. I think one of the topics that we really got into at the work session is important. And you all have seen it. You've seen these graphics before. And when we talk about proportional share, this is what we're referring to, is that based on traffic volume, the trips generated by this project represent 12% of the trips, the total trips at the southbound ramps and 17% at the northbound ramps. And in total, that's 14% of the total peak hour trips that will be impacting the interchange. So from my understanding, that's a good thing. From our perspective, that 14% is not insignificant, but it is something that is a piece of a larger whole. The other 86% of the trip volume impacting that interchange is from existing background, pipeline developments that we're aware of. And frankly, there could be more coming down the pike. It's hard to know exactly with buy-write uses in particular. And also regional traffic growth over the time frame of the TIA. So we again applied that 14% to the value or cost of a traffic signal to arrive at our monetary contribution or our proportional share. What we did do subsequent to the work session was recalculate that number based on VDOT's range of costs, estimated costs, which they indicated were $750,000 to $1 million per signal. So we went with the $1.5 million. The $1 million figure, the higher figure, $2 million, 14% of $2 million is $280,000. So it's relatively simple math. It's the kind of math I can do. So that's not exactly why it turned out that way. But that is how we arrived at that number. So from our perspective, that is an equitable way that has a rational nexus to the impacts actually derived from the rezoning. And so that's something that we're going to be looking at. And I think that's going to be a really good thing. So that's something that we're going to be looking at. And in fact, represent the most intensive development scenario that could be achieved based on our proffers and based on what's been modeled. And in turn, we accepted the highest values that VDOT has put forward as a potential cost for generating that value. So, you know, again, we feel that that is an appropriate contribution that does address our impact. Again, just touching on the money. It was on the fund that we made. We did not accept a whole lot of it because we didn't think it was going to be the same. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. We had a lot of work. Certainly, we were more than comfortable to make that adjustment in the application to agree to dedicate the existing easement area and the associated improvements to VDOT for acceptance in the state system for maintenance. Mr. Klein is correct. We did caveat that in the sense that the applicant would not be responsible for improvements that are needed. to enable acceptance, but as soon as we would get word that VDOT is prepared to accept and the county requested within 90 days, the dedication would occur. To their point about clarifying language, it certainly was not the intent to suggest or otherwise prohibit any other party from arranging funding, making improvements, et cetera, to enable acceptance. So we will certainly work with staff to refine that language and be sure it's clear because certainly while we are not able to take that responsibility, we fully accept that some improvements may be needed, may need to be performed by others, and once those are done, we could proceed with that dedication. I'll also just touch on the permitted uses. I know we did hear some concern because there are some kind of intriguing high-tech uses that are listed in the TM district use list. I think our thought process. because some of them are kind of military hardware related, was that the best approach instead of prohibiting those completely was to ensure that there's a clear prohibition that no live munitions could be, would be involved in any use that would be established there. So if there's, for whatever reason in the development of some of these technologies or some of these manufacturing processes, you know, a testing process or any kind of storage, or fitting of live munitions, it couldn't happen. So we believe that that's a way to ensure that the safety of the school, of the surrounding community, and the compatibility of the uses would be assured in that case. So the next item, and I feel like I need to definitely walk through this with everyone because I got some, I think some constructive feedback about how challenging some of this was to potentially discern. And in part it's because of the scales, I think, that are used given the spaces that we're talking about from a visibility perspective. What we certainly were sensitive to with the staff comments, also feedback that had been received previously, was concern about, you know, potential massing impacts. You know, if we're talking about a 60-foot industrial building, you know, how does that relate spatially to the school in particular, to children playing in the, in the, in the playgrounds or outdoor areas, people sit, you know, kids sitting in classrooms, you know, would those buildings end up effectively overshadowing the school property or creating, you know, really a, you know, a detrimental visual impact for the kids and others at the property. Additionally, you know, there's concern because of the proximity of the battlefield resources, the National Park, the Shenandoah National Valley Battlefields Foundation property as well across the state. Valley Pike that those as well, you know, could have a, could experience a detrimental impact, and we wanted to get an understanding of what the relationship would be. So we, we proceeded with a line-of-sight analysis or perspective analysis, and they're represented essentially as section drawings. You know in this approach to analyzing visibility is a fairly basic one, in the sense of You pick a reference point or a vantage point. You assume a person approximately 5'9 inches tall, and they're at that point. They're looking at the object development, what have you, in question. And the idea is to evaluate whether the intervening features that exist, whether that be preserved landscaping, whether that be other buildings, topography, et cetera, if those interrupt the visual experience or interrupt or obstruct that view. So this, again, was just trying to get this understanding for everyone of what that spatial relationship would be. For the elementary school site and also for the battlefield sites, we picked three spots, essentially, to develop sections for visibility, line of sight analysis. The school, it's A, B, and C. And A being the playground to the rear of the property. And B and C are essentially working further down the site, the school building, you know, more or less into the parking area as well. These are the results of the line of sight analysis. What you can see is the section A, visual impact. And this is looking northwest from the playground. It's the section at the top of the school. It's the section at the top of the school. It's the section at the top of the school. The red line is essentially the line of sight, you know, from an individual standing at that point in the playground area. And what this is demonstrating is that the tree save area that adjoins the school property, based on the maturity of that vegetation, the height of that vegetation, would effectively obstruct the visibility of the 60-foot buildings on the property from that spot on the school site. So, again, this is, you know, basically you can't see it. You know, if you're looking up, your line of sight gets driven higher, and it's effectively above where the buildings would be. And, again, this is somewhat of a generic concept for buildings, but we decided, you know, put two buildings on the site that could be 60 feet, you know, one relatively close to the school and the other on the other side of the property. And this is what we were finding. As you, you know, move down the middle. Section shows a line of sight that's a little further along, further west along the frontage of the school. And, again, the line of sight, you know, lifts above the vegetation and goes above the structures. And, similarly, the third section at the bottom does a similar thing, and that's actually standing in the parking lot at that C point or section point. So, I think what this does. It certainly suggests that these buildings will not be visible. It doesn't mean that they will necessarily be fully obscured from view. There could be elements of the buildings, of the upper levels of the buildings that could be seen depending on where you are on the property. But what it does demonstrate is that the proposed buildings, even at 60 feet in height, would not represent, you know, monolithic or kind of overimposing structures relative to the school. And I think, in particular, it's important when you consider the outdoor play areas and things of that nature that the school children will be enjoying. And, of course, the north-facing classrooms. And these are some of the images that were shared at the work session. This is standing in the playground. And you can see the relatively thick vegetation that exists there that would be preserved. And that's looking, you know, it's kind of standing down Mustang Lane looking. And that's looking, you know, it's kind of standing down Mustang Lane looking. And that's looking, you know, it's kind of standing down Mustang Lane looking. And that's looking, you know, it's kind of standing down Mustang Lane looking. And that's looking, you know, it's kind of standing down Mustang Lane looking. And basically where things jut out up there at the very top, you know, the higher vegetation tends to follow the property line as well. And this is more for orientation for what the existing vegetation along Mustang Lane looks like and its composition. And, again, this would be preserved as a part of that proffered buffer. The three battlefield vantage points were selected. In part by where we think members of the public may be to experience the battlefield resources, at least at this point. Point A1 is actually on the property owned by the Battlefield Foundation. That's where Rienzino Lane enters into the site. And that is the point that we felt that would be a logical space given structures on the property, et cetera, to if you were going to look east, that you might be able to see the battlefield. That you may be standing in that area or at least accessing the battlefield from that point. The B perspective is from a privately owned piece of ground that is within the National Park. And, again, this was just to try to provide a perspective of what the buildings may look like from that area. And then C1 is a site on Coggle Road. So that's an area within the National Park where the public in a driving tour or some type of traveling around the battlefield, area might stop to look across battlefield lands and potentially look back toward the site. These are the three section details showing the line of sight based on our analysis. And, again, I think from the Battlefield Foundation property, you can see that it's primarily in all of these cases, it's really existing features that push the line of sight up. And, frankly, push things up well above what we're proposing along the frontage of the site and preservation areas. But, generally, keep the line of sight elevated and looking beyond what these buildings or where these buildings would be. Again, this is not a representation that the buildings would not be visible from different points or other points potentially on the battlefield. But, relatively speaking, again, they don't represent, at least in these representations, from line of sight perspectives, a monolithic or otherwise overly imposing resource obstruction in those places. So, again, happy to discuss those when you have questions. But we added, I took the liberty of adding the red there so you guys could kind of get an idea where these section lines and lines of sight were going. So, in conclusion, this is a rezoning that, you know, we're looking at. So, in conclusion, this is a rezoning that, you know, we're looking at. It advances the comprehensive plan designation for this property through the use of the TM district. It advances and promotes economic development initiatives for the county and, in particular, the recruitment of targeted industries. So, it is a very significant economic development opportunity for the county. We do believe that the proposed proffers mitigate the directly attributable impacts from this rezoning. From the buffering relative to the school, in particular, you know, the contribution for signalization towards signalization for the regional improvements at the interchange, as well as the access limitations and the limits on land use. We feel, certainly, ensure that impacts will be addressed. Additionally, and I didn't mention them as much, but the dedication of the public use site, Mustang lanes right of way, as well as monetary contributions. So, that's a very significant investment. And, you know, we're looking at the implementation toward interpretive signage for historic resources are also proffers that help advance other community interests. So, in total, we believe this is a strong rezoning. It's the appropriate rezoning relative to the zoning district and the planned land use. And we would respectfully request a favorable recommendation to the Board of Supervisors. And, certainly, given the time and history that's already been invested into this, to the extent the Planning Commission has been able to do so, we would be happy to do that. And, if the Planning Commission feels comfortable sending a recommendation forward with your recommendation, as well as any comments that need to be addressed or fine-tuned with the Board of Supervisors, we would welcome that. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Moan. Okay, to my right, any questions for Mr. Moan? Mr. Thomas. Charlie, did you? I have a couple questions. Thank you for taking out the question. Thank you for taking out the question. Thank you for taking out the ammunition and ordnance processing. However, when I go down through the list of allowable uses in the TM zone, I really don't think it's appropriate to have an animal slaughtering house next to an elementary school. I don't know that it's appropriate to have manufacturing of storage batteries and primary batteries. There's a lot of caustic materials there. You've taken out ammo. There's a lot of explosive materials that are already allowed on the list that wouldn't be considered ammo. I mean, you can mix nitrogen and ammonia together and make a heck of a nice bomb. So there's a lot of things on here that do cause explosions, are very caustic materials, and are very noxious materials that you wouldn't want next to an elementary school. You know, maybe a mile away would be fine, but not sitting right up next to an elementary school. There's a lot of items in here. I don't know why we would leave aircraft manufacturing, guided missiles, space vehicle manufacturing. You know, yeah, you can let them on there, but if that would ever occur, the traffic impact would be significantly more because the vehicles that bring those parts in are much larger. Your traffic analysis, well, I'll get on to that in a couple minutes. You haven't addressed the safety concerns for access on Mustang Lane. When I looked at the traffic study you did, there were approximately, at the peak hour, the way I read the report, and I might be plus or minus three or four because I'm just using round numbers, at the peak hour there were 60 vehicles, whether they're buses or cars, mothers driving their kids, turning on southbound 11 into Mustang Lane. There was also 60 or 75 vehicles coming north on Mustang Lane. There were vehicles coming north on 11 turning into Mustang Lane. At the same time, there were vehicles that were coming up northbound on 11 that would be turning into the facility that's being built, about 200, 300 vehicles. There would be vehicles going southbound that would be coming out of the entrance, both entrances for this, both of these commercial entrances going southbound. That would be interference. So, I think the city is interfering significantly with the bus traffic. There's not a whole lot of room between Mustang Lane and the commercial entrances in here. Your solution to that is you provided the proffer that said, well, we're not going to interfere with bus traffic. That's great, but there's nothing there that can be enforced. There needs to be a plan on how you're going to provide that, and having the county put a deputy sheriff out there every morning during the peak hour to control traffic would not be the plan. That's putting the burden again on the city. That's putting the burden again on the county to fix up something that the developer's doing. I question the appropriateness of a lot of these uses next to an elementary school and a community college. When you look at the surrounding uses, we have a historical area across the road. We have community college. We have an elementary school. The only use that it is appropriate with is Route 81 on the east side. The other three sides are surrounded by uses that, they'll fit into this, and you could make a case that this is spot rezoning. Yeah, it's a 75-acre spot rezoning, but it's spot rezoning. There's nothing else near this that would have a compatible rezoning for this type of facility, and I think it's great. We need to have something with the TM rezoning to try it out, but I'm not sure this is the appropriate place. The noise distractions next to an elementary school or community college haven't been addressed. The manufacturing that's listed on here could be extremely noisy, creating very sudden impact noises that would be very disturbing to kids in a classroom with teachers. I think it would be very difficult for the teachers to keep the attention of their students through this. I said it's not compatible with the surrounding uses. The traffic study. I've looked at the traffic study, and yes, I haven't read all 500 and so forth. I haven't read all 500 and so forth. I've looked at the video pages. It looks like it was a very nice analytical study. I'm not sure I agree with very many of the conclusions, but I think it's very understated as far as the impact, and you only recognize that you're impacting two signals. Yes, someone else is paying for the third signal, but you're impacting that significantly, and you have a responsibility for that impact. When I look at some of the tables you provide in your study, you show where you've impacted the most. You show where you've increased the wait times on the northbound lanes after the development by 900%. Now, how can you say that that's only 18% or 19% impact? The southbound lanes, you show that the intersection there, that you've increased the impact doubled. That's a far cry from 12%. You're estimating in your peak hour in the morning 500 trips and I think it was 12. No, 8 tractor trailer trips, but you estimate for the entire day 212 tractor trailer trips. If you divide 212 by 24 hours, that's an average of over 9 trips per hour, but yet in your peak hour you're only going to have 8 tractor trailer trips. It's not logical. So there's something, I'm missing something there. I'm a dumb country boy. You'll have to explain it to me. The other part of this. The other part of this is you're not limiting the truck trips. So you're going to have, you're saying, okay, 3,200 trips a day, you could have 2,500 of them could be truck trips. And that changes the impact significantly on the intersections, the road system, the safety concerns for the bus traffic, for the elementary school kids going in and out of there. Just, I'm not sure this is the right place for this type of development. I think it's a good idea, but I don't think I have a whole lot of questions about this. And I think there's a lot to be done. I think we have a couple of questions. I think we have a couple of questions. I just wanted to let you know that I had a hundred acres somewhere else to put this. And I will let other people talk since I probably have taken too much time already. Mr. Meldon, we have a number of people here I'm sure want to speak tonight. If you want to respond briefly, you're welcome to. Just quickly, that's a lot, that's a lot of stuff. I didn't seem more like a statement than a question. Correct. But I'll hit a few points just quickly. I think relative to the allowed uses, I think there's no question we could take a look at that. to respond briefly you're welcome to just yeah just quickly that's a lot that's a lot of stuff and it seemed more like a statement than a question but i'll i'll hit a few points just uh quickly um i think relative to the allowed uses i think there's no question we could we could take a look at that and be more uh selective and potentially remove some of those that that you mentioned because there are some risks clearly that are associated with that and i arguably not appropriate near an elementary school from a spot zoning perspective i would simply come back to you know the fact that you know it is planned for you know mixed industrial office uses and that aligns with the tm district so yes it seems out of place on some level but it's perfectly in place when you consider the comprehensive plans designation the only other thing i would say relative to mustang lane is that that is something as i alluded to that has been discussed with vdot a lot of the the technical aspects of how those controls are going to be taken care of is something that we do expect at the site plan process that we will have to do as a part of installing the entrances and and the the frontage improvements i do know that that is a concern across the board so i think the developer will bear a significant responsibility and ensuring that you know safe conditions are ultimately developed there pursuant to vdot standards you know additionally i think just a couple of things that i would say is that i think would be appropriate andhim say bowling roll center especially in georgia because things are really going well keeping score and then at the site plan process somewhat around which is where since it just you know an example that we did we did a final analysis within the par paper that said the numbers we're that i'd like to talk about the number we're considering and if we sell a house on a site plan it's going to be a removing or we're removing again the the the times that impacts and forgiving the flat part of it the the the minimum always the minimum popularness of the half- IoT standard i do not think tired that's our largest question that i have on going forward is you mentioned the noise issues and and things of that nature the ordinance does have performance standards that that would apply to this one of the things in the team district is there are limitations on some of the activities I am not the author of the traffic study, as you well know, but I can, again, say that that was fully vetted, and all of the many iterations and kind of permutations of how traffic could occur were kind of gone over with a fine-tooth comb by the district staff. And they did include, you know, at peak hour times, you know, a certain percentage of truck trips, you know, go into the interchange. So I don't dispute necessarily the logic of it, but those percentages were based on the VDOT scoping that was approved for the study, and that's how Wells proceeded. But that's all I have. Any other questions to my right? Nope. To my left, Ms. Brannon. Nope. I also have concerns. I went back for the work session. I read all the wording, but I went back. I went back and delved into the numbers in the meantime. And when I think of putting in a traffic light, we look at the wait times and the queuing, and you all gave a very nice table for that in Section 6. Yes. But my concern is when I look at the amount of wait time that I'm going to give you, because you all are the professionals, that what you say is correct. And I think that's going to increase without you developing. Take those numbers as the standard. But when I look at these wait times, you know, it's at 43.8 on that northbound, that Reliance Road, and it's jumping up to 420.5. And then if you proffered a signal, I can't even get it back to the 43.8. It goes to 45.4. So. I mean, I understand you're saying 16%, but I don't understand how 16% is increasing in the wait times. I took a total looking at both the northbound and the other number, and the average is 77.2%. And the queuing is 65.9%. How does 16% of traffic cost? That much queuing and wait time? Are they trains? I don't understand. Mrs. Brandon, may I insert something to help with this? Mr. Klein, there's multiple ways to measure the impact that a development has on a signal. And Mr. Moan has chosen to do that with traffic volumes. Another way to do it is with increased delays. Right? So you put in, and what the table shows is the morning and evening peak hours here, with an increase in delays at the northbound ramps on Reliance Road. So from the traffic study that Mrs. Brandon is referring to, what you can see is in 2025, which is the year the development is scheduled to open, we have 43.8 seconds in the a.m. and 420.5 in the p.m. An increase of 860%. Obviously, that's not a lot of traffic. Obviously, a lot more than 14%. So you can look at the same for queuing or the length of cars that extend waiting to make the movement. And you'll see similar percentages if you go to the queue length, and you can do the same thing on the southbound. This isn't intended to say Mr. Klein needs to pay 467%. All I'm saying is there's different metrics we can use to look at this. And we need to look at all of them rather than just one of them to make sure we as a county are looking at it comprehensively and not just one piece of it. So I hope that helps Mrs. Brandon, and I hope that maybe streams along. Yes. Any other questions? Yes. On the Mustang Lane, if I understood it, if I understand this right, it is currently on the Hester property. Mustang Lane is. Correct. And you would agree to dedicate that to the state. Yes. But if it needs to come up to state standards, that would be on the county to bring it to? Not necessarily the county, but it would be an improvement. The way it's worded right now, it would be on the county to bring it to? Right. And that's what we would need to, we would certainly revise that to ensure that others that may be able to fund or complete those improvements could do so. Okay. But yeah, that is how the proffer is intended, is that the dedication will happen. With verification that the road will be accepted by VDOT at the county's request. Okay. So. And we don't have any clue as to the current, if it would be accepted in the current form. As you know, I mean, it's essentially the driveway to the elementary school. And that's how it's always been, and generally that's how it was constructed. That being said, it is a 24-foot wide pavement width. So I think some of the questions become whether the drainage, you know, along. The road, things of that nature satisfy what VDOT would require. And some of the questions that we don't know yet. And I do think that certainly as we're moving forward with this, you know, having some additional engagement with staff and with the VDOT residency, Joe Johnson and those guys, to figure out, okay, where are potential issues or does this look like something that could be achieved relatively easily and quickly? Is it likely they would need a wider than 24-foot? I don't anticipate so. I think 24 feet should be sufficient. And the other piece is that it's a 60-foot wide easement. And typically a 50-foot right-of-way would be what would be expected for a small secondary road like this. Mr. McKay, so is the applicant currently responsible for maintaining that road? As of right now, the school system maintains the road. And interestingly, the school system also maintains the pump station. And all of the. Off-site infrastructure that leads to the town of Middletown. It's all private and taken care of by the schools. And one of the things that would certainly change with this rezoning and with development of the site is that the maintenance of that facility and of those other pieces of infrastructure would be shared, you know, by the developer and the schools and not left to the schools alone at this point. And I think that's certainly a motivation. I think that's certainly a motivation for the school system to want to see the road be brought into the state system so that, you know, the plowing, everything gets taken care of by the state and not the facilities crew for the schools. But right now, that's how it works in terms of maintenance of those facilities. Any other questions? Ms. Bruback? And I think we talked about this in one of the sessions. The stormwater management pond that's on the public use potential site. That would still be maintained by? Yes, by the developer of the project. Yes. And would that still be in their ownership? It would be. And I think that's the most likely scenario. And then, and I'm sure you've taken this into consideration, but looking at that line of sight, it makes it look like it's a straight line. We don't have it pulled up, but, you know, from the battlefield to elementary. It looks like a straight line, but I'm sure there's elevation differences, but that has been taken into consideration. Yes, we've used, you know, the county's topographic data from GIS and those elements to factor in based on at least the public data, what those changes are in topography across the site. Anything else? I have one question for you. You and I talked at the work session about a cultural resource survey. You told me one had been prepared. But I understand it's for architectural. Does the county have a copy of what's been prepared? Have you provided that? We did submit that with our HRAB submission. So that is something the county has. We can obviously provide other another copy if need be. Okay. Obviously, there was a lot of history in that area. Yes. The Battle of Cedar Creek, there were probably 30 plus thousand federal troops in that area. The only way we have to document the history is through an archeology study, a phase one cultural resource survey. Is that something that you've discussed? We've discussed with Mr. Pline. Is he willing to do that? We've discussed that. What we would hope to do is be able to do a little bit more research to see what may have been completed for the site already historically. And then get a better sense of what we would need to do to make that come together. You know, what the options are for doing that. But I think, you know, that's something we can explore in that context. Okay. Very well. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. This is a public hearing. I will open the public hearing to anyone who would like to speak to this rezoning. I would ask that you please state your name, your magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. Good evening, sir. Good evening. Thank you. I'm John Owings. I live at 7000 Valley Pike, Back Creek, Middletown, directly across from the Hester property. There's several things that I've noticed in the presentation. Number one, this is a rural area. And rural America is disappearing. And if you do it by chunks, there will be no more rural America. It will greatly affect the houses across the road, which were never mentioned in any of the presentations. There's the value of the property is going to go down for sure. But it was never mentioned. The Battle of Cedar Creek. They had a report done on that. And they said there was no more. Okay. So, there's no significant action or anything there. Just so happens there's a Virginia medal sign two houses up from me that talks about the end of Sheraton's ride. And it's right on the lane that goes back to the piece of property that Battlefield owns. If there was no significance in that area, why would they have a proffer of $3,000 for signage calling attention to these areas? It just doesn't make any sense to me. The traffic, unbelievable. Since I've only lived there four years. And it has gone crazy. A lot of that traffic is traffic from Steven City people in the new developments. They're coming out to get 66. When they come home, they don't go into Steven City. They've got three traffic lights they've got to put up with. They get off at Middletown and go over 11 and they've got one traffic light. So, I don't think that was even considered about all the traffic. You've got all the development right at 81 now. The Sheetz store, the Wawa store that's coming. And you know there's going to be others because the property already says sold. And we know what's going to happen. The traffic lights, are they going to help? A little. Look at Steven City. Three traffic lights. Is it better? A little bit. You talk about wait time, unbelievable in Steven City. In Middletown, it's getting just as bad. Like you said, northbound ramp, traffic is backed up all the way into 81 in the evening. All the people coming back. It's going to be a mess. They're going to be working from the city working. All this new development where these people work. Not here. They're working across the mountain. A couple other things. The pictures they used of the growth that's in this track. They used the good pictures up on top of the hill where the trees are. They didn't show the pictures along 11. It's nothing but a wilderness. There are not those great big trees. The traffic light that is supposed to be at Route 11 and Reliance Road, that's been in the works for 20 years. Has it happened yet? No. Will it? Maybe. Who knows? How long did it take them to get traffic lights at Steven City? Unbelievable. The pumping station, I'm glad that was brought up because that was never mentioned in the report. What is their share going to be with Middletown? I was raised in Middletown. I've lived in Middletown proper or in the outskirts of it for 80 years. I've seen lots of changes. This is not a good idea for Middletown or for Frederick County. This is the northern gateway into the national parks. How many more national parks do you have in Frederick County? None. Look at the traffic that comes in for the national parks. You should be there one day and just look at the people going into the visitor center. Unbelievable. Come to Middletown about 4.30, 5 o'clock. See the traffic. You've got the college. You've got the school. You've got the people coming from work. You've got out at the south end of town, all those people. So this is not a good mix for the town of Middletown or for Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Owens. Would anyone else like to speak? Good evening. May I give you a handout? Yes. Thank you. So what I'm handing out is a very small section. So it's a small section of the National Historic Landmark District. There's an update to that that happened in September of, was signed by the Secretary of the Interior in 2024. You can see that down in the corner is the Hester track. It is clearly inside the National Historic Landmark District. I want to point out that the area where it says stone. The area where it says study area, that's not the battlefield study area. That's the study area for the National Historic Landmark District. It doesn't also show the core battlefield. The core battlefield, if we were to be able to lay over that, the Hester track would fall within the core battlefield as well. So I just wanted to give you that visual and then give you some more information. Can you please state your name for the record and your affiliation? Yes. Absolutely. My name is Karen Beck Herzog. I'm the site manager for Cedar Creek and Belgrove National Historical Park. Thank you. I'm the site manager for Cedar Creek and Belgrove National Historical Park. Mr. Chairman, Commission members, thank you so much for the opportunity to speak regarding the rezoning application and the need for preservation in the areas around Middletown. Preservation of open space is vital to our region, especially now as we have seen areas being bulldozed for new housing developments and industrial pressures. Preservation of lands by local governments, the Park Service, and our partners help fulfill two key points specifically mentioned in our parks enabling legislation, which calls for the Park to serve as a focal point to recognize and interpret key Civil War battles in the Shenandoah Valley and for preserving the panoramic views of the mountains, natural areas, waterways, and to provide visitors with an inspiring setting of great natural beauty. The property in question is located near the park boundary and within the updated Cedar Creek Battlefield and Belgrove Plantation National Historic Landmark District, which is significant for its association to the Battle of Cedar Creek and its role in the restoration and restoration of the park. The Park Service will be able to host a number of events, including the National Historical Park and National Historic Landmark District, which is an important part of the park's history as well as the historic site. Our goal is to ensure the park is safe and safe for the visitors to enjoy its natural beauty and its beautiful nature. To provide visitors with an inspiring setting of great natural beauty. The property in question is located near the park boundary and within the updated Cedar Creek Battlefield and Bell Grove Plantation National Historic Landmark District, which is significant for its association to the Battle of Cedar Creek and the broader agricultural landscape during the 18th century and antebellum periods, which cover the time from 1731, the settlement of the area by Pennsylvania German settlers, to the 1864 and the Battle of Cedar Creek, and also lies within the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District, as well as the core battlefield land. The Hester Track played an important role in the afternoon phase of the battle. This parcel and the parcels across the Valley Pike, also known as Runze Knoll, are part of the historic Dingus Farm. On these two properties, U.S. foresters gathered and regrouped before their counterattack. The famous events of Sheridan's Ride occurred in and around these two parcels. The Virginia Department of Historic Research... ... also recognizes this area as historically significant, holding an easement on the Runze Knoll Track because it, quote, incorporates battlefield, historic, open space, and agricultural resources, and contains archaeological potential as well. And we can assume that the parcel in question fits under that same description. VDHR and VDOT installed a highway marker entitled End of Sheridan's Ride, which encourages visitors to pull off and read about it. And this is located directly... ... directly across from the proposed rezoning. Two of the park's fundamental resources identified in our foundation document are the intertwined landscapes and scenic view sheds. As is noted in the document, that pressures of development on privately owned lands is a primary threat to the areas... ... specifically increased suburban industrial sprawl north of Middletown and between Middletown and Strasburg. Development can also have a negative impact economically. Every... ... every dollar invested by taxpayers into the National Park Service yields $10 to the U.S. economy. And visitors spend money in our community while not requiring the infrastructure needs of residents. Negative visitor experience caused by development may lead to less visitors and lower yields to the economy. The park and our partners would prefer to see this land remain rural agriculture zoning. Zoning TM would allow for a wide variety of buy-write issues, including manufacturing as well as potential data centers. Since the rezoning request does not specify the exact use, we cannot fully understand the impact. Though we can anticipate increased traffic, new industrial noise that would negatively affect the current soundscape, additional air emissions, and negative impacts to the view shed on the National Historic Landmark... ... caused by buildings that can be up to 60 feet and up to 150 feet with a Board of Supervisor waiver, and by the electric lines that must be installed to bring power to this site. ... and by the electric lines that must be installed to bring power to this site. The applicant provided a very basic and limited view shed analysis, and the National Park Service would prefer to see a more in-depth analysis with photo simulations and additional viewpoints. If a rezoning does go through, we would respectfully recommend requiring an archaeological survey and imposing strict conditions, including proffers to limit the building height and colors, berm heights, and tree save areas, among others. And National Park Service staff and our partners would be happy to work with the Planning Commission and the Planning staff... ... and our partners would be happy to work with the Planning Commission and the Planning staff... ... and our partners would be happy to work with the Planning Eunipassian and the planning department staff to define these conditions. ... and our partners would be happy to work with the Planning Commission and the Planning staff to define these conditions. The National Park Service appreciates the opportunity to participate in the rezoning application process, and plans to continue to be engaged in this, and our regional projects that may affect Cedar Creek and... The National Park Service appreciates the opportunity to participate in the rezoning application process, and plans to continue to be engaged in this, and our regional projects that may affect Cedar Creek and... ... pissed in this, and our regional projects that may affect Cedar Creek and... ... pleased in this, and our regional projects that may affect Cedar Creek and... ... Transportation Super goodbye to this series of coming and going events and Signs of Urban Abuse... ... Táecli's anticipation to submit some board comments. Thank You, yn 1005 Good evening. My name is Jack Owens. I'm with the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District, which is managed by the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation. The National Historic District was established by Congress in 1996 to preserve and interpret the significant battlefield and related historic sites in the Shenandoah Valley. Our mission is to safeguard these irreplaceable resources, and we believe that the rezoning of the Hester Track poses a direct threat to the mission Congress established. Our organization is dedicated to preserving the rich history and cultural heritage of the valley, a region that played a pivotal role in the American Civil War. The National Historic District is deeply concerned regarding the proposed rezoning of the 101 acres from rural areas to technology manufacturing. These acres are designated by Congress as core battlefield to the Cedar Creek Battlefield area, a site of immense historical significance, as the Park Service has pointed out. And as of September 2nd, 2024. This battlefield, including the 101 acres proposed for rezoning, has been designated within a National Historic Landmark, recognizing its critical importance to our nation's history. The Cedar Creek Battlefield is a place where thousands of soldiers fought and died, and it remains a tangible link to our past. Respectful and responsible development on and around the battlefield area is essential to honoring their memory and ensuring future generations can learn and draw meaning and appreciate our shared heritage. We understand the need for each and every one of you to be a part of this. We understand the need for each and every one of you to be a part of this. manager and deceased bare slash manager and deceased bareinken and deceased barehealthy and deceased barehealthy , especially in the host reason only days a Um, we reason all construction builderskun to this heritage for family and operation the Cedar Creek battlefield. Moreover, it would be prudent for Frederick County to approve rezoning in what could be potentially a data center, which has been thrown around and mentioned by elected and appointed officials across the county or any other technological manufacturing, without having the necessary ordinances and codes in place. These regulations are crucial for ensuring such developments are carried out responsibly, with minimal impact on the environment and historic resources. Without these safeguards, the county risks facing unforeseen challenges and complications that can be mitigated with proper planning and regulations. There are too many questions and concerns that have been brought up today, and we respectfully ask the Planning Commission to table any vote for the rezoning of this tract until such ordinances are established by the Planning Department. This will ensure that any development is connected to the planning and regulations of the Cedar Creek. The project has been conducted in a manner and respects what has been preserved, such as the historical integrity and cultural significance of the land and area around the tract, while also providing clear framework for managing technological related infrastructure. In conclusion, we ask you to weigh the historical value of the Cedar Creek battlefield and the unknowns that come with this proposed rezoning against this project. By doing so, you can help protect a vital piece of our nation's heritage for the future generations and ensure that any technological advances are implemented thoughtfully and sustainably. And for that, I thank you. Thank you, Mr. Owens. Would anyone else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Hello. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm a flower farmer, veggie grower. I live in the Gainesboro District. I wanted to come to help preserve farmland in the area. All the historical places nearby give it much more reason. There's also some vault and cellar down the street has just opened up, and Newtown Merchantile in Stephen City has just opened up. I see these businesses attracting a certain agritourism in the area. I think it's really flourishing, and it's going to be beautiful. I think we should protect the prosperity that's going to bring to everyone, all the residents included. And I'm super against more truck traffic in this county, especially around residents and around schools. I worry about the smells that could come from technology manufacturing. There's so many unknowns, and I like to research everything, and I'm not sure what we're giving. At this point, there's too many unknowns. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Spencer. Would anyone else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Hi. I'm Elizabeth Peldunas from the Opecan District. I hadn't planned to speak tonight, but this project makes me think of two things that I would be considering. I believe it was a year and some ago when I attended, I believe the company's name was Carmoose, who was across from the battlefields where they were increasing the height of their tower, and they had worked, I think, in partnership with the national parks to ameliorate the problems that that taller tower would impact the park. And I was surprised that the I think for this evening's presentations didn't have similar pictures where the view instead of the graphic that you saw actually had a photograph that was with those buildings behind the trees, so you could actually pretend that you were standing on the street and anticipate what a large building might look like. So, I think the applicant at least owes the national part as other applicants before you have done. The other thing is I don't know the size that elementary school, but it's in a really unfortunate location already, right up against I-81. I looked up, there are about 60,000 vehicle trips on that highway every day, and the noise from that severely impacts the learning of elementary school students. Where I lived before I moved here, there were 150,000 cars going by the school daily, and I'm surprised that there aren't parents here complaining that you're going to add additional noise, pollution, environmental things that would impact their children's learnings, and I think that's a disservice to Frederick County residents. So there's still some questions that I would have before I could vote either way on this project, and I hope that you can look at those and find some answers. Thank you. Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening, sir. My name's Aaron Stickman. I live in Middletown. I actually have two questions, not a statement. First question is, in the traffic study that was done July 27th of 2022, I believe, did that study take in consideration the new sheets, traffic pattern, and what it's added to the 81 corridor? And number two question is, I noticed the buffer here along 11 Mustang Lane. There's no buffer on 81. And there's obviously no buffer on the property to the north. I was just wondering if maybe they could address that or if that was in the plans. This is an opportunity for the public to speak to us, so it's not an interaction, but I would say if you get with these gentlemen after the meeting, they can provide you answers. Thank you very much, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Anyone at all? Okay, I'll close the public hearing. Mr. Moon, would you like to briefly respond? Just briefly, just to touch on the gentleman's question there before, I can say that the signal justification studies, the kind of supplemental reports that were prepared for VDOT, did in fact include the sheets. That was a pipeline development that came online in the midst of our work, and they required us to update that study accordingly. Okay. So señal directions forcity— So it seems that it is a very complex system, but it's DEA- fest and responsibility's role to not just read and check it but to provide an understanding somehow of what these claims are. Thank you very much, and I'll also go back to that section in and ask you that you do feel that potentially— …you know, if you want to take it out that it looks pretty interesting and I'm going to от aê And I'll also ask again Mr. Moon about that tagline you'veации or that hashtag, isjanndación of not only whether it's boyfriend within or since but também estaá … dei z States espí afer y marfare garantido … tantá similars a Ukraine syo … tantá similars a Ukraine si�3 vegetation that exists on the site is in fact along mustang lane and the in the school boundary so that's a fortunate thing which will be preserved but thank you thank you mr plan can you summarize for us please yes sir again for your consideration this evening is a rezoning request to designate 101 acres of property presently zoned ra to the tm manufacture technology manufacturing park district with proffers to enable industrial development um there as mr moan stated as from a comp plan compatibility standpoint they are generally implementing what would otherwise be envisioned with our mixed use industrial office designation however staff did reiterate a number of concerns that are raised with the application as a result of the submission and the work session work and the resubmission that still remain outstanding for your consideration and further discussion this evening mr still you thank you very much sir okay this is an opportunity for commissioners to discuss the proposal that's before us i'll start with my right again mr triplet did you have okay okay okay mr kearns thank you um this is i guess directed at staff this is kind of a procedural question i know there are potential changes to the data center precautions uh in support of the data center Virus while they show up stone parlar Brown has previously我們 those an announcement that there are still 225 what your faith le comp branch that we sign that site plan, the property would be vested for five years. If they didn't build in that five year timeline, they'd have to come back in for a signature and then if we had passed an ordinance, they would no longer be vested and have to comply with the ordinance standards. So the rezoning action itself does not vest them, but if they prepare an engineered plan, get that approved and are ready to build at that time, they don't have to comply with new ordinances that go into effect. Thank you. Any other questions? Question. Yes, sir. Or discussion, I'm sorry, discussion. Just to make sure I understand the allowances we have here tonight, we can table this for up to 90 days because it has to go to the board within 90 days of tonight. Does that meet the first meeting in March or would we have to go since I think that might? I think March 5th is 91 days, so you'd have to. You couldn't table it beyond your February 19th meeting. Okay. Okay, and as far as, well, no, I won't ask staff that. As far as discussions, there's an awful lot of unanswered questions. I think I heard a response tonight more of we would need to discuss that with staff or we need to analyze that or we need to get more information on that as answers to questions than I've heard from most others before. I think this is a very, I think all of MTSI and staff have indicated from experience over the years that we are 해야 to, have something done with these today prepared performances that DPS will have to do at any point, but I think we're looking at investment from a picture standpoint and an effort from the CONSP express report 드�tiering some potential that's never been done until, you know, summer just tapi, 100% of that could be trucks, which would have an extremely significant impact. And as far as the improvements, I really don't want to see cash for the county. I want to see them, the developers should be, if they think that they can do an intersection signalization for $500,000 or $400,000, have at it. That's what they need to propose instead of giving the county cash. I think there should also be some recognition of historical sites. I'm surprised there hasn't been a historical evaluation of the site where they've actually looked for archivable materials. When you do construction, most of that would be destroyed, so that would all be lost. I just don't think this is anywhere near ready to go to the board, either with a positive or a negative. I think it is the recommendation, I think it is the function of the Planning Commission to help the developer produce a package that can go to the board that satisfies the needs of Frederick County residents, taxpayers, and meets the conditions and the standards of Frederick County planning. And this is not there. And I think we are acquiescing our responsibility if we would pass this forward without giving it to the board. I think we are giving the opportunity to the developer to fix the package up. And I don't think it can be fixed up in 30 days. I think it needs to be tabled for a minimum of 90 days. And if we could table it for longer, I would say 91 days. But evidently, we can't do that. So that's my thoughts. Okay. Thank you, sir. Discussion? Do you have anything? Well, I'm a little concerned. We send things to our historic. And they didn't say anything but put in some signs. It seems like we do need to figure out how to coordinate with the National Park Service and the state. I agree with tabling this because we do need to preserve historic. I honestly didn't know that was really on the table. That was not talked about when I read the historic study. They didn't seem to indicate anything. So I agree. I agree with Roger that 90 days are the most that we possibly can to send it to the board supervisors. Because this is a big deal. And we shouldn't just ignore it. Any other discussion? Okay. This is Back Creek. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to move that we table rezoning 09-24. For Middletown LLC for a period of 90 days. And that would bring us to the February 19th meeting. And can you please state the purpose for the tabling? Yes. We have a lot of unanswered questions that we will have to, I guess, culminate and give to the staff. Or they have. Is that good enough? Yeah. Okay. Okay. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Second. We have a second. Second. We have a second. Mr. McKay. Okay. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, we'll start. Ms. Brannon? Brannon, yes. Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Sneddon, yes. Molden, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Trumpet, yes. Chair vote yes and the motion carries. Let me just say in summary. We want to have businesses flourish in Frederick County and we welcome this opportunity, but we've got to do it right. And our goal is to make sure it's a positive for everybody. So we understand you've wrestled with VDOT for two years. I think that's admirable. And I think we can get this taken care of fairly quickly. So just encourage you to work with staff and the Park Service. I'm sure the representatives who are here would be glad to chat with you and provide. Their thoughts. They may even have some of the records you're looking for if there's previous studies that have been done. So, thank you. We. Those would be the guys to ask question to. We've got to move along with our agenda. Our next item is also a public hearing. Item 7B, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code. Ms. Feltner. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. This is a proposal to amend the zoning ordinance as it relates to a special event facility. This amendment was initiated at the request of a board member. The ordinance currently allows a special event facility in the RA with an approved conditional use permit, and it requires the parking spaces and travel ways to be surfaced with gravel. The proposed standard would provide adequate area for the off-street parking on stable ground to be maintained and to be free of mud and to be stabilized with vegetation. The tracking of mud and debris onto roadways is not permitted. Parking related to other business activity on the property shall meet the ordinance requirement for off-street parking and parking lots. Additionally, at no time shall the commissioned neighborhood teachers and employees as during a city stay to work within a particular time zone of the any particular site. The building will then trending is installed separately. shall the parking of vehicles obstruct vehicular traffic or impede access to emergency services accessible parking shall be provided as required the Board of Supervisors has the ability through the conditional use permit process to require an alternative surface material the proposal permits the fire marshal to require hard surfaces if needed for apparatus access and private entrances driveways and all travel ways accessing the off street parking area shall be provided with gravel surfaces or an approved equivalent this item is presented for public hearing staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors and staff is available to answer any questions that you may have thank you thank you any questions mr. Kerr just real quick with this immediately should this proceed and be approved with this immediately impact all of the currents people with CUPS with properties with CUPS or would would they have to get a new CUP for this to apply or would this be with this apply immediately to everybody with the CUP for a special event in a sense it would apply to everybody that hasn't put the parking into place but those that have we wouldn't be able to enforce any violation against it if that makes sense yes yes thank you thank you you know the questions miss Brandon and reading the ordinance what's a travel way versus a travel Isles so a travel Isle is a traveled way by which vehicles enter and depart the parked spaces a travel way would be the areas including the driveway you have to turn around in that manner if you want okay so now so the intent would be that the as they discussed in the DRRC meeting is that the driveways entering into and leading to the parking area would not be permitted to be dirt it would have to have a gravel surface at the bare minimum unless the board decided it needed something more fire marshal decided it needed something more but once you got to to the parking area where the cars will be placed, those would be permitted to be without gravel. So that's like if I'm parking head to head, it's this type of movement as opposed to driving, right? So it would be accessing the property from the main streets into the property to the location of where the cars will be parked in a perimeter in the outskirts. It doesn't go in between the cars. Mind you, this is an RA area on a large area of farmland. It would go to the parking area where the cars are. Once you got to the parking area, you wouldn't have to do anything between the aisles of those parking spaces. Okay. My next question. Because I try to think rural, I live rural and I know some people with cattle, like they will fence in a lot and have their cattle eat. And then when the grass gets down, they'll move them to another lot. So like I envision a truly functional farm with cattle, they may park on this field while it's growing up and then move over here. So I'm concerned about that. Are you making the park clean and sharp? Yes, for sure. But that's what I'm praying that it's like between the Privacy County and the county. So John, how much does this become un hè hemphach attached to the savings for the чер goose? Sure. I think most things have done and well. . . . Do you think we can? . . They think that's kind of an odd thing. B so it now stay the drive may change I I so that the farmers have their drive so what they want them so if the if the plan is to have two separate and independent parking areas if I'm coming in off of the main road to access that parking area uh-huh that pathway from the main entrance or main road to that parking area is graveled once I got into that so-called postage stamp or where the cars are put whether it be three or four or five rows those areas would not be graveled yeah they would not I understand but I just don't know that I agree with making them gravel to driveway I say the farmers know if they need to gravel if they need to plow it if they need to cut it I think we're to leave them alone any other questions yes yes sir understanding that's what I'm saying I think that's what I'm saying I think that's what I'm saying I think that's what I'm saying I think that's what I'm saying I think that's what you're just saying it's okay you don't have to put gravel in until it becomes necessary that's correct the current current ordinance requires them to gravel the driveway entrance area gravel up to the parking area gravel the parking area and keep that from being grown over the intent of this is to allow them to keep that parking area not the access to the parking area but the parking area itself so that they could use that for pasture land if need be after the event and and you know of course who I'm referring to we just had that recent happened with mrs. Edwards yes sir so made her happy yes sir thank you the other questions for staff okay thank you very much this is a public hearing anybody who would like to speak to this change this ordinance amendment is certainly welcome to do so I would invite you to come to the podium state your name your name your name your name magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes would anybody like to speak nobody wants to speak I will close the public hearing okay commissioners what is your pleasure here I think this is a good change okay was that a motion yeah I'll move that we recommend approval okay we're gonna go to the next item item 7c is also a public hearing this pertains to the comprehensive plan amendment for Western Frederick land-use plan amendment for Western Frederick land-use plan I would just like to say before mr. Klatt starts I've said this before and I'm going to say that every opportunity the work that staff did on this project particularly with the public outreach was was admirable wasn't it was just incredible it's far superior to to what we've done previously and I think it set a precedent for what we do going forward when we take up the comprehensive plan amendment next year or the update next year so I would just like to say mr. client thank you and congratulations on a job well done so thank you thank you mr. chairman members of the Planning Commission this is your Western Frederick land-use plan public hearing and this is an amendment to the county's adopted comprehensive plan specifically appendix one to revise and consolidate three of our adopted area plans the browns Hill area plan the West 37 which we're now referring to is all been area plan and the West Jubal early area plan into a single planning document and we also are proposing the inclusion of the study side area of the county as well which is an area that has been not part of any formal study in the history of the county the area plan encompasses approximately six thousand two hundred and twenty nine acres and it can is split between the Stonewall Gainesboro and Bat Creek Magisterial District so really broad area of the county and as mr. Stowe did we did a lot of extensive outreach on this project we started the project actually in spring of 2023 we did staff did a lot of community what we call community reconnaissance we met with private landowners developers key stakeholders including Frederick water VDOT parks and recreation Frederick County Public Schools we then proceeded to do what we called a preliminary survey in a town hall phase of the project before we did any plan formulation before we really took a deep dive into what changes we would like to make we went out to the public and did a fourteen town halls at the first part of 2024 with a number of groups including churches schools private and public residential communities community organizations including the ruritan and rotary clubs Shenandoah University the chamber top of Virginia builders just to name a few we had some really good positive conversations about this area of the county what concerns they had with growth and growth pressure what they would like to see what they would not like to see and we also did a an online survey and got about 300 responses during that phase two of the project we then took all that public feedback that we had gathered all of our community reconnaissance efforts and discussing projects and properties and we did a plan formulation did a draft plan put it back out online went back out into the community for a series of meetings in the spring and summer of 2024 which many of you attended and we got some additional feedback about where we had kind of hit the mark where we missed the mark where additional changes could be made we took all that feedback made several more changes did a joint work along that Hernan-Hontag-Hontag connection that we had when the plan was put out to be a finalized and then we were back in. session with the planning commission of board of supervisors in the fall and now we're in this kind of planned presentation uh state so as mr stowe said we did an extensive public outreach and we do feel that this plan does reflect community values and the response especially that second round of surveying we did in the summer was generally positive about the plan and the direction that the plan had been presented this is your study area again it's that area kind of north and west of the city of winchester sunnyside albin round hill and west juba early includes areas north and south of route 522 including james wood high school areas north and south of route 50 and areas inside and outside of route 37 and north of cedar creek grade a very diverse area of the county a very large primarily rural area of the county and what we gathered from that public outreach is is captured in our vision statement that the western frederick study area of the county provides a planned transition between the urban and suburban nature of the city of winchester and eastern frederick county in the rural areas west of route 37. we then uh presented a planned purpose which is that the intent of the plan is to preserve rural lands natural historic resources and views west of 37 concentrate new growth particularly new residential growth and higher density development in areas within the limits of our urban development area and served by public utilities i.e within the limits of the sewer water service area and services and if you look at that planned purpose and you go through the comments that we got on our surveys most of those terms and statements come directly from the public feedback that we received this is your existing land use plan which shows of this area of the county what i would highlight on this and when we go to the next slide which is our proposed land uses there's not a significant change in areas that we designated for new land uses there's really a few minor changes in areas that we've identified for recreation and really the areas that were previously identified for commercial uses remain identified for commercial uses in areas that were planned for residential development remain planned for residential development we've simply changed the land use designation of the code that we ranked for and our land use code that we've of the code that we use about those areas we've provided a lot of plan policy speaking to what we envisioned in these areas of the county that are utilized by this body when we evaluate rezoning its conditional use permits and etc development plans to ensure that we're implementing projects that meet the community's vision so I'll walk through each of the study the sub planning areas and what changes were included and then the next slides will be the comparison map so working from the northern part of our study area the first area is sunny side this area the county seeds a change in some of the land use designation from primarily rural or start primarily residential and commercial to planned unit development residential and commercial uses we then designated the area for urban center and sorry urban center not planned unit development and we've included a lot of policy about what this area the county looks like this is your area kind of north and south of route 522 and you're leaving the city of Winchester going west towards the county and then you're leaving the city of Winchester going south towards route 37 we speak to a commercial core around route 522 linking existing residential neighborhoods within this area with any new residential development this area contains Shenandoah Valley Westminster Canterbury the Darlington neighborhoods and Star Fort communities speaks to really implementing a high quality building design architecture and site layout there's a lot of small lots so consolidation of lots to build new buildings and structures is going to be an important component of redevelopment in this part of the county mixed use buildings where feasible particularly along route 522 those maybe buildings where there's commercial or office on a ground level and second story residential aiding in the development of new residential units but being conscientious of the small footprint that we have in that part of the county and then again implementing new housing types to facilitate this type of infill this is not going to be an area where you see a lot of new single-family detached homes on small lots this is going to be Town homes multi-family buildings two over twos some of those creative mixed middle housing types that will be used to to you read about but aren't necessarily part of our zoning ordinance at this point. So that is an implementation step that will need to be done after this would be approved to further implement this plan. And then this is a comparison, again, that kind of on the right-hand side, that's going to be your proposed land use designation, that kind of hatch. Polka dot pattern is our urban center designation. Again, primarily on the south side of Route 522 where there's a lot of opportunities for infill and vacant lots. And then the yellow areas that are north of Route 522 remain kind of unchanged. Those are your existing kind of mature residential neighborhoods. And we went out to the community. They said, hey, you know, we don't see this area changing, right? We're not intending to move. We don't see our neighborhoods, you know, shifting from being single-family lots. But we do want to be connected to any urban center or new development that's occurred. So that's where those policies come from. The next area of the county is Auburn. That's going to be the area south of Route 522 and west of Route 37. This is an area of the county that's primarily rural. And what we've done is we've defined the Auburn rural community center boundary on existing plans. It's really shown as kind of a circle. There's no real kind of methodology on why it's being.
