Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-02-18
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=323
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I will call the February 18, 2026 Planning Commission meeting to order. Will you please stand and join us for the invocation, followed by the Pledge of Allegiance? And Mr. Markert, thank you, sir. Yes. Let us pray. Dear Lord, thank you for this beautiful world and this country that you've given us and the patriots who are willing to care for it. Thank you for inspiring our founders to create this beautiful republic. Please help us to keep it, to keep it as the aspiring place to live. Please give us the wisdom to do the right things, the common sense to judge wisely, the energy to never give up, and your unending grace in which we take comfort. In your name we pray. Amen. Roger. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. And respond with a Ivory to the flag of the United States of America. Thank you. That takes us to item four, adoption of the agenda. Do we have a motion for adoption of the agendas? Do we have a second? Any discussion? All those in favor, signify by saying aye. Any opposed, likewise. We have an agenda. That leads us to committee reports. Do we have any committee reports to my right? Seeing none, do we have any to the left? Yes, sir. Frederick Water had their monthly meeting last night. We had a two-hour work session working on our strategic planning and goal development. And then standard meeting at 4 o'clock. We just got updates on progress with the new Lake Frederick well coming online. And we also got notified that they got approved for a grant for about $3 million for the pipeline that goes up to Parkins Mill. That's in public notice. It's not been fully paid yet. That's all. Thank you very much, sir. Any other reports? Mr. Orndorff or Mr. Gibbemont, Board of Supervisors? Mr. Chairman, Commissioners, the Board of Supervisors met on February 11th. I'd like to repeat. I reported on two items that were forwarded to the Board by the Planning Commission. One was a rezoning of Madison 277. And a public hearing was conducted. And the rezoning was approved on a 5-2 vote. The second item was the capital improvement plan for 2026 through 2031. Public hearing was held. And then the capital improvement plan was approved on a 7-0 vote. With that, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report from the Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Correll, good evening, sir. I overlooked you. Welcome. Congratulations on your election as Chairman of Winchester's Planning Commission. Tell us what's going on over there in the city. Sure. Well, first of all, I'll let everyone know we've got this wonderful Panera here. It's still on this side if you need it. And then someone left their glasses here, too. So the business end of things is we handled a couple of text amendments. We approved amendments regarding private streets for townhomes. We also assured ways for the city, if the need arises, is to take over those private roads under a set of circumstances. As long as it meets certain standards as public streets. We tabled two rezoning cases. There's a Commerce Street PUD that was tabled to allow review of last minute plan changes and a Tree Tops Lane proposal that was tabled for 60 days as the developer wanted to expand. And they're still considering changing the plan. One of the things I'm really proud about is we updated the bylaws that have not been updated since 2017. And I wanted to thank the Frederick County Planning Commission because you have a great set of bylaws that I looked at and reviewed. It's got some great provisions in it. And we had a very spirited discussion about that. Updated attendance enforcement quorum requirements. And we now can streamline the agenda more and remove a little bit of the redundancy in work sessions. That's one of the things you do really well here, I think. You should have been with us at 530, sir. Okay. That's awesome. Thank you very much. Are there any other committee reports? Seeing none, I want to take just a moment for the Chairman's prerogative and do something I haven't had a chance to do yet. Please bear with me. We have somebody in our audience this evening who worked with us for years. And I'd like to read a resolution of appreciation for Jason Akins, a member of the Planning Commission of Frederick County, Virginia. He said, don't do this. I don't want the recognition. He needs the recognition, I promise you. Whereas Jason Akins served as the Gainesboro District Representative on the Frederick County Planning Commission from the date of his appointment by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors, till February 9th, on February 9th, 2002, 2022. And whereas Jason served on the Planning Development Regulation Committee and Comprehensive Plans Program Committee during his time on the Planning Commission. And whereas Jason Akins assisted on the Northeast Land Use Plan and Western Frederick Land Use Plan updates. And whereas during his period as a member of the Commission, Jason Akins demonstrated steadfast support for common sense regulations, that protect residents without impeding businesses. And whereas Jason Akins possesses the highest devotion to duty and representation of the citizens of the county with dignity, dedication and wisdom. And whereas a member of the Planning Commission wished to express their gratitude to Jason Akins and to recognize his faithful service while wishing him well on the Board of Supervisors. Now therefore it be resolved this third day of December, 2025. Yeah, we're a few months late. Frederick County Planning Commission does hereby officially express its sincere thanks to Jason Akins for his commitment to sound planning, his tireless participation in activities of the Planning Commission and its various subcommittees and his overall dedication to Frederick County adopted this third day of December 2025. Mr. Akins. Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. Unexpected. Thank you. What a secret. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And that will take us to the citizen comment period. This is a time where citizens can address the Planning Commission on any topic. That is not subject of a public hearing this evening. If you'd like to speak to the Planning Commission. please come to the podium state your name Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes or less but anybody like to address the Planning Commission going once twice okay I will close the public comment period and that leads us to public hearings mr. Bittner good evening sir this is rezoning 0126 of 700 Ross Street thank you mr. chairman Eric Bender planner to this is a request by Akins and Allen LP LLC to rezone point two acres currently zoned as b2 general business located at 700 Ross Street in the stonewall Magisterial District the applicant's intent is to construct a three-story hotel a three-story hotel and a three-story area for the city of St. Louis and the property is currently under proffered use restrictions restricting it to a parking lot only and so that's in place through rezoning application 1403 that was all adopted as such they need a proper amendment to remove that restriction and as it deals with land use a plain public hearing is required here in purple we have outlined the property there is a house currently on the property although it is not in use and it is currently considered not conforming as a single-family dwelling is not permitted in the plot today these are recently identified approval of the zoning permit here we have the option here on the ground use map to find employeegrove P2 Colorco Academy which benefits the good Morales and Adam Cheyenne area in location with eек MRP Bay Unifiedibutee and the Mason and it's $4 and I'mЕН9 by 2 of the only employers in the LHU B2 business district the parcel is also partially located inside the bounds of the city of Winchester which is the shaded area and purple here we have the zoning map identifying the areas b2 general business it also abuts b2 general business which is currently developed as parking lot serving the Hampton in just south of the property this is the long-range land use map this is the long range land use is identified as the regionalcl Avenue This probably should be booty's land use the B two on this other county is generally not consider that? B2 district is generally not considered conforming to this land use and so the applicant has proposed proffers to mitigate that. With that proffer statement, the proposal is to remove the proffer restricting it as parking lot only and proposing one new and one amended proffer. New proffer is that the use will be restricted to hotel and parking lot only, meaning all other uses allowed in B2 district which would otherwise be not harmonious with the residential land use would be restricted. And then there is proffer C which is the amendment to the design requirements which would allow for a 25 foot setback from Ross Street. Staff would like to call that to attention as that's a 10 foot reduction from the 35 foot setback currently required in the B2 district. Other design requirements proffered are a 10 foot parking setback from Ross Street which is in line with our current zoning ordinance and that the lot will be developed in conformance with the city of Winchester parking lot design standards and the reason for that is to ensure their harmonious design with the adjacent property use. The remaining proffer of 11. Eliminate the access of Ross Street and to use an internal connection with the Hampton in for access is proposed to remain the same and unaltered. The positives of this rezoning is that the proffer restricts the allowed uses that would not be harmonious with the surrounding residential uses and thereby eliminate those impacts that they could potentially create. And the removal of the existing access on Ross Street would be an improvement to the traffic. A couple of concerns. The B2 district is generally not considered to be considered with the residential future land use category. So the Planning Commission should determine. If the proffer use restrictions are enough to bring that into consistency. Proffer C reduced setback is also reduction of the current setback standards. I'll reference the county attorney's comment. This is an acceptable proffer. However the Planning Commission should consider reductions of the zoning ordinance are desirable proffers for the county to accept. This is a design sketch for the property showcasing three story structure and 25 foot setback from Ross Street. In the event of approval. The applicant would still need to submit. The applicant would still need to submit. The applicant would still need to submit. A detailed site plan to meet with all zoning ordinances. This item is presented as a public hearing item. Staff are seeking recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors following that public hearing. The Board of Supervisors public hearing is scheduled for March 11th. At this point myself and the applicant representatives are available for any questions. Can you back up to the previous slide? The applicant is on the left. Yes, sir. Ross Street is illustrated left with the 50 foot right of way. There is the outlined sidewalk and the proposed open space and the 25 foot setback from Ross Street. Okay. Very good. Thank you, sir. Does anybody have questions for Mr. Bittner? To my right. To my left. To my right. To my left. To my right. To my left. To my left. I do. Where is the parking for this new structure going to be? Is that in the existing Hampton Inn lot or? So there are parking requirements in our zoning requirement that they will have to meet those minimum parking standards. They can put those on this parcel or they can enter into a shared parking lot agreement through our zoning ordinance with the adjacent parking. I know this is, that's in, is the Hampton Inn in Winchester or Frederick County? Uh, it is mixed. It is mixed between the two. The two? Yes, ma'am. So then you have to, do you, I don't know how, I'm just asking how that works. Certainly. How do you work with Winchester? With this application because it's partially inside the city of Winchester and with the design proffers to be consistent with the parking lot design standards of, to the city of Winchester. When they submit for a site plan, one of the review agencies that we'll be sending it to is the city of Winchester. The city of Winchester's planning department will need to approve the site plan in order for us to approve it as well. Okay. Well, I was just curious as to. I just didn't want them to be parking on the street. You know, you have overflow parking if it's a conference center going on or something like that. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Any other questions to my left? Yes, sir. Mr. Stanton. So this parcel right here and the existing parcel, do they, are they owned by the same person? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much, sir. Would the applicant? The applicant or engineer care to say anything? So Jason Akins, Gainesboro District. So to give you guys a little bit of history here. So this house is in pretty rough shape. We bought the house and the land back in 1997. And when we went to develop the Hampton Inn, we thought that we might need more parking. Wasn't really sure. We built the property back in 1999. And because some of you may or may not know, when we built the property, it had 6,000 square feet of conference space in the lower level. Since then, we have converted that conference space into additional guest amenities at the hotel and reduced the amount of conference space in the lower level, in turn lowering the amount of parking. Now. We had even with 6,000 square feet of conference space in the basement that we had, lower level. We try to fancy it up. We still didn't need the parking for 20 years. And so what we're doing as a developer is looking at our entire portfolio and say, hey, do we have any assets that are underserved that could be redeveloped into a better product? And the house. It's. We boarded up the house about five years ago. It's in pretty rough shape. Technically, we could demo the house, build another small single family house on it, and bring in limited real estate tax for Frederick County. Or we have looked at the option of doing a three story extended stay where we would rent the units for only 30 days at a time. Targeted towards nurses, doctors, and professionals. And we're looking at the option of doing a three story extended stay where we would rent the units for 30 days. But the general goals are we're working with lots of professionals, similar to some of you that might be familiar with this product in downtown that's called an old town corporate suite I think is what it's called. Where their furnished units, so that people could come in and just have to bring a suitcase and a bar of soap and you could stay there for thirty days straight at a more affordable rate than if you would say at the Hampton Inn. So it's an extension of the Hampton Inn. Worth it. We're comfortable with all sorts of parking, shared parking agreements, that kind of stuff. It's all owned by the same people. We're never going to sell it as a separate entity. We probably aren't going to sell it ever unless my son decides to sell off the empire. There's an important note that I am going to screw things up here probably. But over here, there's a critical easement right here. There's a waterline easement that comes back through here and then comes through and then comes back across. I might have messed that up a little bit. Maybe it's right here. That's where it is. So that 25-foot setback is being requested because I can't push the building forward or back anymore. We've already built this building before. It's a very efficient-sized building up in Martinsburg. And it works. It just fits on the site. But I can't – it won't work, to put it frankly. Because of that waterline easement, that's because there's a – it's a pump station that the city has back here. So anyways, I've kind of told you a little bit of the back story on the project and happy to address any questions that you have. Any questions? To my right? Seeing none. To my left? Is Betty Street a street or is it just a platted right-of-way? It's a platted right-of-way. Okay. Tried to claim it. Haven't been successful. Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to address the planning commission, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium. State your name. Magisterial district. And please limit your comments to three minutes or less. Good evening, ma'am. Thank you. Bear with me. I'm nervous. I'm not normally someone who talks to this. My name is Vicki Michaels. I live in the Stonewall District. I want to thank each one of you for giving up your time to serve our community. I do appreciate it. Some of the questions I had have been answered. It's going to be a three-story building in a residential area where just recently we started having two-story homes built in there. I am concerned about the 25-foot setback versus the 35. It's not going to line up with the rest of the. Buildings on the street. I'm not sure how that's going to look. But my main concern has to do with the extended stay. So the city has a 10 percent maximum limit of their rooms for a hotel to be used for extended stay. Does the county have any such limit as that? Does anyone know if the county has. This is an opportunity for you to address us, ma'am. Okay. Well, it's hard to address when I don't know the answer to that question. So I'll just go on with the next site with that. You've answered that the average length of stay is 30 days. There is a current facility in our area that is in the city. It's about a quarter mile away from where you're wanting to build this at. And at the time that they wanted to make that an extended stay, two meetings were held. Everyone in the neighborhood was assured that it was. It was going to be a nice area. When you put this out that you were looking at an extended stay, I asked my husband, how many times did he think police and fire have been called to that same facility a quarter mile away, which I will be living six houses away from this facility. He knew the question meant it was going to be high. So he guessed 190. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. 594. That's a quarter of a mile away from the area. That's my concern. I do not want another facility built or converted that is going to further bring the type of people into the area that we were promised by the owners of the other place, it would not. And I don't want to see a building that is built and the owners get a conditional use permit that when it's taken away because of what happens, they figure out to send the people from 30 days in their building to another hotel for 30 days to come back for 30 days because there's ways around that. I need you all to help protect those of us that live in that area. My grandfather bought the property we live on in 1925. You're our only line of defense. And I guess I'm skeptical because I've been promised it before. And now, you know, it's 594 police and fire calls. It is a facility for where we have people on the corners begging. I don't think that nice. Police or doctors and people coming into the town are going to want to stay in an area where you drive down the street and you've got a homeless hotel across the street and people lining up for it. You know, I mentioned my family's been here since night. Well, my family was deed at the original property from James Monroe Esquire when in Hardy County, Virginia, before the Civil War. So I've been here a long time. And Winchester. Has been such a wonderful community. But we're not that we're not getting that way anymore. And it's because we keep bringing in things that take away from the area. You know, my daughter and grandson live one house away from me. And it's embarrassing when my grandson has to answer his cousin when his cousin asks him, why do you live in the ghetto? Please help us and do not put something in that is going to. Further bring down the community that we live in. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Would anyone else like to speak? My name is Tim Michaels and I live in Stonewall District. I live on the end of Ross Street. OK. If you guys ever get a chance to go by the old house. That's. Talking about taking down. If that's thirty five feet. Ten more feet. It's it's almost going to feel like it's right on the road. OK. The biggest concern I have is the parking. So. You have. A hotel that was built and when they built that they had to have a required amount of parking spaces. OK. So now you're going to add. Another building. Three stories high. I mean I'm not sure how many rooms you're going to put in there. But you're probably talking between forty and forty five more parking spaces. I live on Ross Street. I go by there every day at night that parking lot is jam full. So if you take the hotel. You take the conference center and then you take. The. New. Hotel that they're going to build. People will be parking on the street. And after that we won't have any recourse. So. That's all I have to say. Thank you sir. Yep. What anybody else like to speak. Anybody else. I'll close public hearing. Mr. Akins would you like to respond sir. Fantastic. I appreciate the comments the. The. For clarification the current house that's already there is at twenty five feet right now. So we're not actually pushing any more forward. So it's going to the line is going to stay where it's at. I would love to say that there's a parking problem. But there's not. I can tell you that from. Being the owner since we built it. We have a hundred ninety I think. It's a hundred ninety two parking spots on the site. And. With the city's ordinance it was actually over part now. And. What we're saying is that it would actually have this these twelve units would generate. To parking spots. It's a hundred unit building. Parking is sufficient. We would have to add in some additional eighty a parking around the back. To make sure that that but that's general site plan requirements that kind of stuff. The. I'm very familiar. With the structure. That there. That. Mitchell. My. Michael. Sorry. We're speaking of. And it is. That business does it does have problems. With the number of. Fire and service and rescue calls. Sheriff calls. I don't know any better way to put this but that is a different clientele than what I'm looking to serve. And at a different price point. That is. More than likely not going to be able to be where this facility is offering. I'll just leave it at that. You have staff on site twenty four seven. At the hampton yes ma'am yes sir. Thank you sir. Okay discussion among commissioners. Any discussion. The comments mister Thomas. I appreciate the problem that with the other facility. But I've I've stayed in extended care facilities. Typically they don't have that problem so I'm not sure why that other facility does. But it's next to the Hampton Inn. There's significant there's sufficient parking there. From my observation and when you look at the numbers it appears like there's there will be sufficient parking. It serves a need that we do have as far as extended. Stay facilities. I know there's one on route eleven south that. A lot of folks that would come into our office stayed there when they first moved into the area. So it's serving a good purpose it's certainly a better use of that property than sitting there with an abandoned house on it. I would think you're going to have a whole lot more problems with. Squatters and peeping move people moving into an abandoned house than an extended care facility. So I would. Certainly be inclined to. Want to improve one approve this or recommend approval of this. Thank you sir any other comments. Yes sir. Mr. Chairman. Yeah a couple things I'm familiar with the old town. Extended stay and it's priced at the point where it keeps the trouble out. Very well run facility. My office was right next to it. And so we didn't have those problems. I think with extended stays there's no in between. You either have. Words low priced and you bring in the folks. That these fine folks are talking about. Or it's priced to where it's going to bring in the professionals. If it's priced as such and it's and it's oriented towards. Professionals I don't think you're going to have that problem. And like Mr. Aiken said. There's already a house there. So and it's at twenty five feet which is beyond the current. Zoning. I personally don't see a problem with it. And I think of its built for. Priced at and maintain for professionals. I think it's a good thing for our community. We need it. If it's not priced for professionals and it's not maintained as such then. I wouldn't be happy with that. Thank you sir. You know the comments. Okay to my left. Yes sir. Mr. Schnee. So is there any way that we can add verbiage. You know to this. To say that you know it's not for families and things like that. To ensure that. It is for business professionals and. Of that nature that it is. Used for the intended use. I'm not sure we can I don't know how we would even. Yeah. Begin to do that. I think I see what you're getting at but I think it'd be a challenge. Especially from a land use regulation perspective. To try to regulate the type of clientele that they serve. I bet. Mr. Fox if you can expand on that at all but I think. You could get into really dicey areas with. The. Well plus families moving into the area need an extended place. I mean. The folks that came to our office that came in and stayed in extended care facilities usually it was a man and wife and. A couple children and they'd stay there for. A month till they were buying a house or something like that so there is a need for someplace for. Families to stay in an extended facility instead of going to the Hampton Inn. Now this is next to the Hampton Inn so. They're not going to want a trashy. Clientele staying. Two hundred feet from the Hampton Inn because that would kill their business at the Hampton Inn and Hampton Inn's franchise would. Look very poorly upon that so. I I think this will be. Well maintained and well looked at. After. Yeah I mean I just. Have just briefly I'm sorry. If I can just add also I believe you'd be you'd run into issues with being a place of public accommodation. Under the rules that apply to that civil rights rules and others that you would just not would be able to you would not be able to enact that type of restriction. I should have completed my thought before but I wanted to add that. Yeah I mean that that's fine and I understand I just trying to you know. It's still a level of confidence you know that if this is approved that that we don't have the same scenarios across the street. The other discussion. Is this room back yes. Good. On the. Yes this is the impact analysis statement says it's a twelve unit is that that's not our that over talking is twelve units. And they'll one or like one bedroom. One bedroom six hundred seventy square feet apiece okay and this is like what you have in Martinsburg yes ma'am yeah and is that will it be affiliated with him. Or be a separate L. So we operate a group of of apartments and hotels in Winchester and county and so what we'll do is that anybody that needs long term lodging that we can't because we don't rent our apartments for thirty days at a time furnished and so the angle is is that okay if if someone needs a thirty day stay in a furnished unit okay. Or long term. Okay. Hopefully longer in my case. That we have a product that could offer that similar to Brookfield corporate apartments on Valley Avenue and Old Town corporate suites second thing. Question. The management of this is it managed by the Hampton Inn it's not this I'll be honest with you I haven't completely determined how I'm going to manage it okay I've got a man I've got a. A rental office in Winchester. Uh. That's on Valor drive I might manage it out of that I might manage it out of the Hampton Inn I haven't really figured that out I got a first cross this hurdle to be honest with you. Thank you yeah how's the one managed and you said you had one Martinsburg it's a yes sir I do and it's managed by my apartment office that I have in Martinsburg so but I haven't really determined because it really determines the level of service that you're trying to offer. The one. And the ones we have. In Martinsburg we do not offer. Housekeeping surface. Okay and we're determining since the proximity of that staff right across the parking lot it's an added amenity in the industry you can get a little bit more if you offer housekeeping service. And so might be able to get that that get that premium if I do it but haven't worked out those logistics yet. A great question. Mr. Buster. I would just add. I think the fact that he has a vested interest right next door at the Hampton Inn. It's going to make sure that that 12 units doesn't turn into what the other one is a quarter mile away. And so having only known Mr. Akins for about a year I'm pretty confident with what he's done and what he said that I think we can do the right thing and we can go forward with this. Appreciate it. Thank you. Mr. Akins is the the home where the problems are is that in the city or the county. Because we got Mr. Carell here tonight. We could really. Have fun with this. This is in this. I don't want to. I don't want to speak about exactly where they're talking. But I'm fairly certain it's up the street past the intersection. Okay. Thank you sir. The other comments. Yes sir. Yes. Just want to talk just briefly about the clientele. I know that there is a need for transient nurses in our hospital locally and that's pretty common in this area nationally. And they do need a place like that. 30. Days to work and then move on. So I think that's the type of clientele that would use use the facility. Okay. Thank you sir. Anything else. Seeing none. Okay. This is. Stonewall. Thank you. Like to proceed sir. Thank you Mr. Chairman. While I'm sensitive to the concerns of the residents near there especially the type of client clientele that they've noted other facilities I think this project's distinctly different from that example. I think. The. The common ownership with the business next door helps mitigate that and it fulfills a need that we have in this community for short term professional housing. I think that's important. Based on that I would recommend planning Commission forward rezoning number zero one two six of 700 Ross drive Ross Street to the Board of Supervisors with a recommendation for approval. Second. We have a motion in the second is there any discussion. Seeing none doctor Lamont can you please begin our voting. Sir. Yes. From back yes. But or if yes. It's done yes. Markered yes. Thomas yes. Haven yes. Crane yes. Whitaker now. Chair which yes emotion carries this will go to the Board of Supervisors on March the eleventh. Thank you very much for all that came in. That leads us to other business planning applications. Mr. Pearson. No current planning applications to discuss. The only I would put on your all's radar is you'll be getting some information from us soon relative to future comprehensive plan meetings that we're scheduling for March and April as well as some surveys. So keep an eye out for that and give us a call if you have any questions but more to come soon. Thank you very much sir. I want to add one item for those of you to get to Winchester Star and have the occasion to read Mr. Perry's writings on a regular basis. You saw a story that the Historic Resource Advisory Board is taking up a data. Center application and they'll be meeting on Friday to discuss that from a historic preservation standpoint. That will come to us. We will have a work session on that project. I promise you that before we get into a public hearing. Um, uh, scenario. But I just want to remind those of you that have been here awhile, not as long as Roger, but awhile, um, that back in July of 23, we we recommended for approval. I believe. Is in July 23. Um, that this property be zoned M one and it is currently zoned M one. Uh, so they're going through the conditional use process that is part of the zoning ordinance for data centers to go in the M one district. I just want to remind you back then what was approved for that site, um, was 806,000 square feet of warehousing, uh, that was going to generate 2776,000 square feet of warehouse. Uh, that was going to generate 2777 trips per day of that 394 were tractor trailers. So I just want to remind you what's approved for that property. Now I'm, I just think it's important that we reflect on where we are, uh, and where we want to be. So, um, that is my only comment. And with that, I would be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Second. We have motion to second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Have a very safe trip home. Thank you very much.
