Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-04-27
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=129
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're very grateful and appreciative. Pastor Dennis Smith of Valley Baptist Church is with us this evening to deliver our invocation. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. That was great. Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for this time. We thank you for the freedom that you've so freely given this country, Lord, that we can come and discuss matters like these tonight. I pray that you will help each one of us us to be quick to listen and slow to speak give wisdom to those making decisions here tonight decisions that will be right and true and and fair for each member of the county and our schools and most importantly lord we just pray that you will help us to just uh love each other as you've so richly loved us and we just thank you for all that you've done for us in jesus name we pray amen amen thank you sir vice chairman mccarthy please stand and face the flag of the pledge i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god indivisible with liberty and justice for all thank you sir so option of the agenda i think there is one proposed change yes sir mr chairman i would move that the board adopt a proposed agenda with one change that public hearing item 12.a for conditional use permit 02-21 be moved to fall immediately following the adoption of the agenda and before the citizen comments second in the second is there any discussion supervisor ludwig aye supervisor slaughter aye supervisor well supervisor mccarthy aye supervisor dunn aye supervisor graver aye chair votes aye motion carries we'll adopt the agenda um with the amendment citizen comments agenda items only uh mr chairman that would be the cup 12.a i'm sorry yes cup 12.a mr chair and sir thank you you thank you mr chairman members of the board uh tonight is a request for a conditional use permit to allow for an operation of a event center on a 10 acre uh piece of property located in back here back here magisterial district the property siteολ grad e state58 the property is located at uh statefairν uh it. It also has an outdoor patio with a 2640 square foot barn for weddings and other special events. The applicant intends to host events up to 200 persons and will provide for a gravel parking area for guests. Mobile portable restrooms will be used and all food preparation will be via catering off-site. So there will be no on-site food preparation on this property for the special event facility. The applicant has also sent in a drawing or diagram if you will to show the areas that are going to be used for this conditional use permit. I want to make one comment that the, as you well know, and it will be on the sign of the conditions, that any of the conditional use permits that we require for special event facilities are required to have a sketch plan, an illustrated sketch plan, that the county will approve prior to any operation. The applicant just sent this in to give you an idea of where he's operating the facility. Now he's planning to lay out the special event facility. Should the Board of Supervisors find this application for a special event facility to be appropriate, the Planning Commission recommend the following conditions be attached to the conditional use permit. Number one, all review agency comments should be complied with at all times. Number two, an illustrated sketch plan in accordance with the requirements of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance and to address additional regulations specific to special event facilities will be submitted to and approved by Frederick County Prior to Operation. Again, the layout that the applicant has showed you is a general layout, but staff will be looking for the additional stuff that, additional requirements of that special event facility. Number three, special events will start no earlier than 8 a.m. and all events and related activities should be concluded by midnight. There will be no outdoor amplified music allowed. Number four, all event traffic will use Gull Road Route 618 for their entrance. Now the applicant has agreed to and staff working with the applicant, there are some private right-of-ways that the applicant has rights to, but also in your packet VDOT also recommended to come off of Gull Road, so that would be one part of the conditions to alleviate any other issues of traffic in that area and using private right-of-ways. Number five, the special events may accommodate up to but not exceed 200 persons. Number six, one monument sign with a required sign area not to exceed 50 square feet and not to exceed 10 feet in height is permitted and any expansion or modification of this conditional use permit require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission will have a public hearing on this item on its April 6, 2022 meeting. You're recommended to approve the conditional use permit with the applied conditions. This item is presented as a public hearing. Staff is seeking direction from the Board of Supervisors on this request as a conditional use permit for a special events facility. Mr. Chairman Mr. Eli Williams is here as the applicant should you have or any of your colleagues have any questions, of course staff is here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Questions for Mr. Chair and anyone? I see none, sir. Mr. Williams there anything you'd like to add or... Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Mr. Williams? I have a couple. Okay. Mr. Williams, if you would, we do have a couple questions. Thank you, sir. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Williams. I had an opportunity to speak with several of your neighbors over the past week. They've reached out and had good conversations. Some of the things that were expressed, and I wanted to see if you would agree to these to be added to conditions of your conditional use permit should it pass. The first one was they would desire that the restrooms be placed on the north side of the barn so as to not be viewed by other properties. Would you be willing to add that as a condition? Yes, sir. Okay. Another condition that was asked is if any adjoining property owner would desire a vegetative buffer of, you know, pine trees or something, two rows of pine trees, in order to keep down dust or to keep down other items that may be of nuisance to them, would you be willing on a property owner by property owner basis be willing to add that to your conditional use that any property owner who requests such, you would be willing to? Yes. Okay. And last but not least, is there any willingness on your part to tell us about how many events you would like to see done there in a year's time? There was some concern that there would be two to four every weekend and they would have 200 events a year. How many events are you looking at and would you be willing to give us a number to keep it at that number? I don't really know exactly how many yet. I'd say it'd be mostly, you know, Friday or Saturday. And the barn, it's not... It's not really set up to do stuff during the, like, any months that are cold. So it'd probably just be spring, summer, and fall. So, you know, probably, I don't know, a few to, you know, I don't know, 20-some maybe. I'm not sure. So would you be comfortable setting your events at 30 per year? That would probably be fine. Okay. I'm not... I don't know really. I mean, would you like some time to think about it? I guess so. Folks, please. Okay. And that's fair. That is perfectly fair. I was just asking, that is what neighboring residents have asked and I'm simply asking their questions. Nothing more, nothing less. Okay. Yep. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Supervisor Dunn? I think that Mr. Sharon made the comment that there's no amplified music or something. I think Mr. Sharon made the comment there's no amplified music. Was that correct? Yes. After 9 p.m. or something. After 9 p.m.? Yeah. Mr. Dunn, part of that condition was no outdoor amplified music. That would be on a Friday and Saturday, right? I guess it's an ever... I'm just asking. Yeah. Just as a point of input, are you looking to do anything on Sundays or not or don't know? There might be a couple days. I'd say the long hours would be probably better. Okay. Okay. Other questions of Mr. Williams? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. No, sir. Is there anyone who came to speak to this subject? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this? Back Creek. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to give the applicant 30 days to decide what the number of venues of events that he would like to have. I think that we can work with this with the things that have been presented. I believe that we can come to an agreement pretty quickly. I don't think that it needs to get pushed off any indefinite period of time. But I think we need to be... I think we need to be respectful to him. So I'd like to table this for 30 days. Any comments? Anyone? I need a motion. Okay. I'll make a motion that we table Conditional Use Permit 02-21 for 30 days. Is there a second? I'll second it. Second. Discussion? Anyone? Motion and a second is to table for 30 days. Supervisor? Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. We table for 30 days. Thank you. That will bring us to citizen comments. Agenda items not subject to public hearing. Ms. Phillips, you have a list? I do. I will call. I number every so often so that you have an idea of where you are on the list. We do have 41 speakers signed up at this point. Christy Jett followed by Tricia Smith. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Christy Jett. I'm a resident of the Gainesboro District. I've spent a lot of time over the past two years. I've been looking at the last two weeks, pouring over charts and numbers, digging through transportation committee minutes, looking at budget summaries. I even downloaded an Excel file of data from VDOT. And I don't think anybody was more surprised by that than me. I did all this because I was looking for numbers. I wanted to make a graph, make that perfect case for public schools. And then I realized somewhere around midnight that I'd been coming at it all wrong. I was looking at it all wrong. I was looking at it all wrong. You see, schools don't make dollars, and they don't produce widgets. So those are the incorrect metrics to judge them by. Our schools produce intangible benefits, like an informed electorate, engaged citizens, skilled employees. We heard about that two hours ago. And you don't find those anywhere in a line item budget. Furthermore, our schools don't produce those things right away. It takes years before that bright-eyed kindergarten student, carefully tended by our teachers, and the teachers that are there, and the teachers that are there, and the teachers that are there, our teachers and staff can begin producing and giving back. And it is just frankly hard to make the case for that kind of delayed gratification when your units are dollars. But the business leaders of this community stood in front of you and did just that. They are imploring you to come together and support our schools. But for a moment, the rest of my time, I want to level the playing field and speak to the widgets that we actually do task ourselves with. And I want to speak to the widgets that we actually do task ourselves with. And I want to speak to the widgets that we actually do task ourselves with. And that's an educated populace. Last year, Frederick County Public High School students earned an average of 16 college-level credits each for those that were taking the advanced-level courses. That is an increase of 15% over the past five years. And for comparison, private school students in the same area earned an average of 7.2 college-level credits each, which is actually a decrease from their number, a decrease of 4%. from their numbers five years ago. And the top five courses that our high school students were taking, United States History I, United States History II, College Composition I, College Composition II, and U.S. Government I. I don't know about you, but that list gives me more hope for the future than I have had in a long time. So in terms of creating an informed electorate, engaged citizens, skilled employees, our public schools are knocking it out of the park. So Mr. Ludwig, Mr. Dunn, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Graber, we have made the case to you in terms of dollars. We have made the case to you in terms of benefits to our students, and our business leaders have made the case to you in terms of benefits to the community. We stood in front of you two weeks ago. We are standing in front of you again now. Frederick County is in solid financial standing. We can have our roads, and fund our schools too. There is no reason to withhold even a dollar from this needs-based budget. Our students deserve a quality education. Thank you. Thank you. Trisha Smith, followed by Jessica Jenkins. Welcome. Good evening. My name is Trisha Smith, and I live in the Redbud District. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you this evening. I'm speaking as the parent, and I'm here to speak to you today about the challenges that we face as a community. I'm a child of a child who benefited greatly from the special education program in our public schools. My son began kindergarten with a comprehensive IEP, and he faced some profound challenges as a young child. He no longer requires special education services, and now he has accommodations through a 504 plan. My son is currently taking an advanced placement class this year, and I could not be more proud of him. Over the years, teams of teachers, specialists, and administrators worked with me to tailor his learning goals. Numerous instructional aids also contributed to my son's success. My son was able to get the services he needed and receive instruction in the general education setting. I'm grateful that he was able to learn curriculum in the classroom alongside his peers. The staff at Frederick County Public Schools made this happen for my child and countless other children. There are many success stories in our community. Although they vary by child, they exist. If funding is cut next year or in future years, will there be further success stories for these children and their families? What about our children who do not receive services but just need a little extra practice and guidance from the teachers and staff? Funding the budget benefits all children because class sizes and adequate special education staffing matter. I am asking you to support funding our schools. Thank you. Jessica Jenkins followed by Jennifer Gale. My name is Jessica Jenkins, and I'm from Bat Creek District. Thank you to those of you who voted to fully fund our schools, and I hope that you will stay the course when voting again tonight. I would like to show you a picture of my youngest child, who is on a bus. I'm going to show you a picture of my youngest child, who is on a bus. I'm going to show you a picture of my youngest child, who is on a bus. a waiting list for an autism evaluation. Shaw hoodley. Shaw hoodley, Wiemerberg, leaving field in Dark Strange Spring with specific concerns for한테ach they required a word from my board. Thank you, Joseph for your contribution. My walk up, thank you, Joshua for Evangelize. Thisgrass. This echoing by Chief Laurie Fair, petite teacher, and awe in North Glenville. What will you do for us? and I'm not blindly following anyone. I am here because I am my kid's army. I am here as a mother who knows what the consequences will be of scenario C as the vote that wins tonight. I know that the special education teachers, aides, and therapists will be the ones who do not get the pay they very much deserve. I have done my own research into the budget and transparency is not the issue anymore. You have been shown numbers, given stories from teachers, parents, and students, so what is it you're still looking for? Because at this point, it feels like our children are a step on a political ladder. I would truly hope this is not true, being that politics do not belong in our schools. To those who do not fully fund the school's budget, please know we're Republican voters too. We will remember the names of who did not support our teachers and children. Just because it may not affect your kids doesn't mean it cannot still be an attack on ours. Our special needs community has felt under attack with multiple situations for months now by elected officials between inappropriate words being used online to suggest that our kids would be more comfortable with kids like them by people who do not understand how an IEP works. To anyone in this room who does not understand why our teachers are so important, especially in special education, I'm giving an open invitation to you all right now for you to come spend some time with me and my children. Talk to us and see how in over 11 years our school changes have made positive changes for my kids. See how people stare at my special needs son and make comments about me bringing him in public because they do not understand him. See how much one child needs and why these teachers are burned out and need not only better pay but physical help in the classrooms. I'm asking you to think of our children. Think of my son and vote to fully fund the school's budget. Thank you. Jennifer Gaylor followed by speaker number five, Laura Jarrell. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. My name is Jennifer Gaylor. Sorry, my handwriting is bad. And I live in the Shawnee District. If I've learned anything these past several weeks is that this community supports its schools, not just with words, but with actions. These people care deeply about their own children, but also about other people's children, their teachers, their bus drivers, their aides, the office staff. They know that each of these school employees have the chance to add value to the students' lives at school. And they do. Time and time again, I heard an art teacher at this very podium two weeks ago talk about how she carries the weight of her students in her heart every single day. One of my best friends is a special education teacher. She's one of the most positive people that I know. She never complains about her students or the backbreaking days that she sometimes has. She is frustrated by the challenges that she faces when she is short staffed, but she shows up, every day. She's never complaining about her students or the back-breaking days that she sometimes has. She is frustrated by the challenges that she faces when she is short-staffed. But she shows up every single day. She's never complaining about her students. every day. I've been inspired by the students who have come here to tell all of you about the love that they have for their schools and the opportunities that they have had and how they want their teachers to be supported. I could go on way longer than three minutes about the successes and inspiration I see in our schools. Do we have challenges? Of course. Is everything perfect? No. But is giving our schools less money the way to handle it? Absolutely not. I want to publicly thank Supervisors Wells, Supervisor DeHaven, and Supervisor McKenslaughter for your unwavering support of the school districts and for voting for Scenario A. My question to each of the members who wish to vote for Scenario C, what do you wish for our schools? Your actions and your words tell me you don't really care. And two, that you will come up with any reason to throw our schools into turmoil because you all know that's what's going to happen. Dozens of teachers are waiting to see what happens tonight before they commit to contracts. Causing chaos in our schools may give you a political win from the small number of people in this community, but the people behind me are going to remember your failure at this critical time in our country. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our students are entitled to a quality education, fully fund that school budget, keep public funds in public education, and give our students the schools they deserve. Thank you. Laura Jarrell, followed by John Paul McIverney. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Laura Jarrell, and I'm a resident of the Opecan District. Here we are again. I hope you guys are getting used to seeing our faces and our shirts. We're here for the long haul. My youngest is in third grade, so plan on seeing this face for many years to come. If anything good has come of this absurdity, it's the realization of many in our community of what is going on in Frederick County and the efforts of some to defund public education. People are now taking time to figure out what's really going on. They're paying attention. And those same people are committed to standing up for what they believe is best for our students and our community. I am one of those people. We aren't going anywhere. We'll be back at the next meeting and the next meeting. We will continue to advocate for our public schools and our students. And we'll be working hard to elect candidates who not only say they want what's best for our community, but put actions behind their words. It's hard to know what to say because, honestly, you all sat here two weeks ago listening to approximately 50 people. And we're not getting any of them. We're not getting any of them. And we're not getting any of them. We're not getting any of them. We're not getting any of them. We're not getting any of them. There were even taxpayers with no kids in the system who voiced support for full funding because they understand the importance of a good public education system. It's kind of like when I ask my children, am I talking to a wall? Because I'm talking and no one is listening or responding to what I'm saying. It's incredibly frustrating. To be honest, we feel like we're talking to a wall. So what do I say? say? Here goes. This is a story about one of our current high school seniors. He signed up to take AP Calculus 3. As someone with an English degree, that sounds like absolute torture. He plans to go into engineering and wanted to go in with his best foot forward. Unfortunately, the teacher certified to teach that class had to teach geometry, since geometry is a required math class for all students. And guess what? There aren't enough teachers. So the AP Calculus 3 class was removed. With full funding and staffing, we'd have teachers to teach all the sections of geometry without sacrificing other math classes. The good news is he was accepted to Virginia Tech. The bad news is he will be starting the program with students from other counties who were able to take AP Calculus 3. What does that mean for him? It means that before his college program even starts, he already feels behind. This is a huge disadvantage. He's a student who has to take AP Calculus 3. He's a student who has to take AP Calculus 3. This is a huge disservice to our students. We should provide every opportunity for them to get ahead of the game. This is our duty. So how dare you sit on tax dollars when the county is in great financial standing? You are sitting on $6 million unallocated dollars. How dare you try to pit county departments against each other? Transportation doesn't need the extra $2.1 million you want to take away from the schools. Members of the Transportation Committee have said as much. And if the county needed that money so desperately for roads, that money would be spent on the schools. So how dare you sit on tax dollars when the county needs that money so desperately for roads, that money should have been allocated at the beginning of the budget process, not a last ditch effort to underfund the schools. Our students deserve a quality education. Fully fund the budget, keep public funds and public education, and give our students the schools they deserve. Thank you. John Paul McAveney, followed by Nicole. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening. My name is John Paul McAveney. I live in the Shawnee District. Whoops. I'm a student from the Irving County district. Goodbye, Feel names. It boils. This administration has chosen to make sure that this administration ensures that public school production keeps up with its programs. I've missed probably as much as diet praticai team members long time ago, and that giants have subsequently increased wirings in the state project. Show me our students画 a clear example of selection bias. It's time to stop your excuses and fund Chairman Monk's full budget. Your claim is that Scenario C funds the school system above last year's levels, and that's true purely in nominal terms. The truth is is that when adjusted for inflation, Scenario A total local requests for the school's operating budget was already lower than last year's, while still maintaining 5% raises for all staff. That's a slim budget. And yet, you and this board are poised to cut another $2.1 million from it, all at a time of county surplus and while fully funding every other department's budget requests. The amount in question represents less than 1% of the requested revenues for the county, and yet you're withholding it in the name of transportation needs that you have yet to identify, other than intersections in Winchester City that apparently the county is going to be paid for. That doesn't sound very fiscally responsible to me, so be responsible and fund Chairman Monk's full budget. Because the local request was already a needs-based budget, the school board has decided to cut the budget for the school board. Scenario C will result in cuts to proposed salary initiatives for the school system. Specifically, it would remove the new salary scales for special ed teachers and assistants, as well as for speech and behavioral therapists. These cuts were not desired by the school board, but it is the position in which they find themselves due to your decisions. This is a choice you forced upon them. Fund Chairman Monk's full budget. Some will say that this money should come out of the administrative raises. And that misses the two points. First and foremost, our principal's budget, and other administrators, deserve their raises. To say otherwise is to denigrate the good job that they do. Secondly, the local money for raises is tied to state SOQ matching. So not funding raises for all staff lowers the amount of funding given to the schools by the state. This puts further burden on the rest of the system. We can have these raises and the special education and other salary initiatives. All you need to do is fund Chairman Monk's full budget. Some will say that the school system has enough money for potential year-end bonuses this year. So how can they need more money? Ask the Finance Committee. They'll tell you one big reason for surplus in the operating fund, potential surplus, is their inability to staff teaching positions and other staffing positions in the county. How do you fix that? End the uncertainty about the budget. Stop playing games and fully fund Chairman Monk's budget. Let the school board reinstate the salary scale initiatives and let the school system do its job and find quality teachers and other professionals to educate and assist our children. The money's there. It's not being requested in other areas of the county. And the school system has identified a need. I encourage you all to support Mr. Monk's full budget and vote for scenario A. Thanks. Nicole, and I'm sorry I can't read the last name, starts with a P. Followed by Gail Ferreira. Sorry, I'm really short. Good evening, Supervisors. My name is Nicole Pangle, and I am a constituent of the Back Creek District. I'm coming to you this evening to request your full support for the school board's proposed budget A. I'm requesting your full support because the proposed dismissing of incentives for special educators, aids, and behavioral support professions will be detrimental to an already fragile system. You don't know me, but I run a very small local nonprofit organization that advocates for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. I've done this for the past 12 years. But I'm also the mother. I'm the mother of a child with profound autism. My son's behaviors are severely impacted by autism. Two years ago when COVID hit, it wasn't uncommon to have the Middletown Police Department at my house every single day. They responded compassionately and professionally. My son's behaviors have caused countless bruises, broken walls, broken doors, and several concussions. But I'm his mother. That's my job. I will protect him because it's my duty, and I will do it a thousand times over. But there are teachers, aids, and therapists, and behavioral support professionals who have absolutely no obligation other than wanting to serve children with special support needs. Teachers, aids, and therapists, and other specialists who have chosen this field as their profession who probably entered the field because of their experiences with a family member, someone they went to school with, or someone they've interacted with in the community. Or just because they want to make a difference. They're valued by the many parents whose children receive special education supports through IEPs and 504 plans. Not providing these incentives not only shows that these positions are not valued for the exceptionally difficult work they do. I fear we will see our special educators and our support professionals seeking employment in other areas such as Fauquier County, which gave a 13% pay raise. This is going to leave our most vulnerable students without the services they need, without the support they need, without the support they need, without the services and supports necessary to their success. We're already fighting the stigma that our children should not be included in the general education classroom and should be educated in empty buildings. We don't need to add the possibility of losing valuable educators and professionals due to lack of pay incentives. Special education advocacy is a large part of my job. And I am hopeful that you understand the repercussions of students not receiving the supports described in their IEPs. The federal law protects families and students, including dispute resolution processes, including mediation and due process lawsuits. As part of my job, I have to ensure families that they have access to all the information they needed to ensure their child's rights are protected. And I will do so. There's no reason not to fully fund the budget. And knowing where the cuts will be going, I urge you to reconsider and fully fund the budget. However, the recovery is not only going to generate more saved children but will, as well, increase the impact of this proposed zwischen%. Good evening, I'm Gail Ferrara from the Shawnee District. Thank you, Josh, for being my representative here. So just last Thursday, April 21st, the school board approved a budget, 4 to 3, on how the Frederick County Public School would dole out the money to teachers, administration, special education, and support staff. This budget reflects a reduced budget not a budget cut. Maybe a full budget was not passed by the Board of Supervisors because a line item budget was not delivered from the school board. How exactly is the Frederick County Public School spending our tax payer dollars? Who knows? In scenario C, the Board of Supervisors is proposing the county provide $95.4 million versus the $97.5 million as requested in the full budget. This is roughly a $2.5 million increase in county tax dollars from the current fiscal year. It looks like the Frederick County Public School needs to balance and scrutinize their finances like the rest of us have had to do because of inflation and COVID mandates. Everyone today is feeling the pinch. In the reduced budget as passed by the school board, teachers will still get the five percent increase they deserve. But I was shocked to hear that the administrator pay, including Dr. Servine, would also increase to five percent, a level that was two percent above that requested in the full budget. This move would impact and be detrimental to other positions and pay levels where the special education instructors, aides, speech therapists, behavioral specialists, career and technical education, and support staff may not even see increases or even see cuts. Why don't they deserve to receive their fair share too? I'm curious why administrators cannot accept the original three percent increase and load balance the money with the other positions to be awarded across the board, since everyone has worked tirelessly over the last two years and dealt with an overwhelming amount of uncertainty. Frederick County Public School employees should be emailing and calling members of the school board who voted in favor of the recommendation. The board of supervisors is not effective and is not the right approach. The board of supervisors only decides which competing service, such as fire, rescue, public works, transportation, social services, who gets the money. But they are not in the weeds of how the money is assigned. That is the school board and the chairman of the finance committee's job. All the board of supervisors ask for is a nine-item budget. And because this hasn't happened, we are dealing with this dilemma. We want to know that the money is going. We, the taxpayers, deserve this. And have been asking for this all along. With a nine-item budget and more transparency, the board of supervisors will be better equipped for decision making since they are required to be fiscally minded. Nine-item budgets help eliminate wasteful spending and make the constituents more confident that exceptional results can be achieved with their taxpayer dollars. Thank you very much. Chairman, please come on up. Welcome. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, fellow board members. My name is Karen Drodski and I've been a resident of the Gainesboro district for about 14 years now. I've been attending these meetings since the beginning of this year. And I've also attended our school board meetings for about the last four years on a regular basis, especially after attending the FCPS 101 class, which is sponsored by the school board. And while I was the PTO president at FCMS over at Frederick County Middle School when my kid was there. I want to thank all of you for your support of our school district. I've been very disappointed at the incomplete information that has circulated by the newspaper and some of the citizens who have not attended both board meetings on a regular basis. Some of the people really owe you an apology for some of the comments and accusations that have been made. But they don't even realize it because they didn't have the right information in the first place. I've been looking for more transparency from our school district. And although it was quite extreme, I believe that the original threat of underfunding the requested school budget by 60 million seems to have had an effect on how on what is now being shared with the taxpayers on the school district website. They aren't quite as transparent as this board is, but progress has been made. I'm grateful to all of you for your support. I'm also grateful to the board for the support that you've given us. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to the board for the second question. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to the board for the second question. I'm glad to be here to share with you the information that has been provided to us. I know you have heard from the last meeting that Mr. Monk and Mr. Comstock have facilitated providing you with the information that you've been requesting. The joint board meeting was also a great step in the right direction. Although I'd like to see more cooperation and work rather than posturing at future ones. Tonight, I'd like to ask you to fully fund the requested amount of money for the school budget. Apparently, enough information has been provided and communication has increased enough that you must do a little more to include it. And we can't afford to delay it. appear to be down to negotiating over the last two million dollars or pretty close to that in the greater County budget that two million dollars is a small figure having attended school board meetings for several years now the one thing that's critical is dr. so vine asks everybody for what they need but then he cuts it before it ever gets to the school board or it gets to all of you in fact one of the complaints I've heard many times is about how we need 13 new school buses every year and those always seem to get cut the good news is with all of the joint meetings that are planned and more information coming out on the school website and more citizens getting involved in both board meetings I feel like transparency is starting to come out and therefore I'd like to ask all of you to please put together your requirements now for the next budget cycle so that we can set expectations for everyone for next year's cycle and last but not least I would like to say that I and many other people in our County appreciate that you understand that all of our children and our families are not alike and we look forward to seeing what options you're able to find to also support families who choose to homeschool or send their children to private school thank you welcome good evening my name is Sonia Marfatia Gude and I live in the Back Creek District first and foremost I want to thank Chairman DeHaven Supervisor Wells Supervisor McCance-Lauder for being the voices of reason among the board and recognizing the understand understanding the need for a fully funded school budget the budget that Chairman Monk voted for and helped pass and that he should be supporting every step of the way here we are again two weeks later the needs of the schools haven't changed the needs of this county haven't changed what has changed is the direction of the Board of Supervisors has taken throughout talks of budget issues. The schools start their workshops for budgeting in October all supervisors are invited to these sessions as members of elected officials and as private citizens Mr. Graber Mr. Dunn Mr. McCarthy you have sat on the Board of Supervisors for more than a few years so you know this process how this process goes there is nothing new here you have the financial documents of the schools you have the access to ask them questions freely you even have the county's own financial auditors all of whom are here to help you with your budget. The school's budget so why are all these questions happening so late in the process first you say the issue is transparency then it's the cost of pre-k with misrepresented numbers and now it's transportation all the county departments budgets have been approved with no cuts that includes the Transportation Department and looking at the minutes from the Transportation Committee there have never been a direct ask for two million extra dollars there are no big transportation projects later for 2023 the county's revenues have exceeded expectations for four years straight we have a such fund of six million dollars the schools need their budget approved so they can continue to recruit and retain quality teachers so why is this Board of Supervisors so intent on sabotaging our public schools we are all sitting in this room again two weeks later to fight for our schools to demand the funds that our schools need to operate Frederick County has the funds with no need to raise taxes when you entertain the thought of voting for scenario C it's like a slap in the face to our schools our administration and the schools that we serve. our teachers and our students you were telling us where your priorities really are and that the schools are not your priority you were saying one of the largest employers in the county and the caretaker of our future generation should just be happy with what they're getting don't be that guy no matter what grudge you have against our schools our administration or our teachers it will hurt our students our kids the most you are hurting our brothers and sisters our neighbors our friends when you vote for scenario c our teachers do not go into this career to make money it's a higher calling but you can only push the system so far before it cracks the writing is on the wall we see what you're doing we are enraged and engaged and we will remember this vote for scenario a our students deserve a quality education fully from the budget keep public funds for public education and give our students the schools they deserve thank you followed by justin mistretto welcome people and good evening chairman de haven and board members i'm amy williams from the pecan district there are 1938 students who receive special education services as of december 2021 that's roughly 14 of our student enrollment this is my son you can't tell it now but when he was born 13 weeks early he weighed one pound 12 ounces he spent 89 days in the NICU the years to follow we would like to thank the board of trustees for their support and for their support and for the however we are doing most thanks to areaリ palliative service for supporting Lifestyle they give us all of their support to the children 100, 70 and 74 they've gotbs and peaches they've gotbs and peaches they've got pack andbestrasse they've got spunx hey you worked your ass off well thank you i think it was brilliant thank you you're welcome with a 5% raise or implementing the salary incentives for the special education department. By choosing scenario C, you are taking away the school citizen's ability to hire and retain qualified special ed teachers and assistants, the ones that AIDA needs to help him be successful. And for what? To pad your transportation savings account? According to Cheryl Schiffler, there is still $6 million sitting unassigned that can cover the remaining school budget needs, fire and rescue, and help transportation. In addition, there is already over $4 million set aside for transportation in scenario A. And the icing on the cake came today with news that the county will receive upwards of $15 million from the state for transportation projects, and $13 million of that doesn't require a county match. In short, there is no need for you to take away money from the school budget. If you don't vote in favor of scenario A, this will be remembered as a punishment against the special education children and their teachers. The county, not the school system, will see lawsuits if IEPs are not met because you knowingly voted against the special education department. I'm a parent and a registered nurse, but most importantly, I am Aiden's advocate. I've been fighting for his needs since he was born. I am also his special education teacher's advocate because Aiden won't be successful without her and the ones who will come after third grade. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Aiden's brain learns differently. Special ed teacher caseloads are higher than they should be due to staffing difficulties. They work with multiple children daily to assess and intervene per the IEP. These teachers do more than the general public realizes, and they more than deserve the base salary increase. There are community members who would have you believe our children aren't important and don't deserve space in a regular classroom and that the school system is using them for federal money. Their education is protected by federal law. law. Please don't listen to these people. Can I finish? I have two sentences. Please listen to us, their parents, who have been fighting for their needs since day one. Please fully fund this budget so the school system can continue to recruit, retain, and fully staff the special education department. Education, sorry, Aiden and his peers deserve that from this board. Thank you. Thank you. Justin Mestretto. Followed by Aaron. Welcome, sir. Good evening. My name is Justin Mestretto, Opecan District. I spoke last, at the last meeting, as a concerned parent of two elementary children. I speak tonight as a concerned realtor. I'm sure you know Supervisor McCarthy. One of the most frequently asked questions people looking to move here are, how are the schools? I'm also often told that clients don't want to live in a school that's not a good fit for them. I'm aware of that. But I do know that the schools are not the best place to live in West Virginia. The schools are not the best place to live in West Virginia. The schools are not the best place to live in West Virginia. The community pays attention, here and elsewhere. A community that doesn't support public education is looked down on. It's not desirable. Property values are affected. You heard it here tonight. Businesses pay attention. Supervisor Dunn, at the last meeting, you held up a $10 bill and talked about all the different people that wanted it. We are not working with a deficit. It is not one or the other unless you choose to make it that way. As a taxpayer, I'm going to be very honest with you. I'm not going to make it that way. As a taxpayer, I already have my share because we are taxed at one of the lowest rates around. Fund the schools. Fund the police. Fund the fire and rescue. Have a completely separate conversation and fund infrastructure. Support this growing community properly. It's been said, but I feel it needs reiterating. The school board knows this board is fiscally conservative. They do not put together a crazy wish list budget with dreams that it will get passed. They work very hard to make sure that the school board is a good place to live. They work very hard to find out where they can short many items and put together a tight budget that the majority of this community says it does not go far enough, but they put it together in hopes that it is trimmed down enough to keep the lights on and get passed. Even that is no longer enough, and I can't understand why, especially when I see the board constantly shifting concerns have been addressed or are not applicable. The vast majority of the children in this community have no other option than public education. You should not choose to fail them. You should not choose to continue to neglect the staff of our public schools. Choose growth. Choose prosperity. Support this community. Vote for scenario A. Thank you. Aaron, followed by speaker number 15, Josh Phelps. Welcome. Hi. My name is Aaron from the Opecan District. I'm more than a little frustrated that I have to be here missing my son's track meet at Aylor, which, by the way, couldn't happen without teachers volunteering their time. Two weeks ago, many people showed up and expressed their support to fully fund the budget proposed by the school board. They were logical, heartfelt, and very compelling, yet still, you voted to support in support of what you wanted and not your constituents. The past two weeks, I've been spending entirely too much time thinking about why you are unable or rather unwilling to see the future of our public schools. How could I be more supportive of what you are doing in supporting the public schools? I believe that you are not the only one who has had the chance to be a part of the faculty and staff of our public school. In fact, you are the only one who is not fully supporting the public schools. In fact, you are the only one who is fully supporting the public schools. In fact, you are the only one who is not fully supporting the public schools. Mr. Ludwig, your children used to attend Frederick County Public Schools. Somewhere along the way, something happened to cause you to turn your back on public schools and get your children educated in another Mr. McCarthy, your children have never attended public schools, which is, of course, your family's choice to make. However, your personal choice should not have a detrimental effect on the children of Frederick County. You have no skin in the game, yet you are making decisions that affect my children, all of our children, and you are unable or unwilling to listen to our pleas. Mr. Ludwig and Mr. McCarthy, you both very obviously have a bias against our public schools. If you are unable or unwilling to acknowledge this bias, then you have a civic duty to recuse yourself from this vote. Mr. Dunn, if these gentlemen can't see through their bias, then it falls to you to be the voice of reason for the greater good of Frederick County. Members of the board, when thinking about your vote this evening, I'd like you to think about the business philosophy of Mr. McCarthy's family farm to shop local, eat local, support local, and enjoy local. I implore all of your board members. To embrace his philosophy, support local schools, support local teachers, support local students, and fully fund the school budget. Josh Phelps, followed by Amber Fultz. Welcome, sir. Josh Phelps, Gainesboro District. I'm going a little different direction here for a minute. I also, like somebody said earlier, haven't really paid attention to the local report. I'm reading on the budget stuff. Haven't found it that useful. But somebody alerted me to a comment on an article posted by a cowardly reader posting under an alias, which demonstrates the problem with public policy discussions today. And I thought it would be an interesting time to bring this up. So someone who calls himself Chris22602 posted, I quote, Dunn, Graber, McCarthy, and Ludwig are an embarrassment to this community. They're pro-life until birth, at which point they demand parents pay their own pre-K while doing everything they can to destroy the education. They'll receive K-12. Everyone who voted for these idiots is responsible for the current situation. People need to boycott their businesses, the businesses of their supporters, like Sullenburgers or Winchester Steel, businesses of those who voted and campaigned for them, and call them out when you see them in a store or restaurant. Letting them get away with this is a recipe for more issues being handled with complete disregard for citizens of this community. End quote. Now, this unfortunate, misguided citizen is in need of many things. I think, firstly, probably a hug. But most important is an education. Their words are the words of tyranny. Tyranny has surfaced strongly the last two years. Sometimes you have a soft tyranny you may not recognize, like you can send your child to this taxpayer-funded school if they cover their face, or you take this experimental shot and you keep your job. The cowardly Chris22602 and those who think like them simply don't understand the danger and the stance they take, nor the blessings of the freedom to even have that stance. Instead of calling people out who disagree with you, Chris22602, engage in conversation. Seek common ground. Defend your position, but listen to others. Join me at a restaurant to have a civil discussion rather than causing a scene. I'll buy. Someone who disagrees is not an enemy. The enemy is lack of freedom and lack of free discussion. Now that this board and the school board are talking, it seems like things are happening, and we're all going to be better off for it. This is precisely why, in the Bill of Rights, our founders protected the right of all citizens to speak freely and to be able to arm themselves to defend those rights if they needed. Further, if Chris22602 took time to read the Federalist Papers, they would find that free speech is not a right. If they needed to defend their rights, they would find that they would be able to defend their rights. If they needed to defend their rights, they would find that they would be able to defend their rights. The free speech isn't just protected, but as citizens of a free society, we have a duty to speak out, to keep the government in check. Silence allows government to do as it pleases. On the subject of budgets, I would just say that I propose that all county departments move to zero-based budgets. Every year, every department calculates their need from zero, not from the previous year. That's just a recipe for perpetual government growth, and we see it at all levels of government. Budgets should go up and down as needs change. That's how it works in the real world, and that's how the government can work, too. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Amber Fultz, followed by Molly Brannon. Good afternoon. I'm Amber Fultz from the Back Creek District. I'm here today as a college educator, a supporter of public schools. And a parent of two Frederick County students. In the last few meetings, I've heard multiple speakers present on the numerous merits of fully funded public schools. So I won't repeat what my peers have said. I will say that as an educator, I believe in data-informed decision-making. So I've spent a considerable amount of time researching the impacts of changes to public school funding, both increases and decreases. I've found numerous, thousands probably, of studies that look at the increase of funding, especially increases of funding to student services and to those that are directly instructionally related. And to summarize some of those findings, when school spending rose a total of 10% across all 12 years of a student's public school experience, I felt extremely privileged. I felt extremely privileged. I felt extremely privileged. experience, their graduation rate increased by 7%. Students exposed to the spending increase had 7% higher wages as adults, and had a three percentage point lower risk of adult poverty. When you look specifically at low income students, they benefit the most from that spending. They experienced a 10% increase in high school graduation rates, 13% higher wages at age 40, and a six percentage point lower likelihood of living in poverty. For every additional dollar spent on schools, the researchers calculated a $2 return on investment. This is specifically from the Northwestern Institute for Policy Research, which is a peer reviewed study. And like I said, I found numerous studies that were very much in line with that. I think the point is that money matters, especially in a county like ours, where if you look at the ALICE statistics, 30% of our residents are considered working poor, and 6% are living in poverty. Education is the best pathway out of poverty, and our local economy depends on strong schools to prepare students for career and technical fields in the trades and healthcare, to entice our students who go away to college to return after graduation, and to attract new families and new businesses. We heard that earlier today. Given agenda item 8B, and several of your campaign platforms, it's clear that there's a desire on this board to shift tax funds from public education to private and charter schools. I do not support my tax dollars being allocated to schools that do not have to meet Virginia SOLs. I do not support my tax dollars being allocated to schools that employ uncredentialed teachers. I do not support my tax dollars being allocated to schools, who are not eligible to pay their taxes. I do not support my tax dollars being allocated to schools, who choose who to admit and who to deny. I chose to live and raise children in this county over counties with a lower cost of living because of the school system. Please don't make me regret that. When you cast your vote tonight, remember for every additional dollar spent on schools, expect a $2 return on investment, and vote plan A, fully fund our public schools. Molly Brannan. Followed by Jessica Neal. Good evening, I'm Molly Brannan from Back Creek District. Thank you for allowing me to speak. I watched the last Board of Supervisors meeting online, and I heard a lot of emotions. And what particularly stuck out is I kept hearing what a great job our experienced superintendent, Dr. Sovine, is doing, and how he led us through the COVID pandemic. Surely a man with such stature and respect understands how the decisions he made impacted our special needs students. He led by not allowing any exceptions to the rules for the students that needed understanding the most. Even though students had clearly documented decline, he influenced four school board members, Vice Chairman Comstock, Mr. Hester, the Finance Chair, Mr. Lake, and Mrs. White, to vote to not fully fund our special needs community in the school system. I find it's very telling that the only place the five of them could find any room for waste was in the special needs area. It is very interesting that none was found amongst the administrators. Did the thought of them look at the increase in administrators our school system has accrued over the past 10 years? Did anyone notice that the very school board member, Ms. Washington, that proposed and got a pay increase for Dr. Sovine last year was equivalent to the full salary of a 12-year tenure teacher? Will she be receiving a raise when she hasn't even been working a year? Do you really, do they really expect us to believe that the only spungible funds, and the school budget, is on the backs of our special needs students? I would hope that the FCA would come out in force against the school board members that chose to play politics with our special needs students and say they're going to cut their funding to try to make you guys look like the bad guys. I am asking the supervisors to send a very clear character building lesson to our students in this community that bullying is not okay. I would hope that you would not reward such antics and not give them full funding. Matter of fact, you've had two weeks. You said you got more information. Look at the administrative budgets. I would punish them for bullying and take more away. Thank you. Jessica Nail followed by Sue Case. My name is Jessica Nail and I reside in the Gainsborough District. I have the privilege of being the proud mother of two wonderful children in Frederick County Public Schools as well as the principal at Admiral Richard E. Byrd Middle School. Over the past 22 years in education, I have seen superintendents and teachers fight to be recognized on the same level as other professionals in the field. As an educator, I've had the opportunity to work with hundreds of the best teachers I've ever known. Teachers are the best teachers in the world. Teachers who sacrifice their own time to engage students in real-world lessons, preparing them for future careers. I would put the teachers and staff at Admiral Byrd up against any educator in the world. I am proud to know them and know that I'm a better educator because of them. Unfortunately, we have been losing these professionals on a yearly basis to other local divisions due to the disparity in pay between Frederick County and other local divisions. Did you know that Admiral Byrd Middle School, at Admiral Byrd Middle School, we have packed 35,000 summer survival backpacks and 80 meals for the homeless in this community, assembled 92 blessing bags for Watts. During COVID, our students made masks for the Children's Home in Winchester, the Salvation Army, and for Veterans Affairs. We've collected over 1,200 pounds of plastic for trucks recycling and worked through a grant with Virginia Tech Cooperative Extension and local organizations to build and fill raised garden beds in which the produce will be used to donate to the local food banks. If our middle school students are touching the community in such a significant way at a young age, imagine what they will accomplish when they're contributing members of this community. This level of outreach will only be continued with sufficient funding to the school system. As we hire new staff at Byrd, administration teaches a lesson to all of our new staff. It is a symbolic lesson on gardening and the appropriate companion plants. If a marigold is planted beside any garden vegetable, the vegetable will grow strong and healthy, protected and encouraged by its marigold. In schools, these marigolds, our teachers and staff, are positive and go out of their way to support students and other teachers for success. On the other hand, walnut trees give off a toxic substance that can inhibit growth and wilt nearby plants. In schools, walnut trees are negative and complain about their students and staff. As a community leader, you get to choose to be a marigold and financially support our service industries that are needed the most, such as schools, police, fire, and social services. In the companionship with these industries, we need to find a way to be collaborative and supportive with these organizations. Just as the marigolds bloom and grow and blossom, the strength of their roots naturally improve the plants surrounding them. Together, they grow stronger because of the support they provide to each other. As we embark on this year's budget and future budgets, our focus should be on strengthening and deepening our roots within the organizations and the community, and our community, and our community. We need to build a strong foundation for our students and their families to provide the foundational support. Please fully fund the public schools. Thank you. Sue Case, followed by speaker number 20, John Butler. Hi. My name is Sue Case, and I live in the Opecan District on Waynes Lane in Stevens City, where I have resided over the last 18 years. I'm here tonight to discuss the importance of adding an additional regulation to the short-term lodging ordinances. There are six properties that use Waynes Lane on a daily basis, and two other properties have homes that sit along the driveway that are affected by heavy dust from vehicle traffic. The property owner at 242 Waynes Lane has his home listed on Airbnb for short-term lodging, which could potentially add four to five additional vehicles to an already-opened property. The property owner has a private driveway that is a shared one-way, narrow gravel lane. The driveway is only 10 feet wide. There is no way to pass vehicles without backing up or pulling into a property owner's private driveway or yard because of trees, ditches, and fencing that are beside the driveway. The short-term lodging property will greatly increase traffic and reduce the risk of damage. The property owner will be able to use the driveway by adding additional road maintenance to the property by reducing traffic on the lane, adding to overuse and additional road maintenance by the homeowners. Currently, it does not appear that the county has regulations for short-term lodging properties regarding how guests access the property. I understand the Planning Commission is requesting that the Board of Supervisors consider the requirement of owners, operators of short-term lodgings to obtain written consent of use of shipments, driveways from sharing parties. I am asking that the board please consider adding this requirement. I do have an example of what can happen when a car uses a driveway that is not familiar with our routines. My husband was driving his truck while pulling a trailer down the hill in our driveway and met an approaching vehicle. The driver of the other vehicle did not know what to do when meeting another car on this narrow driveway. My husband motioned for her to back up and she pulled into the ditch and got stuck. So my husband had to pull her out of the ditch with his truck. So this is just one example of what can happen when people use our driveway that are unfamiliar with it and meet another vehicle. So I would like to thank you for allowing me to share my thoughts and concerns and please consider regulating short-term parking. Short-term lodging properties when shared driveways are concerned. Thank you. Speaker number 20, John Butler, followed by Priscilla Bolito. Welcome, Mr. Butler. Pull it up there. There you go. Yes, sir. Thank you. It's almost too short. Mr. Chairman and Supervisors, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you again tonight. I'm John Butler. I reside in the Opecan District. I appreciated the opportunity to speak to you two weeks ago and talk to you about the knock-on impacts of cuts to higher education, to universities in particular. And I'd like to continue the discussion tonight with regard to the now $2.5 million proposed cut. Happily, this week, Governor – late last week, Governor Youngkin was quoted by WTOP in Washington as stating, it's time to invest in education and pay teachers. That's pot on. It was not in regard to, unfortunately, over- vis twist. It was not in regard to his K-12 alternate education. It was a statement of fact with regard to education in general. In reviewing the paper this week, recounting the school board meeting for last week, first let me say that I reviewed your questions to the school board. I reviewed their responses. I was impressed. I think they did a great job of answering your questions. I think your concerns have been fully addressed by the school board. I compliment Dr. Savine. I compliment the school board. Now they're faced with a tough decision, the $2.5 million. They're getting ready for the worst-case scenario, and that's that you pass Option C. They're going to take $1.81 million of that $2.5 out of special education, impacting special ed teachers, speech therapists, special ed instructional assistants, behavioral specialists, and behavioral instructional assistants. Now those I would think you would agree are probably one of the most vulnerable groups in our schools. I had an uncle who was mentally challenged 15 years my senior. He grew up on my grandma's farm about 15 miles out of town, 10 miles on a paved road, followed by five miles on a dirt road. He spent his days on the front porch on a rocking chair. There was no special education in those days. We've come a long way. Let's not regress and take away. Imagine what these people could have been if we had had the ability to teach them and instruct them the way we can today. So I reviewed the public hearing pitches from 23 March. I understand your appropriation of your funds. I also reviewed Exhibit 12 of your report. 30 June 2021 general fund year-ending. Excess revenues over expenditures of $38 million, actuals. I understand why you need to carry those forward, and I assume since we're in the third quarter, you have that report and you know what your 2022 excess is going to be. I would encourage you to look at the $2.5 million as something that could be covered out of that excess without impact to your two months of forward funding, and I would encourage you very strongly to fund the school board's budget under option A. Thank you. Priscilla Belito, followed by Dana Brum. With all due respect, Mr. DeHaven, before my time starts, I would like to respectfully request that any minor children that may be in the room step out. I think that's beyond our ability. It's a parent's decision. Like most of us here tonight, I'm gravely concerned about the FCPS budget. Unfortunately, children seem to always, and I think that's beyond the receiving end of crappy adult decisions. Your various proposed budget plans, according to FCPS, would one way or another have a negative impact on teachers, staff, and children. Be it $2 or $2 million, I have heard arguments these last several weeks of not withholding anything, fully refunding the proposed budget, and trusting FCPS administration to use our tax dollars at their discretion. As a taxpayer parent and one who will fight to the absolute death to protect each and every one of you, I would like to request that you do so. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. They were bringing harm to our children. Virginia laws can't be changed right now to stop that harm, referencing Virginia Code 18.2-373. But there are plenty of reasons we can object to our Frederick County tax dollars enabling that harm. Reason number one, a book at Millbrook High School. Here we go. He put those fingers to his mouth and sucked on them on the taste of me. He pulled out slightly and thrust back in slow. Again, he pulled out, then thrust in. Again, faster, deeper this time. Released, tore through my body, and he pounded into me hard and fast. He roared as he came, slamming me into the hilt. He was enormous in my hands, so hard. He hissed, cock twitching, as I brushed my thumb over the tip. Cocky bastard. So I leaned in and put my mouth on him. Next time, I'll fuck you against the wall hard enough to make the pictures fall off. Reason number two, a new middle school. My son will be ten years old when he enters middle school. He fumbles with his pants, forces my legs apart, and I can feel him pushing himself between my thighs. You will take me into your room and do whatever they ask of you. Hold still or I'll slice your throat. The fish-lipped man. The fish-lipped man removed my dress. Then he is on top of me, and something hot and inconsistent is between my legs. Trying to fit himself inside of me with a sudden thrust, I'm torn in two. Oh yes, he says, panting. I am torn and bleeding where the men have been. What is it? A condom. Get to work, you lazy whore, she said. Stop. You've used your time. Thank you so much. Thank you. Dana Brunn, followed by Jennifer Adams. Please be seated. Thank you. Please be seated. My name is Dana Brunn from Back Creek. I want to thank the board for hearing us tonight. Boy that's a tough act to follow, I'm telling you. I'm telling you, I'm in agreement with her in a lot of ways. I'm a Romans 828 guy. We know all things through God work through God, through those who love him, who have been according to his purpose. I say it's because it is his purpose. It's not somebody else's, especially when it comes to our students. That brings me to a lot of what's happening, and I'm fine most of the time with a budget, and I do budgets all the time. Ask my wife, she'll tell me. I can tell you exactly what she spends all the time. All right? But when I was looking at a lot of the curriculum that comes with the budget, I was really astounded with exactly what she was reading tonight. I don't know how many people, family members, husbands, wives, children, really need to hear a lot of the stuff that's in there. And in the budget itself, in the libraries themselves, the stuff that's in those books is absolute. I can't even read it. I was asked to read something, and I said, as a Christian person, I certainly cannot read this. I can't read this. But then again, we have a 7th grade, 8th grade, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th grader reading all of this stuff at the same time. All right. The problem is. I work with Saving Lost Kids and Operation Underground Railroad and other places like that. And the reason I say that is because I feel that the teacher's salaries are really, and the school board and the administration is really, the payroll that comes from that is designed to teach STEM, not sex. And that's a lot of the stuff that's actually in here. And kids are learning more about sexual pleasure, et cetera, with a lot of the pieces of the so-called literature that's basically a handbook to teach them how to do certain things. The problem with that is I was actually married to somebody who went through that in school. And that person ended up committing suicide simply for the simple fact that she had been through abuse, rape, all the other stuff. And that's the kind of stuff that's in that curriculum. If you're going to take some money out of the budget, take a look at what's in there. Take a look at the amount of money that's being put into the libraries and things like that. You can check out a book like that, and the teachers or the librarian will tell you, oh, this is a suggestion. This is a suggested reading. So I was really shocked, and that's really an understatement. You know, I remember when I was younger, you know, you guys remember reaching puberty? All right? You didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to do with myself. Okay? 19, 20, 25 years old, the stuff I was reading in these articles and so forth that are in the schools today was absolutely unconscionable. These kids are at an impressionable age, and I think, you know, if you're going to do something like this, if you're going to do something like this on an ulterior motive, something has to actually be done with it. So the problem is if kids go through all of this stuff, you got the moms and dads, how well are they going to be off? How much better are they going to be off if they actually have this kind of stuff that's actually happening to them? So I suggest when you look at the budget, take a look at where you're spending the money, and we can protect a lot of these kids so they don't have problems in the future. Thanks for letting me share it. Thank you. Jennifer Adams followed by Rob Ryan. Oh my God. Welcome. My name is Jennifer Adams. I'm from the Shawnee District. I'm not going to read the book that I had my kids check out that's offered at Sharando and Millbrook High School. Um, mostly because I don't want to upset anybody else. Obviously everybody has a problem with it. I have a problem with it. I have a problem with it. My children went through DARE. All three of them. My kids have gone to school for, I've been in Frederick County Public Schools for 20 years. My kids go through the DARE program. Don't do drugs. Come home and give me crap every day because I'm a smoker. Oh my God, Mom, you're going to die. Well, one day. But I didn't do drugs. My kids don't do drugs. And yet this book called Crank talks about rape, talks about drugs, and talks about abortion. And it tells us that we're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. We're going to die. And it tells them in there. Don't worry. You don't have to tell your parents about getting an abortion. That's okay. Just come up with the $500 and bring it to us. It's about methamphetamine. What's going on in Frederick County alone with the drug issues? And we're allowing kids to go in at Millbrook and Sharando, Aylor, Admiral Byrd, and get these books? Is nobody checking on what these kids are reading and what they're doing? And telling them that it's okay? Go ahead. Read whatever you want. When did it become such an issue with the public school system? And no, it's not just necessarily Frederick County. But when did it become okay for us to make sex, rape, drugs, alcoholism, all the norm, and take away from these people that have been harmed? They read stuff like this, it desensitizes them. They don't care. Well, you know, I read a book about that. What's going to happen if somebody reads some of these books and they don't care? They're going to be like, well, I'm going to go to the doctor. I'm going to go to the doctor. I'm going to go to the doctor. I'm going to go to the doctor. I'm going to go to the doctor. I'm going to go to the doctor. What's going to happen if somebody reads some of these books and they go, I learned it in high school, and they go and they do do something to somebody's child, girl or boy, and they use that as their defense because they got that book out of the library? Out of public school? This is ridiculous. When is this going to stop? What is going to stop? stop acting like our children are toys, that you can just give them whatever you want, teach them whatever you want, and do whatever you want. It's about math, it's about English, it's about science, it's about history. It's not about rape, it's not about drugs. It's not fair. My two daughters graduated from Millbrook High School, they didn't put up with this shit. And my son shouldn't have to put up with this. He's got two more years. Thank God he's got two more years. This is ridiculous. And I ask the pay supervisors, don't give them a damn dime until they get rid of this crap. Bob Ryan, followed by Speaker Number 25, Chris Adams. Welcome, sir. I'll raise it up there. Thank you. Yeah, hi. Good. My name is Bob Ryan. I live in Opecan District. Yeah, to follow what's been said here, I have some examples, too. I'm not going to read them. But I have one from an elementary school, which is at Apple Pie Ridge. It talks about a child who's wondering if he's a transvestite. And this is a seven-year-old. I've got one from a middle school. It's called Zenobia July. This child is what? Middle school? Middle school, 13, 12. And it's all about gender identity. And then another one from, again, James Wood Middle School. It's called The Magic Fish. And it's all about a child who's gay and doesn't know how to tell his parents. So he's not going to tell his parents. He's going to go tell someone else. This kind of crap shouldn't be in our school. This is a story from one of my school libraries. I mean, I'm all for education, but what is it that we're teaching these kids? I know when I was in school, I didn't have to put up with this stuff. We just didn't know what this was. You couldn't even watch commercials on TV. And I'm sure most of you didn't have this thrown at you in school. It's a rather recent thing. I know my younger son just graduated from high school in 2003. And he's a little bit older than me. And he's a little bit older than me. And I'm sure most of you didn't know what this was. And I'm sure most of you didn't know what this was. And I'm sure most of you didn't know what this was. This stuff was being pushed down on him in all of his classes. Fortunately, he'd ignored it. But, I mean, it's there. I mean, in school libraries, I looked on Frederick County Public Schools website. I was trying to find out who actually chooses the books that are in the library. And I couldn't find it. And I couldn't find it. So I don't know who's making decisions. I know Fairfax Public Schools, it's on there, how they choose their books and who's in charge of that. But Frederick County Public Schools, there's nothing on there about how books get into the library. So, I mean, when you're talking about budget, look at things like the library. Look at things like what's being taught. Who's... Who's choosing these books? What part of the budget is... Goes to the library books? I couldn't find that online either. And even worse yet, a lot of these teachers have their own private in-classroom little book areas or libraries. And no one knows what's in those. They just shouldn't be there. And... Oh yeah, just to add, don't fall into the trap of cutting things like special ed or sports or AP classes. That's been a threat since I was in school. Look at the whole school budget and look at what's being taught and try to eliminate some of the garbage that's being taught in our schools. Thank you for listening. Here we go. Chris Adams followed by Arianna Turan. Well, good evening. Thank you for hearing me. My name is Chris Adams. I'm in the Shawnee District. Had children in FCPS for the past 20 years. My wife and I at first often spoke with our children's teachers. And back then we were very impressed with them and the school administration. So much so that we weren't as involved. We didn't care about them. We didn't feel like we needed to do them. We didn't feel like we needed them. We didn't feel like we needed them. needed to be. My children looked forward to school, which always intrigued me. I never liked it, never wanted to go. The last few months, though, have been pretty enlightening for me. The changes I've seen are very concerning. The trust I mentioned appears to have been taken for granted, and now I see that I'm unknowingly, in my opinion, contributing to the delinquency of minors by simply paying my taxes, which are helping to fund the Frederick County Public School Systems libraries, and in turn enabling the purchase of vile, offensive trash. I find it appalling that we have material in the school libraries that have nothing to do with any sort of legitimate education, allowing, in some cases, school staff encouraging young children to read about doing drugs, having sex, rape, sexual slavery, sexual professions in extremely illicit detail, and this is just simply disturbing. To know that my son and I could check these books out without my knowledge makes me cringe. Despite the fact that being under 18, and by law, he's not allowed to possess materials like this, but he can get it at school. There's even a warning on most of this content that says you can't possess this if you're under 18. It can't be sold to you, and that's on anything, anywhere you go where it's publicly available, you know, at a bookstore and such. There's certainly appropriate ways of teaching these books. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer just enough questions or, you know, bottle it up. But've got plenty to do with talking about and honestly maybe we should talk about these mental health subjects. I think we called it health education when I was in school. You know, we've had programs like the D.A.R.E. program for drugs and such. But this material, to me, doesn't seem like it's about teaching. It's about normalizing these topics, desensitizing our children to the atrocities described in vivid, gruesome detail. Can we expect a 13-year-old to read every gory and illicit detail of a rape and not expect it to become normal for him as Clearly, the county can't save much money by not funding library books, but my concern goes beyond money. This is a concern for the children here. I believe the school board should be held responsible for identifying who approved the books, fire those responsible, remove the inappropriate materials, and ensure these materials never, ever have an avenue back into our schools in the future. I urge you to do whatever in your power to ensure the school board takes this action. I have learned that most adults generally react to only two things in life, violence and money. Clearly, violence would be out of the question in this situation. Anyways, I was going to read some about the book as well. I don't think we really probably need to. It's disgusting. Thank you. Arianna Turin, followed by Rebecca Carter. I wanna thank you for this incredible opportunity. I didn't know what you were going to ask for, but I don't know what you were going to ask for. But I want to thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. I'm here today to speak about, Arianna Turin in Redwood District, sorry. I'm here today to speak about books in our public school libraries. This topic has been causing quite a stir across the county, country, and rightfully so. I'm sure many parents, including myself, never really thought about school library books being an issue. We blindly trusted the people in authority to provide age-appropriate books to our children, only to realize that was a big risk to the school, and that we were not going to let that happen. So I'm going to ask you to think about the books that you have in this situation. a big mistake. In recent weeks, it has been brought to my attention that there are hundreds of inappropriate, vile, and downright pornographic books within all levels of our public school libraries, from elementary to high school. I know what you're probably thinking, the same thing I thought. That's not true. How can that be true? Well, for the skeptics out there, I did my own research, and I have proof. This book I am holding in my hand is called Lucky by Alice Sebald. This book, on the front cover synopsis, clearly states that this is a memoir about rape. Online research shows that this book is rated a 5 out of 5 for explicit content rating, and should not be viewed by anyone under the age of 18. I will not get into the vile and obscene content that this book displays, because it honestly makes my stomach turn, but it describes vivid details about a woman's rape. I have a printout here for all the board members and anyone else who would like to see them. This book is currently available at the library at Millbrook High School. This book is able to be checked out by any student of any age. Some high school students are as young as 13 years old. There's no requirement such as photo ID or parental consent to check out this book. I know this because my daughter checked this book out last week. She is 16 years old. The librarian even said that she recommends this book, and there is no explicit content warnings or age warnings directly displayed on the book. So my daughter could be reading this book, this explicit material, without my knowledge or consent, and I am none the wiser. Not one person in this room should condone these books. And if you find yourself trying to justify them, take this into consideration. The rational thinking of a teenager's brain called the prefrontal cortex is not fully developed until the age of 25. Teens process information using their amygdala, the emotional part of their brain, so providing irrational thinking teenagers with this type of material is most certainly a dangerous combination. I will close with this statement. Since the school budget has been the hot topic of discussion here recently, who purchases these books? I'm assuming the purchase with taxpayer dollars, and I for one do not agree to use my taxpayer dollars to support these books. If this explicit material cannot be published in newspapers or spoken about on radio and TV stations, then it most certainly should not be allowed in public schools. Rebecca Carter followed by Kevin Kennedy. Hello, I'm Rebecca Carter from the Shawnee district. I wrote a lovely little speech, but after the last two, three board meetings, maybe more, and listening to other parents and students that have come to me, expressing what they're being told by their teachers, that if the budget isn't fully funded, that their teachers are leaving their favorite teacher. So my, I am putting out a formal request as a parent, is for the teachers to stop. Stop telling the students that if that's what you're gonna do, then do it, but keep your mind Your personal life out of the classroom and discussing the budget, and if you're leaving or not, is your personal life. So please. Now on to what I actually did have written. As embarrassing as it is to listen to these books or the description of these books, I hope everyone in the room and those that are watching from home really paid attention to these excerpts. They are grotesque. There's no other word for it. They're in our schools. If you go to ratedbooks.org, it will give you the content rating from 0 to 5. The website even makes it very easy for anybody who doesn't use it. They even break it down to what the kind of rating would be from a movie. Of course, 0 being, you know, rated G. 5 is, you know, 17 or plus. The books that were read here today or talked about are rated 4s and 5s. Would any of you guys read this book to your child, to your grandchildren, or any child? Do you want them to read this on their own? Could one of our children stand up in class and read this to the rest of the class? You can't. They can't. You want to know where our tax dollars are going since the school boarder, David Savine, will not provide the line-ine to budget? Well, you just figured out where part of it is going. To filth. If they are purchasing this obscene literature like this, then what else are they wasting our money on? I see we have, Brian Hester, Bradley Comstock, Ellen White, David Savine here tonight. So I would love for them to get up here and explain to us how these are educational materials. If you want to teach our kids about rape, how about you teach them what to do if they have been raped? Instead of having books that are basically glorifying drug use, have books in there that teach our students how to say no under peer pressure. So I ask, what else at our school is money being wasted on? Thank you. Kevin Kennedy, followed by Pam Kennedy. Hello. Welcome, sir. I'm Kevin Kennedy, and I've lived in the Gainesboro District for going on 32 years. I don't have any children in school right now. But we did have our twins go to Indian Hollow and graduated from James Wood and got good educations, went to college and all that good stuff. We have been lifetime supporters of public schools. And I hope that you all will be also. I want to thank you, Mr. Wells, Mr. DeHaven, and Ms. McCanslaughter, for your votes two weeks ago to fund the school budget. And my understanding that this is a, some people have referred to this too, this is basically a bare-bones budget. And so 22 million voted on to be taken away from the school. And that's just a disaster if it was ever allowed to happen. And, you know, and a threat of something like this affects the teachers, the school workers, the students. It also affects people who are thinking about maybe coming to live in Frederick County or a business that's thinking about, you know, relocating the business here. That was referred to by a gentleman earlier this evening. And that's real stuff. When somebody's going to move to an area, you all know this, if somebody's going to move to an area, then they want to know what the schools are like. Especially if they have students. But even if they don't have any children in school, then the quality of the education is the quality of the community. And, you know, people react to that. I've heard, you know, I've heard, well, I just heard a whole series of things, you know, being said by concerned parents, and I appreciate their concern. And personally, I'd recommend they take it to the principal of whatever the school is. But back to the important subject here. The important subject is supporting our schools, supporting our teachers, supporting our administrators, supporting our teachers. Three of you last two weeks ago were ready to do that. And I thank you for that. The other four of you have the opportunity to get on the correct side of this issue and support the public schools, support the teachers who, it's been said, and you all know this, there are teachers in Frederick County are underpaid compared to surrounding counties. So let's just, let's just fix this. Let's just the correct way. Thank you. Pam Kennedy, followed by speaker number 30, John Stotler. Good evening. Pam Kennedy, Gainesboro. God bless you. What does it mean to be accountable to the public that you all were elected to serve? Most simply, it means you must be held fully answerable to the owner of the resources, that is the citizens. This involves fairness, trust, integrity, and transparency. Accountability is the foundation of public trust. You are all elected to serve all of the citizens of this county, not just a designated group. You were given a resource to protect the public schools, which best serves the public. Thank you. This benefits all citizens of all ages at all levels. Have you done your job? Have you been fair or partisan? The public record clearly shows us the scorecard on that one. Have you been trustworthy? For some of you, your spoken and your written words reflect an appalling lack of concern for the citizens that you have been been elected to represent. How about integrity? Ooh, red button issue for several of you, isn't it? And then transparency. Good old have it all in the public eye and not behind closed doors. Several of you would be forever blinded by the brightness of the light of transparency. Which leads me finally to do what we call lack of accountability and loss of public trust, or to phrase it more technically, if you please. If you pledge allegiance to the legal order and you show intent and action to violate that obligation, many legal scholars would call several of you transparent. Traitors at the local level in violation of the public trust. Traitors. Not a term to be looked at because it is synonymous with treason. I would urge you, for the sake of our community and whatever moral sense you may still possess, to begin to act in the public's interest, not your interest, in their interest. You'll never know how strong you are until being strong is your only choice. Thank you. John Stotler followed by Brian Hester. Good evening. John Stotler from Gainesboro District. I currently have three kids in public schools. I'm hoping what this board can kind of teach them is, and what they're probably not going to learn in school while they're going through school, is some fiscal responsibility and accountability. I don't have a sex book to read, but what I did want to read was part of Dr. Sifan's budget proposal he presented back in February 2019. He stated that student enrollment is the greatest deterrent to the state's education system. That's what he said. That word?」 So the FY19 information is means schoolinent and training locker room, that's what he was calling them. We began to train less, which was worth more money, than the $3,800,000 education program in 2009. And so it's a very good way to really demonstrate the use of武 сол in schoolальная Sportive Dir Marshall School District. This includes direct education with car insurance, which was for a student group in願 deny ten thousand eight hundred and eighty students. écumonat acá no Distribute Interest covers five districts per watching where a boy brings his إلى a turc uh 15š un givolso de unf가� Spieler city по It was proposed that that is for teacher salaries and benefits. So we're asking for a $35 million increase in the operating budget from 2019, and we've added zero students to the school system. I mean, I don't understand where that $35 million has gone. Maybe you guys do, and that's why you're going to maybe approve it or not approve it. But I'm hoping if you do approve it, you know where the $35 million has gone. That's all. Brian Hester, followed by Bradley Comstock. Welcome, sir. Chair, supervisors. Brian Hester from the Stonewall District and also the member-at-large for the school board. I did have a prepared statement today, but after hearing everybody speak tonight, I just want to talk to you guys. How did we get here? I mean, how did we? How did we truly get here? I'm third generation Winchester-Frederick County. I would have never have thought that we'd be in this position. I know there's some of you up here that don't like me. There's some people back here that don't like me, and that's okay. I get it. But I still have a respect for you guys with your job, and you guys should respect us with the elected positions that we've been given. There's parents back here that I've heard from. I've heard from parents that I've heard from for the past couple months. You know, and I get it. But the thing is, is one of the reasons why I ran for school board is I care so much about every single child in our school system. It doesn't matter whether the parents like me or not. I'm still going to fight tooth and nail for every single kid. This last finance meeting as chair was one of the hardest meetings I've ever had to do. Because if you know me, if you know my family, I better answer their questions directly to you, how ever you cast that problèmes. Okay? So, my knowledge and professional education runs deep in our family. My youngest brother, when he was born in 86, was told he needed to be institutionalized. One doctor in town said that wasn't the case. Fast forward to a senior year at Hanley, he graduated from the National Honor Society. Every child in our division should scenario a before we even gave you the budget dr savine in our departments we already cut it down this is a needs-based budget we need this our students need this and our teachers need this the faucet's already been turned on and we're losing teachers already let's stop the faucet we got to keep going we've got a great school system and i understand that we've got conflicts but let's work them out guys seriously even even you and me mr graber okay i'm serious we can i mean you can smirk and i can smirk too but let's work together we all need to work together for this great community our great school system and every kid in that um receiving an education from us thank you bradley comstock followed by mia uzmani bradley comstock bradley comstock good evening mr chairman members of the board bradley comstock um opec and district and vice chair of the school board um over the past several weeks you've heard from community members school administration teachers parents school board members and even tonight some local businesses our schools are hurting this is a challenging time for us to hire and retain teachers and no matter which way you slice it option c is going to force us to make some really tough decisions prioritizing how to use those funds that shouldn't be the case when all of those funds are direly needed right now we've spent time speaking together answering questions meeting and providing information we have extended an olive branch and offered a willingness to work together to have more joint meetings to reflect on the budget format and yet we're still here in the same spot we're here having to beg for the funds that we desperately need the schools support this community at its very core and we're asking you to support us I touched on this the last time but I wanted to revisit just to keep it fresh in your mind if you look at every department within your county budget you'll see that FCPS employs our people at a lower rate per employee than any other department within the county's budget and if you want to broaden that and look at school districts across across the state if you look at the other districts with similar number of students between thirteen and fourteen thousand students we do the same in that category we are below budget per FTE than those other divisions Frederick County Public Schools is all about people our staff the people who do the day-to-day and our students and that's where our funding goes and that's why we need it disagree with the programs question things but please I'm asking you to support our people there's been a lot of scrutiny about the ways that FCPS budget has increased over the over the past year specifically between 2010 until now and so I wanted to spend a couple minutes highlighting some of these great strides the divisions made in that time period for you anyone can nitpick all day how much funding goes to what categories or little spending here whether you agree with a specific program or not and if you have a specific question or concern about any of those items please call your school board representative we're here to have that conversation with you but right now we're talking about the budget as a whole and when it comes down to it big picture FCPS has come a long way since 2010 in 2010 FCPS had four unaccredited elementary schools and one unaccredited middle school that ranked in the lowest five percent in the entire state we saw at half day kindergarten we had antiquated computer labs that honestly when I first came to teach here I felt like I'd taken a step back in time fast forward 12 years now all of our schools are accredited our students in our division are doing amazing things with technology we have full day kindergarten we're really working to meet the needs of all of our learners starting with those at those pivotal primary years including pre-k our CTE programs have taken off and in this area plus many others were often looked at by other divisions across the state as an example the common denominator with the state is the quality of education that we've had for a lifetime we've had a very good experience with the state we've had over the years and we've had a great deal of all of these things is having the funding to prioritize those things sorry may I continue mr. chairman okay please yes sir the funding requested allows us to continue to prioritize what we've identified as our greatest needs and continue this upward trend of growing and improving as we've been doing over the past 12 years look at the turnout from this community reflect on the calls the emails look at the people that are here tonight asking you to fund the schools with the money that we absolutely need to continue doing the great things we're doing I pray that one of you will listen to this community and to your constituents this evening that one of you will have the courage to show this community you support our children please vote for budget scenario a thanks for your time hello Mia oomani up Quan mr. Wells is my do s and we're here tonight to discuss the budget scenario a project that will be implemented this fall to help racial and ethnic communities and rural communities I want to thank everybody for your time again, and here we are again. Hopefully, we will get a miracle tonight. There's really, the three of you are 100% for the full school, full budget. I realize, Mr. Graber, Mr. Ludwig, you have no interest in that, so my conversation is going to be to Mr. Dunn and Mr. McCarthy. I have seven of these here. Just say 2,000 per circle. That's 14,000 kids I have in my hands here. I cherish all these kids. I want you to cherish them, too. Out of those 14,000, almost 2,000 have special needs. There is a real nasty, repulsive thread going out in this county right now on special needs kids. The things that are being said online and verbally, I'd like that to stop. We shouldn't be doing that. We are. We are better than that. I ask you and Mr. Dunn, wherever you are, Mr. Dunn, I understand. Make a miracle for us. Don't put fear and loathing in this county like it's happening right now. I really want us to get number one, or I should say option A for full school funding. Thank you very much for your time. Even the book ends there. Thank you so much. Thank you. Della Payne, followed by speaker number 35 is Jody Yeagy. Welcome. My name is Della Payne. I live in the Opechan District. I'm here tonight because we have reached a critical juncture in education in our county. Our schools are handling unparalleled difficulties coming from two pandemic years evidenced by understaffing and unprecedented challenges. behavioral challenges in the classroom. Teachers are reaching a breaking point. On top of the challenges in the classroom, teachers are now left with an uncertain future. Contracts cannot be offered and pay scales are not set. Special education teachers in particular are doing the extraordinary work of acting as case managers for students with a range of disabilities. These educators are responsible for the development and implementation of students' individual education plans. They collaborate with general education teachers and complete and maintain all their assigned students' records or the contact point for the students' families. They work tirelessly to adapt lessons, create schedules, hold meetings, pull students for testings, and create and implement behavioral plans. This is not just admirable work. It is federally mandated work under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. These teachers in particular are leaving education in droves. In 2019, 44 states reported special education teacher shortages to the federal government. This year, that number jumped to 48 states. The reported cause of attrition are heavy workloads and low pay. Special education teachers ensure equitable education to approximately 14% of the student population. General education teachers also rely on their expertise when developing and assessing learning activities. While their value is evident, it's especially alarming to learn that one, special education teachers leave at almost double the rate of general education teachers. And two, more than half of all districts are currently struggling to staff well-qualified special education teachers. A $2 million cut to Frederick County's public school budget would take new pay scales for special education teachers off the table. And I cannot speak to the situation in every school district, but I know that at Middletown Elementary, which serves my neighborhood, we will be losing a speech therapist. And I know that at Middletown Elementary, we will be losing a speech therapist next year, a school psychologist, a licensed special education teacher, and a teaching assistant with more threatening to follow. Who will suffer from these losses? All students, not just those who qualify for special education services. Our teachers are spread thin. Our students are in trouble. How then can we even discuss cutting funding and possibly diverting limited resources to private school vouchers? And while we debate the needs of our school, our neighboring counties are easily passing their school's budget, allowing us to do more of the work that we need to do. And I know that the state of Middletown is also doing a great job of supporting the state of Middletown. And I know that the state of Middletown is also doing a great job of supporting limited resources to private school vouchers. And while we debate the needs of our school, our neighboring counties are easily passing their school's budget, allowing a staff to get raises. Fauquier County is giving an average 13% raise to their teaching staff. Our county sits on a surplus. With option A, we can fund roads and support our schools. Our students deserve a quality education fully from the budget, give our students the schools they deserve and keep public funds for public education. Sorry. Thank you. Jody Yege, followed by Karen Contreras. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Is that good? Okay. My name is Jody Yege and I live in the Redbud District. First of all, books, eh? My child is one child in seventh grade without a phone and social media. If we wanna talk about where the problems are, probably start there in a lot of cases. So just as a parent of middle school students. Frederick County fiscal year 2021 ended with record revenue and a surplus over what was expected, meaning the board was able to move 26.1 million to a capital fund and still have 41 million in the general fund. Six million over what's over the 35 million that's needed for the rainy day fund. What does all that mean? Here's what I think it means. There are additional funds sitting there. So if say somebody was looking for 2 million that was needed for a transportation reserve fund, they can maybe find it there. While there has been talk about competing priorities, the reality is that Frederick County is in the enviable position to fund all county operating budgets as you did two weeks ago, fully fund the school budget this evening, and still put 4 million into the transportation reserve. All while never touching that 6 million sitting in the general fund. We saw exciting news today that the transportation committee's request for some matching funds was awarded by the state for a project on Route 11. Thanks to Supervisor McKee, the state's public hand slaughter, and the transportation committee for the work on this project. It's notable that the 2 million from that was already allocated and no funds are coming from this budget. So again, road projects and full school funding can both occur. Given the grave concerns about competing priorities for budgets and transparency over tax dollars that have been discussed over the last couple of months, what should not occur this evening is further investigation of school vouchers. Vouchers are generally more than what an individual's tax contribution is, and there is no transparency about how those funds are spent. It is also clear that the county is struggling to keep up with the growth in our public school system. So funding additional school systems, including administration, buildings, is not an efficient use of taxpayer money. The idea of vouchers has not been discussed in public forum, so the community does not have any clarity in how these might be used, and where they can be used, which schools they can be used at, we have no information. For that reason, I maintain that individuals on this board who can financially benefit from the decision should recuse themselves of the vote being taken because of a conflict of interest. That includes supervisors who are on private school boards and who send their children to private schools. Our students deserve a quality education. Fully fund the budget, give our students the schools they deserve, and keep public funds for public education. Thank you. Thank you, Karen Contreras, followed by Shaniqua Williams. I think it's on, okay. My name's Karen Contreras. I'm from the Back Creek District. I spoke two weeks ago. I've taught for Frederick County for 18 years. I have two kids in the system. So what I wanted to talk to you guys tonight, as a teacher, I get to see a lot of things that kids do. That they hide from their parents, or parents aren't aware of, or just average community members are not aware of. A lot of these things have to do with their phones. Like I've noticed the kids where I teach at Jameswood High School, they have an Instagram account where they post problems with the school building, like leaks, blinds broken. They realize that their school is run down. So they do that. Also, something I've been involved in, something kids like to do, especially if they own AirPods. I don't know if anybody in here has bought a teenager AirPods in the past year or so. They like to watch TV shows on their phones, like during study hall, lunch, or during my instruction, which I have to correct them. I have caught kids watching Game of Thrones on their phones. I'm not old enough to see Game of Thrones on some scenes, all right? And, you know, I had to, you know, tell the kids, don't do that. Um, they watch Shameless on their phones. I teach high, I teach ninth grade, by the way. Um, so these kids are consuming a lot of media, and as graphic as that one reading was, and I too would not want that in a school where a 14-year-old can check that out. Um, they are consuming this on a regular basis, and I, as an English teacher, I take my kids to the library a lot, and so I know the process. I know why librarians get books for kids. They don't just willy-nilly get books, you know, oh, this looks good on the internet. They try to find things that are tied to curriculum. They try to find things that kids are interested in. They want to get kids to read. Um, and if there is a book that's objectionable, there is a process to get that book removed. Um, so, I've been on those committees before. Um, and so there is a process other than coming up to this meeting and reading some excerpts. Um, now, some of those books that I heard read or described, um, I don't have a problem with. The first one, yes. The others, no. The second one, it sounded like it was discussing, like, somebody being inappropriate with an underage person, and I'm sorry. It is a sad fact. I have had kids who have been raped. I have had kids who have been touched, and they don't have anybody to talk to about it, or they don't even know that it's a thing, and so they get these books, and they, they learn. These aren't instruction manuals. Reading teaches empathy, and trans kids exist, and gay kids exist, and having literature about it supports them. A very vulnerable population that is prone to being raped. I have had kids who have been raped. I have had kids who have been reported tacos, and their可 tabled boards, and they've been petitioned, and I have tried to reach out to these scary speculative Serbian underground community that they're, they're always under when they feel good they gotta be upfront about what's happening. And it's very often about the right, the cultural vibe, from the part of the community. that's vitallyurmotiv. So being people that have ever received advocacy orlining, or any other trust, you know, being in an organization that you've like ever thought of, but it also gives them격 and I serve the educators of Frederick County as the president of the Frederick County Education Association. Thank you in advance for your full attention to all constituents this evening. I pondered what would be different to say to you tonight to encourage you to vote and support Scenario A, the scenario that fully funds the school board's budget requests. As I, myself, journey through education, I recalled my community rallying for necessary school funding for my school district, and this was in North Carolina. It's extremely unfortunate that across state lines, the story is still the same, even many years later. We should not be in the position where we have to fight for funding for our public schools. No other department that you fund has to beg and plead and correct countless amounts of misinformation on a daily basis. Fully funding the budget requests assists the school board with creating new teaching programs, positions, and other important priorities like recognizing paraprofessionals that have a degree and focusing on retaining the employees that the schools currently have. Fully funding the school's budget assists them in reducing the turnover by keeping Frederick County schools competitive, especially for students with special services. Having consistency with the staff in the local schools is what's best for students, and it helps in the school climate. And while you do not have the benefit of hiring, or firing staff for the county schools, your funding choices directly affect the school's ability to remain competitive, and furthermore, and most importantly, your funding choices affect generations to come. Please fully fund the school board's budget. Create and continue for some your legacy in doing what is right for the students of this county. Consider for those doubting supporting scenario A, what will you tell the young learners of this county for your education? Thank you. And I think that's the real reason why. Thank you. Steven Baker followed by Jennifer Hall. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Good evening. Steven Baker from the Redbud District. And I spoke a couple weeks ago. And first off, I want to thank especially the folks who voted against the scenario or last vote because it motivated me to be here this evening. And I mowed my yard and walked my dog faster than anyone. And I think I have ever. Because I wanted to get here. So on behalf of my dog, Carl, and myself, I thank you. I thought this time of night, you know, a little levity wouldn't hurt. So I'll say pretty much I was a late speaker last time and I am now. But I think you've been presented with some really well-reasoned, I don't want to say arguments, but given good information as to why scenario A should be passed. And I think I'll agree with someone else who said I think the thing about the books is best addressed at the school board. But something else that is bothering me a little bit and always has, I've been watching this, well, it's gone on for, we've lived here 26 years. And every year, school board has to come hat in hand to the board of supervisors for money. And I'm going to use my favorite non-curse, yeah, geez-o, Becky Flip. I have never seen what I would consider a fully funded budget. And when we're having to use that term for this budget for scenario A, it just, it kind of, it's a little bit of a, it's crazy because we, you hear about when you need 13 buses and the board knows better to even try it. That's cut. I think about the fact that we're still behind, we're 20 years from Millbrook since Millbrook opened. I think about freshman sports were cut during the housing bubble. We're back pretty flush. So I don't think scenario A, I think scenario A is a big reach. And I'd like to see that fully funded. I think about one other thing that's, I would like to see you all, I know some people assume that their votes are absolutely against scenario A. I would like to think that the pastor was correct when he talked about he hopes that people are listening. And I hope that after the information you've gotten from two weeks ago, and I also think that I'm thinking about school board when you're asking for transparency. I can't imagine that they said, no, we're not going to do that. I have a feeling you have the information you need. So I hope you could unanimously send a message to our community, the business community, the medical community, that we appreciate public schools in Frederick County. And we want people here. We want teachers to stay here and fully fund this budget. Please. Thank you. Jennifer Hall followed by William Schaefer. Good evening. Jennifer Hall, Shawnee District. I'm a graduate of Frederick County and have a kindergartner at Evendale Elementary. I'm also the wife of a special education teacher. And I'm here to tell you that they need more than the $6,000 raise that is currently on the chopping block. They need your support. They need to feel valued. They need to feel appreciated. We are undoubtedly going to see a mass exodus of teachers, as you have heard multiple times tonight, that will impact our community for generations to come. I've heard rumblings that some of you don't understand why special education teachers, aides, speech therapists, and others need these additional pay increases. I'm not a teacher, but again, the wife of one. So I can provide a little perspective from someone on the outside. SPED teachers have two jobs. They teach classes and provide case management, often with very little training when they begin. SPED teachers often receive provisional licenses and work with some of the most challenging children in the district, as you've already heard tonight. My husband has been physically and verbally assaulted on numerous occasions, called the N-word on several occasions, only to be told the child won't be disciplined because of their disability. He's constantly pulled from classes to deal with behavioral issues for students on his caseload, a growing caseload that continues to grow because his colleagues are leaving in the middle of the school year. They're resigning for jobs outside of education or taking FMLA because of the stress. If you don't believe me, then ask HR. That continues to put even more stress on him and his fellow colleagues. By the way, that also then puts more stress at home. You get the picture. He sets up IEP meetings, manifestation hearings, deals with parents yelling at him, communication barriers that could go on and on. Oh yes, and he also teaches classes, by the way, that other part of his job. Struggles to keep up with lesson planning, pacing guides, grading, progress goals, and so many other things. This is just a small snapshot of what I see from home because he works from home nearly every night just trying to keep up. An administrator clocked him working 65 hours a week inside the building, not including the time that he coaches or the time that he works at home. So the $6,000 increase, or $115 a week, really does not actually go that far when you take into account all the time that special education teachers are putting in. My husband doesn't want to leave Frederick County, because they gave him a chance at teaching and fulfilling his dream of being a teacher after merely a decade of trying. He's loyal to the county and wants to live and work here in his community, but if you don't fully fund the budget, he and many others may not have a choice to stay. Please support our teachers. Thank you. William Schaefer. Followed by Natasha Van Meter. Welcome, sir. Hi. William Schaefer, Shawnee District. I've read parts of what I'm about to read tonight before, but seeing how some of the teachers and staff weren't there when I first read it, I would like to read some of it again. FCPS's budget this year was $180 million. This is what mine and many other families have gotten for $180 million. Children segregated from their peers, exercising protected rights, lunch being moved to 1020 a.m. and snack time taken away, leaving five hours without food. Teachers that didn't teach, they just handed out worksheets. A school administration that fills out requests, denies requests, requests an appeal, and denies an appeal, all without the student's knowledge or their parent's knowledge or permission. Medical products being distributed by dirty, ungloved hands, and often those products had been, had lost their value. Children that couldn't go to the bathroom without supervision by people wearing masks, who sometimes they did not recognize. Getting stonewalled at every attempt to get information on products distributed to children, written procedures for processes, or a summary of our rights. Our due processes tossed out the window. And a school board administration that has discriminated against children with disabilities. All this happened while the teachers and administration stood by and said nothing or did nothing. They were all happy to sit back, stay quiet, and keep their jobs. Start talking about money though, and they all came running to fight the parents that were fighting for their kids. This was not the fight I wanted. I wanted accountability for those that thought removing kids from their classes and treating them differently was acceptable. But this is the fight I got. I gave you some screenshots of some of the work that my daughter had brought home. I gave you some screenshots of some of the work that my daughter had brought home. One of them is Marcy ate three twelfths of a candy bar. One of them is Marcy ate three twelfths of a candy bar. Her friend Betsy ate four twelfths of the same pie. How much of the pie did they eat? Junior ate two thirds of a pie. His friend Norman ate one half of the same pie. How much of the pie did they eat? That's more than one pie. What is the full moon? The phase in which the moon appears to be a glowing. And yes, that was the correct answer. Where's our money going? It's obviously not into better curriculum. The board and administration don't even know. In their last meeting, one of the topics discussed was seeing if money could be found from the budget to give to teachers. If the budget is being presented as exactly what's needed, why would you waste time looking at it? Why would you waste time looking for money? Unless it's not exactly what's needed. Since I first started coming to these meetings, no one was attacking teachers. In fact, we defended teachers and spoke to teachers deserving raises. Our fight was with the bloated administration. I believe teachers should be able to get raises without the administration getting a raise, not the other way around. Why is the administration giving themselves raises when the aides and special education teachers aren't making a living on the money? I believe teachers should be able to get raises without the administration getting a raise, not the other way around. Why is the administration giving themselves raises when the aides and special education teachers aren't making a living on the money? Why is the administration giving themselves raises When the aides and special education teachers aren't making a living on the money? Why would we reward anyone giving themselves a raise while defunding our special needs students? Natasha Van Meter. Welcome. My name is Natasha Van Meter, and I am from the Shawnee District. I am currently a junior at Jameswood High School and therefore decisions in this room will affect me and my siblings in the following years. I am currently a junior at Jameswood High School and therefore decisions in this room will affect me and my siblings in the following years. My family, especially those on my father's side, have lived in this county for generations, so I was raised with the values that this community holds dear. One of the most treasured values that I was taught was the value of a quality education. My schools have taught me the value of hard and honest work as long-sight education. My parents, grandparents, teachers, and other mentors have always been there to help foster my love for learning and my ambitions, no matter how ostentatious. My middle school principal, for example, Mr. Putt, let me not once but three times march into his office and demand explanations for rules and regulations that now I understand were a bit higher than his pay grade. He explained the policies to me and allowed me to voice my grievances and demands, even with hindsight being a bit over a stretch. I can more than thank him for the courage he has taught me in those moments that I now utilize tonight in front of you. That would not have been possible without my public school system. Many people will speak of the importance of our school system, and of our schools, and of its teachers in truly reflective places, but that's not my point here tonight. I am asking for clarification, because ever since this issue was brought up to light, I have heard multiple reasons, very much in metal and hearsay, as for the reason why this budget cut was proposed in the first place. All I am asking is for the discussion tonight that be made clear. I had something else to say, but I would like to place something on the table, since I have been hearing recently about the books, and I would like to make a point that has been a conversation that has been muddling our country recently. I learned of my own sexuality through my own thoughts. My parents, specifically my mother, is a Christian woman. I did not learn about gay, transgender people, or anything of that nature, from anywhere. I figured that out by myself. My peers, who are not as fortunate to have loving and compassionate parents, constantly deal with that harassment. I am fortunate enough to not be in that situation. I am fortunate enough to not be in that situation. I am fortunate enough to not be in that situation. I am fortunate enough to not be in that situation. I am fortunate enough to not be in that boat. I am fortunate enough to not be in that boat. If the conversation of these books does come up, I beg of you, please do not follow down the line of censorship that many other countries that we do not look fondly of have done. I sincerely hope that we will continue to keep the American values of free speech and free press in our school systems. I do not believe, agree that pornography should be in our school systems. But when we go through this moderation process, which if there is pornography, as has been demonstrated, should be done, let us not, let us not lose sight of our Constitution. That is all I ask, and thank you for allowing me to speak. Mr. Chairman, that is the end of the list. That is the end of the list. Thank you. Yes, ma'am? What is your question? It's not a question, it's basically a statement. Can I come up? Thank you. I'd like to move to the next period of work. My name is Mary Strenko, and I am from the Stonewall District. The reason why I wanted to be last is because I am a graduate of 86, so we don't have to say my name, my age, and I am dyslexic. I have ADHD. I have mathematical dyslexia. I have English dyslexia. I am one of those special needs students. But I'm really not. I'm just me. So that special needs person is me. I can tell you what I had to go through 30 plus years ago, but because we have come so far with all of these angels and everybody here to support them, let me tell you what you have in store if you do budget cut for the next 30 years, because I am that person. I was bullied because instead of saying nail polish, I'd say polished nail. I was bullied because instead of saying nail polish, I'd say polished nail. I was very happy that Garmin came out with the little arrows to tell you from left and right, because when I get nervous driving, I go the wrong way. I also worked for a major airline, and I was a weight and balance person for the international flights. So I basically worked with the pilots, made sure that everything was ready for them to go, and the numbers looked good. I then proceeded to work at Prince William Hospital as an ER tech for 13 years. Then I became a surgical tech, but unfortunately the state passed that you had to become certified as a surgical tech. I went to ECPI and I got my associates. Unfortunately, I was not able to. I was not able to pass the test. So that dream was kind of put to the side. But on the positive, as much as somebody with a disability or a special needs person, my husband passed away in 2017. My house spurred to the ground in 2018. I had nobody except for two loving parents and my brother. I have been able to rebuild the house. I have the contractors that are scared to death of me, but that's good. And I go ahead and I make adjustments for my life. Because unfortunately, when I was going through school, we didn't have any of this. My parents took me out of public school, and I went to Paul VI High School. I graduated there in 86. After school, every day, my mom would pick me up in the car and take me to go see my tutor. I would tutor with that tutor for two hours and then go home and do my homework with my mother. All of that has gone away because of these lovely, caring people that we call teachers, but they really are guardian angels. Because without some of them, I would not be able to be where I am today. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. My name is Brandy Miller. I'm from the Shawnee District. I'm a mom. I moved to Frederick County in the early 2000s. I was born in the early 2000s. I was raised in the early 2000s. I was raised in the early 2000s. I was raised in the early 2000s. I was raised in Frederick County in 2019. Please say that again. Thank you. Because of the schools. I have two children. I have a child and should be in each school, elementary, middle school, and high school. My two youngest children had IEPs. They've had them since they entered school. I have gotten empty promise after empty promise after empty promise out of those IEPs. Every service that I was excited about has let me down. Not only let me down, let my children down. In March of 2020, when COVID shut the schools down, I did not hear or see any classroom work for either of my two special needs children. Not a word. Until I asked the question of whether they were passing or failing for the year. I was shut down. I've pulled out. I've pulled them from the school since. And I homeschool them now. Because I was told my children can't be protected. There's no guarantee. One of my children was stabbed. No one knew. Dr. Savine in an email said he hoped she was okay. But couldn't even respond. So my frustration with the school, my frustration with the policies that we have that are funded. It takes time to write these policies. It takes time to review the books that are basically saying that there's nothing wrong with touching little girls. It's perfectly okay. And if you'd like an excerpt, I'm happy to give it to you. We're funding the time to write policies for the administrators and we're cutting the teachers. The teachers are frustrated. I don't blame them for sitting in an IEP meeting and saying, I don't know what to do. I'm not doing this. Or saying, what are you doing? Or saying, we're going to do this. And then there's no follow through for it. That's not the teacher's fault. They are cut back. It's the administration where the cuts need to start. And I've heard many people say that we have the highest graduation rates. But I've sat in meetings and been told by school administration that 60% of high school students could not pass a GED test if administered it in a way that was not in line with the rules. So we're not going to be able to pass a GED test if administered it in February. We have a program that we're funding at DowJ that requires kids to be two credits or more behind. They have to be at a high school level but when they can't test at it, they can't utilize the program. If we're not teaching them at a high school level and they have to be failing in order to get into it to get out of school early, what is the point of the program? There is none. There's something you could look at cutting. And when we're talking about budgets and who needs money, what entity, your CPS department is about nine months behind. They're picking and choosing what case is important, what I can throw to the back burner because we don't have enough people to look at. So maybe since there's this many problems in schools and we've got drug use and we've got books and we've got kids who are raped and who are needing extra protection, maybe we need to look at protection. So we're putting some money there. All right. That will conclude our public comments. Consent agenda. How would the Board like to handle that? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Hart? Aye. Supervisor Duggan? Aye. Supervisor McArthur? Aye. Supervisor Ludley? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors' comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Any comments? Yes, sir. Sir, can you get the... I have a few charts I'd like to speak to quickly and then a few comments. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm good to go. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Okay. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Okay. Supervisor Crosby? Aye. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Yeah. All right. So, our next item is the proposal. see that that's quite a jump. In fact, I've done the calculation for you. If you look at the row that's boxed in red, that's the change year over year. So we see changes of a couple million dollars, a little bit more than that as time goes on. But the request from last year to the last year was quite a jump. The request this year was a massive jump, $33 million. So let me show that geographically. Next chart, please. We can go to the next. Yep, thank you. So there it is. That's the same numbers there in the red box plotted. That's the total budget, operational and other elements, capital, etc. So you'll see what a huge jump that is in the proposed budget for this year. So the first thing I want to say about that is it is our job as supervisors to respect the taxpayer and their dollars. When you see a jump like that, it is our job to question the budget and to question the budget. And I think that's a great thing to do. And I think that's a great thing to do. And I think that's a great thing to do. And I think that's a great thing to do. People have been saying things like attack, that we're defunding. Does that look like a defund? And personal, I was accused tonight of having an axe to grind against a school system, all sorts of things. My favorite comment tonight was traders. So we're traders for questioning this budget or for even talking about scenario C. Let me show you that. Can we go to the next chart? So this is just the operating budget. The last one was the total budget, just to show you that that's a big increase as well. So I'm not playing with numbers or categories. Next chart, please. And then there's the operating budget by percentage. So if you want to look at not just the dollars year over year, what's the percentage jump over the year before? Well, you'll see that we float along year to year at roughly, if you drew a line not counting the last two years, about a 4% increase each year. But the request this year is nearly 12%. Now, I realize inflation is starting to kick in. We have some other opportunities, such as salary matching for teachers. I do want to see the teachers get that raise, the full amount. We also have, though, an advantage that we have funds being kicked in at an increased level from state and federal. Next chart, please. So here is, now we're back to, let me be clear, the school system's total budget. And these are increases. This is year after year. So these are not the dollars of the budget. These are just the increases from the year before. That's why you won't see the graph in the first year. And the blue line there at the end is scenario A, jumping last year from what was already a pretty good increase. And scenario C, which it plotted on top, is the orange one. So a lot of the arguments we've heard tonight are about that difference between the tip of the blue line. And the tip of the orange line on the right. So a lot of this language, I mean, is this a slap in the face to the school system to talk about scenario C? Does it reflect a grudge? Is it traitorous to look at something like this? Frankly, if you had presented scenario C to me as a budget request, I would have still thought of that as a very large increase, and I would have been compelled as my responsibility, as an elected supervisor, to examine that. So we did talk about, I present an idea that at one of our working sessions, since we seem to be struggling to move forward for a while there this winter and early spring, that we just start with a number that was $22 million less than the request, but that still represented a $14 million increase from last year. So that increase year over year was about equivalent, to the largest increase the school system had ever seen. And that we reserve every penny of the remainder of the request to give to the schools and not earmark that to be spent anywhere else. All we wanted to do was to dig into the budget and understand why the increase is so large so we could explain that to the taxpayer. If it didn't need to, it could go into other funds. Route 11 is not the only road by far that needs to be built. There's tons of need. We haven't spent any money in over a decade in that area. So we're going to have to do that. And that's what we're going to do. But if it doesn't, we're going to have to spend some money in the next couple of years to get it back to the taxpayer. Or it can go back to the taxpayer and we can reduce taxes. So that is our job to question these things and look at it. Let's see. Is there another? I won't use the last chart, but if you could leave that up for a minute, that'd be great while I make a few comments. No, you can leave that one. That's fine. So a few additional comments. So I'm going to go back to the next slide. I've been getting, we've been getting information, questions answered from the school board, and I greatly appreciate it. That helps us. It helped us to advance scenario C at the last meeting. I appreciate Chairman Monk of the school board and all the work he's been doing, a lot of work, to try and answer our questions so we can understand these increases. It's very complicated now because there's a lot of money kicked in from the federal and state. There's some restrictions on it. So it's complex. There are other supervisors who've been doing analysis independent of me. I'm anxious to see what they found to help me understand this increase better than I do already. But I have to, I am a little perplexed about a few things I want to put out there. At the recent school board actions, they had a meeting to vote on how they would execute scenario C if they got that. And they chose for some reason to increase administrative, administration personnel salaries to their raise, their planned raise by 66% more than they had in the full budget request. So I'm a little perplexed why, if you think you're facing that little drop there, up there, a cut of $2.1 million, why you would increase some people's salaries a huge amount over what the full request, everything that you had asked for for them, and at the same time, the school board. I mean, I'm a little perplexed. But I think that's a good thing. I mean, I think that's a good thing. I mean, I think that's a good thing. Because they would cut new positions, no existing positions, no teachers' jobs would be lost, but new positions that they had wanted to add and zero out these special education raises. This is not this board doing that, and it's not our wish. Certainly, special education teachers and children that need their help would be very high on my personal priority list, and probably of all the members here. That was the school board that did that. And once again, they used that money in other ways. And I think that's a good thing. But I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. But I think they still need us to take the next steps. I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. But I also think that this board is playing a role that we need to use to take this forward and then put this forward to school district. And I think that's a good thing. And I think that's a good thing. When I wrote about the U.S. and around the country, I was on a watches list of other places, including things they hadn't even asked for in their full request. I'm really perplexed at what's going on there. School board member Ellen White, after this vote, in her closing comments said, and I quote, I hope the additional details about where and why the proposed cut will be felt will help encourage the last few holdouts, will do the right thing, and fully fund our schools. So I'm not sure what to take from that. Mr. Hester spoke tonight and he said that special education was near and dear to his heart yet he was leading the committee that zeroed the special education raises and instead decided to give additional funds beyond the full request to other people in the school system. So I just don't understand. That was not helpful in the last few weeks because I don't have an explanation of why they would do this. I mean was it a political move so people could get outraged tonight and come here like they did and speak in great numbers? I do not and none of us want to see the special education teachers raises cut. Let me make that clear. But I don't understand why they were. Or is it that the school board really wanted to make that decision and they decided that increasing the administration salaries by that much additional was more important to them than giving that money to the special education teachers? I just don't have an answer for that. Another thing they did was there were in the original fully funded request there were a bunch of positions to be added to the school system. In particular there were three CTE positions and Chairman Monk asked them to reduce the newly increased above the request raises. Mr. Hester spoke. Mr. Hester spoke. Mr. Hester spoke. Mr. Hester spoke. Mr. Hester spoke. He asked the board to reduce their needs for administration by just a little bit and buy back just one of those three cut CTE positions. He thought that was valuable. School board member Lake said that that position wasn't wanted, wasn't requested by staff, and wasn't needed. My question then is why were those three positions ever in the budget request of supposedly a needs-based budget if even one of those three were never needed? So. These kind of moves, maybe there's an answer, but I haven't gotten it yet, and it certainly makes me wonder how much more padding there is in this budget that are things that the school board members themselves will say they don't actually need. That's it for my comments now. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. McCarthy. We've heard over and over again from school board members, from Superintendent Sovine, and from several members of this board that the school's requested budget is truly a needs-based budget, that it only contains those expenditures that are necessary to the operation of the schools. At our joint board meeting with the school board nearly two months ago now, I suggested that I understood that the school board would create a budget of all the things they felt would improve education for the county's students. School board finance chair Brian Hester responded that this budget request only has needed items in it and nothing more. We were told then, and have been told several times since then, that this year's budget request simply covers the activities that the school board needs to do to meet the actual needs of the school, and if something wasn't needed, that it wasn't included in this request. Now, of course, I don't know, I don't have enough information on what the money is being spent on to know whether or not those statements are true or not, but let's assume for a moment that those statements are true, that all the school's needs were included in this budget, and if it wasn't need, then it wasn't included. Reason would dictate then that if there was a project or program included in this budget request that the school board later determined was no longer a viable or needed project or program, then there would be no need for it. So, I'm going to go ahead and say that there would no longer be any needed funds to be included in the budget for that program or project that was no longer moving forward. So, just hold that line of thought for a moment, and let me switch gears. When several members of this board suggested that less local funding was necessary this year because of a windfall on additional federal and state funding, we were quickly informed by the school board that we were wrong. We asked for an explanation as to why we were wrong, and one of the reasons given to us was that all the new federal and state funds were in one way or another restricted in their use and could not cover costs normally borne by the local government contribution. When we asked for an example of what types of restrictions were on the federal dollars, we were told that the ESSER federal funds had to be used for COVID-related items and that there was no way to utilize those funds to offset the burden on the local tax revenues. But we were told basically not to worry because the school administration had earmarked those funds for an allowable use. They were going to use the funds to purchase new HVAC units, for local schools that were in dire need of new equipment. That sounds like a reasonable explanation, right? So we were told, we were mistaken to think that any of those funds could be used to offset any of the needs in the needs-based budget other than what the administration had already determined they would be used for, and that we were wrong to think that any of those funds could reduce the local school expenditure so that money could be spent on other county needs. This means that the school administration, sorry, the school board, and the school board of directors are not going to be able to provide the same amount of money to the school board that they were supposed to. So we were told to listen to the experts in the school administration. But as what is now more and more a usual occurrence when communicating with the school system, the devil is in the details that they don't share rather than in the details that they do. I have confirmed today with school board chairman Monk, Dr. Sovine, and school finance director Patty Camry, that the vast bulk of the money that we are spending is going to be used to support the school system. So we are going to continue to work with the school board to make sure that we are able to provide the school system that we need to provide to the school system. So I have confirmed today with school board members that the vast bulk of the federal funds were indeed intended to be spent on HVAC units. The school administration had earmarked over $7 million of this year's budget request to pay for new HVAC units for the old Aylor Middle School. The old Aylor Middle School, the one that was decommissioned because the school board said it was too old and too polluted to safely house students. The decommissioned school that we were told was not worth renovating, it had to be replaced with a new school. The same school that we were told was not worth renovating was not worth renovating because it was too old and too polluted to safely house students. The school that just weeks ago the school board voted to keep decommissioned and surplus back to the county. It's interesting that such an important detail as to where the money was going wasn't shared with us. There's nothing in the documents that we received that states that money was earmarked for the old Aylor School. And no one on the school board mentioned to us this information when we were having discussions with them. So to all those people who say that all the information is out there, it's all online for the world to see. And we are getting perfect transparency from the school system. I again say wrong. Had this information not come to light in the last few days we might have gone on believing that the federal ESSER funds could not offset any local funds. It means that we would have been relying on statements from the school system that were patently untrue. As I found out today and had confirmed by Mr. Monk, Dr. Sovyan, and Ms. Camry, we were not given all the facts. What this new information means is that there is now at least $7 million of the school's needs-based budget that is no longer needed because the school board voted to do away with the AILOR project. That means that there is $7 million that if used properly can offset a significant portion of local funding needed for this needs-based budget. In the budget request this board received from the school superintendent this year, on page 11 of that presentation are nine capital projects totaling $7,441,150. I asked the school administration a question earlier today about whether or not any of those projects could be completed using the more than $7 million in federal ESSER funds that were freed up when the old AILOR school was taken out of the budget. The answer I received from the school administration is that yes, four of those nine projects in the needs-based budget could be funded using the freed up federal funds. Those four projects total $3,050,000 in costs. What this means is that the school administration has more than enough money freed up by the elimination of the old AILOR school budget to fully fund the rest of the entire needs-based budget as presented to the board of supervisors and the school board, even if we adopt scenario C. Those freed up federal funds could, contrary to what we were originally told, be used to offset local funding. And if applied to the needs outlined in the needs-based budget, still leave the schools with nearly $4 million to spend on items not included as part of their needs-based budget. So why is it then that the school administration has continued to afford funds to foster the belief that if they don't get scenario A, that they will not have the money necessary to make the hires or give all the pay increases they requested in their initial budget request? Well, I've got an answer for that too. According to the school administration, and an answer from Mr. Monk, Dr. Savine, and Ms. Camry, they already had a backup plan for how to use the federal funds should old AILOR project not move forward. They plan to use that money for other items not included in the needs-based budget proposal. You also probably know that at the last school board meeting, the school board voted to increase the pay of administrators to 5% from the original 3% that was requested of this board. They stated the reason was because the administrators worked extremely hard through COVID and deserve the increase, and I won't dispute that. But the result is now the school board is saying that the additional pay increase for administrators is one more reason that they couldn't hire staff like CTE teachers. What they didn't discuss though was that the federal ESSER funds, the $7 million that has no longer been used, and the $7 million that is longer needed for old AILOR, can also be used to give bonuses to staff members, like administrators. In other words, the school board could have provided the administrators with a COVID bonus to make up the difference in their pay, but instead the school board, the school board chose to take money away from the stated needs and the needs-based budget and spend it on something that they didn't have, that they don't have to spend the funds on. They've created an artificial shortage of funds and say they can't hire the teachers, despite the fact that they have the means to fully fund the needs originally presented in their needs-based budget. This is politics, plain and simple. The bottom line is this. With the removal of AILOR from the list of needs, there is money available that can offset some of the requests for additional county funds. That offset happens to be greater than the difference between scenarios A and B. So with scenario C, the schools end up with more money than they need to address all the remaining needs outlined in their needs-based budget. So the school board can choose to address all those needs, or the school board can choose not to address the stated needs and instead address items not part of the original budget request. I cannot in good conscience vote for scenario A when I know that $7 million of the original needs are no longer needed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCarthy, I want to say thank you for putting it so eloquently. I found that $7,000 last, $7 million last Thursday in reviewing documents, and I'm going to show you some of those documents here as we go forward. Before I do that, however, I wanted to do a couple things. First, find folks who brought those books this evening to our attention. I'd like to speak with one of you after the meeting, if I may. Second, I've heard conversations to myself and other Board of Supervisors that I find reprehensible. If we have teachers and people in this community that state they love their children as much as they do, to make death threats, to make threats to come and harm myself or others on this board in their places of work are unacceptable. I have emails showing that. I have received those. I have sent them to my fellow board members. It is not acceptable. There are political avenues to address things, and there are other avenues to address things, but you do not address things through that type of actions. So I'd like to start with that. Second, I've heard irreparable damage and walkouts from some teachers and staff at some of the schools, specifically Millbrook High School. If you as a teacher choose to walk out instead of teach our students, I think you are a dialect of your duty. The irreparable damage that I continue to hear from several folks, I have to ask a question. For the last two and a half years, I've asked for a line item budget, and I was told by the superintendent of schools in March of 2020 that if four of us on this board desired such, if we desired a line item budget, then we would receive one. I'm still waiting. I'm going to show everyone what a nice line item budget looks like and how you can see where money should be spent. But I'd like to start, before I start with any of this, say that I believe that our children need a quality education. And I don't think there's anybody in this room that disagrees with me on that. I have a brother who is indeed a special needs individual. He has the mind of about an eight-year-old. I love him dearly. To cut special education, to cut special education and CTE is absolutely reprehensible to me when there are monies to fund them. I'd like to go to the first slide, please. I did a little research to see... That's not the first slide. Do it one more. Before you go any further. I did a little research to see where our schools stood because I looked to see how much money we were spending in our schools and what we were getting for return of our dollar. Last year, we spent over $124 million on our schools when the state said we needed to fund them. The state said we needed to fund them at $41 million. So we did three times approximately what we had to fund them. We funded them. Now, I'm not against funding our schools heavily if we're getting a good return of our money. I believe you pay for what you get. We gave the school system $124 million last year. The state said we had to give them just over a little... over $41 million. What did we get for our money? Well, I went to the State Department of Education website to see what exactly we are getting for our money. Because those numbers come directly from our school division, not from Sean Graber. I didn't manipulate them. They're still online, and I encourage you to go look at them. The first one, if you'd be so kind... Scroll down just a little bit, please. So here's 2018 and 2019 English reading. Our school division is in blue. This was 2018 and 19 prior to COVID hitting. We lagged the state average. Now let's go to right during the COVID. We're still lagging the state average. Our superintendent has been here greater than 10 years. I would have hoped to have seen some improvement here as time progressed. I'm not seeing that. Let's scroll down a little bit. This is English writing. Scroll down a little further. Here's mathematics. Do you see us ahead yet? Because I sure don't. There's science. Now hold there for just a minute. Math and science are two of the most important, in my opinion, subjects that any student can learn. Mathematics are used in so many different professions. Science is as well. I was what some people would call a dumb old fire medic for 21 years of my life. I used algebra every day of my life to do med math. I had to know math. I had to know science. I had to know how the body worked. If I was not able to do my job, because I was never taught, it would put me behind the scale and it would affect every patient that I worked on and treated. As you can see, there's been no improvement. Scroll down one more. History. History. We're right at par with the state. So of all of our categories, we as a school division are trailing the state average. So we are, go on to the next slide, please. We are paying our school division in the top 20% of the state and we are not even obtaining state averages. Now let's look at college and career readiness. The top is our school division. Scroll down just a little bit. A hair bit more. And there's the state average. Are we college ready? Well, according to the state, we're not. Not at the same level as the state is, yet we're funding our schools at a very high percentage. Next slide, please. The next thing I've heard, and this is just utterly frustrating to me, is we have had folks come to this diocese and be called liars for talking about our student to teacher ratio. Those folks didn't make it up. This came from your school division. Your student to teacher ratio for grades K through seven right there, this is from your school division, is 14, a little over 14 to one, 14.14 to one for K through seventh grade. That comes from your school division. That doesn't come from Sean Graber. Next slide. Scroll down just a little bit. For eight through, no, up a little. There you go. From eight through 12th grade, that is the information that has been given to the state from your school division. 11.81 to one. We are well within the ratios that we need to be if you go off of what is being submitted by your own school division. All I can do is take their information because if that information is incorrect, it came from your school division. I'm sorry. Next slide, please. Rockingham, it's Rockingham. So what I have asked for is for a budget that is similar to ours. This budget is from Rockingham, North Carolina. It's from a school division with $187 million budget, which is fairly close to ours. Rockingham, North Carolina, is a school division that is a little over $10 million. Rockingham, North Carolina, provides a detailed line item budget to their school division and to their public and to their administration that funds them so that you can see where every dollar is going. Would you go to page 79 so we can go through a little detail? I'm not sure if you're able to scroll that out any. It's their general operations budget. And if you look at it and scroll down a little bit, you can see where all of their money is going and a detailed explanation for it. So if you look there, let me stop there for just a second. If you look there at different things, you can see what the money is going for. So non-capital computer hardware, what is it? It's desktop computers and monitors for HR staff. You can see exactly where your money is going. If you start with a zero-based budget and you present one of these, it's very easy to know what your needs are. It's very easy to get me to come on board and say that's a need. Let me fund it. But I'm going to show you what I received here in just a little bit. And it doesn't look anything like this. But David, Superintendent of Survival, if you're looking for what I'm asking for, that's what I'm looking for. All right, next slide, please. All right, so I continually am being told that I get a detailed budget. In fact, I'm thinking about it. I'm told I've got a 174-page budget to look at. So I chose to make sure that I wasn't lying to you folks and omitting something. So I submitted a FOIAs request. And Mr. Hester, you told me that I like submitting those, and you're exactly right, I do, because that's the only way I can get accurate information. So I submitted a FOIAs request, and here's the response to that FOIAs request. The first request was that I asked for was a request for all of the information that my school board needs. So this is a little bit more detailed. This is the information that my school board representative had when he took the vote. Can you scroll up just a little bit there, my friend? So right there, stop. I asked for, please provide a copy of the budget that you had available, this was addressed to Mr. Monk, Chairman of the school board, that you had available for your review consideration when you and the school board voted to send the superintendent's budget to the board of supervisors. There's the links that he was utilizing when he made his decision. Now, if you'll scroll down there, my friend, if you don't mind, you will also see that we received the same thing, and we're gonna click on that here in just a second, but you can see what I also asked for. I asked, please provide a copy of the most detailed budget that you have received to date, that was as of Friday a week ago, for the Frederick County Public Schools fiscal year 23 budget, and the date in which you received it. So there is no other budget, this is according to the public information officer of Frederick County Public Schools, there is no other budget other than the budget that was presented to the school board, and obviously the same one that I got to see. Would you click on the proposed, the top one, the very one, presentation to the school board? The blue one right there? Down just right there, there we go. So, this is my budget. I showed you a budget I'd like to see. I'd like to see a nice budget that lays it out. Here's the budget that I got. Scroll down maybe page two or three. You can stop there. I got a picture book. I got a picture book. Get real folks, get real. You want me to fund your budget, and you give me a picture book. All right, go back out of there until April 14th if you don't mind. It's at the bottom, it's the finance committee right there. Right up, there you go. Thank you so very much. So at the finance committee meeting, they met and I thought well maybe they're gonna have some additional numbers after this board has met last two weeks ago, and we could not agree to a budget. So I wanted to see what they might have. No, not much more. But what they did include is the questions that Mr. Dunn asked. Can you scroll down there to the, a little bit more my friend, not much. There you go. They did provide a little information that Mr. Dunn, Supervisor Dunn requested, and I appreciated that. The one question that I had, if you'll scroll down just a hair bit more sir. There you go. Right in the middle of the survey, right in the middle of the page, 1B, the American Rescue Plan, Elementary and Secondary School Relief. I asked where that money came from and what it could be used for. That is your ESSR money is what I was told. And I asked Supervisor, School Board Chairman Monk, where that money was earmarked for and what it was gonna be used for, because there was no explanation. He explained to me that as of that time, and if this board would have voted two weeks ago, that $7.2 million of that $10,800,000, was going to Aylor School, as Supervisor McCarthy so eloquently described. A school that the first week of March, the school board said they were gonna surplus the property. So we're giving $7.2 million to a school that surplus property. It sounds like a great use of money to me. So I ask, how can that money be used? And guess what? It can be used exactly like Supervisor McCarthy. So my question is, at this meeting of the Finance Committee, why wasn't that discussed? Why wasn't part of that $7.2 million looked to be plugged into the budget to keep special education for those kids that we say we love so much? Because I love my brother. And I'm gonna tell you this, I want my brother to have the same quality of education that the rest of the kids got. I hope you do too. I hope that we can continue to have CTE for our students and not continue to cut those programs. Looks like there's money available to do so. Why didn't the Finance Committee do anything with it? I don't know. They didn't give us any answers. We're still lost in the sauce. Next slide, please. It's the budget from the County Administrator. What you have in front of you is the school operating budget that is proposed that we're discussing this evening. There was a proposal to cut $22 million from it. They would still have an increase of $2.6 million. To say that this board is slashing by the Winchester rag, slashing the school board's budget... Wow! Wow! Yeah! Folks! To say that this board is slashing the school operating budget is simply not the truth. We have found countless opportunities to be more frugal with the county's tax dollars. I implore this board to do the right thing. There needs to be... a detailed line item budget. And in case anyone wondered what one looked like, I showed you one this evening. It's time that we see the numbers. Our teachers, I agree, need a raise. If you look at the number of students that we have in our school system, the amount of money we are utilizing to fund our school system, there is plenty of money there to give our teachers the raises they deserve. Where's the money going? Well, I can give you one example. School administration. Why don't we look at what school administrators are making across the state? I think we'll find some answers. Let's take care of our teachers. We need to do that. But we also need to take care of our taxpayers in the process. Thank you so very much, Mr. Chairman. Other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, done. I'll make a couple of comments and then I'll make some comments when I'm prepared. On the comments on the 10-year budget that was done earlier. The reason I picked the 10 years was because that was when Dr. Savani had come in, so I was basically looking at the 10-year timeframe. He was there. I was not cherry picking data from my perspective. I was just saying that was the timeframe. Number two on that data, there was a CPI component, and I put in a factor for teachers' education. If you remember, there's approximately $110 million between the FY12 budget and the FY22 budget. One of the comments that came back in the discussion points was that in FY, I believe, 16, pre-K, sorry, kindergarten, and going from half-day to full-day, then you had pre-K. So there were additional comments. There were additional dollars that came to address some of those issues. So I'm just letting you know that, to the best of my knowledge, I'm trying to be intellectually honest. I know you are too. And where we disagree, you just lay out, as you and I did, on a phone conversation earlier. So I'm just making those comments. We all want a budget. We're elected to govern, and we're going to try to do that. Mr. McCarthy, you made some comments about the... the Aylor situation, which were new to me. I found that same information out as well. So that is a $7 million differential. I'll also make the comment that we can work together. And that's difficult to do. Mr. Hester, we can work together. We may or may not agree. Dr. Savine, the first time we met, you were gracious, diplomatic, et cetera. Today, you're gracious, diplomatic, et cetera. We need to work together. We may disagree, but I appreciate your trying to, you know, put together a budget. I also think that no supervisor should have to go and request information through a FOIA. So the information I've gotten from the school board, I appreciate, but nobody should have to request FOIA information. We're all governmental officials, and we just need to go and provide the information that's requested. I'll make some comments on Option C. Option C does provide an increase of $2.5 million for local schools. It provides additional funding for teachers who are not in the local funding over last year. It can fully fund the teacher increase for 5% with local funds. It fully funds the requested new teacher positions. I believe there were 29 of them. It provides some additional new pay for special education teachers, which last year was zero. It also provides for sports, music, and other after-school activities. My concerns on the budget are as follows. We need to talk the same language. The taxpayers want to spend the money on buildings, and schools, and schools. They want to spend the money on things that create value for our community, for many departments, including public works, social services, fire and rescue, public safety, etc. Excuse me. An increase in a budget over the previous year is still an increase. A reduction from my proposed budget, which is still greater than the previous year, is still an increase. Assume you have a current budget of $100. A proposed budget is $115. The adopted budget is $145. The proposed budget is $146. The proposed budget is $115. The adopted budget is $225. The proposed budget is $399. The proposed budget is $300. The proposed budget is $115. That is a 5% increase from the previous year, not a 10% decrease, to say otherwise is disingenuous. For example, a teacher makes $50,000 a year and asks for $80,000. The teacher's salary is raised to $60,000, which is a 20% increase. The teacher says he has a salary cut from the proposed pay of $80,000. And actually, he did have a $10,000 pay raise, which was a 20% increase. In FY20, the school board had an operating budget of $175 million with 13,923 students. The cost per student that year was $12,600. In FY22, this current fiscal year, the school board has an operating budget of $194.3 million, with four less students as of September of last year than they did two years ago, $13,919. But the cost per student has risen to $13,962. The total difference is about $19 million, and even adjusted for inflation and teacher salary increases, the differential still is $8 million. The cost per student is risen by $1,300, which adjusted for inflation still is about $600 more. What caused this increase? We're not going to solve that problem tonight, but it's something I think we can work on. And for those two budget years, I would just like to say, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You can see whether it is, because if the same population has been inconstant for the two years, then why such a significant increase? Maybe there's a good reason for it, but that's, in my opinion, a valid request. I was surprised the school board voted to increase administrative pay from three to five percent if we vote for C. I would have thought that the highly paid administrative staff, the six figure salaries, would want to put limited money into staff salaries for special educational education teachers and others. Roads are important. Along the Sensody Road corner, developers are building almost 600 homes in the next few years. Sensody Road needs to become a four-lane road. The cost will exceed five million dollars. Other areas in this county also have significant transportation issues. The cost of an eastern bypass route 37 would help to alleviate traffic as the area grows. The cost is more than 750 million dollars. If that is not done, we still will have significant road issues to address alternatives to Route 37 as the population increases. Local money is needed for smart scale funding for road projects. Having that money helps the county get the VDOT money we will need. Putting aside money to meet transportation needs is something this county needs to do. Going forward, I'd like to have a joint solution. I'm going to have a board of supervisors and school board workshop for those who are interested. So everybody doesn't have to show up, but for those that are interested to have a workshop meeting after the school board's October strategy meeting. And we can spend half a day going through comments on that meeting and begin to work together to establish what needs are, wants are, other parameters and have a discussion. I have attended the school board's October sessions on multiple occasions. I'm not allowed to talk. And so having a meeting after that I would think might be helpful on just having conversations. We've had a conversation on budget transparency. One way to solve that problem would be to put the budget online. Let anybody who wants to look through, go through. And to put a restriction on that budget if there's something there that needs to be restricted. For example, if there's software that if you know the name of the software, if you know the price of the software, then a hacker can get in and get to that software. If you put some restrictions on it to protect that, but it's taxpayers dollars. And so put down what is in the budget online. And then to prevent school staff from being bombarded, take the questions if you have them to your school board representatives. And that might be a way to solve this budget issue. Having budget numbers and actual spent numbers side-by-side for multiple years would help to go and show the trends as Mr. Ludwig said. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the response to the questions I've gotten from the school board and from Dr. Savine and his staff. We're all trying to use tax dollars to provide the best education for our students and to provide the other needs that the county residents have. Thank you Mr. Chairman. All right. We'll move on. Bring us to Planning Commission Business 13A. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Mr. Chairman, we're actually under county officials item 8A and 8B. You have two items there. I'm sorry I paused. My pages are not in order. I got it. 8A, 8B. Thank you. Adoption of physical budget 22-23. Mr. Chairman. Cooperating. Sorry? I was just asking for the floor Mr. Chairman. Yes sir. I'd like to make a motion. Here. that we adopt scenario C, but instead of the dollar amount listed, that the dollar amount be listed as $7 million as a cut from the request. So option C with a $7 million reduction. That is my motion. Your motion is option C, less? $7 million. Less $7 million. Is there a second? Mr. Chairman, a question? Sir? Not until we have a second do we have discussion. I do not hear a second, so your motion will die for lack of that. Go ahead, sir. So I didn't understand the motion. Is it? It is off the table. Okay, thank you. How would the Board like to handle? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would make a motion that we adopt scenario C. I heard the motion is to adopt alternative C. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. As I mentioned earlier, the needs-based budget presented included over $7 million that was allocated for the old Ayler School. That no longer is a need of the school board's budget, because they have themselves taken it out of their budget. Those monies can be used, as confirmed by the school board, to offset local funding, which could then be used for other county needs. We have a county radio system that's going to cost us close to $30 million over the next 10 to 15 years. We've got transportation issues. Contrary to what people are saying, this board did not fully approve every request from every department on the county side. We all compromised and came to a final conclusion, but there were other things that county departments have been needing. So I don't think in good conscience we can say, let's give them scenario A, when we know that there's $7 million that could be used for the things that were in their original needs-based budget that could fully fund their original needs-based budget. Money can be moved from the capital account under C to operations in order to fund those special education, bumps in pay, to hire the CTE teachers and other aides. So scenario C more than fully could fund this budget and allow the county to still fund additional needs for the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to ask Supervisor McCarthy. So there's $7 point something million that's been found that is apparently not allocated against, any current project of the schools. Scenario C funds everything the schools want minus, I believe it's $2.1 million. If the $7.2 million is fully fungible, which perhaps is a question, that's part of my question, then reducing scenario A by $7.2 million would still give them everything they asked for. So it's not fully fungible to answer your question. The response that I got from the school division, the first one I received today, was that there are certain items that were listed for the local and state funds to apply to, which includes more than $2.1 million of local funds in the capital request that could be funded with the now no longer needed $7 million plus for Aylor School. But instead, the school system, the administration, not the school board, has decided to spend that money on other capital improvements that weren't part of this need based budget. So I'm not sure that the school system is doing any better than making the public aware that there's plenty of funds there to take care of paying the teachers a raise, taking care of special education teachers increase in pay. I mean, there's plenty of money there that could be moved from, the county money wouldn't be necessary for the capital account, which would free up money that could be used for the operating account. So I know it would kill Supervisor Graber to see us do that because it gives the schools all the money they need. But what that proves is that A, it's totally unnecessary at this point. C, gives them all the money that they need in order to fund their needs. Do we know where the remainder is going? If the other $4 million? They've indicated that there are other capital projects at other schools, including some of the elementary schools, that they'd like to put that money towards. And these are new projects, not in their current budget? They're not double counted. Not in the current budgets, but they're saying that these are systems that will need to be addressed at some point. I'm not opposed to spending capital on things that need to be replaced. But I just think it's disingenuous to say, we don't have any money, so we're gonna cut other services when they do have the money. No, I agree with all your comments. It's just, I have to be comfortable in my role here in that we have a fully described budget that we know where all the dollars will be going to. Do we have a list of what those additional capital projects are? I can read you the response to the question. So the question was, is there a budget that we can cut? And I think that's a good question. I think we have a budget that we can cut. I think we have a budget that we can cut. So the question was, now that the school board has agreed to surplus the old AILR back to the county, those funds are no longer earmarked and can be used for other purposes so long as they qualify under federal guidelines. The response was, the division already had a backup plan for the use of federal dollars. Should it be determined that AILR was not a viable option? The recommendation is to upgrade and replace the HVAC system at Armill. This improvement will decrease the cost of the current Armill ES renovation and addition project in the current capital improvements plan, CIP. If there are any remaining funds, the dehumidification of Bass Hoover will likely be the next project to fund since there were not enough ESSER II funds to cover the project or replace building automation systems at various locations. That's the extent of their explanation. I don't know if that's a sufficient explanation. I wish their budget had been corrected in writing with that, you know, in the budget for where all those dollars are going. So your motion funds, every dollar that they had requested in scenario A, and there's millions of dollars more that they can spend leaning ahead to fix things they weren't going to fix till future years? My motion would give the schools the funding that they need to fund everything that they've requested in the original needs-based budget. They would have to move some money from capital to operating in order to do that, but they have enough money in the federal funds to cover all of the capital from which they would move the local funds to operating. So Mr. McCarthy, they would have the ability to move money from capital to operating to meet that, is that correct? Yes, under the current scenario. Yes, under the current scenario, thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. So essentially, with C as presented right now with this extra money, they're essentially getting A, end of the day. They're getting A, but the county taxpayer is getting $2.1 million back. That's what I'm saying. Are you saying you're getting A, but you're doing the capital, you're taking capital monies and moving it around, correct? I'm not, I'm saying that's the question. No, I'm saying that's what they could do that, yes. They could do that, yes. So we're not funding full capital because they have to move that around. Because they have other funds to fund their capital. So if they have funds from the state federal government, they can offset the cost. And the other question I have is, you kept referring to they and them, and I know that's not true. didn't hear any. Who were you speaking to? I would be, I'd mentioned it several times in my comments, was Mr. Monk, Dr. Savine, and Ms. Camry. Further discussion. Last comment from me, Mr. Chairman. I don't believe that this budget, if we pass it as presented, moves us any closer to having any transparency from the school board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that if we do pass this budget, and we're operating in good faith, we can go and get the items that were being laid out. Mr. Hester, if you're still in the room, I think you are. The finance report that you did in February and April was new information. In previous years, we've not seen that. So that's a good step. And if we can see that in more detail, that's helpful. So I want to just say thank you for, you know, taking a good first step on laying that out. Would I like to see that in more depth, the way Mr. Graber had in his North Carolina budget, which one of the items was down to $250? Yes. But that's where I think we can work together. And so I'm going to make the assumption that we will get a line item budget. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. I actually spoke to Dr. Sovine right before the meeting and asked about those funds that you're referencing. And my understanding was there are federal and state restrictions as to what those funds are. I don't have the detail that you have. But what I did understand was that the capital request that the schools have asked for is totally different from the restrictions of the capital that you have spoken to. That was my understanding with a verbal conversation. If he told you that, then he's contradicting his response to number one, my first question. The question was, there was approximately $7 million in expected capital expenditures in the upcoming budget that would have gone into the Aylor Middle School. And I did send this to you all prior to the meeting. I'm sorry. I didn't have a whole lot of time to get it out. But the bottom line is you have it in your email, so you'll have it when you have a chance to look at it. Into the old Aylor Middle School for HVAC improvements. And those funds were earmarked to come from federal COVID dollars. And the answer was yes. Next, I said, now that it can be used for other things, can it be used for anything that's in the budget? And the answer was, well, yes, but we had other plans for it. And my understanding was they were planning to use those ESSER funds to replace aging HVAC systems. But they weren't in the original budget. So what they did was they said, you've cut our budgets. Now we have to cut teachers. We have to cut aides. We have to cut finances. But that was CARES money and ESSER money with specific restrictions. And that was my understanding because I had asked those questions. So they said, yes, but we have to cut our budgets. Now we have to cut our budgets. So that was my understanding because I had asked those questions early in the budget process. Yes, but they've confirmed today that there are items within the capital budget that you're using local funds for that the ESSER funds would qualify for. So the ESSER funds could be used for needs that were described in the current budget. And I'm not disputing, but that is not my understanding from what I had heard from administration. And that seems to be the theme. Further discussion. Anyone? Hey, hey. Just, Mr. Chairman. Yes. Just to belabor the point that from, and I did get a chance to read at the last possible minute today, that information that the amount of the $7.2 million of ESSER funds that can be used against currently budget capital expenses exceeds the $2.1 million difference between scenarios A and C. Okay. So would free up funds. We don't have a categorical budget. I wish we did. But in this case, that would mean they could easily use those funds to pay for everything that people spoke about here today, for all the new positions, and for all the salary increases, and have more besides. Thank you. Further discussion. Anyone? Call for the question. Yep. All right. We'll start. We'll start with you, Supervisor Graber. No. I'm sorry? No. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes no. Motion fails. Motion fails. Our goal is to adopt. We are still on budget. We are still on budget. Mr. Chairman, I know that the last time we went through this, but I will make the motion to approve and appropriate $219,584,444 to the school operating fund. The motion is our second. Second. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. Just for clarification, that is scenario A. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Abated. Correct? It is. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Did any of the members of this board know that the $7 million in federal funds was earmarked for the old Aylers HVAC system? I did not know that. And what I had been told was that they were planning to use it to replace HVAC systems, aging HVAC systems, with our county schools. Those federal dollars or specific. And what I had been told was that they were planning to use it to replace HVAC systems, which is the same as the $219,584,444. So that was the explanation that I had been given with regard to CARES money in the federal dollar with the information that we were handed out during a budget work session and ESSER funds that were used for disadvantaged students in various programs. So there were specific restrictions with the federal money of, it was either $8 or $9 million. I don't have the dollar number in front of me at the moment. And the state money was related to the 5% raises for SOQ. And it was restricted. That's the exact same thing we were told two weeks ago. And today we're told something different. So I don't know how we can vote for scenario A knowing that there's some disconnect in what you've been told and what we've been told. I can see administration sitting back there shaking their head no. So I can only go on what I have been told. The only question I have is... Go ahead. You asked if I know about that. And I don't know about that. You just told me about that. And I don't know that, I don't want to say that's not true. I just don't know. I'm like Mr. Loewit. I don't know. I don't have a... I don't have a good feeling. So I asked you who the names are. And you said Dr. Savine. But I'm where Judy is. And you're saying, well, I found this out today. You had a secret meeting. I understand. I understand all that. It wasn't a secret meeting. I got information today that money had been appropriated. So you called... None of us were aware of. But you called Dr. Savine and spoke with him. No, I called Chairman Monk and he... So Chairman Monk... He forwarded my questions to the county administration. And I have it right here. Mr. Monk, I have spoken to Dr. Savine. And here are the answers to your questions. Please see the answers in red. Third hand information. I just... I can't... From Ms. Kammering. Sorry. It just seems like a dereliction of duty if you're not even going to consider... I understand. ...that you have evidence right here of this fact. And that we weren't told that it was going to go to the old AILER. And none of us knew about it. And it's new information coming to us at the last minute. And we never would have heard about it had it not been for Supervisor Graeber. Supervisor Graeber asking the questions. The questions that are important for us to be asking. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You don't get an answer if you don't ask the question. May I speak? I've been asking the question for three years. The question being, when do I get to see... A detailed line item budget. So that we can have good conversations, school board to Board of Supervisors, to not have what we've just seen occur, which is information that is different depending upon who asked the question. When do we get a solid answer that we all can base a factual decision on? I haven't received that in my two and a half years on this board when it comes to the school board. I've been asking the question for three years. I don't know if I've ever received a solid answer that I haven't received a factual decision on. I don't know if I've ever received a solid answer that I haven't received a factual decision on. I don't know if I've ever received a factual decision on. And when we did have a joint school board Board of Supervisors work session, myself and another supervisor were interrupted 16 times when we were asking questions. Got the video. I'll show it to you. It's hard to get answers when you continually get interrupted. It's time to put this matter to rest. It's time we get a line item budget. We see what's in the school's budget request. We have an adult conversation about it. And we look out for the best needs of our teachers and our teachers' families. And we look out for the best needs of our teachers' families. Without seeing that, I don't see how we can make a good decision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Motion into second. A question for Mr. Speaker. I'm going to think we have a motion and a second. Second. Motion. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. alternative a supervisor Graber Oh supervisor done hey supervisor McCarthy Oh supervisor Wells yes supervisor slaughter I supervisor Ludwig no chair votes aye motion fails chairman yes sir like to put another scenario forth with some of the SSR monies I'm sorry what I'd like to put forth another scenario another motion on the floor thank you with the ESS our funds the discussion we just had with it being restricted some I'd like to make a motion that we pass scenario C with a five point five million dollar reduction five point five million scenario C that is my motion see you minus five million five point five million point five million five five point five $5,500,000. All right. I've heard the motion. Is there a second? Sorry, sir. Your motion will die again on lack of a second. We need to adopt a budget, folks. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. This is just for the seven of us, okay? Sorry, do what? Sorry. This is for the seven of us. I'm just talking to each of you. We have a difference. Doug's laid out a scenario where he says, fine, we have additional money. Mr. Wells has said, fine, I've heard it, but it's third-hand and can't confirm it, which is perfectly fine. We have a $2.1 million differential. We have a differential right now where two weeks ago it was $22 million. Like you said, we need to have a budget. We have to compromise to some degree, and I feel I've compromised a huge amount. So I'm going to make the following comment. All right. I'll take scenario C plus $1 million. Which cuts the difference to $1 million. So I'm splitting a $2.1 million difference in half. Some of us on this board think that scenario C with a $2.1 million differential is important. And as Mr. Letterby-Pass pointed out, it's a small difference. Others say, no, it's not. So if we're trying to find a budget, a common ground, I'll put it down in the middle. So that would be, I guess, scenario C. Okay. And the adjustment would be... It would be for $1 million. That splits the difference between the two. Your motion, I'm asking for clarification, is scenario C plus $1 million? Scenario C, I'm taking the $2.1 million differential. I understand what you were calculating. I want you to repeat it accurately. I'm taking scenario C. Okay. And instead of moving the... I'm taking $1 million from the transportation component and moving it into the operating budget. One million from operating. That's correct. So that's splitting the difference between the transportation component, the operating component, which is where the seven of us have not found common ground. Please. Does everyone have their scenarios? No. We do not. Okay. So I think I'm following Mr. Dunn. What that means is that you would fund the transportation 5.7, you would fund the school operating 3.5, you would fund the school capital 1.5, and then you allow for the school debt to transfer the $800,000 to the school capital. That's the hybrid between A and C. So you'd be adopting a school operating budget of $218,484,444. $484? Thank you. Which I basically took scenario C and added a million. Yes. Thank you. All right. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. Anyone? Second. Sorry, sir. Your motion will die for lack of a second. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I make a motion that we fund the school under scenario C with a $22 million cut. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Sorry, sir. No second. Folks, this is important. Mr. Chairman. Sir. Do you have a suggestion? No. I don't want a discussion. I want a motion if you have it. Okay. All right. Fine. Thank you, sir. I didn't have a motion. Oh, please. Share it. No. My motion was to split the difference, but I didn't get a second on it, so. Well, okay. A new and different motion. Okay. Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. Instead of splitting the difference 50-50, I'm just going to move half a million dollars off. So in other words, the $2.1 million differential, the $2.1, $500,000 is the only amount that increases to the operating, not the $1 million. Say that again, Mr. Dunn. So you're reducing that? So there's a $2.1 million difference. Okay. So that's the $2.1 million differential. In my previous motion, I was splitting that difference between the two. That's correct. Instead of splitting that difference, I'm only, in that case, I was moving $1 million. This time, I'm only going to move half a million dollars. Okay. So I'm going to move half a million dollars. Okay. So I'm going to move half a million dollars. Okay. So you would take scenario C and add $500,000, right? That's correct. Which would give you $217,984,444. I'm sorry, one more. Oh, come on. It would give you. So scenario C was $217.4 million. So now you're at $217.9 million. And then you reduce the transfer, your transportation by $500,000. Okay. So that's the difference. Okay. So the difference is that $217,984,444. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So you would reduce transportation by $500,000, which would take it from $6.7 million to $6.2 million. That's correct. Okay. $6.6 million. So I got accurate? Yes. I'm sorry. Correct. $217.9 million and $6.6 million. It was $6.5 million. And if you're taking $6.5 million out, it's $6.2 million. Okay. I'm sorry. I did it wrong. That's why I was asking. Okay. Thank you. Sure. So you would take $6.5 million. Okay. So you would take $6.5 million out, and then you would take $6.2 million. Okay. I did it wrong. That's why I was asking. Okay. Thank you. Sure. Okay. I've heard the motion. The motion is scenario C, 217.9 and 6.2. Is there a second? Anyone? Okay. Thank you. I'll be happy to entertain a new and different motion. I'd like to make a motion, but I have to ask a question first. If it's of finance, that would be fine. Yes. Oh. Well, no. It was another supervisor. The question was, what is the full amount of the ESSER funds that we believe to be fungible? Based on the email we've all gotten from the school board. Based on my conversations, $3,050,000. So my motion is to ... Figure again, sorry. $3,050,000. My motion is for scenario A, minus $3,050,000. Okay. Given that the money is fungible, that exactly meets scenario A. Verify that for us, Ms. Sherrill. Oh, you want me to decipher that? Okay. So, if scenario A gave 4.6 and you're taking away, we'll just say 3, right? Yes. Okay. That's almost the same as your last motion. So, you ... So, scenario A was for 219.5, and if you're taking away, we'll just say 3, you're at 216.5. Does that answer your question? Close enough. Okay. And then you would be adding that to transportation? I'd have to see the table, I'm afraid. You'd have to see it again. So, if ... Oh, into the county transportation. Correct. Basically, there's ... Because normally that was where we were ... Right. ... following through. So, where did transportation end up? Transportation ended up at 4.6 plus 3, so 7.6. 7.6. 727.6. That was the number I was looking for. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Are we clear? That leaves 216.5 and 7.6. Any further discussion? Did we have a second? I'll second it. I'll second it for discussion. But you made it. No. Mr. Ludwig made it. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Two minutes. Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we're going to ... Okay. So, we have a second. Discussion seems to be finished. Are we ready? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So, a couple of comments on the discussion. So, of what Mr. Ludwig was laying out here, he gives the school board flexibility to go and move money to adjust from capital operating, et cetera. So, if we have a budget of the original, of the current proposed budget, are we going to be on the table for this current proposed budget? The alternative for those ESSER funds, according to Mr. McCarthy, was for future capital costs, but that was for a future budget, not this budget. So if this occurs here and that money is funded with the $3 million, it essentially gives the school board ... The operating expenses that they need. You've created $3 million of fungible money. There's $4 million of money that can go for either HVACs for future capital expenses in this year or later, and that would work. So, I mean, is that ... So, so ... I'm describing, Mrs. Schiffler, a ... Okay. So, that ... Describing ... I'm describing, I'm describing ... So, that ... So, that ... Describing ... Describing ... Okay. So, if there was $2.1 million difference between A and C, and you cut three, you're really doing C minus 900, is that correct? Are we on the same page? Yes. Okay. So, it would be C minus 900,000. Or A minus 300,000. Or A minus 300,000. Which is the amount of money that we found. Yeah, I'm trying to tie both of them together. That was unused in the current school budget and is available. That's correct. So, it's A minus the $3 million. Yeah. So, it's A minus the $3 million, but you're freeing up in that A item, which was on the, I think it's page 11 of the finance report. I don't expect you to know that. Okay. But on that, there was $7 million plus. So, that money is being freed. Some of that is fungible, $3 million approximately. So, that then provides the differential. Okay. Okay. Are we finished discussion? Mr. Chairman, just a comment. You know, we're talking about whether money is fungible or non-fungible, and we have our superintendent here. Yes. And I know it's out of order, but if we could get clarification, it seems to me that it could help us make a decision with some facts here. Yes. Mr. Chairman, discussion. What? It's up to the board whether it wants to suspend its rules. I'm sorry? It's up to the board whether it wishes to suspend its rules and allow discussion with the superintendent. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would welcome a discussion with the superintendent, but I think it should be in a format other than what we're dealing with here. Great. So, based on that, I would make it a point that we have a discussion with the superintendent. Okay. And I would like to make an amendment to this motion to postpone a decision on it for one week to allow us to have an opportunity to meet with the superintendent to get answers to those questions so that we can make an informed decision. That's my motion. Motion to amend to delay a decision for one week. So. We're not going to suspend our rules. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are you... I'm making a motion to amend to vote on this motion one week from now to give us time... So, we're going to have a special board meeting next Wednesday or... I think this is something that needs to be done as quickly as possible. Okay. Okay. You don't really want the answers, but if you did ask... Point of order, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. As many times as we've been interrupted... Wait, wait, wait. We have a motion. We can't discuss it, sir. We can't discuss it until we have a second. This is a motion to amend. Correct. And I'm asking for a point of order so that we can discuss it without interruptions. I'm asking that the... Either we clear the room or we have discussion... Mr. Chairman, I'll second it so we can have a discussion. Okay. Motion to amend in a second is to delay for one week. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. It would take every bit of that to get the ad out and get a meeting scheduled. Discussion, Supervisor? Motion to amend. Motion. So I seconded it so we could have this discussion. Do we need to wait a week? I mean, if the rules are such that it's a discussion point, I'm not trying to be, can we do it tomorrow? Can we do it Friday? I mean, some of us may not. I'm just trying to move this forward for a week. If we can get answers sooner than that, do we need a week? Some of us may not be here in a week. So I'm just trying to resolve this issue so we can get it resolved. So the reason I posed a week is because I think I have information that came from Mr. Monk, Ms. Camry, and the superintendent. I'd like to have all three of those people in the room when we have this discussion because that's where the information comes from. Okay. A week is about as short a time frame as we can have and have a public meeting. And I think that having a proper meeting to discuss this and giving all of the folks behind this bench here an opportunity to look at what I sent them earlier, digest that, ask questions of their own, and come to a conclusion is the right way to go. May I make a comment, please? Go ahead. Discussion? Motion to amend. We have two people standing up here. Dr. Sovine. And Mrs. Camry. And they appear to be willing to answer the questions. And I know I've spoken with Mrs. Camry on multiple times questioning our restricted funds, the ESSER funds, the CARES money, the state money, which is tied to the SOQ and the 5% raises, specifically restricted. So it would appear to me that we shouldn't put this off for a week when you've got the two people in administration who understand the restrictions of these funds that could answer our question this evening. I would like to have Chairman Monk here because the two people standing before us are also the two people who didn't tell us that Aylor was part of the budget when they had the opportunity to. I'd like to have Mr. Monk here because he was the one who provided me the forward of the email. He's the nexus for this information. I would like for all three of them to be in the room together. Thank you. Thank you. Be the fourth. Pardon? The fourth. Wednesday the fourth would be the next. If we have that meeting and it's like a work session meeting. We can schedule a work session. Then we have to come back at a regular meeting. Am I correct? To adopt, yes. To adopt it. So that would be the second Wednesday of May. Wouldn't necessarily. I mean, we could adopt on the fourth. We just have to. To accomplish what I'm hearing from multiple different people. We would have to schedule a work session with those people that you want there prior to. And then a board meeting, a special meeting. Okay. With one goal on the fourth, which was the week of the motion to amend. Are we clear? Mr. Chairman. Yeah. Yes, sir. I would like to add. I would fully support Supervisor McCarthy's comments. The chairman of the school board is most critical to have here. As he is the individual whom I have been interacting with and whom this email came from, I think it is imperative that he be present in that conversation so as that we can hear his side of the answers that were given. So he's not here. He's not present this evening. So I think that it is imperative that we have him present at any meeting we have. He is the chairman. Thank you. Further discussion of the motion to amend. Only to say that the vice chair is here and could speak in the absence of the chair. Folks. Mr. Chairman, the vice chairman is here, but he can't speak on behalf of Mr. Monk and what Mr. Monk has shared with us directly. Let's try your motion to amend. I call for the question. And that would be a special meeting to make this decision on the 4th. So that's correct. That's what you said, the 4th, right? Normally in the past, we would start our budget work sessions at 530. Is that the same? Okay. On the 4th? That works? Does it work? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Can we do this legally on Monday, May, whenever that Monday, May 2nd? Does that work? Can we have that meeting on Monday as opposed to Wednesday? You can call a special meeting, but. May the 2nd. We have a public hearing at Blue Ridge Community College on transportation and advocating for funds for Frederick County, which I've already scheduled to be there. That is the state district meeting. It's very important to us as a community. I'm suggesting the 4th. Work session followed by decision or attempted decision. And Mr. Chairman, if someone is not able to be here, can they participate electronically? I'm sorry? If someone is not able to be here, can they participate electronically? Okay. Thank you. All right. Further discussion of the motion to amend. Anyone? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. I'm sorry? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? No. No. I'm sorry? Everyone's aye and the motion carries. Special meeting on the 4th. We'll make sure that we have the proper people at the work session prior to. Now, that is the adjusted, that is the amended motion. I'm looking for a motion to adopt as amended. That's not a motion on the floor. So, now the motion is on this meeting. we have to adopt that motion but it's already been made as a motion so we just have to vote on it now you've made it as a motion to amend does it need a second after the amendments now that is the motion the motion is so now all we need is vote on that is is the amended motion yes is that correct mr. yes it is yeah mr. chairman the motion at this point is to schedule a special meeting for yeah Wednesday the 4th yeah it overruled the previous one on the floor okay all right so I have a question so you said proper people do you have a list that you want to make sure that's an attendance or is it just those three that you mentioned I'd like to at least have those three I mean welcome but if there are more that you desire we should know one else there's no one else there's no one else I've spoken to so that was mr. monk dr. savan and miss Camry okay thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you correct okay I would personally invite them to bring whoever they want as long as those three and whoever else they might okay so that's fair are you okay with the rest the board okay with those those people are important with the rest of the school which is also if they want to attend I see agreement there good point thank you So, we'll bring us to 8B. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. This is the amended motion. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? No. The chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We'll schedule a special meeting work session, followed by a board meeting for the fourth. That'll bring us to 8B, authorization of the county attorney. Mr. Chairman, before we get too far down the road, we're approaching 11 o'clock, and according to the board's rules of procedure, the board needs to decide or get a consensus if they agree to move past 11. I hadn't looked at the clock. Thank you for that. We're going to do that. Okay. So our normal procedure would be to adjourn by 11 p.m. I'm going to ask the board if we're willing to continue and finish our work. Supervisor Ludwig? Yes, I'm willing. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Yes. Yes. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Mr. Graber? Chair votes aye. We'll continue. 8B. The authorization to the county attorney. The attorney to request an advisory. This was requested before. Now, the county attorney is asking for authorization to proceed from the board. Mr. Chairman, I would move to authorize the county attorney to proceed. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman, if I might, just by way of explanation on this. Yes, sir. It's as previously understood via the course of the hearing. I think that the board has received a confidential draft. There may be some further or slight amendments to it based on intervening legislation that's passed the General Assembly. I will circulate that to the board. It's not a substantive change, but I wanted to let you know that it's not going out tomorrow. Right. We understood that. Okay. I appreciate that clarification. Is there any further discussion? No, just one question, please, Mr. Chairman. Chairman, as I understood from this information, it would have to be a 501c3 organization in order to be eligible? The state law does not expressly say 501c3. There's a couple of Virginia Supreme Court cases that have more generic definitions of charities, although I suspect that... I suspect that effectively, in order to fit that definition, the organization would most likely be a 501c3, and the board could certainly impose that as a requirement in any funding decision it ultimately makes. I mean, it has to meet the 501c standard, and it would have to meet the Supreme Court standard, but I'm not seeing a way that it wouldn't meet the Supreme Court standard if it didn't meet the 501c3 standard. Thank you, sir. Other discussion? The motion is to authorize the county attorney, Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McArthur. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Aye. Chair votes no, but the motion carries. And you have your authority, sir. All right. Get to the page. Prioritize list to CIP. Where are staff? Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Please vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board, for your consideration tonight. The 2022-2027 Capital Improvements Plan, abbreviated CIP. As you all are well aware, this is the capital facilities planning document that looks out to the new CIP. You know, this is not a new CIP. This is a CIP. five years into the future as well as looking at some projects further out into the future in six plus years so well this program does serve as a long-range plan it is reviewed and revised annually based on current circumstances and opportunities the adoption of the CIP is neither a commitment to any particular project nor is it a limitation on particular costs it's advisory in nature it's directly tied to your comprehensive plan but it is not a request for funding allocations a projects on it may be funded in the year that they're listed or they may not so this is just a summary of their projects the plan is as it was in your packet and to note after previous discussions four items have been removed from the plan and those are still removed from the plan as it's presented to you those would include the fourth high school the renovation of old ailer as an academy the ice rink in the aquatics facility Comments of Plans and Programs Committee endorsed it the board took the action to amend it to that effect and then Comments of Plans and Programs reviewed this and determined it to be in conformance with the Comments of Plan the Planning Commission recommended approval on February 16th board had their discussion had the public hearing forwarded its public hearing with the removal of those four projects and then postponed the discussion until this meeting staff is seeking a decision from the board on the adoption of the 2022-2027 CIP happy to answer any questions questions okay well if there are no questions we can do comments now would there be interest on the board to put that if I made the comment about the pod that at this point we do have the responsibility of have this two-for-two group that's out there looking for money and if if we take it off the plan it looks like we really aren't supporting the second part would be second part would be just where we could get some money out of the builders to help support that down the road i'm just asking so bob i i would support that with one additional condition so i've been working very closely with the two-for-two foundation they've made incredible inroads amongst private donors a lot of corporate donors who are willing to not only donate money but also in-kind products towards the building of this facility but they're at a point now where those big donors need to see that this is something that they can do a private partner private public partnership and have some support either from this locality or multiple localities but in order to do that we need to actually talk to them about what that might look like so i was going to ask that at the next meeting something we added to the agenda to discuss having a small work group to start working with them on what that might look like and what the expectations from the various local governments might be because we've already said you know we're not in a position to fund it ourselves at this point but in order to move that forward and i do think that they've drawn a tremendous amount i would be willing to put it back on the cip so long as we were willing to discuss having some type of small work group to start discussing that i talked to ms hackney and she's more than willing to do that and she was the one requesting to see if we could search for it i would be 100 behind that my comment would be that it it's a great thing that they think they can do but but it's just a matter of they think they can do there's no structure or thought at all into what a public part private partnership might end up looking like i'm not willing to commit to it at this point i have great confidence in their ability to accomplish their goals and i think that i might try to do my best to find the goal but i'd also value the more strong that we can when we talk about this we talked about those ways of doing it think consolidating those five sets of decisions that really should be around finally Towerрack across the board-hook up on four of the slides that are in the primary吗 in the very textbook that was included beforehand because the misfortune that was should be in our interpretation would changeifically a people and so forth they don't really know where they can get the last thing they shared with me was they think they can get to 30% 30% ain't gonna get it well I think it's I don't know that that's accurate I don't either that's just what they shared with me and I think they're having individual discussions from a different group with each person as well which is not a good thing I think and I explained to them that you know same information same source same time I'm not asking for commitment I don't know that they're even asking for commitment at this point they're looking for dialogue to move it forward so I look that I think we can do but so far way too many variables right now so Bob to your point I'll make a motion to put that back on the CIP and begin the process of putting together a small workgroup you, dialogue is that a second second discussion motion on the floor but I'd like to bring up another issue and that is the fourth high school adding it back to the CIP support that as well but this this discussion needs to be direct to the understand and I will save that for when we take up this motion back to it Mr. Chairman yes sir I'm going to go ahead and if we've already known this there's nothing to prohibit us from having a workshop have that discussion and then add it on later on the CIP correct so if that's the case my thought process is more to have the workshop figure out where you are and then bring it back for a discussion because from what I understand this two for two is private money that's being made not public money so I don't know what the public sector portion of that is so I'd rather have a workshop discussion going to those details before I bring it back to the I bring it back on to the CIP. I'm not opposed to it, but I'd like to have that workshop first. I'm not going to support that without a workshop prior. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would support both Supervisor Dunn's comments as well as the Chairman's comments. I do agree that we need to have dialogue with them, and I think Supervisor McCarthy's on the right path. I think that we have that conversation, see where they are, and if this is something that they're well on their way, we could go to add this as an amended CIP sometime this fall, but I think it's a little premature to do so at the present time, but I like your thought process. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman, only to the comment that Supervisor Wells made at a prior meeting, and that's when we take in building permits and that sort of thing, a portion, the proffer dollars go to Parks and Rec, and so if it is something that we truly would like to see for our community, an aquatic center and the ice skating rink at some point, then should we not go ahead and put it back on the CIP so that we are able to take advantage of the proffer funds for our Parks and Rec Department? That one makes a lot of sense to me, because it hadn't mattered up until recently, and now we're seeing new developments proposed and coming in with applications. Further discussion? Mr. Slaughter, if we had this workshop in a month or two, does it make a difference? You made the comment about proffers, which I recognize. I'm not prepared to go and commit public money to this when I've been told this is all private money that's been there. I know that the Parks and Rec are meant to be the executors of the program, but what just prohibits making this two months from now? The only comment I would make is we get the monthly report every month as to how many building permits are on our new list, and they've been pretty extensive, so are we losing out on opportunities to further advance our own community with proffer dollars? So that's the only comment I make. The longer we wait, you've got another month that's gone by, and I don't remember the number right off the top of my head with building permits, but I'm sure Mr. Pearson probably had a comment. I think that was an idea. I remember what Stonewall's is, but for the county as a whole, was it 200? More and more every day, but as far as it relates to the proffer's amount, and to answer your question, Mr. Dunn, more directly, we're going to do a development impact model update again this year, and that's going to be based on the capital improvements plan that's adopted by this board, and so that's really the only ticking clock, and I think that's typically conducted in June of each year, but if you didn't adopt the draft CIP as proposed, I think that the existing one would still stand in effect until the board adopts a new one. Rod? Mr. Chairman, if I can amplify and to follow up on what Mr. Pearson said, existing building permits for existing projects are governed by their existing proffer's. Those all have fixed any project that's previously proffered has existing proffer's with fixed amounts. So this issue, only impacts future proposals, and I don't even think we have any that are maybe there's one out there right now that might be in discussion, but there's really not much else. But as far as even if 600 building permits come in in the next month, those are all for projects that already have specifically defined proffer amounts. So just for clarification, so are you saying that it would require rezoning with new proffers in order for this to happen? Or amending. Okay. An amendment or a rezoning? Or a new development in previously zoned land. No, he's saying that those are already proffered. If it's in previously, exactly what Mr. McCarthy said, if it's in previously zoned land, we already have the proffer amounts fixed in the proffer statement. Got it. Thank you. And so if we're looking at the development impact model, it was based on the current CIP. So if we change it. That's right. If you adopted the draft CIP with the two parks, projects removed from it, I ran the model and it'd be about $300 in proffer dollars less per housing unit if we got, as Rod mentioned, a new rezoning or an amended rezoning with new proffers. None of our existing projects would be impacted, but if somebody came with a new project, then you would receive $300 per housing unit less in dollars going to proffer dollars going to parks. I will offer this. I don't think that a meeting, with the two for two folks and a work group with them is going to render insight anytime soon. I think we should do it. I think it's the right approach. There's no harm in putting it back on for future potential proffers and use of our model. We can take it back off again. Now, I want to go back to your motion, which was to put it. I guess my motion, if it was properly stated, would be a motion to amend the existing motion that we're supposed to take up tonight. Correct? I don't think anybody made the initial motion yet. Was the motion to vote on, so I think we had said we were going to take certain things off and vote on that at this meeting. Is that right? My memory of how the plan progressed is you forwarded it to public hearing with four items. So there's not a motion on the table you're considering that got carried over or anything like that? Thank you. My motion is still what it was, is to add it back in to what we had removed for the public hearing purposes. Okay. Is there a second to the motion? Second. Do you want Ms. Slaughter to offer an amendment to the motion? Yes, sir. I think that's the appropriate way to do it, if I may. So I would like to amend the motion. To include those two items, but to add the fourth high school to the CIP. Is there a second to the amendment to the motion? I'll ask Ms. Slaughter if she's willing to amend. I'm not being picky, but here's, I was going to do the same. After 11. I know, Ms. Slaughter. But here's, I was going to make a motion that was said, as you said, the following. To add the fourth high school with alternatives. The reason I'm saying with alternatives is the high school and or alternatives. I had a long conversation on that. That's language I would prefer if that's amenable to you. It's fine. I have a problem with that one because you have no idea what you're moving. We can always take it all. Mr. Chairman, let's just take these one at a time and throw it away on the two for two. Okay, that's where you are. I'm sorry? There is a motion. I need a second. I have that. I need a second. Second. And a second. So we're under discussion of the amendment to the motion, which is to add the two for two, the aquatic centers back on, as well as the fourth high school. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Okay, Mr. Chairman. So the reason I made the comment about the fourth high school is I spent some time with Mr. Angelo and two other high school principals. I think they're going to be able to do that. I think they're going to be able to do that. I think they're going to be able to do that. to address the high school issue. The fourth high school can be an option. But I think there also ought to be other options. And the other options might be something such as building an addition or a shrando to go. Understood. Not directly to the motion. I'm suggesting it would be the fourth high school and or alternatives. So you have not only a fourth high school as a solution, but alternatives. You need to be able to define alternatives. You can add any other alternative to the CIP anytime you want. So down to the chairman's point, it's important to assign a dollar figure to the associated projects so that they can then be utilized in the capital impact model to calculate how the percentages work in that respect. Not eliminating your desire to have other discussions. Are you with me here? Okay. We're not. But. We have specifics now in a motion to amend. I'll do the fourth high school if we have the ability to have options to it. That's fine. I understand that. All right. Further discussion, anyone? Motion to amend is to add not only the aquatic center back in, but the fourth high school. Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McGraber. No. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Now we'll go back to. So the new motion is to include both of those. The aquatic center. Yes. The motion that we are naming, now discussing and about to vote on, is the approved amendment motion to add both back in. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. No. I'm sorry. No. Supervisor Ludwig is no. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. First. Okay. What? So do we need to adopt? Now we have to adopt the comprehensive plan. Capital. Capital improvement plan. I'm sorry. I would move that we adopt the capital improvement plan as presented with the additions. Second. Any seconds? Any discussion? I will, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. I would like to have some discussion. I believe it is a severe error to add the fourth high school back to this list and not have any surrounding conversation on additions or renovations to other schools. And simply to have this on the list. When Millbrook was offered for expansion and renovation, it was simply turned down because the school board wanted the fourth high school. I think it is beyond absurd to think that if they see that fourth high school back on the CIP, that they would even consider any additional expansion projects or any additional renovation projects that would expand capacity. This board was, in my opinion, bamboozled with the AILER. New AILER school project where additional monies were given for the expanded capacity of that school. And I feel like it is imperative that we see all options available. And I don't believe it just provides that. So I'm with Mr. Dunn's original concerns that we need to look at all options. And I don't believe it just provides the best avenue for that. So I cannot support it. Thank you. The only thing having it on the list does is have it as a possibility. I understand. Other possibilities can be added. They can be added at any time, but they need to be defined before they can be added. I'm in full understanding. Okay. My thought still stands. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. By putting them on the list, does that cost the county money or open up the door to spending money on design, engineering, and planning? It shouldn't. Mr. Chairman, can I ask a question, sir, to you? If that is the case, that it does not open the door for planning, design, and engineer, there's already been, between $5 and $8 million spent on planning, engineering, and design. Who authorized that money and how does that process work? I have no idea who authorized it. None. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber, was that money spent by out of the school allotted funds? It is. And I have a four years request where it shows it. I don't have the exact dollar amount in front of me. It was between $5 and $8 million. But that amount of money was spent on design features and other features for the school. For the fourth high school? Yes, sir. That's why I asked that point of clarification. I appreciate it, sir. I can't verify any of that. Mr. Chairman, I've heard the same thing, but I can't verify it either. I don't know how much has been spent so far. My only concern is maybe through this difficult process we'll end up with a better relationship between the two boards. I know it doesn't seem that way, at the moment. Maybe we'll have a line item budget. And I look forward to be able to support projects, especially major ones like this, when we can see everything. Then I'd be much happier with it. Do you think we're making progress? It has been painful. So the motion is to adopt the CIP as amended. And we've got a second? And I spend a second? Second, yes. Okay, are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig. No. Aye. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. This is the first of two ordinance amendments that are under consideration this evening by this body. The first contains multiple amendments, and this is an amendment to, again, the zoning ordinance, to clarify and amend requirements contained in our supplemental use regulations, parking, and planned development district sections. I'll walk you through each of the proposed changes for this particular ordinance amendment and what the current standard is. The first item pertains to the protection of environmental features. This is a proposed amendment to expand the allowance granted to the zoning administrators to allow additional disturbance between, or rather beyond, what the zoning ordinance is. The zoning ordinance standard permits for steep slopes, which is 25% disturbance of that natural feature. The current zoning ordinance standard permits the zoning ordinance to allow disturbance for small areas to alleviate potential health and safety problems that would not significantly impact the overall quality of the site. And again, this amendment simply strikes that health and safety provision and gives the zoning administrator greater allowance to consider amendments to steep slopes. The second item pertains to off-street parking requirements. This is a proposed amendment to modify the off-street parking spaces required for single-family attached or townhome dwelling units. The current standard is two off-street parking spaces per unit, and this amendment would propose 2.5 off-street spaces per unit for townhome and single-family attached units. The standard, the two off-street parking spaces standard has actually been deemed insufficient for townhome communities, where the off-street parking requirement is not sufficient. And that with one single garage space and a single driveway space, typically in our townhome communities that are being designed, there's limited to no off-street parking availability, whether that's due to the spacing of the driveways, the private road widths and the requirements for access for fire apparatus. And because there is not a limited, there's no requirement for off-street parking. Very few communities are including off-street parking in the requirement. And we're finding that there's just not enough parking. So again, modifying that requirement to 2.5 off-street spaces has been proposed. The final part of this multiple ordinance amendment for your consideration pertains to conditional uses in the R4 and R5 zoning district. And this proposed amendment would clarify the use permissible through a conditional use permit in our residential plan community, or R4, and our residential recreational community, R5 districts. The zoning ordinance for the R4 district currently, as it's worded, does not require a conditional use permit for any of the conditional uses listed in the RP district, which are allowed in the R4 district. And additionally, the R5 district doesn't allow any allowance for conditional uses. It's a wording problem more than anything, and this is an opportunity to clarify what has been our common practice, but to codify it into the zoning ordinance. The Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item on February 24th and supported the proposed changes. The Planning Commission discussed these amendments on April 6th and offered no comments. This item is presented to you all as an information discussion item, and staff is seeking action by the Board to forward this item forward for a public hearing if you deem it to be appropriate. I'm happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. I have one. If you could go back to the parking. Yes, sir. 2.5 off-street? Yes, sir. You're going to be, and this, your biggest concern here is for multifamily towns? Town homes and single-family attached only. It would not address. Single-family attached. Those, both of those? Yes, sir. Correct. Okay. So unless you're going to do two-car garages, I don't know where you're going to get the 2.5 off-street. Sorry, it's 2.5 off-street spaces per unit. So the two spaces in the unit, the single-car garage, and the single-car garage. The driveway would count as two. And then, say you have 10 units, we'd require five. Elsewhere? Five elsewhere on the site. Not off-street. Five off, five additional, or off, additional off-street parking spaces based on the total number of units at a half space per unit. Or they would have like a guest parking lot? They'd have a guest parking spot. They might, they might do a. I've seen that done many times. But they're within the development. They're close by. But they're not off-street. Off-street. I'm having a hard time. In front of the townhouse. It would be off-street. There would be a designated area within the, potentially within these townhome communities where you'd have a cluster of maybe five or 10 vehicle parking spaces to be utilized either by the residents or by guests. Don't understand the off-street part. Can I ask a question that follows up on your? Yes. So when you say off-street, is the definition of off-street meaning not parked on a public curb? Not parked within the roadway, whether that's a public or private street. So it's a designated parking space that could be near the street, but it's not within the street itself. Is that what the definition is? Correct. And some parking spaces, some communities have that designated off-street parking spaces on the street and they're striped. Others satisfy that requirement with a driveway space and a garage space or two driveway spaces. The width of the townhome lots typically dictates a single driveway space and a single garage space currently. You wouldn't be able to use the street itself to qualify under this? If you had the width and you had the appropriate accommodations for the parking stall plus the road width for a private street. Still didn't get me there. If we're talking about carving out seven spaces across the street from the actual towns, striped, hmm? Hmm? Is that off-street? Yes, that would be off-street. Yes, sir. Now you got me there. The problem is that even in those situations, typically there aren't enough of those. So it's how many of those get included. I'm not sure one, a half of one over and above is enough, but we can start, we got to start someplace. You know, we actually used to require a lot more and we carved that back a number of years ago because we didn't have enough of those. Okay. Because everyone was whining about it. And then it turns out that now everyone's whining because there aren't enough spaces in the development for guests. I think you've hit the nail on the head. Thank you. Do you want to consider raising it? I mean, I'm serious. Before it goes to public hearing? Or do you want to raise it during public hearing? Well, it can go to public hearing and we can continue a discussion. I don't have a concern about, you know, hearing what the public thinks. I hope we'll hear from some professionals. I assume that you all included some in your all's work. Accurate, yes. We have some on staff. So, okay. I've just seen it swing both ways and it's bad either end. Somewhere in the middle, there has to be a sweet spot. My comment. So I'm okay with forwarding it to public hearing. Further discussion. I'm sorry. Is there a motion on the floor to move it to public hearing? We can. I'll make a motion to move it forward to public hearing. Okay. Second. Motion in multiple seconds to forward to public hearing. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll move forward to public hearing. Thank you, sir. Well done. One more. Yes, sir. Short-term lodging. Yes, sir. This is your second. This one should be fine. This is your second ordinance amendment of the evening and this is an amendment to add short-term lodging or SBA. To the definition section, provide additional regulations for short-term lodging establishments and to add the use specifically to our RA, RP, residential performance, and MH1 or mobile home community zoning districts. As proposed by staff following the work session that we had with the board on this topic, we are proposing that the short-term lodging be permitted as a by-right use and be approved and reviewed by the county staff as a administrative permit. As proposed by staff following the work session, we are proposing that the short-term lodging be approved and reviewed by the county staff and be approved by the county staff in the next two years. The short-term lodging is a non-executive process. A draft permit application was also provided for your consideration. As specified in the permit, it would be valid for a period of two years and require a $200 fee, so it would require a two-year renewal for those operators. As you all are acutely aware, the zoning ordinance doesn't really provide a definition or a specific use for short-term lodging. It's a very strict, but they are defined in such a manner that they do not otherwise permit short-term lodging. Typically, they specify some type of meal being provided, which isn't typical of a short-term lodging use as we see them in other jurisdictions. So our proposal for the definition of short-term lodging is any occupancy of all or part of a dwelling or mobile home for a period of 30 days or less, where there's a sublet of more than 30 days, six months, where there's a lease of a piece of property for years or multiple years that would not qualify as a short-term lodging. That's just standard kind of residential lease and doesn't fall under this definition. This is that kind of weekend stay, maybe a week, people coming in for a special event, or coming to visit friends or family for some type of event, and they're there and the like. So in addition to the definition of short-term lodging, we have provided a number of supplemental use requirements. Staff would note that in drafting these requirements, we did consult with the building official, the fire marshal, the Virginia Department of Health, and the Commissioner of Revenue to ensure that the requirements adequately would address any concerns that they may have as it pertains to these type of uses. And what you see here is reflective of their various codes and ordinances and requirements. So where permitted, short-term lodging would meet the following requirements. The maximum number of lodgers per night shall not exceed 10 persons, except where the uniform statewide building code permits only a fewer number of occupants. B, that no more than five guest rooms are permitted for short-term lodging. C, that the maximum number of rental contracts per night is one, and that all lodgers occupying the short-term lodging must be associated with the same rental contract. D, that a dwelling or manufactured home used for short-term lodging shall comply with the following standards, be available for inspection by the county during reasonable hours, and in accordance with the zoning ordinance, and comply with the requirements of the applicable version of the Virginia Uniform Statewide Logistics Act. C, that there are no such regulations as a requirement for a building or a community-wide building code or Virginia manufactured home safety regulations as determined by the building official. Number two, have a working multi-purpose fire extinguisher, smoke detector, and carbon monoxide detector when required for a fireplace or gas service. Number three, have a plan posted inside the door of each sleeping room, showing the exit pathway in the sleeping room, from the sleeping room used for short-term lodging, designated off-street parking space available for lodgers which the operator has the authority to reserve for short-term lodging purposes e that special events as defined in part 101 of the ordinance are prohibited in association with the short-term lodging use and f that no short-term lodging activity shall take place on the property until the department of planning and development has approved a short-term lodging administrative permit for use and the commissioner of revenue has approved a business license for the use the development review and regulations committee discussed this on may 25th and they were supportive of the proposed changes the planning commission discussed this on april 6th and the planning commission offered comments to the board for further consideration including if the number of proposed parking spaces was sufficient and considerations regarding the use of private driveways and access easements this item again is presented as an information in discussion item this evening and staff is seeking direction from the board if this item is ready to go forward for a public hearing thank you sir questions mr chairman earlier this evening we heard from mrs case from the opecan district and her concern was the shared driveway access and how guests would access the property so you you've spoken to uh planning or drc taking a look at how we might address that situation did you come up with a solution there's not a solution there was not a solution presented by the planning commission they just said it should be considered further um the only similar consideration i could offer is that special event facilities where they have a shared driveway we require consent from all the property all the parties to that um i would state in this instance i don't i would not believe that the use itself short-term lodging funding is subject to this we have had on this committee wondering if we need to be more lucrative or start talking to the current board about being able to hold astronauts and do things like this it would you s sociedade chairman if you would respect any tiempo to開 the door for any additional topics like the street park to nominate the house as our first failure in 2018 such trick i can support still and so is a way that we can mitigate this issue. One thing I would clarify on the short term lodging is we know that there are through the Commissioner of Revenue that there are 25 to 30 or so operating in the county and we have not received a substantial number of complaints of guarding this issue we've received one one complaint for one user but it's not been a widespread issue that we understand it to be at this point. I still think it's worthwhile for us to take the time and we can certainly propose some language if it comes back to you all with that. Yes. Thank you Mr. Chairman. So my only concern with how it was proposed of having to get permission from other landowners is that then we may be artificially imposing restrictions on someone's private property use that they didn't have prior so if I have the right to use the road to allow my guests to enter my house why do I need to now go get permission from someone else to maintain my right to allow my guests to maintain my property. I don't have to maintain to get permission to use my house so so it causes us to sort of step into the middle of a private right-of-way easement question that should be worked out amongst the homeowners themselves. And you know I understand what you're saying but I think from my perspective this is now being operated as a business instead of a residential unit so I think that's the differentiating part of all of this is that what these folks originally thought they have now suddenly has been turned into a business. But we're not we're not looking at this to see this is not a special use of the property we're just saying we're gonna license people for this or is this going to be a CUP. It would be a by right use an administrative permit if they meet all the aspects of the permit application we would approve it again for a period of two years so and within that two-year period if we receive complaints or something like that and we could deal with it through our zoning violation process. It just seems to me that imposing extra impingements upon someone's private rights when they're not asking for a license is a violation of their property. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. It's just that we're not asking for a use of the property that they weren't entitled to use before all we're trying to do is regulate the by right use that they're already legally allowed to use it for us that we can either tax it or control it in some way. So I just don't like the idea that we're we're telling someone well you already have the right to do it but we're gonna take that away from you just because you know we want to make sure that your neighbor has the opportunity to impose additional rights themselves upon you that they didn't have before I just to me that doesn't make sense but there were two other questions that I had too if you don't mind. No go ahead. So and a the very first sentence of the ordinance it says the maximum number of lodgers per night shall not exceed 10 persons. Can that be clarified to say shall not exceed 10 unrelated persons and the reason I bring that up is if the McCarthy family lives in a different county and wants to come visit beautiful Frederick County I'd have to tell two of my kids you can't come. So I'd like it to be clarified if possible to say 10 unrelated persons so that large families would have the opportunity to come to Frederick County. The second thing I was gonna say I will certainly run that through the building official and make sure that doesn't conflict with any of their standards and get back to you soon as I can. Another question was with regard to the next I'm sorry item C the maximum number rental contracts per night is one all lodgers occupying short-term lodging must be associated with the same rental contract can we clarify what a lodging is a lodging you know one building with. Potentially one or multiple units or is it all of the units on a particular parcel property because you may have certain properties that have. A home and a guest home that are really far apart and if we and it would make sense to say what we only you can only have one contract for both of those one potentially could have a contract for each of those so is there a way to better define what the lodging actually is so that we're not sort of tying the hands of someone who may have a 300 acre parcel with a cabin way over there and a cabin way over here. Certainly I'll work with the county attorney make sure whether that's adding lodging unit or something similar to make sure it's it's very fine thank you yes sir. Those are my concerns. I have similar concerns particularly when when they're on shared shared private right-of-ways I think you need to scratch your head a little bit on that one and then even parking can become an issue I've enjoyed doing. Short-term. Rentals. In multiple different states some states do a really good job and others not so much. It's an interesting concept but it it's more like a commercial use than anything else and I think that we probably need to think carefully about that part of it and. If we talk about parking I don't think you're ever going to have one individual. Stopping by. To spend three nights to go to a family wedding in the community somewhere. You're going to have multiples. Let's say it's a small house three bedroom house. You're probably going to have three cars to deal with. They're coming from different places. Chew on it a little bit and bring it back. Certainly I can do some more due diligence there. Absolutely. Let us chew on it a little while. As well. So just. I just like to. Agree with. Chairman to have the same thing I came out to Wayne's way. I drove down the road down there and took a look this afternoon. So. Supervisor slaughter certainly brought it up and did well with that. We really need to take a look at it because this is it may just be that situation but it's a pretty tough situation down there. The way the road is designed. I think. It's. It's a fairly tough situation. I think. It's. It's a pretty tough situation. I agree. You get the two people together but if someone buys that house and they're from out of town. You no longer have that friendly neighborhood relationship and it can get rather sticky. So I think we need to take a look at that. So. Both parties are cared for. Supervisor. I just concur with what Mrs. Slaughter said. Mr. Wells said. This is fair and equitable, everybody. Mr. McCarthy made some good comments on, hey, it's private property, so just see if you can find us something that satisfies both the owner and the new renter, if you will. Go ahead, sir. Maybe we'll talk about some clarification, too, and come back on whether we're talking about shared driveways or shared private right-of-ways, because there are private right-of-ways that have 30, 40, 50 homes on it. So in order to get everyone to agree to something maybe so onerous that it's just impossible, and having a private road may be a lot different than having a shared driveway. So we may want to consider does this apply to shared driveways versus to shared private right-of-ways. I think for clarification, the special event facilities is specific to shared driveways. It doesn't specify private right-of-ways. So I think we'll dig into that example that's already in our list. Are there other comments? Anyone? I think that's all the help we can give you this evening. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Board liaison reports, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. As I said before, at some time this summer, I think that Chief Mishak would like to come forward and just lay out a long-term item, what we're doing for fire and rescue. We had that conversation last week. So sometime. This summer, at a time convenient to you, if you can spend an hour with us laying out the fire and rescue needs for the next five, six, seven, eight years, that would be helpful and informative, I believe, to all of you. It would include the budget requirements that are going to be needed in the next three, four, five years, what's needed in the way of equipment, what's needed in the way of personnel, et cetera. So I'm just making a comment. They've been working on that a really long time, and I haven't seen anything yet. So I think that would be kind of nice. I'll let him and the administrator set that up with you. Did you have something you wanted to share? Yes, we're actually, I think, prepared to do the workshop. The issue has been all the other workshops going on and scheduling in between all the other meetings. So we're ready to go forward, but it's just finding the right time to schedule it. As we stated at that budget meeting, no actions will be taken with the fire until we've had that meeting. We look forward to that. We're willing to do the work. All right. One other comment? Yes, sir. I was fortunate enough to have the time. And was very happy to be here. Thank you. Thank you. I was invited to attend the Future Farmers of America banquet at Sherando High School. And had a wonderful time. And it's just a great, great way to see young people and how they are taking care of the county, how they're maturing, how they're doing a wonderful job. Very, very proud of what they did, all their winnings over the state competitions and that kind of thing. Great, great group of people. I've been to a couple of those. They're absolutely inspiring. It is. I had conflicts this time and couldn't go. I was disappointed. So thanks for bringing that to us. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Are these supervisor comments? Sure. Is that where we're at? Well, we're not quite there yet. But it's for liaison reports. No, nothing for me. OK. We'll get there in just a moment. Citizen comments on any issue you might like to share with the board? Kay Dawson. I'm sorry? Kay Dawson. Yes. Hi. Welcome. You know I come to all the meetings. That's fine. And my friend Pat. Look forward to seeing you. Thank you. And my friend Pat Smith came with me. But she died April 4th. And before she died, she sent the Winchester Star a paper, an article, a letter, supporting Sean Graber. They were very close friends. And the Star chose not to publish that. And it was very unfortunate that they didn't publish that letter. When Adrian O'Connor was there, it was a little better balance. And then the other thing I'm thinking about is with all the discussion of the budget and the issues and problems, it looks like it's time for a forensic audit of the school system. And that doesn't just correct or find financial problems. It can discover malfeasance and all kinds of things. So it might be time. It's time for that kind of an audit. Not just a regular, but a forensic. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes. It's Sue Case again. Yes, ma'am. And I just wanted to clarify a couple of things and add a couple of things to our conversation about the shared private driveways. If you've never been down a shared gravel driveway, you have no idea what it's like. It's a very traditional way to get out, where people can help you out. As I said in my first comments, our driveway, and we got out and we measured it. I wasn't going to measure five different spots. I measured one spot, 10 feet wide. And it's not fair for other homeowners to have strangers pull into your yard to let other people get by, pull into their driveways to let other people buy. I mean, like I said, until you've been down a gravel, very narrow driveway, you have no idea. And I invite any of you to come down our road and see it. And I am a little disappointed that in your whatever that is. Presentation. That you didn't mention about the written consent because you told me in an email that you were going to ask the board about the requirement of owners, operators of short-term lodgings to obtain written consent to use shared dryways from the sharing parties. You told me that in an email. And that did not get mentioned. At all. I'm just not understanding why. But this is an issue. And I agree. There's probably a ton of Airbnb short-term rentals that work fine that don't have to gain access from a shared gravel 10-foot wide driveway. Be nice. That's all I'm going to say. Thank you. I just want to add to what she said. If you have only three vehicles, up to five, they're not only going to come rolling in on Thursday night. They're going to roll back out Saturday morning to go to breakfast. And they're going to come back and they're going to decide where they're going to go sightseeing for the day. And they're all going to roll out again. Then they're going to come back from sightseeing. And then they're going to go out to dinner, which is fine for the county. They're going to make money off of that. But it's going to kill us on our driveway. You've got a very narrow driveway. I've got all the different trailers. I haul vehicles, hay. Tattle, blah, blah, blah. We've got farm back there. It's going to be a nightmare. If I meet somebody and they don't know that they have to back up, somebody's going to be, you know, it's just going to create. You saw it. They're going to be in the district. It's going to be a big problem. Well, I've already pulled one. And the owner. Oh, there you go. I'm sorry. One more thing. The owner of the Airbnb, he's not going to be living there once it starts up. So who's going to fill the potholes? Who's going to, you know, deal with the issues? Us. Please think about this. Come down the driveway. Enjoy the dust. Yes, sir. Yes, my name is Michael Shottroff. I'm in the Opec District. Please raise that microphone a little bit. Thank you, sir. My name is Michael Shottroff. I live in the Opec District. Our neighbors are Sue and Mr. Case, Earl Case. The farm that we are discussing where he wants to put the Airbnb, I grew up in that house. I know the land inside and out. I showed the surveyors where stakes are, are supposed to be. I do the maintenance on the driveway. When you're sitting there trying to plow snow and you got two vehicles trying to come in and they're trying to come in. Or get out and you're trying to get where you can get in and out. It's almost impossible just with the people that live back there. That's not including extra traffic to be on that driveway. And that's the same way with doing maintenance. Cutting if a tree would happen to fall down across the road. Nobody else does it. But the people that live back there normally is me, my brother, Earl Case. That's it. Nobody else. Does it. Everybody that lives back there helps. And why should one person, yeah, granted, he has the use of this driveway. Nobody's denying him that use of using it for his own personal use. Not to make money out off that house when he's going to be living over on Middle Road in his brand new house. He's making money off that house. To me, that's a business. It's not a, you know. Short term thing. He's making money to pay other bills, whether it's the bill in that house or the bill in his new house. He's making money on that house. That is a business. He's not, he has to pay his driveway dues, which is $100. This deal was made back in 19, I think it was 82. Okay. Take $100 back in 1982. Take $100 today. How far does it get? It don't get you very far like it did back in 82. 82, gas is only 83 cents a gallon. Okay. Today, what is it? Four something a gallon. Diesel's $5 a gallon to maintain that driveway to do the upkeep and stuff. And like I said, with the extra traffic, it's going to be impossible. Almost impossible. So why should one person get to say, yep, I'm doing it. You all can't do nothing about it. When you got six or other people, especially my aunt owns the deed to that right away that everybody has to share. So she lives in South Carolina, but she still has to pay the taxes on it. And it's not fair. You know, it's just not fair. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. All right. Thank you. I'm Kelly Warner Garris. I'm with the Winchester Swim Team, and we are an official partner of the Two for Two Foundation. I just wanted to piggyback on some comments that you spoke of earlier regarding Two for Two. Maybe some updates that you're not aware of. I'm acting as an official partner of theirs. I'm overseeing one of the major fundraisers that's taking place this fall, which is the Guinness Book of World Records, which is on. I think you may remember. I believe that in 2008 there was an approximate million $1 million that was broken off between the Swim Team and the! goddamn Hey個人 strünke. what the Board of Supervisors asked for months ago. For example, we have a $3 million state and federal grant that we've applied for and has letters of support from both Republican and Democrat parties. They've come up with an operational budget of $1.2 million each year. They're in conversations with the donor who has already committed verbally 10% of the total cost for naming rights of the facility. Tonight, as we sat here, we had another organization to send us an email who's interested in joining in the fundraising for the cause. Projects like this, on average, bring up to 12% revenue in food and gas and hotels back to the community. Two for two, they're happy to provide a line item budget that will show that mostly everything that has been done so far has been done by volunteers. They even have a line item budget that they can use to fund the facility. They have conversations for all the concrete and the steel for the facility to be donated. So there's a lot that's going on that you might not be aware of, and we feel that this working meeting that Mr. McCarthy recommended in the very near future is critical to the total of getting those funds from the big dollar donors so that there's a commitment that shows that the county is also involved. I mean, the meeting will not tie anybody, you know, as far as decisions, but it's crucial to the success of the foundation moving forward. I ask that you reconsider that and put that maybe on a calendar for the next couple of months. Thank you. Thank you. Well, come on up to the microphone. Oh, you really don't want to listen to me anyway. It's been a very long night. Tim from the Bat Creek District. Mr. McCarthy, may I approach? I'll leave this here for you. That's a ream of paper. I want to thank you for pulling out the budgets that you did to show how it's supposed to be done. And that's pretty much it. Let's go home. What do you think? There's somebody behind you. Okay. And for those, Mr. Ludwig, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Raber, thank you for not drinking Dr. Savine's Kool-Aid. Okay, because I understand that. And yes, when Mr. Byrd, I believe the Byrds owned the Winchester store, it was a fantastic news. I'm not sure who owns it now, but my dog, my puppy, won't even pee on the paper. So thank you. Let's go home. Pastor? I can't imagine. This has been a lot of fun. I'm from Texas, so I know how chili is made. We don't use beans, though. I'm sorry. So what I came to say is that I just want to say thank you all. I'm so grateful for the opportunity to be here. And I'm so grateful for the opportunity to be here because I realize that I have lived long enough to know that there's always these two extreme positions. And the truth is always somewhere in the mushy middle. And as Rodney King, the famous theologian, once said, can't we all just get along? I meant that to be a joke, but that's OK. So what I wanted to say was, yeah, nothing's funny right now. But what I wanted to say was that as I was listening to both of this, my wife is actually a schoolteacher. And I'm following this rather loosely. But I do also understand the importance for being able to be able to explain where every dollar is going in order to have a budget and budget lines and all that. I used to be a bean counter before I became a pastor. And then there's also the idea of saying that our teachers need to be funded and their schools need to be funded. And there's all those different issues. So I just want to say, after all the stuff you've gone through tonight, I just want to say thank you for having to deal with it because everyone's emotions are involved. And it's really hard to see the other side. And so that's, I just want to say, I think the idea about having this meeting later, I know it just puts everything as, you know, pushes it farther back. But I think it's important that everybody have that communication and dialogue going because it is important that we have a budget and we are responsible to each other. And we do the right thing for everybody involved, including our teachers and students. And I'm 50 seconds and I'm done. So thanks. Thank you, sir. Appreciate you getting us off on a good start. Anyone else? Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Ludwig. Real quickly, just to reiterate the scenario, I think that's on the table now after this long night. Has enough funds to fund scenario A, everything the school requested. I hope they do fund those things and that things don't change down the road. If that's the budget that's passed. There seems to be another $4 million in ESSER funds, which I should understand, but I'm not entirely sure. I'd love to see if we could reach out to Chairman Monk, if you'd like to do so, sir. I just recommend it. And ask them for an amended budget that shows where those ESSER funds would in fact go, that backup plan that they had for the funds. Part of what we intend to pursue in a work session environment, which may depicted the most of the funds we've elicited this� is for thoseioè We So from the Supervisory Board, as I understand it, will come up with a more емуantment plan, considering theезде any conditions deemed unnecessary by-law? money spent by myself for the fourth high school as far as for design and other things i'd like to get a feel of how much money has been truly spent to date on designing any form of the fourth high school and who authorized that money because i don't know that we have a firm grip on that whole situation i'd like to get the background as to who authorized the money why the money was spent when it hadn't even been authorized to proceed with the fourth high school so i'd like to have that information as well at our next meeting so we can have some good dialogue on how future allocations of money are are done so thank you mr chairman anyone else yes sir thank you mr chairman i want to apologize to the shenandoah apple blossom committee for failing to dress appropriately apple blossom festival after two years of covid and being sort of limited is back in full bloom this year so i'd like to encourage all of our residents to take advantage of the very important time of the year and to take advantage of the very important time of the year and to take advantage of the very important time of the year and to take advantage of the very important time of the year and to take advantage of the very important very many opportunities there are to very many opportunities there are to get together with your the members of your community have a really good time something that we haven't been able to do for a long time and rebuild the sense of community that winchester's had for you know nearly 100 years with this festival but thank you bob and judy for displaying your pride in the in the bloom whether that was intentional or by accident actually actually doug uh to your point today was business uh business for the bloom and it was well attended there were a lot of smiles on people faces to be able to come together and to celebrate what we're gonna have a beautiful weekend and and no rain so it was a great kickoff to that so yes happy to be a part of it and long overdue one else last call vice chairman chairman I move we adjourn second all those in favor aye stand adjourned we thank everyone for their time attention
