Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-09-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=62
========================================================================

Thank you, sir. We really appreciate you being with us. Appreciate being here. Let's pray. Lord, our Father in heaven, we do thank you so much just for this opportunity that we have to gather together to talk about the needs of this county, to talk about the needs of its people, and Lord, and to make decisions that are going to impact a great number of individuals. We pray that as decisions are made, as our opinions are voiced, Lord, that you would grant wisdom where it's needed. Lord, that you would be an almighty counselor as decisions are made. Lord, that they would be made in reverence to what you would have us decide. Lord, that it would be made in accordance with your will. And Lord, in the best interest of the people of Stephen City and Frederick County as a whole. Lord, we thank you so much, again, for this opportunity, for this privilege that it is to lead, for this privilege that it is to even be here this evening. It is a great honor, and Lord, we don't take it lightly. So again, we pray that you would be with the board of directors here as they guide this county. Lord, that you would be, a mighty and wise counselor. Lord, we thank you so much in advance for the things that you're going to do this evening. And we pray your mighty blessing upon this meeting. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Let me turn around. Please stand. Face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, individually, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Adoption of the agenda. Are there any proposed changes? Mr. Chairman. Dr. Draper. I make a motion that we adopt the agenda with the following change, that we move 12A to 12B and move 12B up to become 12A, simply reversing those two. Second. Thank you, sir. Is there any discussion? All those in favor? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We adopt the agenda as amended. So portion of the meeting that the board sets aside for citizen comments on any issue that will not be subject to a public hearing. Does anyone sign up? Mr. Chairman, the list is still in the hallway. I think we do still have folks signing up. So just a moment. I'm sorry, what? You're on mute. I just took it off mute for you. Well, that'll help. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we did not have anyone sign up. However, I will note that you had two comments received via the website for this section. They both referred to agenda item 9A. You have those. Thank you. All right. All right. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion to second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. You will need a roll call vote, sir. I'm sorry. You're right. Absolutely. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The consent agenda is adopted as approved. The board is adjourned. The board is adjourned. The board is adjourned. The board is adjourned. The board is adjourned. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I have three items I'd like to comment on. The first is that earlier today I attended the grand opening of the new Aubin Convenience Center in Aubin in the Gainesboro District. It's where the dump, quote unquote, where you can take your trash, opens first thing tomorrow morning at 7 a.m. It's a beautiful facility. It came in on time and way under budget, which is no small measure considering some of the challenges that our Public Works Department has to deal with. So once again, I'd like to thank the board for their support. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So once again, I just want to thank our Public Works Director, Joe Wilder, and all of his staff for the wonderful work they do for the people of Frederick County, and it's a huge new benefit to the folks at Gainesboro. I have two other incidents that occurred in the last couple weeks that I wanted to comment on. I'm going to read these just because they're somewhat complicated. Go ahead. The first was an incident reported in the Winchester Star on September 9th reporting on the fact that Virginia's new red flag law, red flag law, has been enforced against a citizen of this county by the Frederick County Sheriff's Office on September 2nd. Okay. Under this red flag law, a citizen's guns, his property, was seized from him and taken by agents of the county government without due process of law based solely on statements of two individuals. Two weeks later, that citizen appeared in court, and as reported in the Winchester Star on September 12th, 2020, Judge Alex Iden determined that there was not enough evidence to consider the accused to be a substantial risk in order to determine that any crime had been committed, and it was ordered that his property, his legally owned firearms, be returned to him. Again, a citizen of the United States, a citizen of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Commoner after his redesign was made, the president decided that the président should surely��면 frank to embroidered and jumpscare and and merely Quando ought he was supposedly involved in elk hijacking another man, an拜拜 victim right next to the Ls これはまさに 56日後駕駛をさせるためのキロ下で不死死垂死を浪費し、 why do I think she could not arrest him? I did not see. Good morning. Good morning, everybody. and please excuse me. Good morning. If you could add just one question. Good morning. Thank you. Okay. process of law. It may likely also violate the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution. The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, and typically the probable cause of a crime being committed. Legally owning or possessing a firearm is not a crime, nor is legally possessing a firearm in and of itself evidence of a crime. I warned last November, and I'll say it again, this law flies in the face of our constitutional rights, and I am beyond concerned that our sheriff or commonwealth's attorney would feel compelled to seize a citizen's firearms simply on the say-so of another individual. It would appear that we are living in very dangerous times, a time when what was once considered constitutionally protected is no longer protected, at a time when the government can kick down our doors and demand our property whether or not a jury of our peers has determined that we are guilty of any crime, when our government at the point of a gun can disarm a law-abiding citizen, take away his firearms, and then force him to expend his money on attorneys and legal costs to prove that he is guilty of any crime. I implore the citizens of this county, every and every other locality in Virginia, to stand up and make yourselves heard in Richmond. Let them know that we will not abide a government that tramples our God-given rights, our constitutionally protected rights. We will not abide a government that will disarm its citizens and make us subjects of the government. Mr. Chairman, the second occurrence that occurred just last week that I'd like to shed light on is no less troubling to me than the first occurrence that occurred last week. The first occurrence that I just mentioned is yet another failure of government to safeguard citizens. Last Tuesday night at the Frederick County School Board meeting, a motion was made to spend approximately $1.9 million from unexpended funds on the purchase of new school buses. Now I take no position on whether buying school buses is a good expenditure or not. That is not the point of my comments tonight. I bring this incident up to shine light on the conversation that ensued as part of the discussion surrounding the proposed motion to purchase the buses. School Board Member Brandon Monk pointed out to his fellow Board members that he had been given no forewarning prior to the motion being made that there would be a motion to appropriate the nearly $2 million. In other words, he had not been given the time to review whether or not the 19 buses was or was not a prudent expenditure of the school's funds. He wisely, in my opinion, confirmed with the school staff that a decision was not required immediately and simply asked that the decision be tabled until the next school board meeting so he and other school board members would have time to consider the request and make an informed decision on whether or not the buses would be purchased. The decision was not required immediately. In the meantime, there was no further discussion of the decision. I would like to extend my thanks to Mr. Chairman and Mr. Chairman for the opportunity to speak on the subject. I would like to extend my thanks to Mr. Chairman and Mr. Chairman for the opportunity to speak on the subject. I would like to extend my thanks to Mr. Chairman and Mr. Chairman for the opportunity to speak about any of the concerns that exist operating at this school loss state level through่r Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, this Escort was good. I was happy to support expectations this way and I quote we meaning the school board are a consumer of information from the school system and we are a policy board and what we need to keep an eye on is policy is is policy being followed and is the school system following a good decent business practice Mr. Lake said I can tell you this is my ninth year and we do not do the weed stuff and we are consumers of information from the staff we judge doesn't meet the policy requirement is a good business practice he continued but the bottom line is we don't adjust the figures we do not run the school division that is their business Dr. Sovine and his staffs business and we keep to our policies he then continued so in that regard if we were to delay this vote come back and think of other categories it's theirs to decide Dr. Sovine to decide whether to buy the 19 buses we're probably not going to change that he said we don't know enough about all the categories of the budget book that's probably this thick where money may or may not be spent we can't sit around and think of a few or we can sorry we can't think of a few that are on the budget book and we're not going to we can't think of a few that are on the budget book and we're not going to I'm sorry we can't think of a few that are on the budget book and we're not can sit around and think of a few, but it's really not our job, really not our job, to know where the money may or may not be spent. Really not our job to consider the budget and make decisions on spending priorities. Again, I quote Mr. Lake, this is my ninth year. We don't know enough about all the categories of the budget book where the money may or may not be spent. It's not our job. Well, let me take a moment to point out something to Mr. Lake and to any other confused member of our school board for the benefit of the taxpayers of Frederick County. The Virginia Code states the following, section 22.1-89, management of funds. Each school board shall manage and control the funds made available to the school board for public schools. Shall manage and control. That means that not only is it the job of the school board, it is a legal duty of the school board to manage and control the funds under their care. To do otherwise would be misfeasance in office at best and possibly malfeasance. Does anyone here not recall the recent debacle in Warren County where tens of millions of dollars were misspent? Because the elected officials failed to properly oversee the expenditures. For at least two years now, multiple members of this board have requested from the school division a detailed budget so that we can see where the school's money is being spent. And the schools have failed to provide such information to us. Members of the school board, the few who have made a real effort to carry out their state mandated duty, have requested the same information from their employees, the administrators of the school division, and they too are stonewalled and do not receive the information. It's no wonder that the school board has been so much more concerned about the money being spent on this budget. That as you say, you don't know enough about all the categories of the budget book where the money may or not be spent. If for nine years since you've been on the school board, neither you nor your fellow members have seen the details of where the money is going. The citizens, the taxpayers of this county deserve to know where the funds are being spent. The teachers, the cafeteria workers, the janitors, the bus drivers deserve to know how the funds are being spent. On behalf of the citizens of the Gainesboro district, as a member of this body, who likewise has a fiduciary duty to know that the school's funds are properly spent, I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. I would like to ask you to please stand and be seated. All right. Move on. Committee appointments. Parks and Rec. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would like to move for reappointment of Gus Morrison to the Parks and Recreation Commission from Shawnee District. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Morrison will be reappointed. That will bring us to Committee of Business, Code and Ordinance Committee. Is someone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. I would move that we adopt the proposal from the Code and Ordinance Committee, which would repeal Section 155-9A. I would move that we accept the proposal from the Code and Ordinance Committee to approve Section 155-18.1 to designate the roads and streets within Lake Frederick-Chenandoe subdivision as highways for law enforcement. For law enforcement purposes. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. You would need to hold a public hearing in order to do that. So the motion might be to hold a public hearing? I amend my motion, Mr. Chairman, to recommend that we hold a public hearing at the next board meeting or the next soonest possible date in order to take up whether or not to adopt this ordinance. All right. I'll second it. And a second to the amended motion? Second. Okay. Thanks, sir. Now discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll forward that one to public hearing at the first opportunity. 9B's proposed revisions to county code. Supervisor McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we forward this proposal to public hearing for the proposed revision of Frederick County Code Chapter 86, regarding festivals. Motion. Is there a second? Second. Second. Is there a proposal to replace it with something else? I don't believe so, Mr. Chairman. I believe it's just a straight repeal. Okay. Okay. Any other discussion? Anyone? Forward to public hearing? Is that correct? All right. Any other discussion? Anyone? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll forward that one to public hearing as well at the first opportunity. Finance Committee. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on September the 16th at 8 a.m. Items number three and four were approved under consent agenda, and I would so move. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second. Second. Second. Woo seconds for that? Second if you'll just guide me through whether or not you will display payable payments as reported in yourça D Su上面, Bob silford. I am responding to my Cuando, when you have a fee on a T-shaped juvenile?'s on an sterling plane at the sir ? Yes. I understand. And both locations of the freight downward crossings? I wonder if you would, please, state the boundaries for this 튀 Sub Palmer. At this point, did I see it correctly? Yeah, there was a catch. I'm sorry. and a building at the impound, $7,150.57. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number two, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $45,020.68 to purchase a building for the impound lot. Of this amount, $5,000 is a donation received, and $40,020.68 is a carry-forward of unspent insurance proceeds from damage to a tent in 2018. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number five, the finance director presented fiscal year 2020 year-end financial information and request a public hearing for a general fund and county capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $9,800,000. This amount represents general fund fund balance in excess of 20% to be transferred to the capital fund. The committee recommends advertising for a public hearing, and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll forward that one to public hearing at the first opportunity. That concludes my report, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Chairman? Yes, sir. So on the finance issue, earlier this morning, I was talking to Mr. Gillespie, and he said, we're going to have to get a public hearing on this. So I'm going to have to get a public hearing on this. I'm going to have to get a public hearing on this. I'm going to have to get a public hearing on this. I'm going to have to get a public hearing on this. I would also like to ask, Mr. Chairman, on the finance issue, earlier today, I sent out an e-mail to everybody. And on Monday, I had a meeting with the volunteer fire and rescue Nine, I had a meeting with the volunteer fire and rescue and liaison. One of the items that was the million dollars that was helping to seeing where we were on finance. I had a conversation with Mr. Tierney earlier today and Cheryl Schiffler,ρ finance director, on Friday. And they believe that they have the money to cover that. I'm just asking for, on behalf of the administrator, whether there's a consensus that releasing that money as budgeted for volunteer fire and rescue would be an appropriate thing. I think it's important because they've been unable to go and raise money through a number of items because of COVID. So I'm putting that on the table for a discussion as you see fit. We have been discussing that one very frequently recently. Mr. Chairman, for one, publicly, I would support that. If there are others that would do that and let Mr. Tierney know, then I think that would help Mr. Tierney from what I understand. Okay. Great. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I would support such an expenditure. Yes. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I would like less. All right. Anyone? Mr. Chairman, as you know, because you are a member of the Finance Committee, we did take up this discussion at Finance. And it was the majority of the committee thought that was appropriate. Yes. And that. Mr. Tierney would proceed forward with that cautiously. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you all. Comments? Anyone? Okay. Let's move on. Planning Commission business. Public hearings. And we are now at 12A, which was previously 12B. Conditional use permit 1020. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Board, this is a conditional use permit for a public garage. This is a public garage with no body repair for vehicles and farm equipment for property located on 5-1-1-5, Cedie Creek grade. Again, this property is zoned RA. And the current land use is a residential and agricultural. And surrounding properties are also zoned RA and have residential and agricultural land uses. The zoning ordinance defines a public garage for use for servicing and repair. Impairing of equipment and of motor vehicles. This applicant proposed to have one employee with the use. The use will take place entirely in an enclosed building on site. And access to the property is provided by a private driveway from Cedie Creek grade, ROT 622. If I can turn your attention to the map. Again, it's surrounded by RA property. It is an active farm right now. What the applicant is looking to do, Mr. Chairman. work on farm equipment initially but also wants ability to if there's any expansion to do automobiles also now as you're well aware of if the conditional use permit would have to be changed that have to be brought in from this board for any additions to it so we're trying to encapsulate for any future growth for this applicant there's a layout basically where he's gonna work again it's a garage born it's out there on the property right now and where they're gonna operate out of should the board find this probe this used to be appropriate to planning Commission recommend the following conditions be assigned to this conditional use permit one our review agency comments requirements to comply with at all times number two an illustrative sketch plan should be submitted to and approved by Frederick County of all improvements completed prior to the establishment of the use number five all auto repair related activities shall occur occur entirely within an enclosed structure no more than five vehicles waiting for pair on site at any given time and any any external storage of parts or equipment shall be screened from view by a opaque fence or screen at least six foot height height number four the hours of operation shall be from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday and 8 a.m. to do it on Saturdays and closed on Sundays number five any proposed business signs to conform to college occupation sign requirements shall not exceed four square feet in size and five feet in height and the size of the building will not be the same as the size of the building will not be the same as the size of the building will not be the same as the size of the building number six any expansion or change of use of this user will require a new conditional use permit mr. chairman the applicant is here to answer any questions that the board may have on this proposed conditional use permit and following the public hearing staff is seeking a decision for the board of supervisors thank you questions of mr. chair and anyone anyone questions of the applicant and the board of supervisors thank you all right how would the board like to handle this one this is a public hearing sorry yes yeah I'm getting there says a public hearing when anyone like to comment concerning this proposed conditional use permit anyone at all anyone seeing no one will close the public comment portion how would the board like to handle this one mr. chairman yes it is in the back Creek District so I would like to make a motion on this in looking and reviewing this I see it to be an appropriate use of the facility as as designed and presented so I will make a motion that we approve conditional use permit number 10-20 for Hans Halsus heard the motion is there a second second is there any discussion hearing none supervisor Graver aye supervisor Dunn aye supervisor Wells aye supervisor Slott aye supervisor McCarthy supervisor Fisher aye chair votes aye the motion carries and the conditional use permit is approved that will bring us to the former 12a which is I mean 12 B which is now 12a mr. Klein yes good evening mr. chairman members of the Board of Supervisors this is conditional per conditional use permit 0 5-20 8-20 the Barton's will energy LLC utility scale solar power generating facility the properties are generally located along passage Road Marlborough Road Middle road Spring Dale Road west of the railroad corridor and partially within the town of Steven city limits this is within the partially within the Opec in Magisterial District and within the back Creek Magisterial District it is identified with the following pin numbers and I will also include that its It's all lots 1 through 12 Springdale Glen and lots 1 through 52 of Carlton Estates. The property is presently zoned RA rural areas, and the current land use is agricultural and vacant. And the proposed use, again, is a utility-scale solar power generating facility. Again, directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties are outlined in blue. For context, Middle Road is here. Springdale Road bisects the property through the middle. The town of Stephen City is highlighted in purple. And the railroad corridor runs north to south through here. And we'll go into more detail about the site as we go along in the presentation. This board will recall that this body added utility-scale solar power generating facilities as a conditional use in the RA zoning district. And with that use, we included supplemental use regulations for public utilities that pertain to utility-scale solar facilities. And this was added to the zoning. And this is the zoning ordinance in January of this year. And that, for intensive purposes, is our solar ordinance. And we'll highlight some of the aspects of that as we go through the application. The project will generate 80 to 130 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy. Of the total 1,160 acres, 705 acres will be utilized for the installation of rows of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, commonly known as solar panels, and other necessary equipment for facility operations, including a solar panel, and a solar panel. And we'll go into more detail about that as we go along in the presentation. And we'll go into more detail about that as we go along in the presentation. The project will generate 80 to 130 megawatts of solar energy. Of the total 1,160 acres, 705 acres will be utilized for the installation of rows of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, including a solar panel, and other necessary equipment for facility operations, including a solar panel, and other necessary equipment for facility operations, including a solar panel, and other necessary equipment for facility operations, and inverters, vehicle access paths, security fencing, and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be combined, converted, and increased to allow delivery to the adjacent first energy 138 kilovolt transmission line. A portion of this project, or approximately 132 acres, is within the corporate limits of the town of Stephen City. The portion of the project in the town is subject to the regulations of the town, and solar is a biodegradable energy source. There is a by-right use within the town of Stephen City, so that the portion that is in the town is subject to a separate review by the town for the proposed use. Again, it's provided as part of this application for context, but that 132 acres is subject to the requirements of the town and not subject to the regulations of Frederick County. In addition, 64 platted residential lots in the county, inclusive of Springdale Glen and Carleton Estates subdivisions, will be vacated as part of this project. In addition to the... vacation of the dedicated right-of-way for public streets. In regards to our comprehensive plan, the 2035 comprehensive plan envisions this area of the county to remain primarily rural in nature and for agricultural land to be preserved for future generations. The project is generally compatible with the comprehensive plan, with the rural character of the area, and with the adjoining agricultural and residential land uses. The preservation of the underlying land maintains the ability for agricultural uses in the future generations. The use, utility-scale solar, once in operation, is highly passive. It does not generate noise, odor, glare, or traffic, and is proposed to be extensively screened from view, minimizing adverse effects on surrounding properties. In regards to the zoning ordinance requirements for utility-scale solar, public utilities, including these types of facilities, specifies that the zoning administrator has the authority to determine the setback for the use of solar. The zoning administrator has the authority to determine the setback for the use of solar. The zoning administrator has the authority to determine the setback for those lots. Setbacks for solar arrays or panels will conform to the setback requirements contained in the zoning ordinance for principal uses in the R.A. Rural Areas Zoning District. You all will recall that this is the same determination that the zoning administrator made into the other solar project that you all considered over the summer, the Foxglove project. In addition to the zoning ordinance requirements for setbacks, we require site plan review and approval under Article 8 of the zoning ordinance. A concept plan revised on August the 28th was submitted with the application. In that concept plan, the applicant proposes setbacks of 100 feet and 200 feet around the perimeter of the project. Again, those setbacks are in excess of the setbacks for principal uses as dictated by the zoning administrator determination. Landscaping and screening will also be provided throughout the project and are highlighted as a landscape buffer on concept plan sheets 3 and 4, which I'll highlight in a subsequent slide. Further, access to the site is provided by the zoning administrator. The site is proposed from two entrances on Springdale Road and one entrance from Passage Road. Again, those entrances are clearly depicted on the concept plan sheets 3 and 4. If I can direct your attention to the screen, this is the revised concept plan. On sheet 3 is the northern portion of the project, which is primarily within Frederick County. For context, Springdale Road runs through the middle of the site, and north and south of Springdale Road, which is formerly Springdale Glen, and portions of the SNAP property will be containing solar panels. And south of Springdale Road is the former Carleton Estates subdivision, which was 52 lots, which will also be solar panels. And you can see on the concept plan the landscape details that includes extensive buffers and screening and the preservation of woodlands to minimize the view of the panels. Directing your attention to the screen, this is the southern portion of the project, south of Springdale Road, along Passage Road. And this portion of the project here, roughly 200 acres, is within the town of Stephen City. Again, it's provided on the concept plan for context about the larger project, but it's not subject to Frederick County regulations. But I will note that the applicant in working with the neighbors has provided extensive buffers and screening, including an earthen berm to address some of the viewshed concerns that were raised in their meetings with the public. I'll also note that these parcels that are highlighted in yellow, are within the Frederick County's jurisdiction. And they are shown on the concept plan as interconnection parcels. There will be no solar panels on these, but they are immediately adjacent to the railroad facility. And that's where the transmission lines run north to south. And the applicant is proposing a substation right up against the railroad and the existing overhead transmission facilities. The zoning ordinance also requires that as part of an application for utility scale solar, a decommissioning plan is provided. And a decommissioning plan was submitted with this application. Decommissioning provides for provisions for the removal of all equipment and the restoration of the site to the pre-development conditions. So that would be vacant agricultural land. And as part of the decommissioning plan, it specifies entering into a written agreement and financial security with Frederick County for the life of the project in conformance with the requirements of the zoning ordinance and the code of Virginia. And the estimated cost for decommissioning as part of this plan are reviewed and updated every five years. And that's just the cover of the decommissioning plan known as Exhibit D. In addition to Frederick County's review of the conditional use permit, the applicant will also be pursuing a permit by rule or PBR through the Virginia Department of Environmental Quality. PBR is a state-administrated review and approval process which includes extensive environmental and cultural review and study. One component of the state-required PBR review is local jurisdiction approval of a solar project and a civil limitation. These are case requirements. The conferences describe the好不好 of a solar project byreck upon which all the policies and regulations that apply to housing, Shortly-Tested 디�도, of the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to and subject to approval by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use and that the site plan shall address the additional regulations for specific uses outlined in section 165, 204, 26 of the Frederick County zoning ordinance and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the CUP application prepared by Greenway Engineering dated August 28th, 2020. Number three, the buffers and screening shall be provided around the perimeter of the project in general conformance with the quantity of the proposed plantings depicted on sheets three and four of the concept plan, landscape buffer A, B, C, D, E and F included with the CUP application prepared by Greenway Engineering dated August 28th, 2020 and that the landscape buffer planting shall be maintained in good health for the life of the project. Number four, that prior to site plan approval the owner shall enter into a written agreement with Frederick County to decommission the site plan and the project will be reviewed and the project shall be reviewed in the following order. Number five, that the existing solar energy equipment, facilities or devices personate to the terms and conditions of section 15.2-2241.2B of the code of Virginia and that the written agreement shall be updated every five years in general conformance with exhibit D, the preliminary decommissioning plan included with the CUP application prepared by Torch Clean Energy dated May 2020. Number five, that batteries, and other facilities and services should be used for the purpose of providing safe and clean water for all users from the use of the site. Number six, that all of the facilities that were used in the site that were used in the site that were used in the site to allow for the transfer to the grid are prohibited as part of this CUP. Number six, that this conditional use permit shall not be effective unless and until the vacations of the Springdale Glen and Carleton Estates subdivisions are approved and recorded. In addition, the approval and recordation of such vacations shall take place prior to the approval of any site plan, for the author, for, the use authorized by this conditional use permit. Number seven, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances from Springdale Glen, the state of Springdale, and Carleton Estates. two entrances from Springdale Road and one entrance from Passage Road and be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the application prepared by Greenway Engineering dated August 28, 2020. And the delivery of solar array panel construction materials will occur at site access entrance off Passage Road identified as Deer Lane on Sheet 4 of the concept plan. Solar array panel material delivery lay down area will be limited to tax parcel 74-A-44A known as the Carball property. Number eight, that pile driving of poles for solar arrays during construction shall be limited to 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday and that all other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday and 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturdays. No construction activities are permitted on Sundays. Number nine, that the location of the inverters serving the solar project shall be at least 450 feet from all adjacent residences. Number 10. That subdivision for residential development of tax parcels 74-A3, 74-A4, 74-A6C or of the area currently constituting the Springdale Glen and Carleton Estate subdivisions shall be prohibited during such time as solar power generating equipment is installed on said parcels. And number 11. That any expansion or modification of this land use will require the approval of a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 2nd and recommended approval of the conditional use permit. Following the public hearing this evening, staff is seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed CUP for a utility-scale solar power generating facility and that any recommendation for approval should also include a statement affirming the proposed solar facility is in substantial accord with the comprehensive plan. Staff is happy to answer any questions you have this evening. Thank you. And Mr. Evan Wyatt is here on behalf of Greenway and Torch Clean Energy and I believe he has a few remarks as well. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Klein. Mr. Chair. Mr. Klein, I have a question regarding conditional use permit condition number 10 if you would put it up on the screen again. Just for clarification, after this solar panel were to be decommissioned, would the two subdivisions be allowed to be entered into as far as to be developed again at that point? Is that what this is saying? The condition number 10 was an added condition from the Planning Commission public hearing that would prohibit any excess land that was part of the project that wasn't being used for solar panels to be subdivided during the, when solar panels were on the properties. It would not preclude the owner at such time that the facility is decommissioned from applying for a new subdivision, but at such time Springdale, Glenn and Carlton Estates would not suddenly reappear. Once they are vacated, they are gone and they would have to apply for a new subdivision. Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Is that what this is saying? Thanks for the clarification. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Mr. Klein, just to follow up on the question of Supervisor Graber, I see that they're vacating 64 existing rural lots if they were to subdivide all of this land. Do you have any idea what the total subdivided lots would be, how many houses could be built on this property were it all subdivided? Affirmative, Mr. Chair. He's the subdivision administrator. ballpark terms out there in the rural areas uh as drain fields environmental features would be quite a few lots out there right now so we're talking hundreds of lots yes sir thanks bill yes sir and then i follow up one more question you mentioned that this facility would not produce any type of glare or wouldn't any major glare is that because these panels are engineered in such a way that they don't produce glare as far as coming from the sun or do you not know the answer to that question they're engineered in such a way that they do not produce glare or heat during operation very good thank you sir thank you mr chairman supervisor doug two questions sir um one is on the transmission lines from the solar panels to the station i understand that they are meant to be all underground no ifs no ands no buts is that correct correct the interconnection of the solar panels to the substation would be underground that is a requirement on all of our site plans that all utilities are underground but from the substation to the overhead transmission it would obviously be an above ground connection those are those are existing above ground connections though now correct correct you are correct yes sir second item is on the decommissioning the company is putting up bond money real cash for the decommissioning and that cash is meant to be adjusted every five years so even if the company itself went broke the money still would be there to go and take care of the decommissioning is that accurate yes sir that is a correct statement thank you mr chairman any other questions mr clyde thank you sir mr wyatt anything you'd like to answer thank you mr chairman members of the board um can you hear me okay yes okay thank you um i'm evan wyatt with greenway engineering we're representing the cp application i also have uh with me this evening from torch uh sam gullen who's been working on the project extensively uh throughout the entirety of the cup process uh we thought it might be helpful uh to go through a very brief presentation uh and allow sam to give you uh a little bit of a little bit of information on torch who they are what they're doing i'll fill in a couple items on the concept plan and then sam will conclude so mr chairman members of the board uh thanks for the opportunity to speak tonight my name is sam galand i'm a development manager i'm a development manager with uh with torch clean energy um to give you a brief background on my company at torch is a a developer and owner of solar and wind projects in different parts of the u.s we were founded in 2008 originally we were part of an oil and gas company called torch energy advisors down in texas originally we worked on wind projects in the southwest u.s but we've expanded geographically we've also gotten into solar pretty much all of all of my focus is on projects that we are developing in virginia and west virginia so we have working on several projects we have permitted a few in virginia that will enter construction next year so we have one in chesterfield county near richmond um one down in greensville county um kind of near north carolina um i i grew up in virginia i'm from from loudoun county was in the military for a few years and i love to be back in the state and you know work in different parts of the state on on these projects so i'm based down in charlottesville One thing to highlight about Torch, we manage every phase of the project, so from identifying a promising location for a project, reaching out to the landowners, the permitting process, as well as construction and operation. So since 2013, with the exception of a couple small projects we did for electric cooperatives, we've maintained ownership in all of the projects that we've built, and that's something that we take pride in. Sorry. Now, I know that you have gotten the Solar 101 probably multiple times, so rather than doing that again, I just wanted to give you a little background on… Our community outreach and what we've done in Frederick County. And we have met with several of the project neighbors, and I attended a meeting with some of the county officials, a community meeting, but before that, we really did make a proactive effort to reach out to the neighbors, meet with them directly, walk the project site with them. And those meetings have really influenced the way. We have planned the project in the way in which we're presenting it. I think for starters, this is a good site in that it's pretty isolated, not visible from the main roads, but we have put a lot of thought into the design. We're using existing tree lines and vegetation topography everywhere that we can. In addition to that, we're… Evan will kind of go into the details, but we're proposing several buffer areas where we will be planning new vegetation. In one spot, we're actually also planning an earthen berm to go along with that. We're proposing that. The location of our substation, as was mentioned, it's right next to the railroad. It's actually across from an industrially zoned parcel. It's kind of in the low ground, and I think it will not even be visible to that landowner that we're working on. We're actually also planning a lot of the land on the top of the hill. That's what we're planning. So, that's what we're working on. That's what we're working with, just because of the topography. This was kind of a specific one, but the solar inverters, so those are the devices that convert direct current to alternating current, and they're about twice the size of a refrigerator, about as loud as an air conditioning. We've agreed to have those a minimum 450 feet from any residences. So, we're going to have to make sure that we're not going to have to go to any of the neighbors. It's very quiet. So, with all of that, we've had several iterations of the concept plan. I just wanted to give you that background for Evan, kind of gives him the nuts and bolts. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to talk briefly about the project area and the concept plan, as Sam said, you can see from the aerial photography that around the area, there's a lot of water. Around the perimeter of the project area are fairly large parcels. There's no subdivisions immediately adjacent to the project. There's also areas of the project where there's existing mature woodlands, and those are to remain. Obviously, it's a better visual screen initially, but also for the purpose of the project, it's less costly to maintain the trees than knock everything down and plant new. And then, as Tyler said in his presentation, there's progress. There's a lot of properties that are within the town of Stephen City. So, we took all that into consideration, and the concept plan before you is dated June 28th. That is the fourth iteration of the concept plan since we formally filed with the county. And the reason for that is, as Sam said, there was a lot of outreach, discussion with neighbors, discussion with staff, discussion with decision makers. And there was a lot of good input. And there was a lot of good input. And that was brought to the table, and we were happy to add that to the project. So, what you see tonight with the concept plan, there's buffer details, and that's important because instead of using a cookie cutter buffer, we customized buffering to meet the requirements of the specific area of the project around the perimeter. One question that Supervisor McCarthy asked staff, the number of lots that would be, permissible between the buy right development in the town and the RA development in the county is about 255 lots in total so with the with the layout a couple things that we were asked to consider and we did Springdale Road we identified two locations that would be access points to the property after it's developed both of them are generally across from each other this would serve the northern land bay which is the hundred acre portion of West Oaks farm market and the R&T property and then Springdale Glen this access point would serve what's now Carrollton Estates and going further down into the property as you get to the southern part of the property there's one access point along Passage Road there's also an area that we agreed to do for a laid-down area subtract the trailer truck that are bringing the materials for the construction process of the site would only be allowed to drop off on Passage which is much less traveled road than Springdale as those were considerations that we made the comment I was going to make about decommissioning supervisor Dunn asked which is yes the bond is evaluated and adjusted every five years to make sure that there is sufficient funding for the removal of the facility once it's constructed the other comment Tyler mentioned the permit by rule at the state level they're looking more closely at environmental impacts and historic impacts we we went to the county's historic resources Advisory Board and got their approval with recommendations but then there's also another layer of review by the Virginia Department of Historic Resources that they would have to comply with once their permit is issued by the state so where the county really focuses more on the land use components transportation buffering and screening the permit by rule also puts another layer of review for environmental that is has to be approved for the project as well so those are just a couple things that I thought would be worthwhile to mention for the concept plan and as I said the the buffering is customized based on the requirements of the project and based on input we had received so hopefully we've we've done what we believe is a good job there and I think Sam has a couple closing comments about the project itself and then we'll be happy to answer any questions so I just wanted to give you an idea of the overall project timeline it's been nearly two years since we can identify this as a potential you know good area for solar and obviously we're seeking that the county land use approval as was mentioned we have said also complete a state level permitting process which is focused on the historical and environmental resources making sure there's no you know no negative impacts there so we're completing those studies now so with all of those things and with our work with Potomac Edison who owns the transmission line I tell you this stuff is on par so if we make a couple of recommendations regarding gdzie y baru berka과'n é somerag, wie şively dri oke. We're planning to start construction in the second half of next year. I'm kind of happy to answer specific questions on the construction, but I did want to kind of explain the different phases of it. Once the site has been prepared, you have what we call the foundations phase. When you look at this picture, those are the steel posts on which the racking and the solar modules are mounted. During that phase, you're also putting in the inverters, putting those in place as well. That's a relatively short phase, probably about two months. For any one area, we're talking about one month to kind of put those posts in. Obviously, those are driven posts. We're not covering the ground in concrete or anything like that. We have had a few questions on… The limestone or kind of rock outcroppings here, and that's something that we study on every project. These posts go in usually five to eight feet, so not a whole lot deeper than fence posts, but we are studying it. There may be areas that we have to pre-drill if there's rock near the surface, but I just wanted to mention that is something that we're studying on this and that we study on every project. Following that, the mounting of the… The… The our solar panels or the mechanical installation. That requires the most manpower, but it's a much less loud part of the process. Then, the interconnection facilities… That kind of spans all of the other phases. That's us working with the utility to connect to that transmission line. That kind of goes through the whole construction timeline. But, once… of course… once the project is operating it's a you know very passive use of the land the maintenance is very light I think the most I think the most site visits are due to you know maintaining the vegetation and for that we we either mow it or we you know other projects we've grazed sheep on it we don't use any any herbicides in managing the vegetation so I just wanted to kind of go over those different phases you know this is a project that would require no county services I think would contribute a great deal both in us working with local firms and the you know the taxes that it would pay and thanks again for your time and happy to take questions thank you what other questions of either of these gentlemen Mr. Chairman Supervisor McCoy thank you Mr. Chairman Mr. Land you mentioned that you don't use herbicides you don't use herbicides you don't use herbicides on the land that was actually one of my major concerns was you know this has been touted as a way to sort of preserve farmland for the future you know where it's this project could be taken up and you still have the farmland there in existence which I think is a really good thing if you pour herbicides on the land for 20 30 years you don't have very good farmland at the end of it would you be open to having that as a condition of this if we were to add that in order to get this approval that you would not use herbicides as the primary control for vegetation yes absolutely yeah we don't plan on using herbicides. thank you sir made second this is subject to that agreement we're good there's simply a request and that would be not to do it on holidays as well I know this projects will take about a year to develop is that correct construction is kind of six and nine month timeline. Sometimes there's more for the interconnection. So during that time frame, I would encourage you to not do it on a holiday as well. I know you said Saturday, Sunday's are off, but I'm just throwing that comment out to you. Last comment is that we had a solar project a month or so ago. This is the second solar project, and there may be discussion on a third solar project. One of the comments that was raised to me was, are you going to make Frederick County, the solar county of the world? And so in discussions, I've been understanding that there are limited places where you can actually have a solar farm, transmit that power to the grid, and in Frederick County, it's relatively limited. Mr. Wyatt, if you have some thoughts on that comment to show what the limitations are, I'd appreciate it. Certainly. We have information, and this is information that groups like TORCH analyze when they come in, and they come into a community. They determine where the location of the high-voltage lines are and the substations, and for the purpose of this map, the high-voltage lines are shown in the red, and the substations are shown in the green. You may see that, and I might have to use my laser pointer for this, where there's an appearance that there's a thicker line here than this line as well as here. That's because there's actually two different power lines that run through this, and that's why we're doing this. So I'm going to go ahead and show you that. I'm going to go ahead and show you that. I'm going to go ahead and show you that. One is a 500 kV line, and the other is a 138 kV line. The way to look at the solar, first of all, it's my understanding the 500 kV line is just too cost prohibitive to deal with as far as trying to tie into it because of the infrastructure requirements. The 138 kV line, which is the majority of the power lines that are in the solar system, is the largest solar power plant in the world. It's the largest solar power plant in the world. The line that comes up through the county around 37 and up into the north and then through here. The things that, the way that these are done, a group like Torch would go and they would request an analysis by the Mid-Atlantic Regional Group that does this and to determine if there are capacity issues and or requirements to upgrade the infrastructure. And that really becomes the determining factor. The other thing to remember, and it's almost analogous to a sewer treatment plant, a sewer treatment plant has so much capacity and once you get to a certain level, you have to spend money to increase it, whether it's the treatment capacity itself or the mechanics that go with it. And this is really no different. When you look at this, the 138 kV line, that's the capacity. But then the substations that are associated with it, they may have requirements that if you were going to go in and try to do something that they couldn't handle as a condition of getting the allowance to tie in, you have to go in and spend significant money to increase substation capacities and things of that nature. So the other thing that's important too, Frederick County of course has some unique, topography characteristics. This part of the county of course is Valley Ridge Mountainous and it's very difficult, it would be very difficult to build in there. On the eastern side of the county, even though you can't see the individual parcels, you can see by the shading that those land areas are already pretty much divvied up for residential development. So you couldn't really get anything of significance in there. So this area of the county and some areas up here would certainly be candidates, but it's not something I think that you would see predominantly taken over the rural areas of the county, if that makes sense. Thank you, Mr. Wyatt. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two things that I wanted to ask the applicant itself. I've had some feedback from the community on concerns on security cameras surrounding the fence. Will there be security cameras installed on the exterior fence line? During operation, we would not have cameras. We may have temporary cameras for security during construction, but in the long term, we would not. Would you, in addition to that question, would you be willing to add as a condition to the CUP that any cameras be facing only property that is leased and owned by Torch and no properties of the neighboring properties to your facility? Yes. You would be? Another item I would like a little clarification on, number three on the conditional use permit as far as list of conditions, talked about plantings. I know we've discussed a couple of times, and I just didn't see it present, and I would like to make sure that it is present. I wanted to get your affirmation that you were in agreement. There had been discussion that plantings would be begun at the first optimal, most optimal growing season, meaning if you started your project in June of next year, if that were to occur, that you would be planting your plantings at the first optimal growing season, which would likely be in the September timeframe of that year to allow for the maximum growth and buffering prior to the panels being placed. I know that was discussed a time or two. Are you willing to commit to that? So the, I understand the question that we would plant, plant the buffer the first growing season after the start of construction? The first optimal growing season post construction beginning. So if construction started in June, per your timeline, June or July, your first optimum growing season here, maybe late August or early September, would you be willing to commit to planting plantings as far as the buffer at the first optimal growing season? Yes, we would. I guess I would just add that there may be certain areas where there's a vehicle access that's used during construction that would not be used during maintenance, so it may make sense to plant those at the end. In general, we're fine with that condition. That's what we would plan to do. Further questions? Thank you. Other questions of these gentlemen? Anyone? Supervisor Slaughter. I spoke with Mr. Wyatt this week, and we talked about noise components, and I just, for the record, if you could speak to noise levels of any components of the, of the project, if you could speak to noise levels of any, of the project, of the project, of the project, of the project during its construction phase, I understand obviously the pounding of the post and so forth, but once the project is up and operational, would there be any impacts regarding noise components? That was a item that Supervisor Graber wanted to discuss with us early on in the process. The inverters have a decimal level of about 60 dBA, and so the question was, how far into the site would be reasonable to have them placed so there was no noise level at the property line. What we concluded was that 450 feet of distance between any residents and the inverters would be more than reasonable to ensure that there's no noise impacts. The way that the orientation of the panels is structured, they run north to south, because if there's no noise, you're not going to have any impact. That's the whole point. And so if the panels are pushed towards the south, obviously as they rotate east and west sunlight is what they're capturing and so the lines go pretty long and then the inverters are kind of in the middle so the 450 is as a safeguard but in all likelihood for probably 90% of the project they'll be farther away than that so there should be absolutely no noise level at the property line questions anyone thank you gentlemen this is a public hearing did we have folks sign up yes sir mr. chairman and I will note that you did have the three comments received earlier and some email and the first name on the list is Sandra Diaz Agra if you'd come forward sure you Agora I vote to move the ring for the residents so that we obtain semanaутary comments to the with the masks. I missed, there was a question from this gentleman as to there being herbicides used, and I didn't hear the answer. Could not de-use herbicides. I've farmed in Virginia for a good many years, and honeysuckle, Virginia creeper, poison ivy, the list goes on of noxious brush, that if we have any other farmers in here that could tell you that without any kind of herbicide or something to control that, those panels could be covered in one season. And with herbicide would even, I would say, need two applications for this much land. You're talking about a lot of chemical. If they're talking about sheep grazing, I've raised sheep too, and I don't think they're very practical for this application. My definite question here is, I'm not quite sure, I have a question for you. How we got this far, or how they got this far, in this, talking about this. The mandates of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and this county says that the limestone is a limestone, and clay does not perk. Doesn't perk. And there is a phenomenon with sheet, with these large panels, known as sheet flooding. And first of all, there's a drip line, you get heavy rains, you get the sheet flooding, you get erosion. As the gentleman was saying, these are going to track, along with the sun, from the east to the west. The land slopes downwards, going down to the south. And so when you get a drip line, and you get this flooding, you get this erosion, and this is all going down to what nobody has mentioned, is that Marlborough Road is a flood plain. And in 2018, Marlborough Road sat underwater. And it took, it took weeks. It took weeks. The county had to retrench ditches. The old farmhouses that were built before the time of ordinances about being built in flood zones were flooded. Water sit on that low land for weeks. The house on the corner of Carter's Lane and Marlborough Road installed two pumps that pumped water out of the house. Water day and night for weeks to keep the water at ankle depth. That water sit on the land and made a true believer to me that indeed, you know, your mandates, the land doesn't perk. So, and in that, I, my husband and I, my husband... I ask you to conclude if you have more... We have to, we have to have more. We have to have a, a alternative septic system because the land doesn't perk. We had to pay $7,500 to change just the peat moss. Nothing else this year. We have to comply to these rules. And I've seen the water stand down there and I realize it's a problem. But I want to know, with all this sheet flooding, with and by the end of the year, with the flooding on the hill with the flood zone in the bottom, what exactly, I mean, how can they do this when the land will not perk and will not accommodate this water? Thank you. And its contamination. Kevin Sneddon. Welcome, sir. May the name, Majesty, name Magisterial District and try to limit your comments, please, sir. Kevin Sneddon. We're in the Upakan District. Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity. You may, may rotate. There you go. Either in front or rotate it. Got you. All right. Thank you. Good evening. And thank you for the opportunity to share our thoughts and comments tonight. Our home is actually located within the town limits. So therefore, we pay tax to both Frederick County and Steven City. During the last planning commission meeting, because we were, we do live in the town limits, our thoughts and comments were, were basically discounted, which was very discouraging, even though we are Frederick County residents. On the other hand, Mr. Graber, he's done an amazing job. He's been a great advocate for us throughout this whole process. And he's not even, you know, our district representative. We really appreciate all of his efforts. Throughout all this research, just like Torch had mentioned, they've started their research two years ago. So we've been under the gun and we've been, you know, trying to do a lot of research to educate ourselves on solar, what other municipalities are doing, and just in government in general. Had we heard about this project longer, you know, when Torch started their research, you know, we would have begun our duties at that time as well. You know, we do recognize that, you know, we don't necessarily want to delay things. We don't necessarily want to delay this project and or the decision of this. However, we feel like we're definitely at a disadvantage. It's not our intention necessarily to stop this project in its entirety. However, it is our intention to keep our families and property values at their utmost, at our utmost concern. We're concerned with the aggressive nature of the solar farms coming into Frederick County. If this project is approved, this will be the second massive solar scale, solar farm, industrial scale solar farm within three miles that was previously approved, as you all know, the Fox Club. It's our concern that just the proximity of both of these is going to, you know, devalue that property area as a whole. We urge that a total comprehensive plan be developed so that we can preserve our lands and its intended uses. With that being said, we've found that other solar oil ordinances, other municipalities have begun to create solar ordinances to put in place safeguards to monitor groundwater for possible contaminants where that year, every five years, the groundwater is monitored and tested. You know, we asked for the cut sheets of these solar panels. They were never presented to us. However, we had verbal affirmation that the panels are safe. However, if one's damaged or something leaks, you know, we really don't know that, so that is a concern to us. The groundwater, they've got to water trees. They've got to clean their panels. Where is all this water coming from? You know, we don't want our wells to dry up as well. The other concern is decommissioning in general. We understand that there is a decommissioning plan, and that's to be reviewed every five years and updated. However, we'd like to see that that is publicly disclosed. The other item that's our concern is just if, for some reason, Torch were to falter and the facility had to be decommissioned, you know, where would all these waste products go? Does Frederick County have the ability to, you know, take all this capacity at that time? And we've heard that some may be rebuilt or recycled. However, you know, there's no guarantee of that either. In closing, we'd like to see the decision delayed to allow ample time to develop a solar ordinance and or to modify the existing CEP to include the groundwater monitoring and add the fully disclosure of the decommissioning plans. Just like previously stated in the agenda items tonight, as brought up by Supervisor McCarthy, the school board's responsibility is to protect taxpayers and the related dollars, and we're asking that the board of supervisors ensures the overall well-being of all Frederick County residents and the land that we are protecting and assembling. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I hope that we are protecting in a similar manner. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Charles Heath. Welcome, Mr. Heath. If we could have your name, magisterial district. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My name is Charles Heath. I'm actually in Shawnee District, but I have property right up against the solar farm. The only thing that separates my property from the solar farm is a high-tensile fence wire, and I have to go down the wires and post every 30 feet. And I tried to get access to the screen to show everybody what we're going to see after this is over with. And I was refused at the desk and said, well, you can't do that. That's only for people like Greenway and people that request a permit. This is what we're going to see after everything is over with. It's an industrial solar field. And if you have any questions, all you have to do is ride over to Double Toll Gate, take a look at what they've got, and we hear a lot about the screening. This is the screening. This is after three years, three years of growth. And they've actually got 200-foot setbacks. So I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm very concerned. I know that they're... I want to thank Sean for doing a super job, because when we first met with Torch, all they were going to do was put two rows of trees, or they call them saplings, four-foot tall, every 15-foot on center. So it reminds me of what I saw at Double Toll Gate. I don't know if I'll live long enough to see those things cover up a good portion of that field. Now, Sean did negotiate that we got a berm to go in there, about an average height of seven foot. Well, because the land rolls down and rolls back up, that seven foot brings that berm right up level with the bottom of our fence posts. So if you went out there today and planted trees or shrubs on top of the cornfield, that's where our screening would be. So I'm just saying I don't think it's effective. I think it helps, and I really do appreciate what Sean did, because he would have bent over backwards to try to help us. I think that something more needs to be done, and I'm not... I'm not the guy that's got all the answers. I know a guy on the planning commission told me I had a bad attitude, because I said, I can see what it's going to look like after it's over with. I know these sketches, and Greenway did a great job of a section through a dam through a profile. That does not show you what you see head on. It's a world of difference. If you go to a dam and you cut a section out, you stand there and you look parallel to that dam from one end to the other, anything you put there is going to block your view. If you go around to the other side of the dam and look at the dam front on like I'm looking at you guys right now, I can see between each one of you, and you guys are about five foot apart. Fifteen foot apart really stretches things out. So I'm just saying as the board of supervisors, I don't know what you can do, because we were told at the planning commission they couldn't do anything because the property's in Stevenson, the property's in Steven City. Now we're saying that, well, we can't do anything because we've got to wait for the site plan. So I'm just wondering what, if anything, can be done. I've been paying Frederick County taxes since 1972, and I can plan to continue to pay taxes to Frederick County, but I just would like to have something to help me on the way. I appreciate your help on that. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Jason Gordon. Good evening, Frederick County Board of Supervisors, Chairman, other board members, citizens of Frederick County, and guests. My name is Jason Gordon. I live at 191 Bracken Fern Lane, Steven City, Virginia, in the Opaquan District. As a homeowner on 11 acres, adjacent to the proposed solar power plant, I'd like to begin my statement by thanking the members of our government offices and industry for their time and attention and detail in trying to make the proposed Bartonsville solar facility as beneficial to our county and as unobtrusive to its neighbors as possible. Thank you especially to Mr. Sean Graber, who I know has poured hours and hours of research and discussion into this fast project. Thank you also to Tyler Klein, Mike Ruddy of the Frederick County Planning Department, Evan White, Greenway Engineering, Sam Gullen, who has answered our questions, and concerns promptly and professionally. We'd like to think that our fact-based questions and research have provided valuable feedback to Torch Energy and to the county and has highlighted many concerns of the Frederick County citizenship. We understand that solar energy, and in particular utility sales solar, is a new development, and there are many lessons to be learned along the way in regards to regulation and negotiation at a local level. We hope that you will be patient with us as citizens of the county, as we try to understand the intricacies associated with a massive solar plant that, as of yet, has no precedent in Frederick County. To the greatest extent possible, we have attempted to route our concerns to the Planning Department of Frederick County and to Torch Energy to Sean Graber, Back Creek District Board Supervisor's Member and Liaison of Frederick County Planning Commission. However, we still have a couple of concerns that either have not been adequately addressed by Torch Energy or have come to our attention as we have been spending the last few months of our time basically taking a look at the current energy and the energy that's being used in the city. Some of which are not returned. Most importantly, we hope that we will be waterfront Nonetheless, we have been extremely interested to understand that the use of electricity is Medal of steams for the city in the city of НАPVA That means pans requires essential workers to properly deploy different energy sources and integrated energy sources at high voltages at necessary high voltages for the city of Thompson to maintain their품 Diamond Dam finish魔 safety measures among a few of us in Florida today. What's even more interesting is that of the technologies available, the money is getting distributed to dollars and coins coming from the west USA. Coordination happens to ensure our firefighters understand procedures to safely apply a fire suppressant to grass and panels themselves without the risk of electrical shock and ensure that they are not prevented from accessing locked gates and fences. Our second concern was addressed by Mr. Graber with the security camera question. Thank you very much. Because our technology is rapidly changing, third issue regarding solar panel construction materials, many localities implemented soil testing of soil and local wells for other possible pollutants. Because there's no resources as valuable to mankind as clean water, our wells are vitally important to our health and that of our children. The short distance from the solar power plant, which is less than 1,000 feet from one of the county's major water quarries, if there is a leaching of materials into the ground or groundwater, we have very little. So we have to take full time to determine scope and risk of the issue and take corrective action before we have a countywide water contamination concern. Our next concern I'll mention here is the excessive noise produced during construction of the project. And from this point, I'd like to allow my wife to continue, if you don't mind. Thank you, sir. Welcome. That wasn't for me. Pull it down. There you go. Okay, there we go. Thank you. Good evening, Frederick County Board of Supervisors and honored guests. My name is Julie Gordon. I live on 191 Brackenfern Lane, Stephen City, Virginia, in the Opecan District. I'd like to take this time to thank all of you for your service to our county and especially Sean Graber and John Jewell, who took time out of their personal lives to physically see for themselves the impact that the project would have on our home, and our properties. I'd also like to thank Sean for spending a huge amount of time trying to do the right thing for the residents of Frederick County. As everyone is doing schooling from home this year, I'm concerned about the noise generated through construction of this project. According to a World Health Organization study conducted in 2011, chronic noise exposure impairs cognitive function. Over 20 scientific studies have reported that noise adversely affects children's academic performance. Studies show the following. Children with chronic noise are exposed to chronic noise. Memory, reading, auditory discrimination, speech perception, academic performance, and attention span. While we understand the construction period will be for a limited time, we're particularly concerned about the six to eight weeks during which pile driving and or boring will be conducted. Just a quick review on the science of noise, because I had to review this for myself before presenting tonight. Noise levels are measured in decibels. A quiet room is typically about 40%. Humans perceive a 10 decibel increase in sound as a doubling of loudness. Sound level decreases approximately six decibels for every doubling of the distance from the source. Noises below 80 decibels are considered to not cause hearing loss. Studies by the World Health Organization have shown that the majority of people become moderately annoyed by steady continuous sound levels above 50 decibels, and seriously annoyed at continuous sound levels above 55 decibels. According to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a pile driver is 110 decibels at 50 feet away. Since the closest panels to our property are only 100 feet from the property line, that means that from our property line, from our backyard, from our children's playset, the sound of the pile driver will have diminished to 104 decibels. By the time you get to the porch on the opposite side of our home from the solar field, the sound will have dropped to 90 decibels. Just a reminder on the science now, 100 decibels is perceived as 32 times louder than 50 decibels, which is considered annoying by World Health Organization studies. If you assume that we keep our children inside every day of the pile driving, as it spans from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, then that would afford us about a 10 decibel drop to around 88 to 90 decibels within our home. Hearing damage occurs at a rate of about 90 decibels per hour. This is a very common problem. It's a very common problem. It's a very common problem. It's a very common problem. It's in the heart of everyone, but it's a really common thing for people who work in a small town in a small town. In a urban town, if you're adding a washing machine, and I move my bike outside and they tiene the same electric мал Revolution and a special electric hablaanas on the top of the they carry on which I use for a real electricity generator, I actually use that for that reason, right? It works even more well than the electrical streetlights, or these electric pole TV elements that we are using for demonstration purpose. to the facility, this mitigation is simply not enough. I propose that prior to the approval of the CUP, the Board of Supervisors should require Torch Energy to provide advance notification of at least 30 days defining when they will be pile driving within 1,000 feet of a residence. And if they can consolidate pile driving in one area at a time, perhaps homeowners could arrange to stay elsewhere during the most intense period of pile driving. Some other suggestions are for Torch Energy to submit a noise mitigation plan that could include sound curtains and other ways of mitigating the noise of the pile driving. If you remember the picture that looked like a vineyard, each one of those poles is a result of the pile driving that happens. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Douglas Norrell. Welcome, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Raise that microphone up, please. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and Supervisors, I appreciate the opportunity to appear tonight, and thank you for calling a hearing on the conditional use permit for the Bartonsville Solar Facility. My name is Douglas Norrell. My wife, Linda, and I are nine-year residents of 510 Devlin Drive, which is in the Gainesboro District, and we're pleased to be in that district. We both retired to the Winchester area to maintain close contact with our daughter and family, who reside in Stephen City, and the area's quality of life and opportunities for development are very important. I'm very excited about it, and I hope that on the伊le's Islandンse Af�� Road, too, one day we can share what we can do for the heck of both of these communities in a better state Funchal, no menos, in the suburbs as we are part of the Chicago heart of Chicago, and what work we have to receive to introduce our executing Detroit промic Junction across county and location really stand side by side with the community or is there a gap between the document and the welfare of the community? First let me respond to the first point and to commend the board for supporting the production of clean renewable resources. It will help to implement the state's plan to transition and reduce our dependence on petroleum and fossil fuel products. So that's a real positive and it will also contribute to our nation's growing recognition that we must harness clean resources to tackle global warming. Yet with due respect, members of the board, I regret to say there is not a clear-cut answer to my second question. I think there are several unresolved questions that we need to spend more time on. First, the current plan to mitigate the project's visual intrusion on nearby residents falls short as you have heard. Imagine looking out your back window at the equivalent of four football fields of solar panels glaring in your face. I'm sure you've heard of the solar panels. They're the ones that are used to managers used asation. The building currently heads up the University of New Mexico in predator critique. You've heard it many times, but the plan is still limited to Túَّy einsвii. Then let me ask the rest of the board to be furnace-tó Luis. So if you have not understood the topics of my presentation so far, why become so nervous about sidewalk numéro는데요. Because there is still a lot of work to be done to redirect our faculty to the education that is needed and can be sometime later if the environmental environment in which you have or women are moving from home is sodium-cut and 표현en Milliarden owned. That is exactly why we areilleries, as the chorus will call them, and we may have a long list of before and after the Restoration so that we can maintain continued access and creation is F remarkable. I think this is just work to everybody when the rest of the board before any organization the construction phase is a real problem because you're saying that kids should be in a learning environment that's equivalent to having a rock band in their classroom. That does not work. Third, the proposed fix for mitigating the inverters cacophonous noise levels needs a guarantee and it needs to be field tested, not just promised. And fourth, the zoning ordinance governing the CUP requires compatibility with a utility grade solar facility with the county's comprehensive plan. The planning staff says in its review, the project is generally compatible with the comprehensive plan. Well, we need more than a pat on the back. We need real evidence that it is fully compatible. And let me close by saying, I ask then that a project of this scope and importance demand real, careful, evidentiary proof that all of the conditions are going to work and that they fit within the context of the comprehensive plan and the Department of Planning. We need to be able to provide the best possible and most appropriate support for those who are concerned with the project, and that's why we've decided to move forward with the implementation of the CUP's vision statement. Finally, for these and other reasons, I appeal to the Board of Supervisors to defer approval of CUP 05-20 for the Bartonsville Energy Facility until the issues that have been raised tonight are adequately addressed. And I thank you all for your attention and for your cooperation and for your diligence in working on this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, those are all of the persons who have signed up. Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else who wanted to speak concerning this conditional use permit? Anyone at all? Hearing none, we'll close the public hearing. I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Where are you? There you are, sir. Thank you. Welcome. Joseph Carball. Yes, sir. I... Peck Creek. Oh, Peckin. Peckin. Thank you, sir. I thank you. I farm our farm, family farm, on Passage Lane and also farm the Staples property, which is adjacent to our farm, and also borders... the property or the homes of the... some of the residents of my neighbors there. Excuse me. I can sympathize. I mean, at the last meeting, they talked about the view being compromised. I can sympathize with that. I've been blessed to have the landscape that I've had all these years when I'm farming the Eastfields. Thank you. And I've been blessed to have the landscape that I've had all these years when I'm farming the Eastfields back there. And it's just a reminder that... of how much the... we are to be good stewards and caretakers of the land. I cherish it every time I'm in those fields. And I knew that someday the landscape would change. So I had pictures of it and mental images of the landscape. You can look out your window and see solar panels, or you can see houses, or you can see industry, whatever is going to be put on those properties. And something will be put on those properties. It's just a matter of time. Or you can look out your window and look over solar panels. But it's difficult to look over homes and big buildings. Excuse me. There could be a lot of homes put on those properties. But there's no municipal water. So that means every home would require a well. And since they don't build homes with cisterns anymore, which they should, in my opinion, um... that's a lot of wells. And when you build a lot of wells on property and extract water from the ground at a rate quicker than it can be replenished, then that lowers the water table. And over time it can create sinkholes where the ground is susceptible to collapsing. It acts like a depression and a suction and it just creates like a downdraft. And it's the water pressure that helps hold up the, uh, the ground underneath. Um... There's a lot of talk about getting off the grid. Well, uh, Paul Harvey, who's deceased, had a segment on his radio show called, uh, um, Not in My Backyard. If we all take that approach, then, uh, getting off the grid is gonna take longer and could end up in a, uh, could end up being more costly for all of us in the long run. And the solar companies are, uh, attempting to do this. And they're also, um, preserving farmland because after the, uh, or in the future it can revert back to whatever it was in. Um... There's many, uh, ways to look at change. Um... It all depends on the individual as to how we accept change. So perhaps, uh, this is something that, uh, you know, we can, uh, look at is, uh, this kind of change. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else who had comments concerning this application? Anyone? Anyone at all? Then we'll close the public hearing portion of the meeting. Mr. Wyatt, would you all like an opportunity? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Um, a couple comments that I heard that I, I believe, uh, warrant a response. Um, there was a comment, uh, regarding, uh, using groundwater to clean the panels. Um, the person that spoke may not have been at the planning commission, but that same question was asked, and the response was, uh, that that's not how it's done. It's actually just done through rainwater application. Um, the two comments, though, that I do believe, uh, warrant response. Um, there was a question about potential impacts from water runoff onto properties. Uh, the concept plan does not show it, but when we move into the site plan phase of the project, uh, like any other project, it has to be designed and engineered. It has to provide stormwater management facilities and locations where the water runoff is gonna go. Uh, the county ordinance requires us not only to, uh, develop them to, to account for quantity, but also for quality, so there is no impacts for the stormwater that run off the site. Uh, the way the county is set up, uh, after these are engineered and installed, uh, they're inspected initially. Uh, they're inspected initially. Before, uh, there's an operation to, to move forward with permitting. But then there's also an annual, uh, inspection requirement of those facilities. Uh, so I just wanted to make that point. And then there was a comment, uh, that I hadn't heard before, uh, that was, uh, regarding the fire and rescue. Uh, fire and rescue was part of the review agency process for this. And the two things that they asked for was to make sure access roads are 20 feet of drivable surface. And that on the, uh, once that's done, the, uh, once the roads are designed, uh, to identify zones and naming access roads within the site, so when they come out to a large site like this, it's almost like having a road name, so to speak. And all that would be addressed at the site plan. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. We're picking in backcrete. Sean and I have talked, so Sean will, he's gonna, we've decided he would take the lead. All right, sir. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to first stop and say thank you to Supervisor Wells. This has been a very detailed project, as you are likely grasping here this evening. And I greatly appreciate his time and his words of wisdom and his pointing me in the direction to find some answers from time to time. And it is much appreciated, so thank you, Mr. Wells. You're welcome. I thank everyone who came to speak this evening. As some of you may be aware, I have had three community meetings, regarding this subject. I have asked that Sam come out and make a presentation at the last and the largest of the community meetings, which he graciously did. And we have tried to be diligent in answering the questions. As of today, when I spoke with Sam, I asked him if there were any unanswered emails or unanswered phone calls or unanswered questions that he was aware of that had yet to be returned regarding this project. And, of course, I have been able to answer them. And according to our conversation at 2.30 today, the answer was no. Does that still stand? It still stands. I know personally I have made a strong attempt to answer every email, every phone call, and follow up on every question that has been submitted to me regarding this project. And it's been encouraging to see the feedback from the community. However, there's also been some times where I feel like the goal posts have continued to change. And that has been a little bit of a struggle from time to time. I would, before I like to make a motion, ask the applicant if he would be willing to add a couple of things to his conditional use permit as part of conditions, if that would be permissible. He's willing. Should have gotten there earlier. I say this in regards because they were brought up during the public hearing phase. Sam, would you be willing to step to the podium to discuss this? So earlier we had discussed the plantings at the first optimal planting season, the organic weed abatement that was discussed previously. The two things that were brought up that I think are things that definitely should be considered are advanced notification of pile driving. I think that that is only considered for the community. Would you be willing to give a minimum of time or a minimum of two weeks notification to the community of any pile driving which is to occur within a thousand feet of a residence? Two weeks notice. Two weeks prior notice, sir. Yes, we know. Would be willing to do that. Secondly, I heard some concern about the seismic impact from drilling. While looking at the site, there does not appear to be a large area of land that would affect residents from drilling as far as based upon where residents are located in relation to the project. But in so much as when you are within 500 feet of a residence, would you be willing to monitor the seismic impact from those drilling operations when you are performing drilling operations near within 500 feet of a residence? I am not familiar with that process. Generally, drilling is usually not done and would only be in very select places if a pile could not be driven in the traditional way. I do not think there would be any significant seismic effects if we had to do that. So, we would have to wait. So, I would be happy to kind of look into that. I guess I am not familiar enough with that process. We have had projects where that is more accustomed to where there is blasting that is going to occur. And blasting is not going to be done for this particular project. I am not sure that the requirement and the cost and the monitoring for something that is going to be selective drilling is really going to be. I think if it was a blasting situation without question, there should be seismic monitoring. But drilling, I do not think it would be necessary. Thank you. Those are my only questions, Mr. Gillard. I appreciate your time. Thank you, gentlemen. With those thoughts, I am going to make a motion that we approve Conditional Use Permit 05-20 for the Bartonsville Energy LLC. As I believe it is in substantial accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. As part of my motion, I would like to see included in the conditions that the plantings on number 3, that the plantings be planted at the first optimal growing season after the initial phase of the project has begun. That all weed abatement be organic and no herbicides will be utilized during the life of the project. And that advance notification be given two weeks prior to any pilot. a prior to any pilot occurring on the site and there ends my motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a motion to amend the existing motion. Mr. Griffith, you mentioned that you think that the weed abatement should be organic. That word in and of itself concerns me a little bit because it is such a broad category. I could take salt, which is organic and salt the land and it would kill the weeds, but I could never farm on it again. It is kind of like what the Romans did to the Carthaginians. I'd like to strike that word from it and just have it say that the condition is that the primary weed control method shall not be herbicides. Heard the proposed amended motion is there a second? I'll second it. End discussion. Is there any? Anyone? Okay so we're voting on the proposed amended motion with the change in wording to the use of herbicides. Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Well? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Grave? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. So now that becomes the primary motion with the conditions as amended. Is there any further discussion? Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Giddens? Aye. Chairman, this is a balancing act between land use and solar farms. My house sits behind what is now Sovereign Village which used to be a nice farm but I'm very sensitive to the comments that were made on noise so I would strongly encourage, I emphasize strongly encourage, Torch to give notice for two weeks and do all you can to mitigate that noise. I know it's very very intense period of time for a short timeframe, for letting people know that it's going to start at a certain time and approximately at a certain time would be extremely helpful. I've been on the receiving end of construction at Sovereign Village with a dying mother and there was no consideration so I'm just making that comment to you sir. Hope you give it consideration. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor McCarthy? Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, This has been a really difficult one for me, a lot more difficult than the last one that we did, primarily not because I think the project in and of itself has any inherent flaws, but because there's so many neighbors who have concerns. One thing I will say is that a lot of the concerns that were brought forward to us, either in email or tonight during the public hearing, seem to have been addressed to a great extent by some of the mitigating activity that the organization says that they'll take. It seems like there was a lot of misinformation that was out prior to the first public hearing with the planning commission that may have been clarified. I think there's a lot more clarification tonight. For me, I think eventually, and I think at the last board of supervisors meeting, Mr. Weber made a good statement that eventually the day will come when we will need to rely upon our local farmers for our food and not farmers in China and South America and other places. And to me, that's a great concern because over my short 44 years on this planet, I've seen the farmland in this county be gobbled up and turned into housing, development, and development. Turned into industrial developments. And I think Mr. Carball, being a man of the land, he's very wise and he knows what he's talking about when he says that we can look over the solar panels. You can't look through the houses. This will provide farmland for the future, especially with the additional provisions that Mr. Weber has put into it regarding the herbicide. So while I do certainly feel for those who are concerned about what may be going up in their backyard, I think for the good of Frederick County in the long term, this is a good project to move forward. So I'll vote in favor of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This has probably been the hardest decision that I've ever had to make simply because of the conversations that I have had with the residents and I know it is very personal. I have done my best to speak with other localities that have these installations installed and also have ordinances in place. And what I have been told by some of those supervisors in other localities is, is the conditions that we have put in place are actually more restrictive in many areas than what the ordinances call for in their solar ordinance plans. I think that that is a testament to the residents being willing to come forward and share their thoughts and share their concerns. And I thank them for being an active part of the community and sharing their thoughts and concerns because it has changed this project considerably. The berm, the cost of the berm, the berm, the farm, the farm, berm that's being installed. I know it's not going to have an immediate immediate effect but it will vastly improve the blocking of sight or vision from those three or four residents that are majorly impacted much quicker than had they be planted on the ground and just to put perspective to this those residences are in the town of Stephen City and therefore it is a by right use. By code Torch Energy did not have to do any of the additional items in which they did. One of those was the berm. An additional item was is they set back where they had originally planned to put panels on multiple different areas surrounding those properties to try to be a good neighbor and I know it's been challenging and I know it's been difficult but I appreciate the two parties being willing to work together and I cannot extend my thank you to the responsibility of the board of trustees. Thank you. Thank you for your respect and the courtesy shown by both parties. That's all. Other comments anyone? All right. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. And we thank you all for your participation and your patience. That will bring us to ordinance amendment Frederick County Code chapter 165. Mr. Klein. Bear with me one second sir while I get to the slides. Yes this is a proposed amendment to the zoning ordinance to expand our definition for daycare facility to include adult care and to use consistent terminology for daycare facilities. throughout the ordinance. The current definition for daycare facility limits these services to only children. An amendment to the definition is proposed as follows a facility in which five children and or adults not including persons who are related by blood marriage or adoption to the people who maintain the facility are received for care protection and guidance during only part of a 24 hour day. Daycare facilities as defined in our ordinance. Make a comment без clinician does so. Where is our plan for licensees. In order to meet our Muller rule technology requirements. revised child care child daycare services terminology to daycare facilities as defined in part 101 of the ordinance as amended in the B 1 B 2 and OM zoning districts for consistency the proposed amendment would not change which zoning districts this type of facility is allowed by right or through a conditional use permit and adult care facilities like childcare facilities are regulated by the Virginia Department of Social Services in addition to those requirements contained in the zoning ordinance further for uses such as churches where a daycare facility may be accessory to the principal use such as a place of worship these facilities would continue to be allowed by right this ordinance amendment was proposed by a local engineering firm working in conjunction with Westminster Canterbury to allow this use in the RP residential performance zoning district and the Board of Supervisors discussed this item on August 12th and directed staff to ensure the consistent use of the terminology for daycare facility throughout the ordinance the Planning Commission held a public hearing on September 2nd and recommended approval and this item is presented to you all this evening as a public hearing item following the public hearing staff is seeking action by the board of supervisors on this proposed ordinance amendment and I'm happy to answer any questions you have thank you thank you sir questions of Mr. Klein anyone thank you sir this is a public hearing the committee is now edges the House of hearing is there anyone who would like to comment concerning these proposed changes to the ordinance anyone at all anyone seeing no one we'll close the public hearing how would the board like to handle this mr. chairman yes sir I would move that this board adopt the revision to the county ordinance to include the adult the care and protection and guidance of adults and addition of children and to include this definition in the b1 b2 and om districts heard the motion sir second second quite a few is there any discussion anyone supervisor Fisher I supervise McCarthy supervisor slaughter supervisor Wells all right supervisor done I supervisor Graver I chair votes I motion carries and the changes are adopted that will bring us to you a withdrawal of number 13 or liaison reports are there any chairman yes I believe we need a motion to withdraw item number 13 okay now it's so I would so move that we withdraw this until the first meeting in November and take it up at that point so and a second I'll second it mr. chairman yes sir do we have applicants consent to that date and do we could we please have that stated on the record mr. chairman yes I did speak with mr. Lawson if he'd like to come out he did confirm that that would be an appropriate date okay thank you sir welcome sir welcome thank you very much for the record ty lawson and yes thank you very much asterisk if any idiot were to raise a date with the office he would be stretch away to shopping at his van or something inside his fine room and so on tie Lawson and yes all right so we do thank you mr. Williams all right so we're ready to vote and that would be supervisor Graber I supervisor done I supervisor well supervisor slaughter supervisor McCarthy supervisor Fisher I chair votes aye and the motion carries thank you supervisor McCarthy for liaison reports are there any citizen comments on any issue whatsoever that you'd like to share with the board anyone at all seeing no one will close the public comment period Board of Supervisors comments are there any just like to chime in the supervisor McCarthy as new convenience site is fantastic it's such as just a great addition out there the school system worked with us on that and everything is we were out there today it was just it's just a great great project and an under budget game in under budget fantastic great job they do a wonderful job anyone else supervisor McCarthy thank you mr. chairman I just want to extend the thanks to all the residents in Gainesboro district and other districts who came out to support Reynolds store fire company for their yard party it's been tough with kovat to have a traditional yard party so they had sort of a drive-through yard party and raised a significant amount of money so I think it's wonderful to see the community getting behind the local volunteer organizations in addition I know the local Presbyterian Church also had a yard party last weekend and they raised significant money so I think it's a testament to our County that we still stick together we come out and support one another and I think it's just a wonderful thing and I I say it over and over again but I'm so proud to live Gaines시는 vorne neighbor substitute their children were sending their children to private schools my students they're their children or sending their children to private schools there was some fear that they may be falling behind and then we come back to either both child and ex-mom we know that. And some of these families are larger families, and some of these families are very hardworking folks, down to earth, salt of the earth type of folks. And they put in just a couple comments that wanted to see what the board may be able to do at some point for next year's budget on reducing tax rates for folks who are not sending their children to school, essentially a real estate or personal property tax credit. I would like to see this board consider that, have dialogue related to that as we begin to prepare the 2022 budget year. It would not have to be a huge amount. Simply books, as it's been stated, is around $500 per student. Uniforms, if they go to a private school, sometimes run $300 or $400. So $500 or $1,000 credit I don't believe would be unreasonable. And it would, in the long run, if we look at the numbers that are presented by the school system, save us money. Okay. For every student in which is enrolled in the school system, it costs the county in the neighborhood of $7,000 to educate that student according to the school board's figures. Therefore, it would be a substantial savings to the county if we were to give a credit and allow these parents who have other means of teaching their children and desire to do so, a little financial flexibility to do so. So I would just kindly ask this board to consider that as we begin the process of preparing next year's budget year. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Chairman? Yes, sir. I can make a follow-up comment to Supervisor Gravers. I guess the first question I would want answered before we take that up is, are we authorized as a county to take on such a credit? But beyond that, I do think that there are things that we can do. So, for instance, I know that the county administration sent out a request this week to us as supervisors to ask us what the legislative agenda should be for the state legislature in the next term. And I think that could very well be at the top of that legislative agenda. Okay. So, therefore, I would encourage Supervisor Graber and anyone else that's interested in this to put that into the list of items that should be taken up during this term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other comments? Anyone? Vice Chairman Wells? Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you all for your time, attention, your input, all your hard work. We'll stand adjourned. Thank you.
