Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-05-26
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=94
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. That brings us to adoption of the agenda. Would the board like to handle that one? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion for adoption of the agenda as presented. Second. And a second. Mr. Chairman, before we approve... Supervisor Schlager. Yes, sir. Before we approve the agenda this evening, I just want to receive confirmation from the county attorney that on item 6C, Acceptance of Parks and Recreation Commission Report of May 11, 2021, on the proposed consent agenda, the board's action on that item will not constitute any approval of the Old Charlestown Road Master Park Master Plan and that a future approval of the item will not be approved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I believe that the approval of that plan by the Board of Supervisors is necessary before any development of the park may proceed. Mr. Chairman, that is the correct understanding. The purpose of having the reports on the agenda for acceptance is just that to accept them into the record. The actions that are reflected in them are not accepted. It's just acknowledging that the commissions met or committees met. But in this case, instance that particular action would require further approval by the board and by analogy you have the Finance Committee report it's being accepted as a report in 6e but then later in the agenda there are various action items from that report so in this instance no the the plan would require further approval by the board thank you sir appreciate the clarification all right we have a motion in a second to adopt the agenda as presented is there any discussion all those in favor aye opposed no we'll adopt the agenda as presented citizen comments any agenda not subject to public hearing did anyone sign up miss Phillips yes sir mr. chairman Rhodes Marston mr. Marston thank you sir Thank You mr. chairman members of the board of supervisors my name is Jay Rhodes Marston I'm the board of supervisors and I'm the board of Catch наva Frijk out of this meeting we're here lingo here she is National roof use case but you have a all-new rule for the board of supervisors thank you mr. chairman in a second right now chair of my committee Mr. stockton James Iete I'm alsokon Итак president Smallrell Y. norR. sexual violence I'm north Butcher awesome and we still demand that you stay in Scotland asvel in reason for his pap caredee Bill camera in and then shelvesLeft Parliament black how to Betsy is a native of Ferry County, born and raised in the Gainesburg District as a farm girl, and that is my passion. The Gaino family is still active in farming today. She married into the Broomback family of Woodbound Farms and continues to be a farmer and orchardist's wife in the Back Creek District. Betsy worked for and retired from Minnelandic Farm Credit after 28 years of service. Her position was Certified General Real Estate Appraiser. At the present time, she is Chairman of the Ferry County Board of Equalization. I feel that Betsy would be a good choice to serve on the Ferry County Planning Commission. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. And we certainly appreciate your years of dedicated service. Thank you. Theo Theologis. Welcome, sir. Good evening. Dear Board of Supervisors, thank you for the opportunity. If you would, Dr. Seltzer, raise that microphone, please, sir. There you go. Is that better? Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Notwithstanding the clarification, in the past I was told by the county attorney that Parks and Recreation does not require the Board's approval. I would like to move forward with the plan, so I will proceed to comment on that, item 6C of your consent agenda, which is the Parks and Recreation report. I'm concerned that by accepting this report, you're in essence approving the proposed park plan. And as I have expressed before, the proposed plan does not comply with the proffering deed of gift through which the land was acquired. And accepting this plan constitutes an amendment to the current zoning without following the proper rezoning process. If I may respectfully point out, during your May 12th meeting, this Board dedicated approximately 30 minutes to debating a zoning ordinance amendment that was requested by a single individual through their supervisor to change the definition of opaque fence. Kudos to that individual supervisor for bringing that matter to you. In our case, we have not just one, but more than 70 homeowners requesting that you consider some reasonable modifications to the park plan, yet we have not been afforded by the Board the consideration that that one, individual was afforded during your last meeting. I'm sure you're aware that the proposed plan does not address the concerns of the affected homeowners. And we proposed a win-win solution, which was dismissed. Since it seems that we're running out of options, and in the spirit of win-win solutions, I would like to offer another win-win solution. I'm offering to purchase from the county the wooded area, which is give or take two acres, that is of concern to us, and to protect it by placing a conservation easement on it. This would be a good way to protect the property. This would provide the county with revenue, while at the same time, protect the interests of affected Snowden Bridge homeowners. Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you, sir. Kristen Campalango. Welcome. Hi. Kristen Campalango. I'm at 108 Brickley Pear Place, so I live in Snowden Bridge, following Theo. I was wondering if you guys would be able to take a look at what is going on. I know that the area that is there, I know it doesn't affect you guys, but living there, we had picked those homes based on those lots, and I know it doesn't affect you guys. You know, that is what we thought was always going to be there, and I know that isn't the case. But if there is any way to be able to keep those wooded areas just for that natural barrier between the park and the Snowden Bridge, to be able to keep the people out that would be going to the park, to be able to keep the animals that do live there, and you wouldn't have to be able to put up a fence or anything like that, because it would be a natural barrier between the park. I do understand the soccer fields that are going in, and that is the main... I do understand the soccer fields that are going in, and that is the main... point that is with this park is those traveling soccer teams and things like that, which is fantastic, and we are all for that park. But, you know, is there something that can be done for those basketball courts? You know, the two acres there, is there something that we could compromise on to not put those in and just leave those two acres of the trees there currently? So that's what I'm here for. I know you haven't heard too much from the... I know you haven't heard too much from the... The residents of Prickly Pear, Jitterbug, Splendor Garden, but we do agree with Theo. We have signed that document and have submitted it, and I just feel like he's been that voice, and you haven't been hearing from us. So we have been emailing and calling, and I wanted to come down today to talk to you guys about that. Thank you. Michelle Fournier. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. Just to piggyback off of what Kristen and Theo said, when we purchased that property, we were specifically told that that was a protected area of land, and we purchased it because it's beautiful, and, you know, we're not looking in our neighbors' windows and whatnot. You know, there is wildlife that lives over there. I feel like that should be protected as well. But also, I wanted to come and speak on behalf of several people in Snowden Bridge. It's kind of a bedroom community, partly, so a lot of people just cannot make these meetings. I, myself, just got home and then hopped back into my car to come down here. So I just think that, you know, if we were awarded a little bit more time to go over this, I know we had a meeting last year at the rec center in Snowden Bridge. I felt it went pretty well, and then I feel like it kind of backslided since then, and there hasn't been any response to emails. So I feel like that we need to, I don't know, have a meeting and talk more specifically about the details. Instead of just going forward without much input from the residents. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's all that I've signed up. Thank you. All right. We'll move on to the consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Second. Do I hear second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So my understanding on the consent agenda dealing with the park at Snowden Bridge, I had a conversation with our attorney. And by accepting this, we're simply accepting a report. It would be the equivalent of them giving us a book and saying this is what we've done, but that there's no action taken on this. No dirt is going to be overturned. There can still be discussion. So this is simply saying we accept the report. And that's it. But the board will make a decision at some point in time in the future. But this does not close the avenue for discussion, according to Mr. Williams. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? We're ready? Supervisor Graver? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. That will bring us to Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Graver? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In response to a comment that was made by Rhodes Marston, I would like to personally thank him for his efforts over the last eight years. The last two years of having the opportunity to work with him, he has been most professional. I've seen his reaching out over the two solar farms. I've seen him in many other projects in the county. The grace that he has extended to the citizens, the work, hard work, and the due diligence that he has done. We need more public servants like you, Mr. Marston. It has been very, very touching and very much an honor for me to be able to work with you. So thank you very much for all that you've done for the citizens of this county. Thank you, Mr. Marston. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Dunn? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Redbud, we have, at the intersection of Greenwood and Greenwood, we have a lot of people who have been working on the city. Greenwood and Sensory Roads, a former food line. And I've had a number of residents discuss this. I've had conversations with EDA, and we have asked for an anchor store, whether it be a Trader Joe's and Aldi's or Wegmans. The current owner of that property is actively looking for someone to fill what was the former food lines. So we are aware of that. We appreciate the 42 comments I've gotten back in the last few days. And I'm very happy to be able to be able to talk to you about this issue. So for the people of Redbud, the owner is trying to find a person that will go and put a food store in or some type of an anchor store, because that person also has a vested interest because he owns other stores in that same shopping mall. So your comments have been helpful. If you know of a store that wants to move in, please let me know or let Mr. Patrick know, and we'll go from there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Pat Barker. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Slaughter. Mr. Chairman, in response to Supervisor Dunn's comment regarding the grocery stores, and this perhaps is better suited under board liaison report, but at our last EDA meeting, Mr. Barker was instructed to reach out formally to grocery store chains, invite them to come to our community and visit. Also updating the demographics and so forth. And Mr. Barker is currently working on that as well. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. We'll move to committee appointments. Planning Commission, we do have an application, I believe, from Ms. Betsy Broomback. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a recommendation that we appoint Betsy Broomback to the Planning Commission representing Beck Creek. Second. Second. We're to motion and a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ms. Betsy Broomback will be appointed to the Planning Commission, Beck Creek. That position expired to 6-12, so it will resume that cycle. Thank you. Four-year term of Roger Thomas, No Pectin District, Frodo County Planning Commission. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. I spoke with Roger, and he is eligible and willing to serve another term if we so desire. And I expressed the desire for myself, and I would bring it up to the board, that we reappoint Roger L. Thomas as the Opec and District Representative on the Planning Commission. Second. And second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Thomas will be appointed. Reappointed to the Planning Commission. Roger served there since at least 1994. Yes. When I showed up. But he's done an excellent job, Mr. Chairman. Outstanding, yes. Social Services Board's a four-year term of Allen Morrison, Gainesboro. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move for the reappointment of Allen L. Morrison, Gainesboro Representative District, to Social Services. Approve and a second. I'll second it. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Morrison's reappointed to the Planning Commission. Just an informational, just FYI, that I accomplished the desire of the board with the two appointments to our Vendors Project Management Support Review. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a conversation earlier today with another supervisor, the desire was expressed that there be some form of input from all the members prior to those discussions in order to sort of give everyone here the opportunity to share what their hopes are for the next consultant that we have and perhaps even some way of reviewing, you know, post-committee, what those discussions look like so they can have a more informed input as to how to vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had discussed at the last meeting. Is the possibility of maybe recording those meetings, is that still something that we could do in addition to you and I attending those meetings? Well, I'm not sure we investigated that. The concern was video or audio recording of the discussions. If it's with the consent of the parties who are there, and actually technically it doesn't even require the consent, but I think best practice would be to have their consent, but there's no rule against that. Okay. We can go that route. At our first encounter. Thank you. And could we also maybe perhaps have some type of a forum or email correspondence from other members prior to those sessions? I'd always welcome that on any subject. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it could be Doug and myself. Yes, sir. Chairman. So part of those concerns were also my concerns. The last series of conversations regarding the radio system kind of felt shut out as there was not a lot of input from the board. If we have the opportunity to hear or see in a video some of the discussion that's been done, we can have positive impact or input from other board members who are not there. And I think that it would be most advantageous for all of us to at least see what was discussed in the context in which it was discussed. So I appreciate you being willing to record that. We'll pursue the agreement of the group. Thank you. And as we get that, we'll be there. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. Let's move on. Request for new positions from the HR Committee. Mr. Chairman, the HR Committee met. We did not have a quorum. We had a consensus, as you can see. And so we were, as you can see, where we are on there. We're asking the board to approve. We're asking the board to approve the two positions that we presented to you. All right. Would you care to make a motion? I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Yes, sir. I wanted to have a discussion, Mr. Chairman, if I may. Yes, sir. I'm sorry. That's all right. I could support the Northwestern Regional Detention Center, and I would really desire to see this split up into two separate regions. I would like to make an amendment to Mr. Wells' motion that we vote on these as individual items. Would you care to amend your motion, or shall I accept it? No, that's fine. I'll amend my motion to do the two separately. So we'll start with County Administration Maintenance Cost Analyst. That'd be fine. Is that good? Yes, sir. Okay. So moved that we accept that. And do we second concur? Second. Second. Second concur. First, discussion. No further discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any discussion? Anyone? All right. Lane has his finger. I'm sorry. Speak up, please. Sorry. Mr. Wells, my question is, why is this coming now? We just had a budget meeting. We had a budget meeting a month ago. So why is this coming to us now as opposed to earlier when we were just going through the budget process? I'm just asking. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, if I may. Mr. Dunn, this is not a new or additional position with county administration. This is a position that is currently duties that are currently being done by an existing employee going through the salary survey or in preparation for that. We were going through folks job descriptions and updating those. And we found that this individual originally had been hired as a traditional administrative assistant. Her duties have since morphed into more of a maintenance function, tracking work orders, helping with contracts, helping the maintenance supervisor. So those duties shifted. So all this position does is recognizing those duties and giving it a title that does not exist on the SAP. It's not a new position per se as we're adding to headcounting county administration. In addition to that, this isn't required. This is a request for additional monies to be included in the budget. This is just a change of status. Change of title, change of duties. Correct. Thank you. Good. Good. Further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. 6-1, no. All right. Second. Supervisor Wells. I don't have. I'm sorry. I have. It's not working. So I will go from this. Don't mind. All right. The Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center Medical Clinic Administrative Assistant. It's a range six. The consensus was to move it to the board for approval, and I so move. Second. Second. Discussion? Anyone? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McArthur. I'll support this one. It's my understanding that Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center is having difficulty, with the medical, providing medical services in-house, and that this will assist them with making sure that they're being efficient and cost-effective and keeping those services in-house rather than having to contract outside of the system for that. So I'm, this is a good thing, I think, all around. It's a win-win. I have really struggled with that one. Anyone else? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Well, that's approved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That will conclude the HR committee report, I believe. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Committee business, finance committee. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The finance committee met on May the 19th at 8 a.m. Items number 1, 4, 5, 6, and 13 were approved under the finance committee's consent agenda, and I would so move. The motion is our second. Second, Mr. Chairman. And the second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegma? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number 2, the treasurer requests a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount not to exceed $49,408. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21, and funds for legal fees for real estate tax sales and implementation of the cigarette tax. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. If you're second. Second. And the second. Any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Okay of the question is actionIR. Go ahead. Okay. Next like it can't be мама hadقة Promise City Council, of the court request a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $53,886. This amount represents salary infringes for a records clerk. This position has been funded by the Virginia Compensation Board in the amount of $34,352. There is a local cost of $19,533. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number seven, the director of elections request a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation not to exceed $3,600. Thank you. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds to replace the assistant registrar. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. The motion is there a second? And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCartney? Just a question. So will these funds be used then to continue the work of replacing the assistant registrar or has the assistant registrar already been replaced and this is just to be carried forward to the general budget of the registrar? Up to the chairman. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Yes, the registrar, she is resigning as of the end of July, moving to North Carolina and we have posted a job right now for a replacement and this one month would be an overlap and due to training. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Further questions, anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCartney? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Number eight, the Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center superintendent request a fiscal year 22 jail fund supplemental appropriation in the amount. Not to exceed $66,150. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year funds for the completion of the HVAC control system project. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? Okay. So, the motion carries. Number nine, the IT director and the Northwest Regional Adult Detention Center request a fiscal year 22 jail fund supplemental appropriation not to exceed $148,517. This amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds for the completion of the network upgrade project. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number 10, the IT director requests a budget transfer in the amount of $10,722 from a personnel line item to cover an unbudgeted expense related to the sheriff's laptop lease. Policy requires board action to transfer out of a personnel line item. Is this agreed? Yes. Okay. personnel line item the committee recommends approval and I would so move second motion is second is there any discussion anyone supervisor Graber supervisor Dunn supervisor Wells supervisor slaughter I supervise McCarthy supervisor Stegma chair votes aye and the motion carries I remember 11 the parks and recreation director requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of 20,000 this amount represents proffer funds for the design of the Abrams Creek trail entrance and parking lot the parks and recreation committee Commission has approved the request the committee recommends approval and I would so move second motion in a second is there any discussion anyone supervisor Stegma I supervise McCarthy supervisor slaughter I supervisor well supervisor done supervisor Graber chair votes aye and the motion carries item number 12 the public works director request a fiscal year 22 general fund supplemental appropriation not to exceed a hundred eight thousand one hundred eighty eight dollars this amount represents a carry forward of unspent fiscal year 21 funds for the construction of a storage building at the citizen citizen convenience site the committee recommends approval and I would so move second ocean is second is earning discussion anyone supervisor Graber I supervisor Dunn I suppose are done supervisor Graber aye supervisor Dunn aye supervisor Wells aye supervisor Salter aye supervisor McCarthy supervisor Stegmalan I chair votes aye million pairs chairman that concludes my report thank you all right better bring us to a public hearing proposed ordinance salaries of the Board of Supervisors 21-22 would anyone like to comment did anyone sign up to I'm sorry Tim do the speaker please because I can't hear you if you don't Tim from Bat Creek District I find out what you guys actually made and I find it to be a disgrace I mean you should really deserve a raise I looked at the surrounding counties as the school district did where they got their raises for the teachers and found that you're actually number two from the bottom pages number one I did step a little further east and went to Fairfax County and their chair gets $100,000 a year yeah and the seats get you know now you don't understand why they're all moving out this direction then you had Loudoun County which gets about 81,000 for the chair and about 66,000 for the supervisors 73 for the vice chair I'm not gonna pronounce this correctly and I apologize Forkner County their chair gets 21,000 the vice chair gets $100,000 and the chair gets $100,000 and the vice chair gets $100,000 and the supervisors get 18 to well around the same thing Warren County and Shenandoah County share about the most except the vice chair gets $1,000 more it's kind of weird that you guys aren't getting more money because you do deserve it you have a very difficult job at times and deal with it I was looking at a couple of things I found that we could probably come up with the money well there was $25 million I found in the school board which was considered wasteful spending and I found that the money was not worth it and I found that it was now $ parlament now which is the toelle the a little bit short but now it's higher than the budget is about what makes a neighborhood a good city since peeling off all that trash doing nothing another point is that a lot of of this is about for us moving in the right direction wasteful spending I don't want to use that term andодi 800,000 of it which we've had the discussion of was air conditioners going into a building that's only 10 years old that 800,000 would have been great to give you guys a raise in salary it also would have been great for Mr. Stagmeyer friend never be able to get a school program for advanced kids so I'm doing I am in favor of you getting a raise and I know maybe if you're not that If some of the money wasn't wasted, I don't want to use the term wasted, it would be a lot easier for you to do. But I am in favor of you getting a raise, and I do hope that you vote for it. And if you look at the real, if you double your salary, you still would only make number three out of six counties. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else that would like to comment? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. Would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'll make some comments, and then we'll go from there. Two weeks ago, Mr. Wells made some comments about having a pay raise, and I concurred with him. Four years ago, I made some comments about this. So for us on this board, there are times we'll spend 30-plus hours a week doing this, besides our regular job. It takes some time. If you take that 30-hour-a-week situation, divided by what we have, it's about $173 a week, or about $5.70 an hour, which is a slightly less than minimum wage. But those are the numbers. But I think everybody here works considerably. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next council member is the Samson family fromédoux county. Tom Kayes is out here as a sole doer of Coast or ADI and um, was on the phone with me the other day when I spoke with help. The woman I spoke to and said it's been at least 17 years I've been here. the salary go back to the 15,000, go increase by $15,000, which I made as a recommendation before. We're not going to have this addressed for another decade or so. We're about to go into a higher inflation situation. We're dealing with a budget of over $450 million, so I'll just put that as a proposal and see what other board members think. All of you also have seen the memo that I wrote to you, so it gave you a chance to think through. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Anyone else? Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur. Supervisor Dunn, are you putting that in the form of a motion? I'll make that in the form of a motion for discussion, yes. Can you just clarify the motion for me? Okay. Can you just clarify the motion for me? Yes. So I'll make two motions. We need to do one at a time. One at a time. Okay. My first motion, and we'll see whether there's any support or not, would be that board members are compensated. For whatever federal and state tax amount they paid in the previous year on earned income. That would be Schedule C income, 1099 income, W-2 income. Third motion. Is there a second? Anyone? Your motion will die for lack of a second, sir. Second item. I'll make the motion that the board increase the salary of all supervisors by $15,000. I'll second that motion. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. For discussion. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor McCarthy. We just finished up our tax season, and one of my children overheard me talking about my accountant saying, Mr. McCarthy, you're making $9 an hour working for the board of supervisors, and that's on a slow week. And my daughter said, Dad, you're stupid. You could make more than that at Chick-fil-A. It always gives me heartburn when I think about the fact that we would ask for a raise for ourselves. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. It just seems counterintuitive to ask to give yourself a raise, but that doesn't negate the fact that I think every person on this board does give a significant amount of time. I've said time and time again, if you're going to encourage younger people who are working and have to give up time at work or have a business or have a family and they're giving up something, that there should be something in return. Part of what we receive in return is the good feeling that we get for having done a public service, but there is the reality of the bills have to be paid and those types of things. So I'll support your motion, Mr. Dunn. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Senator Stegmaier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the motion is unacceptable, coming as it does from a supervisor and supervisors who voted against the county budget. It's hypocritical because those voting to vote against the county budget are not going to be paid. The motion is carried. We have a motion to the board of trustees to deny a post-COVID merit and cost of living salary increase for county employees, including teachers, for the stated purpose of protecting the taxpayer. Then go ahead with a motion to take from the county treasury that taxpayers contribute to that will benefit themselves personally. In conclusion, I believe that this motion puts the board of... the interest of the board and the state of the state, in my opinion, to the best interest of the public. interest of the Board of Supervisors ahead of the interests of the larger community, and for that reason, I strongly oppose this motion. Thank you, sir. Supervisor Graber? Supervisor Graber, yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make a couple comments. First, I did vote not to have an eight and a half percent tax increase for several reasons. First reason was that we were just coming out of COVID, and that we could still give our staff a considerable raise without having to raise taxes in doing so. Had we went with version A, which was the version that I so desired, the staff would have still received a significant raise, which is well deserved, I may add. Had the Board of Supervisors salaries kept up with the staff raises that have been given since the last Board of Supervisors raise, the raise that is being proposed would be very close to what is being offered tonight. Therefore, I do not feel that Supervisor Dunn's proposal is hypocritical. I will not be voting for it, but I do not believe it to be hypocritical, because had it kept pace with the even simple inflation, which is what our wages try to do, at least keep track with inflation, it would be very close to the dollar amount that has been proposed. So I think Mr. Dunn has been very studious in trying to make sure that we're not going to have a tax increase. I think Mr. Dunn has been very studious in trying to make sure that we're not going to have a tax increase. I think Mr. Dunn has been very studious in trying to keep with inflation on his proposal and the second that was made to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Stegmaier. I appreciate your comments. I'll simply disagree with them. The last time the Board had a salary raise was in the year 2001. I'm up for reelection. I may or may not be here in November, and I fully understand that. And the reason I decided I would do this, which may not be politically smart, but I think it's the right thing to do, is simply to say that, Yes, I'm going to keep with inflation on his proposal, and the second that was made to it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, if I'm here or somebody else is here, there's a considerable amount of work to be done to compensate for that. In addition, we've had a situation where in a previous year, there was a supervisor that had extra jobs and was not able to come to board meetings because of a conflict with a second job. So if you give a higher pay, perhaps that person doesn't have to work a second job, et cetera. So we can respectfully disagree on this. And if you have a better number, I'll be glad to hear that. But I'm putting this out as an initial number. If you have a better number, that's fine. Clark County does $32,000. Loudoun County and Fairfax do much more. Shenandoah, which is a much smaller county, and Page do a lot less. So it's up for discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to lay out a little bit of what I did last year, even though I've already said I will not be supporting. So an increase in salaries. Last year, if you will remember, there were two large solar projects that were in my district. I held five town hall meetings over the last 16 months. I don't know any other supervisor, and this is not a plug at any of you, that have held five town hall meetings with residents over the last 16 months. I don't know that it's been done. There have been many, many weeks where I've spent in excess of 40 hours that week knocking on the doors of those fine residents that have had a, solar project or another project coming into their community that wanted to discuss how that would affect their homes. Nothing different than what I've heard a little bit tonight from Snowden Bridge. I have spent an exorbitant amount of time, over 40 hours a week, so many weeks, my wife will attest to this, to try to make sure that the citizens' comments are heard. While I've already stated I'm not supporting the increase, I have spent many months well more in fuel costs and just wear and tear on a vehicle and time alone than what I have received in compensation. I've been paid $1,000 a year from the county, the $9,000 stipend a year, last year alone. So if you want to serve on this board for what we are being paid, it is truly a service to the residents, because you do not put money in your pocket as a result of the time and the wear and tear on a vehicle and all the other things that are associated to it if you do the job right, and I'll leave that right there. Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, just, in a way of clarification, the motion that is before the board, if it passes, it would be acting under the other, I think the board received an email from me after the last meeting, and it identified two code sections. This motion is under that second code section, which means two things. The raise cannot, that raise cannot take effect until January 1st, as opposed to the usual July 1st. The second is it cannot be raised for two years thereafter, just so it's clear the board understands what it's voting on. Thank you. I appreciate that. I do think everyone understood. Your explanation was excellent. Thank you. Just as good as it was the first time. We all good? Okay. Further discussion, anyone? Hearing none, we're ready. Supervisor Graber. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Great. Chair votes no. Motion fails. Mr. Stegmaier. Stegmaier. I'm sorry. No, that's fine. You heard my comments. I did, but I'd like to hear your vote. No. Thank you, sir. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Motion fails. We'll move to the next item. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We'll move on. Mr. Chairman, I think the Board still needs to approve an action under the original statute. Yes. Thank you. I appreciate that. So the Chair would entertain a motion of no change to the salaries of the Board of Supervisors. So moved. So motion and a second. Second. And a second. Any discussion? Anyone? Question, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. For the County Attorney. Yes, sir. So Mr. Chairman, what are thearlaim image? There may be some Vincent from abru hello there. Yes, thank you. Let me begin at what Mr. Chairman said about vaccine protocols as forming a medical protocol which will work for each case. Does the law introduce new altogether as an updated summary of a specific case of the county? Yes, Mr. Chairman. My credit district outside of the manufactory of that the county agency. I do know that the wasn't approved but there wereова이 said that by awesome ajudar to people who were talking directly to them causeliwhaign almost took over the information that that they received. Does the MAC attendance forgotten that their town was closed some weeks ago. I don't think that that would be a case. I think that if there was an arrest notice they couldn't keep that information clear. basis is that it would become automatic next July 1st. And the raise is nine to 11. And by any sense of the estimates we've seen on the census, that will happen once we get the data, whenever that is. And with regard to this ordinance, this does not require public hearing, correct? This is the public hearing actually you had last time and already had tonight. So this, the public hearing was on what's proposed in the agenda. Would it be, what's the timeline on having to adopt the ordinance? Does it have to be done at this meeting or can we wait in the hopes that maybe a census is released between now and some date future? You have to do it by July 1st. And I don't think anybody's expectation is we're gonna have census data by July 1st, county level data. From what I saw about state level redistricting, they were talking about August. Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Are we ready? Okay. Supervisor Stagmeier? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. That'll bring us to 11B, ordinance to amend Frederick County Code. Public hearing? I'm sorry? This is the fire and rescue one? Yes. Is that this one? Yes, fire marshals. Sorry, lost the iPad for a moment. I can speak to it. The fire and rescue department and fire marshals office has identified an issue that the training academies now are being more particular about approving staff for training and that they need clear, local ordinance evidence regarding the appointment of those officials having investigatory and law enforcement authority. So that apparently as the academies feel to give them, they have to have that in order to give them the training on law enforcement matters. And we did not have that in the ordinance previously. So this is really essentially a cleanup exercise. The fire chief and the fire marshal are here as well and can provide any further explanation, but that's the, I'm sorry. But the wording accomplishes the goal. The wording would accomplish that. Thank you, sir. Any questions? Says a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning the proposed ordinance changes for fire marshals? Anyone? Did anyone sign up? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur. I would move for adoption of the proposed amendment. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Is there a second? And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McArthur. Even though I've made the motion to approve it and I will support it, I do have a grave concern about the wording of the statute 27-3421. I've spoken with both the fire marshal and the chief of the fire service tonight, and they've shown me the application that they have to fill out in order to get the education. And the fire marshals need this education. So I think it's appropriate for us to pass this ordinance tonight. However, the application is requiring that we adopt an ordinance, something that is an option by state law. So in essence, they're requiring us to take a step that the state doesn't require us. And what that means is we're actually giving a higher level of law enforcement authority to the fire marshals than what they would normally have. So it's an option that we would have, but it's almost like an option that we're forced to take in order to get our fire marshals trained and doing the job that they need to do. So I think after we approve this, if it gets approved, I think it's important that we go back to our representatives in Richmond and explain to them the concern that we're basically being forced into a position to adopt an ordinance that was meant to be optional, and that we'd like to have this rewritten or amended in some fashion at the state level so that we're not forced into that position moving forward. That's all I have. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. McCarthy, my understanding is that state law allows the fire marshal to have police authority for those issues that are related to fire and rescue. But what is before us here expands that authority so we have a police authority for anything as a police officer, correct? My understanding is what? And so therefore, if you amended the situation so it would only be for fire and rescue, which is within the jurisdiction, Mr. Chairman. That's correct. And so therefore, if the fire marshal has the jurisdiction of the fire marshal, it can go and achieve what we're looking to achieve because it does state law. I was hopeful that Supervisor Dunn, but I spoke with the fire marshal and the fire chief before the meeting, and they actually showed me the application that they have to provide in order to obtain the training, and it specifically requires that the ordinance include the optional deputization, so to speak, of the fire marshal. So it's like a Catch-22, it's like if you want to have a train fire marshal, then you have to adopt this, but it's not a catch-22. It's a training. It's not a fire marshal. It's not a training. It's not a training. It's not a fire marshal. It's not a training. But it's supposedly an option that we don't have to accept, but if you want to have a fire marshal, you have to accept it. So it's not really an option at all under the current situation. So either we need to have a state law that says that the training folks can't require us to adopt this in order to give the training, or we need to have the legislature reword that section of the statute so that it's more limited in scope and doesn't give, you know, every fire marshal, you know, the broadest law enforcement available. That puts then the fire marshal under no one's authority other than his own. Because he doesn't? Yes, supervisors. Okay, to the supervisors. But he's not under the sheriff. He's not under the chief. So essentially he's independent, if you will, as a law enforcement officer. I'd concur with your comment that the legislation needs to be changed at Richmond. And Mr. Williams, if you're saying this is the only way we can get there, then so be it. But it's an uncomfortable position. That's all. Mr. Graver. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would fully concur with the comment that was made. I do have a question, if I may, Mr. Chairman, to the fire chief regarding this topic. The question would be, is this something that is being required by the Fire Marshals Academy? Or is this something that is being pushed down from a state law, something that they have, an ordinance they passed that is requiring this to concur? It's the application process for the Fire Marshals Academy. So there's no official ordinance on it. It is simply a desire of the Fire Marshals Academy that this occur? As I understand, there's a bit of a tortured history behind it. The state code, it has two different sections. From my experience in Tennessee, it's usually in one section and describes it more, I think, as Supervisor McCarthy has explained. There is reasons to have law enforcement duties beyond just the fire code because usually an arson or other activity will land into other offenses, fraud, potentially a violent crime. Mr. Graver. Correct Me if I mispronounce it? Right. In evolutionary times GO committed by a certain amount of blood là . will continue to operate. Obviously, if they were engaged in any kind of law enforcement activity, they would do it in conjunction with the sheriff's office and not undertake any other kind of criminal enforcement outside of what was related to their official duties. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it, Chief. Further discussion, anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Supervisor Stegmaier? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That'll bring us to a public hearing proposed amendment to the lease agreement between the County of Frederick and H&R Block Eastern Enterprises, Inc. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tibbs, is that you? It's me. Thank you, sir. This is a proposed amendment to the existing lease with H&R Block. This would be known as Lease Amendment Number 8 for the space of day occupied sites on Eastside Plaza. The proposed lease would commence on May 1, 2021 and expire on April 30, 2023, which would be a two-year term. The base rent during this term would be $1,000. That is a slight decrease from their current rent. Currently, they're paying $1,050 a month, but our property manager felt, coming out of COVID, the fact that H&R Block has been a good tenant for a number of years, and they only occupy the space fully about five months out of the year, so they're not... heavy users of the space, that a slight reduction in the rent would be acceptable. As you know, the rent covers... The income that we receive from the rent covers the operating expenses, so a reduction of $600. And looking at the budget, we are running well ahead of income versus expenses, so it would not have a significant impact on the budget of the Sunnyside Plaza. As you would see in the lease in your packet, there... H&R Block did have an option for a third term in that lease. Our property manager at this time recommended that we not pursue the third-year option, so that has been stricken from the copy of the lease that's in the board's agenda. So this is a public hearing tonight, and at the conclusion of the public hearing, staff would be looking for the board's action to authorize the county administrator to execute the amended lease with H&R Block. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions the board might have. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Tibbs? Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tibbs, so this lease... that's in the packet, this was prepared by H&R Block and presented to us, or did we prepare it, or how did we come to this lease with the red lines and all of that? They prepared the original lease and gave it to our property manager. He negotiated with them. The lease came to us, and it had the option for the third year in it, as that H&R Block requested. So in following the advice of our property manager, the strikethrough is the county's amendment or change to that proposed document. So the $1,000 per month, that was the suggestion of H&R Block. It's not like we're just giving them a break. Correct. They came to us and asked for that. They asked for a reduced lease, and the property manager felt they're paying $1,050, so $50 a month wasn't a huge give. I mean, we recognized that, okay, yeah, we'll give you a reduction of the lease, but it would not impact our income or our budget or ability to maintain the property. Do we know per square foot what that general cost is? They have at least 1,440 square feet. So it's probably about $9 a square foot, $8 or $9 a square foot. Thank you. Are there questions of Mr. Tibbs? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Did anyone like to comment about the proposed lease adjustment? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we approve the proposed amendment to the lease agreement between the County of Frederick and H&R Block of Eastern Enterprise, Inc. For the motion, is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Discussion? Is there any? Anyone? Supervisor McCarthy. If the board does approve this, I just think it's important that H&R Block recognize that $9 per square foot in Winchester is a steal, and in a day and age where rents are actually going up, for this to go down is, you know, that's a boon to H&R Block, especially a big company that's making hundreds of millions of dollars a year in profits off of an unfair tax code that the regular taxpayer can't figure out themselves, so they have to go to someone like H&R Block. They spend millions of dollars lobbying Congress every year to get the tax code, so it is confusing for us that we have to hire services like this. So I just hope they understand that, once again, the taxpayer is going to be helping their bottom line out. That's all I have to say, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? We're ready. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Thank you, sir. Apparently, you're up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the board, tonight we have a public hearing on a proposed ordinance amendment to add the agricultural cooperatives in our rural area zoning districts with a conditional use permit. And part of that ordinance amendment, there are going to be three areas of the ordinance that will be of concern of this use. One is a proposed definition of the agricultural supply cooperative. Number two, the supplementary use regulation. And number three, inclusion of the agricultural supply cooperatives as a conditional use, again, in our RA zoning district. The definition of word usage of the agricultural supply cooperative is an agricultural cooperative association organized under Article 2, Chapter 3, Title 13.1 of the Code of Virginia that is primarily engaged in retail or wholesale distribution of livestock, animal feed, fertilizers, and other agricultural products. This is a definition of the agricultural supply cooperative that is primarily engaged in retail or wholesale distribution of livestock, animal feed, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides, seeds, and other agricultural products or services. And this is a change from the last discussion we had two weeks ago at this board, Mr. Chairman. There was some concern about, like a large market tile, what a cooperative was. And we took the staff on back, took how a cooperative by the Code of Virginia is set up. We do have that definition if there's any questions on that. But that kind of, I'm not going to say, it tailors it to what the desires of the board at the time. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. Our discussion was to look at and make it for our agricultural community to use. Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, it will be under our conditional uses pointed out and it will be called an agricultural supply cooperative under double E of the conditional use part of our ordinance. Furthermore, there has been the supplemental regulations have been assigned to this use. And one of them is A, the sale of agricultural guard machinery should not be used. B, the repair of agricultural guard machinery should not be prohibited. C, the bulk sale of gasoline, propane, off-road diesel and other types of fuel may be permitted as an accessory use. Again, that was brought up in our discussion two weeks ago was scenarios that gasoline is used for farming. How can we put it into use for the agricultural community? Staff went back, looked at that, redid the definition, as was said, as was directed, and brought it forward to you, actually to the Planning Commission and to this body. D, of course, is the site plan should be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. Again, it will be a site plan. And E, additional requirements, I shouldn't say additional, I guess B, the general business zoning district standards would apply. This would include and not limit to the building heights, the building setbacks, parking setbacks, buffer screening landings, landscaping. And again, this was a, just to protect anything that was around this proposed use of what happened in the Arizona District. It's pretty consistent with what we have when we do some other CUPs. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this amendment at their May 19th, 2021 meeting and did recommend approval of this ordinance amendment. It was a public hearing, Mr. Chairman. There were no speakers for or against the proposed amendment. So tonight, this is presented to the Board of Supervisors as a public hearing item. Staff is seeking action by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed ordinance text amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer any questions you or any of the supervisors may have on this proposed ordinance amendment. Thank you, sir. Questions for Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, or I don't know if it's for you or for the county attorney, is there a definition of what bulk sale would constitute? Is there a gallon limit or what? My understanding is it's a wholesale sale. So we're not talking about retail sales. Well, I guess I'll share my concern after the public hearing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Questions of Mr. Chairman. Anyone? Thank you, sir. It says, as a public hearing, did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Did anyone like to speak to the proposed ordinance amendment? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. Discussion? Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My only concern is, I think at the last meeting, Supervisor Slaughter rightly brought up, you know, cooperatives like this tend to have on-site propane sales where you can take your tanks of propane, have them refilled, if it's wholesale sales, that would kind of prohibit the retail sale of propane and those types of things. So I'm just wondering if we could reword this to allow for the retail sale of propane, but not the retail sale of gasoline. I guess my question, too, is if I go and I buy diesel for use on my farm, is that, I don't know, is that a wholesale purchase or is that a, because I'm not reselling gasoline, so therefore, am I not a retail customer? That would be a retail purchase, but of course, if it's farm use, it's restricted, they put the color in it. Right. So I guess my question is if the bulk sale definition is that it must be wholesale, then I think it kind of defeats the purpose of being able to sell this to farmers who aren't going to resell it, so to speak. I think part of what was discussed previously was also the possibility of delivery that, now I understand, obviously, there's one thing for people who want to come to the store to purchase their fuel, either to put it in a vehicle or to put it in a container, but the question, I think, the board had previously is if it wanted to allow the store to deliver fuel. So technically, that would be fuel sales, and if the board is desirous of allowing that and only that, then it may require some tweaking of what's been written here. I think that was the discussion. We wanted to allow bulk sales retail off-site. And I was thinking, too, the propane on-site. I'm thinking, if we look at our current co-ops, we want to be able to continue to operate the way that they operate in their current locations, just in a new CUP-approved location, basically. Basically, yes. But I mean, there are tons of us that buy bulk fuel retail, but delivered that we store on our sites. And when you look at the, when you asked at our discussion to look deep into this, there is a definition under the federal taxation when it comes to fuels and what bulk fuel is. And I think that to understand it a little bit, it is not a transferable station. In other words, in layman's terms, and I don't know if this is what you're looking at, Mr. McArthur, or asking about, sort of what I would call a fuel farm, if you will, that you see where people go, picks things up. Basically, it's not for a large, container, you know, to pick up a tank or truck to come to get something that would be at this, the fuel, like a fueling station. And also, it basically, the definition is a fuel, you know, to supply tank or any engine. This is a definition from the taxation of the federal government when they came about bulk fuel. Basically, a railroad car, if you would, on a siding, would have your bulk fuel. If you wanted trailers, that you would pick up, and bulk fuel. In this case, we're looking at, we're trying to satisfy that, if you got the fuel tanks there, to fuel up stuff for your farm, be it gasoline, the propane, or the off-road diesel. And that's what we were looking at that, where the other stuff is more tank storage, if it was like a large storage place. Again, a fuel farm, that's what we're trying to avoid. So, we kind of put it that way. So, I think it may, Mr. McCarthy, put you at ease, yeah, you could go pick it up. If I have tanks there to fuel up, I'm not saying like a fuel farm, and we looked at it as an accessory use to what's going on out there, we'll cut to the site plan. I think we can meet that point that Sharon was talking about with, if I bring my truck to fuel up for the farm equipment, I think we can meet it there. But if, Yes, sir. If the definition of a bulk sale is specifically wholesale, I think we would have to abide by whatever that term means, with regard to our ordinance. I think that suggests that we move forward with something to the effect of the on-site sale of gasoline, off-road diesel shall not be permitted. However, the on-site sale of propane shall be. That clears it up, because you can do off-site sales as much as you want, but you just can't be selling it at the pump, in the back of your pickup truck, which you shouldn't be doing anyway. But I think that might clarify it, unless the county attorney would advise otherwise. That's a perfectly fine, very clear, understandable change. The only thing I was gonna offer, and it's a little bit fraught, perhaps, is the board has the option of defining bulk, perhaps by a number of gallons, but that's sort of throwing a dart to pick a number, especially for the different types of fuels, a different gallon number might be appropriate or not. We were looking for no fuel islands. Right. But continuing the bulk delivery to the customer off-site. Can you get us there? We need to run it back through PC. I think we could change. This has gone on a while. I think we could change C to say, the off-site bulk sale of gasoline, propane, off-road diesel, and other types of fuel may be permitted as an accessory use. The term bulk sale, that way we don't have to deal with the wholesale. Well, actually, we probably could just delete bulk. You're right. Just the off-site sale of, and the rest of that stays the same. So substitute the word off-site for bulk. I think we want to have propane on-site. So I would suggest, Mr. Chairman, Just say it. I would make a motion that we approve this ordinance with C-Change to say that the on-site sale of gasoline and off-road diesel shall not be permitted. However, the on-site sale of propane is permitted. Second. Motion, I'll second it. Second it. Motion and a second. And let's make sure that Mr. Williams is happy. Stated like that, I'm not sure that we even need then to say the rest about the propane, because it's simply saying what's prohibited. And I think the rest is incidental enough. It probably doesn't need to be there. I would then amend my motion and say that the on-site sale of gasoline and off-road diesel shall be prohibited. I can second, concur. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Mr. Williams, by doing that, can a farmer have propane delivered to his farm for purposes that he needs? Yes, because at that point, there's no reference to a restriction on propane. So it could be sold on-site or off-site. Thank you. Okay. So we have a motion and a second. Is there further discussion? I'm reconsidering my amended motion. And the only reason is because there are other types of liquid fuel, like ethanol and other types of fuel that we wouldn't want sold. So I think just doing what you suggested isn't clear enough. So again, I would say the bulk sale of gasoline, off-road diesel, and other liquid fuels shall not be allowed upon the premises. However, propane shall, because that is also a liquid fuel, shall be permitted upon the premises. Okay. That way we cover everything. Yeah, otherwise we can't exclude, other, and fuel technology changes rapidly sometimes. Right. Hydrogen, et cetera. We're good, Mr. Williams? I believe so. I think we have the language. Second concurs. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? I just want to thank you all for doing such a good job on this one. This is a tough one. We needed to get it done. Supervisor Stegmaier. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. All right. That will bring us to board liaison reports. Are there any? Yeah. Seeing no one. Citizen comments on any issue that you might like to bring before the board? Anyone sign up? To the microphone, please. Thank you. Thank you, welcome. If you could share your name and magisterial district and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Sure. My name is Judith Grant, and I live at 106 Prickly Pear Place in Snowden Bridge. And I have the same concerns that my neighbors do. I live right on the back side of Snowden Bridge. And I was expecting, I've only lived there a year, expecting a new person to come in. to live in a quiet country area. I'm now finding out that the Parks and Recreation are planning or maybe planning to take out the trees behind where my home is. This really concerns me. I'd rather not have people walking through my yard. If the fence isn't gonna be put up, I believe the trees being left there would be the perfect way to take care of the problems that any of we might have at Stonebridge. I think it's gonna, like, maybe even law enforcement problems and things like that. I think it'd be a lot of waste of time to take out those trees, a lot of wasted money to take out those trees when they are actually gonna be a buffer naturally. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, sir. We could have your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less, please, sir. You may have to raise that microphone a bit. There you go. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it, Mr. Chairman. Miles Atkins, Shawnee District. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and Board. My comment is just about the fire marshal. I understand, you know, the need for training, you know, I provide training in my daily job with safety. However, unchecked power goes unchecked. So if he does have, if the fire department does have that unchecked power, I would hope that our board members would go to Richmond and ensure us that that will happen. Thank you. We can't assure you it will happen. We can assure you that we will ask. Just your effort, that's all I ask. And if you could, please provide some information for us as citizens to contact our representatives out there or whoever we need to. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Is that it for the list? Did anyone else have comments they wanted to share with the board? Seeing no one, we'll close the citizen comment portion of the meeting. Any other Supervisors comments? Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to play off of a comment that I heard this evening about the fire marshals, just as that permission was granted, we can rescind that if my understanding of the law is correct. So if there were to be an issue long-term, I believe that we could rescind that authority. And so that is not totally unchecked power. If we have someone who decides they want to go rogue and doesn't want to answer to the citizenry and to this board, we can revoke the vote that was taken this evening and they will be back to where they are today. So I appreciate the board's understanding of that. And hopefully the powers that have been granted will be respected and the citizens will be respected in the process and then all can live in harmony. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This coming Monday, we'll be celebrating Memorial Day. So I just ask that everyone take some time to remember those who gave the ultimate sacrifice for our country this coming Monday. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? So I have one. Tomorrow evening, we have a work session. We will not come into this room at all. It's in use by others. And we will group in the purple room. And we'll come in and out officially there and conduct our meeting there. OK? All good? All right. Vice Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn in a second. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank everyone for their time and attention. Thank you.
