Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-03-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=272
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you have Okay. Okay. Okay. So we're all here. Mr. Bauhofer, if you are ready. I am, Jeff. I am ready and I'm going to first hand it off to Commissioner of Revenue to go give you a revenue update on the personal property taxes. Thank you, Chairman. Thank you. Board of Supervisors. We can't hear. We can't hear you. We can't hear you. Okay. My apologies. Thank you all. Just wanted to share with you some of the numbers that we've been crunching. Real estate is pretty self-explanatory with the land classes one through six. And this is our projected anticipated revenue for 2025 book, which will increase the amount of revenue that we're going to be receiving. So we're going to increase the amount of revenue that we're going to receive. So we're going to increase the amount of revenue that we're going to receive. And we're going to impact this June and December. So half will be for the 2025 budget and half will be for the 2026. But when we're looking at personal property, we had projected it to be higher to where our revenue for fiscal year 2026 to be about 84 million. But what we're discovering is. J.D. Power's values are less than what we originally were anticipating. It primarily affected. If you see the top five. Major car values. It's about $80 million less in value for the 2025 budget. So that's a lot of value. And we're going to increase the amount of revenue that we're going to receive. And we're going to increase the amount of revenue that we're going to receive. So that's a lot of value. And we're going to increase the amount of revenue that we're going to receive. And at an increase in world value, it might be lower. Our currenttroids are going to lie more wannaufd. But let's not forget, this year's surveying effective when appraising them was at Panetta. And so we're proud to be doing a very good job of using SmartTifier tän ấy y SharePoint. And we're asking it to do the same thing we did when last year. That's covered almost zero volume in黐ę biogo. This year's surveying effective will be $48 million. So everyone, I'll let Shelley go. Sorry about that. Trustee吏y? Trustee gras now bring your documents back along so as we get better than last year, our upper waist is 니p Borcheku now. Nobody out here in the middle? Right. Can we just... изв it bouncing up? Let's go bad. billing. The second half, because of the lower values of, those were just the top five decreases in values that were affected primarily. The second half, we're estimating $39.5. Now, we're going to get approximately $900 to $1 million more projected in supplements, so that's still going to give our initial projection for 2025 budget to be about a million less. If we look at 2026, first half, so then we divide that out again, so for the numbers and what we have, it'll be $39.5 plus approximately $2 million in supplements in December, and then so our second half will be December, excuse me, June of 2026. We'll be another $39.5, another million around that time frame in supplements, so we're looking at our projections being short about $2 million, and that's based off of the $2.23. If we do, if you all do decide to raise personal property taxes, we're looking at about a quarter million dollars per penny. I'm sorry, looking at what? About a quarter of a million per penny. Okay, we'll take a look. Thank you. Okay, we're going to let you pass this up. Okay, we're going to do this. Okay, we'll take a look. Okay, we'll take a look. Okay, we'll take a look. This was not my intention to put this up here tonight. This is for the next presentation. In case you had any questions on the impact of that on this current year budget, we've seen the spreadsheet before, and what we've done to accommodate that reduction, and this number is changing, but it reduced our revenues. by about 2.7 million so far. As if there were still working on it, that number should be less than the 2.7 as we go through time, and they go through more supplementals. Am I correct in that? That's correct. But this was a number we had as of yesterday, and we plugged this number in the model. And that just gives you an idea of the impact. Like I said, this wasn't my intention to present this tonight, but. So, Ken, question? Go ahead. My question is on the supplementals. What's coming on supplementals? Is that new? How is that different? It's new purchases, transfers from other localities. It's several different factors. And is that a historical average? Or is there something you anticipate coming in? Because our population's increased? Or, I mean, I'm just asking. But even with the population increase, it looks like, on average, where some homes might have had four vehicles, they're downsizing to two and three. So all of those things factor in. And then one other comment is, we have about 1,000 homes a year that I think are being built. So is that bringing in, like, another 2,000 cars? Or do you not know? I don't feel that that's, you know, because then you have the others that are downsizing. Okay. Going forward. Three or two. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bolhofer, I'm looking at the worksheet that was sent out today, where you accounted for the 2.7, 2.7 million homes. And you said that you had a $1 million reduction in revenue for personal property. Right. Okay. So at 48 cents, you had shown a positive, 562,000. This is showing 482, I mean, 382. Where is that difference? I will have to go back and look. We've been working on the numbers as we go along. And, excuse me? It's in your 10-0-80. You had 10-2-80. Yes. Excuse me. Yes. This number was 10-2-80. We corrected this. If you look at that spreadsheet, and the correct number for the actual additional revenue is 10-0-80. That's $200,000. Yeah. Okay. And that was for the real estate? That's for the real estate. Okay. Does this take in then the windfall that would happen if the tax rate is 48 cents? This is, yeah. The problem is the 48 cents and. The June, Cheryl. The June windfall will be, yeah, it'll be in June. So he's talking about FY26 here. The windfall happened in FY25. Do we know what the windfall would be in fiscal year 25? At 48 cents, it's $5 million. Okay. Half that. Whatever your tax increase is half of it. All right. Well, that's giving me some. So, but the commissioner's talking about FY26. Correct. Understood. But there's. Where we have this reduction of $2.7 million that wasn't. There's a greater reduction of FY25 that needs to be addressed. Do we know what that is? Yeah, we're close. I mean, I'll let her talk. Okay. So let me ask this question again. The windfall that we would realize from the 48 cents in June, is it enough to offset the 25, you know, the $0.48? Yeah. Reduction in the personal property? It's a little, it's a bit more, but not much. A couple hundred thousand more. There's enough in the real estate windfall to offset the reduction of what's been estimated in the personal property. All right. When we met on Monday, this is based on the numbers that I was given on Monday, there will be about $4.5 million short in the personal property. But as we were adding more value. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But while we've looked at that subject matter , it hasn't more than been, you know, $15. Yes. But you see, without the 2008 block in the room, without the one history怎么 a good deal, with the newENEPSA book, it has not been as great of .. Oh, okay. Because we're constantly adding, because we didn't have that was predicted to be our worst deficit in what we have predicted. But as we've added more because we added mobile homes in there, Your taxed is real estate under personal property. But those homes had a value in FY25, and we're talking about 25. When I say the four and a half, those already had a value. The ones that you're adding the value to now is FY26, so that is still relevant. It's irrelevant? For 25. For 25, but there could be enough left over in 25 that we can carry it forward to 26 to help offset this deficit that we are just finding out about. So your windfall at 48 cents should cover your personal property deficit. At a tax rate less than 48 cents, then you start changing those dynamics. Anything less than 48 cents would not make up the difference on the personal property. That's correct. And how sure are we on these personal property rates? We're estimating about $2 million. A $2 million deficit. Yes. That's what I got it down to. So on Monday, it was 2.8. Okay, that's why I'm in the, what you have up here. That's Mike's 2.753. That was what we put this in on Monday. That's 2.8 for 25? 26. 26. Which kind of means, so last year, we increased, at the direction of the commissioner, we increased the property taxes by personal property by 5.5. So it appears that that's... Instead, 1 million. And that's why, when I increased it by 1.1 million for FY26, that's why we're taking less than the 1.1 back, because it added on to a value that wasn't real. Make sense? And we're also working on these numbers. This is all new information we received as of Monday, so we're working to get the exact numbers for you. We got the... Values for personal property on Wednesday and had to submit them in. So it was Friday after noon before we were able to actually, able to determine what the values were, how much some of them have gone down. So Cheryl? Yes. When we talk about FY25, FY25 ends in a few months. That's correct. So the approximate $9 million that you anticipated, or staff anticipated, having as an overflow. Does that then... If that's true, does that number just go to 6 million, for example? In other words, is that... So I assume you're talking about Mike's $9 million that he's added in to as... Depends on what you do with real estate tax. I mean, it depends on a lot of factors. But if this was a year that we weren't looking at an increase in real estate, that would be reduced by that amount, whatever the shortfall would be. So in FY25, which ends in June, to the... To the best of your knowledge, you'd expect that we would have some type of a surplus most likely. Is that a fair statement? That's fair. It depends on your real estate rate. No, no, but FY25... Okay, because between July and December, that's what you're considering. No, because my FY25, I'm collecting based on a higher... He's collecting based on a higher assessment amount. So that increase was never budgeted in FY25. Okay. So that... Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So if you get a windfall on a tax rate that really has an effective increase, then that's your windfall. Don't go that route. I understand what you're saying now. Okay. Thank you. And it gets very confusing when you're going from calendar year to fiscal year, as tax commissioners on a calendar year, and we do our budget on a fiscal year. Yeah, I do. have a question. Commissioner, you're saying as of yesterday you have a $79 million revenue worked into the file at this point, correct? Correct. But we were looking at about $76 million on Monday when we were running because we didn't have all the numbers at then. As of this afternoon at 4 o'clock, I have $77.1 million. We still didn't have planes or not in there as of yet, and we don't have all of mobile homes. Planes are not going to change anything in one set. So that's not going to make a huge difference. You could have all those airports sitting up here and that's not going to change anything. Because I was running numbers for the car tax relief, and I look at that. You're at $77, not $79. So it's not in airplanes. Well, we have airplanes. We have mobile homes. There's several other factors in there. We finally got, there's still some RVs that need to be added in. We were looking at... None of those categories will move the needle with what you're... talking about. On your second page, which I'm sitting here looking at this for the very first time, you show the top decreasing values. If you look at... Just let me ask the question. You're showing decreasing values. When I'm looking at the car tax, I see an increase comes back to Blaine's question with regards to population increase. And the population increase of... The car tax eligible vehicles, there's about 2,700, 2,800 vehicle increase, and about a $23, $24 million value increase, which is driving down the car tax relief. So you're saying values are going down. I'm seeing car tax relief go down, but values going up. Let me explain the difference. Well, the... Our... Our... Our... Our... Tax relief... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Our... Are we figure out that percentage to take off for those vehicles, the PPTRA? Is that what you're referring to? No. I'm saying... You're saying values are going down, but the number of items is going up and the value went up. And you're saying there's a reason for the reduction in personal property tax. I don't know that it's there, but... Like I said, I'm just seeing your numbers a few minutes ago. Out of 94,000 items that we looked at and we ran the queries on, we noticed that the increased value was about $80 million. We did have about $4,500 that went up in value, but the majority of these larger car companies went down. They're like the Ford Fiats and things like that, specific. So when you looked at your book yesterday, you had $79 million. Today, I get $77 million. But your data, other than the fact that I have to figure out car tax, that concerns me whether we're a million, two million, three million short. I agree. Projection. I understand. But we also added more even this afternoon. My number is at 4 o'clock, so I don't know how much you did after 4 o'clock. So you had less than 4 o'clock? Because I have... I had 78 as of... Closed value on 2024 was 78. We were still adding, and we had 76.8 Monday morning. That's correct. And as of this afternoon, we had 78. We had 76.8 on Monday morning. 78 this afternoon, and we still have more to add, plus we have our supplements to add on. The other categories, you're talking about airplanes, which we... That's a new partner, but I'm not going to do anything. What were the other categories? You had about seven? Seven. We still had to add... I wouldn't say it would be that high. Do you know what those categories are? Yes. Give me a second. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. have real estate and personal property in the same 25 or 26 I don't have that numbers those numbers she says she has 79 million or current but that's that's with adding in our supplements that we were anticipating so we should 81 so is that is there's projected supplements projected supplements and the rest I guess the revenue that we're adding in September I get a supplement in November then get a tax bill in December that makes sense because catching these months property tax like you buy a car in July it's not gonna reflect on your June bill it'll show up on your December bill from July so that's called a supplement yes my comment is I mean we're all dealing with numbers I think we all want to have good numbers maybe we have a meeting like next Wednesday so we all have you know good numbers treasured and get his number together which is a good number we can all have a good set of numbers that we can look at to make decisions as opposed to this actually the very last slides or last slides we'll talk about schedule a number another meeting just for that primary reason I'm very concerned so am I about the carryover and tax rate what that's going to do to 2026 and so forth and so on if you don't have the right number when we get to the calendar slide that's going to be the more the primary things is established in a subsequent meeting either on the I think it's 19th or the 26th of this that's that we were going to cover at the end set up that meeting and then one other this is a request whatever those numbers are if all you can get together get a good set of numbers we could see them a day or two before so we can have questions we can go through them and look at that be helpful my apologies I don't have the breakdown but like different classes depend on what I'm doing. I'm sorry. it's under a certain weight if it is commercial all of that just Because good numbers we could? So I cut to the chase on calendar does that change our budget add and when we No it does. It will have no effect on the overall calendar timelines and when I get that that we... We can put the playlists of that. really much a real you more reflective of all the discernment. which isative. Take the time to get these numbers understood and still meet the current plan calendar. Because this is one of our two major sources of revenue. We have to make sure that we've got it right. So the original scenario that Mike did for $0.48 had an amount that was greater in it left over than the deficit for FY26. So that's why at $0.48, the advertisement doesn't change. Does that make sense? Yes. So when Mike did the first numbers, say that again. So when Mike did his scenarios at $0.48, I think there was about $3 million left over at the bottom. That wasn't designated for any specific purpose. Yeah, initially before we reduced these numbers, we were to the good of approximately $3 million. And when we reduced the numbers, it's still less. It's still less in the positive area. And the last information we just received, today or yesterday late, there was a positive of a little over half a million. Now you're at $300,000. Correct. But it's still in the positive. But we're still in the positive. That's correct. So that's why at that rate, that public, that advertisement can be sent tomorrow. You're saying that you'll still send the advertisement out tomorrow? That's correct. I got it. Yeah, but we're still to the positive. But I thought we were going to have the discussion at the end of the meeting of which scenario we want to advertise. Yeah, I was going to go over and cover the advertisements and all that. If we want to do it with Steve, I can go directly to that first if that seems to be the primary concern. I definitely want to make sure we have time to discuss that. Oh, I've got it on here. Cheryl. She's got a buzzer to make sure I don't mess up. She's told me. Several times today. We can't delay the advertisement date. Yeah, I was going to go over all the logistics and all the options you have on that. I can go to that now or I can whichever way the board. I know it seems to be a concern to everybody. So there is the only other thing on the agenda. Not only. Excuse me. I'm not. Diminishing it. But the other item on the agenda is fire and rescue. Do we want. How would the board like to have it? You want to hear that and percolate over what you just heard and then we'll go over or do we need to get this hashed out first? I budget that part of the Mr. Bolhoffer's presentation. Go right into his. Yeah, I think so, too. If that's all right with the chief. Absolutely. I have one comment. Chief's request for additional money is not included in Mr. Bolhoffer's presentation. So next year is the equation here. So the request which you'll see from the fire will only be come out of capital funds. It will would not have any significant impact on the calendar or the budget. Okay. All right. The request is not included in the capital fund balance sheet. His request is not included. Actually, it is in there. It is. But it will be coming out of the capital fund. So it really would not have a significant impact on the ad you would put in. Which is the operational budget. That's what he's talking about. Right. It would not affect the operational budget. Well, all these things are driving our long term. I mean, it may not in 26, but in future years, it would. Yep. Go ahead. And that's actually the closest slide to go over when Steve talks is to go over the future years, the effect that has. Thank you. I was going to go over this very quickly. Obviously, we're here. It's a long time. It's a long time. Okay. Yeah. I did is the budget that wasn't budget here. It goes in the go into the paper tomorrow with hit the paper on the 18th. You have seven days which establishes your budget public hearing on March 26, which enables you to adopt the budget on April 9th. Once again, I go back to the key date and all this. The primary driver of dates is nailing the tax bills. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. weeks before April 28th did have enough time to send out tax bills. Am I correct on that as a minimum, too? So this is the key driver of why April 9th is the date for adopting the budget. Now, it creates all sorts of complications, and you can actually do your tax bills before you approve the budget, but then at that point, you've really locked yourself into the tax rate, because that's the key thing. If you were to not adopt the budget, but go ahead and send the bills out with the tax rate, and then you decide the tax rate, it creates a whole mess, re-advertising. I mean, I don't even know all the dynamics, but I understand it is a true mess. So that's why the key driver here is this April 28th, which pushes you back to this April 9th for adopting the budget. And there's a particular... Virginia law, we can't have the budget public hearing the same day as adopting the budget? Correct. As a seven-day or... I think it's seven, yeah. Seven, right. Yeah, seven-day, I think, in between. What would that change? I mean, I know you're giving ideas, but I think it behooves us. I mean, this board is just done by April the 9th, so we're done. Well, we would like... To do that, we need to have maybe another meeting, because the numbers right now aren't... We would like to ask for two more meetings, at least, for two more workshops. Okay, with me. And either do one next week, Wednesday, which would be before the planning meeting, or if the board didn't want to do that, we'd want to do this meeting on March 26th, the same night of the meeting. It's whichever the... the board would desire. The trickiest part about doing it next Wednesday, for some people on the finance committee, I know they have a finance meeting at 8 30 in the morning. That means coming back. But the flip side is, on the 26th, we may be here for hours. That's correct. There's no great solution, but those are two options. And then we would like to meet again on April 2nd for a final meeting before talking to budget one. I think the primary reason for that is to get the resolution correct, which, and that's the most important thing. I know at some meetings we've made changes late at the meeting, and we're trying to draft up that resolution on the fly, and it gets to be very complicated. Cheryl, when you budgeted our revenue numbers, because revenues are pretty flat. For FY25 or 26? 26. I'm guessing, knowing your conservative side, you have budgeted pretty flat. For next year, this is concerning, these personal property numbers are concerning, that we've got a pretty significant difference here. So I just want to be sure that if the board goes forward with this calendar. Well, the two largest revenues, commissioner revenues, the number keeper. So those amounts will come from that office. And the other ones we work on. And the sales tax we budgeted fairly flat, because that's a pretty significant one for. So the sales tax we did budget flat, but part of Mike's proposal here is to find like $600,000 more in revenue. And so that probably most likely will come from sales tax. We did get an estimate from the state the other day that we can increase it by like 520. That's their projected number. So that's where his $600,000 is in the budget. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you, Adam. condemning it to between Chris McGee's and Scott's authority here in Shepard's Haroldand public comment. Are not very развит this entire program with their conversation with Mike. So, for Scott, the new slide. So, this is Ezra ahu, record is his screensaver. better idea of where we actually stand. Take a look at everything else. So Cheryl, our sales tax, we get like 1% of the state sales tax, right? Yes. And that's in the neighborhood of $20, $21, $22 million? Yes. So if you're projecting another half a million dollars coming forward on that, where's the state? Is the state suggesting that from economic activity? Was it to Frederick County? Is something happening in Frederick County that's not happening elsewhere? The state uses economists, I think, to make their projections. And I think that we know that we have like a 4% or 5% increase. It's not double digits. And that when we kept it constant, we knew that that was kind of conservative. So half a million dollars doesn't concern me. So this budget ad that we want to put out, how does that constrain us? On rates or on budgets? It's an advertisement of what you plan to spend. And what you plan to have as your tax rates. That's why we asked for a meeting between the public hearing and the resolution, because lots of times you'll get input at the public hearing that you'll want to make changes in your budget one way or the other. You can change it from the amount advertised to the amount adopted, I think by 1% without re-advertising. But we can go down. Any amount you want, you can go down. We can go down. Any amount like if we wanted to re- we come back, you all come back next week with these massage numbers and we need to reduce expenses. We can do that. And if I may frame it, when you send this ad out, the ad is kind of in a way saying at this point in time, this is what we're advertising as our rates and as our expenditures. That is why you then have a budget meeting. Because that gives you the opportunity to make adjustments after the fact. So the advertise doesn't mean that's what you're advertising. It's just what you're advertising before it goes out to the public and the public's given the chance to give their opinion. And then this board has to lead way to change. But the exception, the most difficult thing you can do is raising the tax rate where you're limited by 1% without advertising. Would it be time to re-advertise? There was some rate that you- If you were to try and re-advertise, you miss your mailing time and then it actually makes that whole logistical nightmare. Yeah, you can miss even- And you're not allowed to say it the same 15 years. Yeah. . But our intention will be that we're going to go back immediately to the drawing board and crunch numbers, look at everything again, and be prepared. And obviously, as I sent out earlier this week, is to send out information as soon as possible. So our next meeting, workshop meeting, will they be solid numbers? Or are we still waiting for numbers to dribble in? I will tell you, they will be better numbers because as we move through time, we have better information. And the real question for us is always revenues. As Cheryl said, for instance, we got our information and number on sales tax. I think that was emailed to us for Monday or Tuesday. As you get closer when it comes to personal property tax, the further out you go in time, the better your projections will be. I think we'll be much more confident and we'll be able to tell you at least how confident we are in those numbers. I'm not going to push those revenue numbers too much because those capital funding strategies are based on $9 million being put back into that capital fund. So I'm not going to, unless the commissioner changes something, I'm not changing a lot. And I think you all... Well, I was until Monday. I'm going to follow up on that. So with what you've given us as projections, if we were to stay at 48, we would still be in the top. Based on the numbers you're seeing. As of the numbers we've seen this week, yes. And I've done more analysis. I actually have more analysis I've done subsequent to this. But it wasn't going to be timed up tonight to go into that. And that's why... I wanted another meeting. Give us time to refine those, put them together, and bring those to the board. So the educated guess is that we'd still be in the positive for next year, for 26, but less so, right? Correct. And I think that's a very good estimate. And we would have less rollover from this year than we had thought. Yes. I think that at 48 cents, that windfall is what saves you. Yeah. Did she? Yeah. Otherwise, it would be a more dire situation. Yeah. Is that a component of the capital plan going into that? So 48 cents, hopefully it will allow you to pick up what you lost. So you can keep it at the 9 million, if not more. Mr. Chair, that's for next fiscal. Looking at the fiscal after, if I'm not mistaken, the reassessment doesn't occur. It's not until two years. So it puts the board in a position to where there's going to be some tough decisions. The only thing you have is the construction. I will tell you this, though. And I've just started working on the numbers. And I've gone out. And that's what I will be preparing next time is a five-year outlook at those numbers. And I've got the spreadsheets. I've done those. So at the next meeting, I will show you what position you would be in at that rate over a five-year period. So I'm actually doing that so you'll have a better idea. So it doesn't put you in a bad spot in year two, three, four, and five. I have those actually in spreadsheets. But I hate to show them tonight until I have more time to work on them and have Cheryl review them and tell me what numbers I have wrong. You have my list first. Huh? You have my list first. Yeah. Thank you. So tomorrow, Jennifer and I will be wrapping up the ad to send to the paper. And I have a list of questions because I want to make sure. Like, my assumptions are correct and that we all are on the same page. Do you have a draft of what the ad looks like? The ad? No, I didn't bring it. It's the same as it is every year. I haven't finalized the numbers because I need the answers to all these questions. I'm just thinking. But as soon as I get it ready, I'll push it out to you tomorrow. So we have talked about transferring from capital. We've had lots of conversations, lots of different scenarios. Where I think we landed. Is that we advertised taking $7 million out of capital for transportation. Funding the school capital of $4 million. And then Mike's updated numbers that I think it started at $5.5 and it went to $7 and now it's $3.955. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. Those three capital amounts will come from our capital fund. That's how I'll advertise. Yes. Any other questions? Yes. Can those numbers be amended in the budget process? In other words, is that a cap or if somebody makes an amendment to change those numbers, can they be changed? So to change and not fund it or to change? For example, if I wanted to take $4 million to make it $5 million. Is that something the board can consider or advertising it, does that lock that rate in? You can change it subsequently, yeah. Up or down? Both ways. Both ways. Okay. My question is the ad's going out. Once the ad is going out, are those numbers then locked in or can it? No. No. Okay. That's fine. As long as those numbers can be brought to discussion. Okay, Cheryl. Thanks. Okay. So those three assumptions are correct? Okay. And that's the three numbers. You have some more. Yes. Okay. So then we talked about transfer from the general fund to the state fund. Yes. Okay. So then we talked about the transfer from the general fund to the state fund. Yes. Okay. So then we talked about the transfer from the general fund to the state fund. Yes. And then the transfer from the general fund to the school operating fund, that request was discussed to be reduced by 4.5 million from the general fund. Is that where we're at? Yes. That was what we had in all the proposals was reduction. Okay. And that's about a 9 million to 4.5 million reduction. Okay. The 9 million was 4.5 is 4.5 more than last year's number. Okay. It's close. It's four or something. I'm not something with a point, so we're good. Yes. Also, when we advertised the budget from the school's presentation in January to the numbers I received from the school last week, this week, one day, they have additional other revenue of $650,000. $650,000? That's probably state dollars. Yes. It's probably state dollars. I just don't want you to go back in your notebook and say, oh, that number doesn't agree. So the transfer, the top line, can't quite see it. School operating transfer. So that's what we're giving to the schools. Okay. And the next question is, what is the overall budget? As you said, they have funds from the state. The 118 minus the 4,500 reduction is what we would be giving. 4.5 million? 4.5 million, yes. And how does that compare to what they got last year? It's in the neighborhood of 4.5 million more than last year in operating in the neighborhood. That's correct. Okay. And there's an increase from the state of $1.5 million. Okay. And that's $1.5 million more than the state of an additional $615,000. That's an additional other revenue of that, which is probably state. I'm just sharing that for transparency. $615,000. Can I move on? Yes, go for it. Judy, if the $615,000 is coming from the state, and they're also putting in another $1,050,000, I think, that's a 4% increase. But $115,000, we're going to have to raise that. That's what we're going to do. That's what we're going to do. Okay. And then, the other thing, the $615,000, if we're going to increase it to $5,000, we're going to have to raise it to $3,000. That's what we're doing. That's the whole point. We're going to have to raise it to $3,000. That's the whole point. And then, the other thing, the $615,000, we're going to have to raise it to $2,000. That's the whole point. We're going to have to raise it to $3,000. That's the whole point. But the state is going to be doing that. It's going to be a negligible increase. So, is the state going to get this ... That number there is about a 4% increase over last year's operating. From schools? From schools, yes. But the schools get money for both the state and the county. My question is, is the state also going to be giving a ballpark 4% increase? If they're only giving $115,000, that was a trigger point. That's not even close to that. Then that number becomes a 2% increase, not a 4% increase on their total budget. And I will tell you, all of these things can be changed subsequent to this ad, if we have better numbers and go through this. I understand that. I'm just asking this. If I were in the schools, on a school operating budget, I'm okay with that 4%. But if you then tell me that the state, Virginia, is going to give $116,000, if that number is wrong, that's fine. I'm not going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. I'm going to give $116,000. If that number is wrong, that's fine. That's essentially nothing. So now the total operating budget is only 2%. My understanding from talking to Dr. Humbridge, the state's actually given more than they expected this year, is what I've been told. It's not less. Okay. All right. Thanks, Cheryl. And we'll get you those numbers. So, in FY26, the increase from the state is $8.5 million. Okay. And a decrease from the federal government of $600 million. Okay. Okay. So that's $657,000. Okay. So that's about $8 million. $8 to $7.9 million. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it. Can I get those numbers again? I'm sorry. Yes. Based on the presentation in January, which I guess that's went up $600,000 probably. That's where your $600,000 is. I can send you the new numbers. It's about $9 million if the entire $600,000 increase came from state. And it's a reduction of $657,000 from federal. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great, you're a ballpark. $657,000 federal. Kristen's going to get me the numbers tomorrow, so I'll push it out. The actuals. We just have things in total. All right, so at $0.48 we do not use any of the general unreserved fund balance to balance the budget. The county administrator with this scenario still needs to look for $500,000 in cuts that we haven't discussed yet. We need to adjust the revenue by $600,000, which we discussed earlier, which would probably be sales tax. At $0.48, you will have a windfall in the current fiscal year of about $5 million. This scenario also adds 14 positions on Mike's list. Those positions equal $1.69 million, and they include three deputies, eight firefighters, a project manager, a deputy clerk in the circuit court, and an administrative assistant in the commissioner of records office. So, the extra fiscal year is $1.69 million. The commission's office, I guess, in all the scenarios hasn't been in those scenarios, right? Correct. When I sent out that item on Monday, I identified that was added. It was originally requested, and it wasn't included in my original scenarios I sent out. Okay. So, we'll write this ad up tomorrow. We'll get you the information from the schools, and we'll push both of them out. And then, now, we need to talk about what it's going to look like. additional meetings we are going to plan and what's the expectation at those meetings. Does that make sense? Okay. So I'm just worried about so much uncertainty in some of our minds, certainly mine. We're constrained. So once we put the ad out, we'll be constrained at the tax rates. And they're all going to be the same as last year? Personal property, sales, et cetera? Or were you talking about adjusting this? Only the real estate taxes. The only rate being changed with the exception I know in the budget there was, and I know there's been some talk, is that one item in the landfill. So there's, yeah, the landfill rates have changed. There no longer will be a late holiday and then the real estate tax. You mentioned finding revenue out of the sales tax, but that's not a change in the rate. That's not a change in the rate. It's a change in the rate. The yields tax can be changed. Can you change it? At any time, is that correct? The meals tax rate, which is four cents. Yeah, the meals tax is not limited to doing at the budget time or such. You know, it has the required procedures, the ordinance and such, but you have to go through a time frame. But you can start that time frame, I believe, whenever you choose to do so. And any department budget could go up or down in the final budget. It's advertised. It's just pretty much totals by fund. And then the resolution is written by fund as well. So it's less. It's less restricted that way. So really primary now is if this board and the committee would like to meet next Wednesday, probably at 5 o'clock, give us enough time to go over these numbers. Excuse me? What are we going to go over is all the revenue numbers. We're going to go over giving you the five-year projections going forward to give you a better idea of where we stand and open up the discussion. And then we'll go over the budget in general. Are you all confident, both you and the commissioner, that we can be 90% better solution by next Wednesday? We're more certain about these projections? Yes. More. Yeah, like I said, the only ones that are really at this point that we're not sure about are the personal property tax. The real estate is. The real estate is. The real estate is. It's pretty comfortable with that. So I guess everybody look at your calendars. How would the board like to, are you ready next Wednesday, if they are, to have a meeting? 5.30? 5 o'clock. 5. I thought they wanted 5. Because there's a committee meeting. Just so we have room in case. That gives plenty of time in case there's discussions. In case we need the time. Yeah. I'm good for 5 o'clock next Wednesday, if that works. I'm good for 5 o'clock next Wednesday. That works for me. I want to get everybody a nod, not just a consensus, so that everyone can be here. I'm good. I'm good. Yeah. Blaine. I'm good. I'm good. Okay. And then attentively on your calendars for April 2nd, the meeting, because that's when we'll be doing the resolution for the budget. And 5 o'clock then too? Are you talking about the 2nd now? Yes. Because there's a commissioners meeting. There's a commission on that date as well, I believe. It doesn't matter to me. We can start at 5. The reason we can start at 5 is at least we have that extra half hour to discuss if we need to discuss. And I'm probably running out of time because. I agree. And usually in the past, that meeting, there hasn't been lots of discussion. It's just like, oh, well, we want to add this to the budget. Right. And then we'll have to do it again. Right. And then we'll have to do it again. And then we'll have to do it again. I understand that. So hopefully it won't take the time. But it's there. When we had our school board meeting, I would have liked to have had another half hour to talk. So we didn't. Yeah. So. We got it. So both meetings will be at 5? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I was going to Steve's Fire and Rescue. When we were doing this budget, the last meeting, we went over the five-year capital plan. I discussed with Steve. So he's gone to work with all the volunteers on a plan on the five-year capital. And I was going to. This is also a way of allocating the funding of the capital over the next five years. And I'll hand it over to Steve to go over that. Well, thank you. I know you have a lot of difficult decisions to make in the coming weeks. And so I don't envy you. But as Paul mentioned, we're going to have to do it. We're going to have to do it. We're going to have to do it. And so, as Paul Hoffer mentioned, as you all are aware, over the last several years, we've been working diligently to have a 10-year plan, because a big component of that is staffing, apparatus, and facilities. Apparatus is front and center. We do have our submission in the CIP. And I'm going to give you the opportunity to sit down and talk through what's reality. I think in my budget hearing that I was in, I described that the CIP is an aspirational plan at that point, because the reality is the volunteer companies do not have the wherewithal to deliver and get those things on that schedule, left to their own devices. So I'm sitting down, talking to Paul Hoffer, trying to model a proposal that would, in fact, allow us to get progress on the huge backlogs we have of fire apparatus, aging apparatus, that presents a risk to the public in general, because of not having in-service and timely replacement of apparatus. There's also a huge financial gain. A huge financial burden. And I'll go through a couple of examples of that. We'll kind of explain where, in many cases, we're putting good money after bad, not being able to rationalize the size of the fleet, because we're having to make poor decisions because the companies don't have the ability to replace their aging apparatus. So looking at that, we have difficulties because the companies have all different financial models. There's over $6 million worth of debt already out into the companies to finance different pieces. Which they all depend on the existing revenue streams to be able to make payments on. And looking forward—and this has been a great benefit, and Chief Jackson exhaust marker presentation of tables for the afternoonanes. Chiefs work group is here as well—is to begin thinking it as a system. When do we need the apparatus to meet the total needs of citizens, and when does that need to happen, based on objective standards and good business practices? So in putting together both the original capital plan and what's presented tonight, talking looking at sort of main four main pillars is to be able to, in the course of our capital discussions, recommend to the board that these are the, what we believe is the best interest of the system and the community. It is consistent with the system's 10 year plan, which we'll roll as we go through as we make changes. Look at the need of the type of apparatus requested that supports the operation, service, delivery, and response time standards in conjunction with the company's existing apparatus, inventory, and other apparatus within the system. In other words, make sure that we're having a rationalized fleet that we don't need two of certain things and three of certain things in areas that it all makes sense at the end of the day. Looking at the volunteer company's funding plan and budgeted cost estimates and the company's ability to pay for the apparatus. And then finally, consistently, the system's minimum standards for the type of apparatus. And I certainly believe, and I've certainly heard loud and clear from the board, the desire to have greater standardization moving towards common specs, and that's a great thing to do. And I think that's a great thing to do. There are differences, as we talked about, from various parts of the county, but service needs vary with different things, so vehicles are not necessarily identical. But getting good value on the apparatus and being able to have consistency. We have a very young department. We have almost half the department will be within the first five years, a year from now, if all goes according to plan. And that's not a great, that's a lot of young people doing different things, but it increases safety, increases productivity, increases our opportunity to deliver service to the community. So within that framework, looking at what the extensive needs, and of course, the IFAS, as we outlined in the capital plans, it's, they're numerous, but looking through a basic framework that would allow both the companies to plan effectively for their finances into the future and also make sure that we get replacement vehicles to the park. So I'm gonna use a couple terms, and I'm gonna try to explain them the best I can. So we talked first in terms of first out ambulances. So if you think of each fire rescue company, assume that they need to provide the first out ambulance, the first out engine. This is the reason these volunteer companies exist. And so to be able to pay us that basic service that they provide. Under the plan that's being proposed, the volunteer rescue company would be responsible for 100% of the cost of the first out ambulance. And the first out ambulance, they can fund obviously, they receive revenue recovery money, and they also are eligible for state rescue squad assistant grants. So this becomes a realistic funding stream for them to be able to provide that over time. The one piece I'll mention just for transparency, which is good word I heard earlier, that's very good word. The, so companies have, what is their first out would be different from a place to place in terms of ambulances. Somewhere like Greenwood, which has 3,500 calls and is slated to go to six person staff, would have two ambulances, because that would be the first out ambulances, because that would serve the area. Some place like Star Tannery, which has, we only anticipate going up to four person staffing, has less than 400 calls a year, would have one ambulance. And so that would be a distinction. The revenue recovery money follows the volume of calls with different things. So that would be a significant. So 100% funded by the company. Service vehicles in terms of support vehicles or command vehicles, that'd be 100% responsibility of the volunteer companies. Then we get out to the first out engines. And again, the key component of the service that those companies are offering. As we've outlined, the enormous cost increases that have gone into engines over the last several years. We currently have it at 1.1 million. That's just fresh off the press. We just updated for the vendor that we purchased the new engine for company 20 years ago. And we're at 1.2 million. 1.1 is what we got quoted. In that case, we'd look for, be able to sustain the fleet and get the turnover that we need. The county would fund up to 60% of the purchase and the company would fund 40%. And the company would retain the title and maintain the responsibility for repairs and maintenance, which is a pretty significant number. Let me put that into some context. So for instance, Station 21, one of the engines that would be replaced, they're reporting that they spent $45,000 last year in repairs, which is essentially the equivalent of what their payment would be under this proposal for a new apparatus. So again, it's sort of an example of we're putting good money after bad, trying to sustain a 20 plus year old apparatus as a frontline apparatus instead of substituting it out. Chief? Yes, sir. The county's paying for 60% upfront, but not doing the maintenance. That's correct. The title, is there an impact as to who holds the title? The title in that case would pertain with the company under this proposal. And that's very similar to something that Loudoun County has. They have a similar funding scheme. So is there some strategy to that? Or that's just a decision we make? In other words, are they more able to get grants or... I think it's a couple fold, which is, I mean, again, I think we talked about maintaining the volunteer funding. Right now we get between 2.3 to $2.8 million worth of volunteer funding, fundraising that's gone through, that the companies raise. The idea is to keep skin in the game, basically with the apparatus. And so there are efforts in terms of being able to support their company and be able to be ownership of the apparatus would be how to fall together. Obviously, if they were to, for some reason, cease to exist, that would default back to the county as ownership. And one quick follow up question. The 60% you buy a fire engine per million dollars, is that 60% a upfront $600,000 in year one? Or is that something that's been built into the operating budget over a 20 year timeframe? I think there's some details to work out on that in terms of the mechanism of buying. For instance, I mean, just as an example, in the purchase of a fire apparatus, a fire engine for certain vendors, if you cash buy a fire engine, you pay upfront to begin with, you get a not insignificant discount on that. So there would be good reason to do that approach. Even if the company was fully funding, there would be a cash purchase in general, and they would have a note payment of some sort out there. I think we would want to look at, again, with the investment of the county, we'd want to look at doing something collaboratively with the company so that it fed it in a reasonable way. And then we'd want to look at the reimbursement to make sure that it happened. Thank you. Yes. There would be a written agreement then between the volunteer station and the county so that if, for instance, a station does go defunct, then the assets of the equipment and such would revert to the county, I presume? That's correct. Yep, absolutely. And in the history, the stations haven't always wanted to purchase the same equipment. Standardization has been a goal from the county's perspective. So this 60% in would give us control or a vote at the very least of moving more towards standardization. Yeah, I'd probably stay away from control in terms of negotiation, but I think, yes. I've watched politics from time to time. But I think, yes. Well, we have an interest in standardization. Yes, it is the interest in the standard, which is. And I think, again, I think universally there's an understanding of the need to move towards that. Again, there are differences in various locations of the county of Georgia. Sure, some by brush fires and some by... And I think, again, to the point, which is, I think the goal, and I think that, having talked to all the board members, the interest in making sure the companies are able to sustain and continue their contribution, because it is not insignificant. I talked in terms about 2.2, 2.3, 2.8 millions. They also, they are eligible for other types of funds that come in that make that number higher. So if the county were to do that, if the county were to have to assume that entire responsibility, that would be another significant hole pretty quickly. I have a question. Who's going to spec the truck? The county paid staff or the volunteer? It could be collaborative. Okay. You talked about the 2.3 to 2.8 in funding. Those their funds raised or those funds that, because the county sends millions of dollars. Those were directly raised by the company. So that does not include the first service, DMV, all the fees that go out the door, insurance costs and everything. Yes, that's correct. So that would be the first out engines, which is a significant piece. Special service apparatus, which are your aerial trucks, which now run between 2.2 to $4 million. Rescue squads, rescue engines, which are your specialty pieces, hazmat apparatus pieces. That was an example of all that you're going to get and when are those going to.олько that was mentioned in some of these small small details, and that's just to lay out a couple of opportunities for individuals to take part in the Love three projects. For oks riktie officers. And for your infrastructure and all the other things, that's going to be a element of that one. A family accident or maybe the loss of living care projects. Yeah. And that's for so to clarify. Yeah. This is just a couple of things that I just want to highlight process? Yeah, that would go through the procurement process. Yes, absolutely. Brush tucks and attack, which are lower value, lower dollar values, would be the 60-40 percent split. And we have another significant change is looking at tankers. Tankers are a shared asset. They're individually provided by companies, but they come together as a group to go serve all the different areas of the county. As you'll see, the age of our tankers are, by the time we get around to replacing them, we will be all excess of 30 years. And the reason is, frankly, an ability to pay. Under this proposal, we would recommend 100 percent, county assume 100 percent of the cost of the vehicles and retain ownership and repair and maintenance responsibility over time. So what if the county ends up paying 70, 80, 90 percent, somewhere between the 60 and 100, because the local company has trouble raising 40 percent? I think, again, subject to discussion and different things, I think the, we actually had one company ask whether if they wanted to pay more than their 40 percent, and I assured them that would be well welcomed. But I think there's a decision to be made based on, I think we've used it as an ownership threshold. If that makes sense. Accepted. 60 percent, you said. Yes. So, The local station, we're getting style at 100 percent. I'm just wondering in between, or is that just something we would take up if it occurred? If they pay less than 40 percent, they don't get the ownership stake, and that's their motivation to pay the 40 percent. That would be the theory. Yeah. Okay. So I wouldn't preclude the ability to do it, but it would, again, as a proposal, I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. Yeah. I think it's a good idea. Yeah. So that's how it's proposed. Is there any incentive for them to come up with more than 40 percent? Have we thought through a strategy? Oh, for more, there was companies that asked that question of different things, and I think some of it has to do with pride and ownership, and some of it has to do with different things. I would say for the vast majority, that would be a tall order for many of them. And so that would be the last one. Okay. So the last one is the tankers and the final piece is the reserve apparatus, and this is a piece I want to kind of draw a highlight to. So, for instance, right now, multiple companies have additional apparatus that they've maintained. On the historical assumption if their one apparatus went down, they had to be singularly responsible to replace that. What we've been moving towards is to have shared apparatus. The challenge that creates then is that, so I'll give a very particular example, North Mountain right now has a second ambulance. And their call volume is such that for a first out, for their principal responsibilities, they really only need to be staffed with one ambulance, but they've kept one historically because they have one in reserve for themselves in case something will happen. They have graciously allowed that to be used throughout the county. But in fact, over the last six to eight months, it's essentially not been at North Mountain. It has been used by all the other companies, taken care of, filling in for other companies for apparatus that's out of service for one. Our goal, I talked about that, is to have common reserve apparatus that the county would be responsible for. It would again be 100% funded. What I'll say on that is, is that while there'll be some upfront costs over time, what would happen is we would not get new apparatus for the most part, as we did with some of the reserve apparatus. We would get apparatus used by the companies that had, that are being replaced at their normal regular schedule, which would still have reserve life potentially, would enroll into that responsibility, which would reduce the overall cost that we need to have to fund them in the future. Mr. Chair, I mean, so in that scenario then, would the county purchase it or just assume ownership of, you know, In most cases, which is because there'd be some value, the values are, I mean, significantly reduced. So for instance, And then would the value, who would the value be? Would the value be transferred to at that 60-40 rate to the station? Again, I think in the example, which is for instance, say there was an, let's say five years down the road, there was an ambulance that still had life, useful life, and it had moved. They were going to the normal replacement cycle and had life as reserve. The transaction would likely be at a fraction of the purchase price the county would pay the company, which they could use as a down payment basically to go towards the, To use it to the 40. Yeah. And so we're keeping the money sort of in the family as opposed to Going someplace else. And if, turn to the next slide, sort of the little, the details. A little hard to see probably, but in fiscal year 25-26, which is the one at hand, on the replacement schedule was engine 21 and engine 13. Those are frontline engines both for Millwood and Clearbrook. Tankers 16, 19, and 14, which is Gainesboro, North Mountain, and Gore. And then ambulance 16-2, which is additional ambulance at Gainesboro. So it would fall into that reserve category. You can look at the ages of the tankers. By the time we would get receipt in November, there's at least probably a two-year lag from ordering to receiving. All of those apparatus would be north of 30 years old when they're being replaced. Just showing you. So it's the magnitude of the challenge we're under. And similarly with the engines, all the engines would be well past 20 years old as frontline apparatus. And I presume these would be added to our matrix that we analyze that every year and the Board has an update. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. And then. Okay. Okay. So we're going to go in through time. Obviously, there's a bubble the first several years. Again, we've done this to. Much like I spoke before about I could ask for you tomorrow for 80 positions, but we couldn't get them all in and process them. And that would be a big number. We were working with the companies to prioritize the particular apparatus being switched out and try to keep it in a fairly consistent number, a manageable number. But it does decrease over time. Obviously, there's gaps because the vehicle expectations, ambulances have a typically an eight to 10 year lifespan, frontline lifespan depending on usage. Engines would have 15 typically frontline usage and tankers are closer. I have to go back to our matrix, but go further out on that. So this would not. There's a bubble to get the things. We're fortunate. And many of the companies were able to. By virtue of insurance money. And fuel money be able to make substantial payments though. They have. They have outstanding debt. On many of the frontline. Engines that we have in service right now. So many of them have switched over. Our special services apparatus or what's really coming to turn. Ambulances are a constant constant churn. And the tankers are obviously in a critical moment in terms of where they are on the line. So you see that number come down. There's a little bit of bell curve. That's not such a bell curve. It's. It's higher in the first 3 years and starts to reduce after that. Can you talk about a comparable lab and county. Contract of how this equipment is done. Do they also have a same scale as far as revenue recovery and that sort of thing as far as distribution? I mean, I think. I think. I think. I'm going to call it a I think it would be. I mean, if we're going to do ratios in one area, I think we need to make sure we're being consistent in the other areas as far as the. So, I don't know. I can't answer authoritatively on the. I think it would be. I mean, if we're going to do ratios in one area, I think we need to make sure we're being consistent in the other areas, as far as the. I mean, in terms of. Yes. I mean. far as the recoveries and for life and all the different resources. I mean, it's something I think I would want to look at. Yeah, and I think that's a very good point. I think that's also the piece where I think that was a consideration of the plan in the sense of right now there is outstanding debt for the companies to get through to be able to do and the dramatic disruption of the funding streams would be complicated and a problem. So I think it's a thing that, and I know it's one of the things we've discussed and taken a look at, is how that would play out a thing. I think if you were able to put this stake in the road, that would make that discussions much more straightforward. I dropped these numbers, and once again, this is just a model, just a tool to give you an idea of magnitude, what impact. But this is just... Those numbers right from a deep shark county's portion dropping into the capital fund balance projections. It's not a recommendation to take the money from there, et cetera. It's just an idea to give you what that looks like over a time span. Mr. Chair, if I may, just, I know I talk every meeting on this one, but as a reminder, that is less ordinary capital. Less... Potential debt service for school. You found less potential now, new fire plan and rescue, and then any other category that comes. And we're looking at 2030, so I think that's a concern from the board. And I am going to, as I stated, we're going to go over that. It's also what I need to drop. And when you look at your five years, you also have to look at the fact that from the fiscal year 29, fiscal year 30. You're going to be hit with an additional $11 million in debt and additional, if memory's certainly right, 12 million. So that doesn't even contemplate those numbers. So when we come to the next meeting, it's to give everybody here an idea of what you're looking at over five years. I only put these in this model. It's not like a complete picture. It's just a... This is the impact of those type of numbers is the idea behind this model. Agreed. I may, Mr. Chair. Speak out of turn, but my concern about it being included in this way is that these numbers are what's shared when the board is making decisions around tax rates. And so I think it leads the board to have inclinations in one way or the other based upon the information that's shared. Thank you. I agree. This chart has driven our long range thinking as much as anything else. And if I'm not, I hadn't planned on going into this, but do have a few more minutes. And here's a key distinction. I think it's to remember from a financial governmental financial standpoint, when you have this capital fund balance, it's what this board set it aside many years ago. So they didn't have money to purchase capital. And that's why this was created. But from a accounting standpoint, government. Finance and standpoint, what this fund is, is unreserved fund balance. And not only that, you also have an additional 3% that's not accounted for that's separate. So when you look at your fund balance, you have your, uh, 17%, which is your emergency funding that's recommended by the, uh, government finance accounting board. Everything subsequent to that is unreserved fund balance, which has no legal, uh, restriction on it. And this. This board has not put any legal restrictions. So that is the source of funding. When your government, when you're looking to pay for other items and there, and it can be used to balance the budget size, but that's what it's called from a government financial association. So let me just make one comment. Common is from an operational budget. We need to increase revenue. I mean, that's a statement of fact. Um, this capital fund balance. If our operational budget becomes tight next two, three, four years, I think you're going to say, well, we'll postpone transportation for this year. We're going to postpone your fire rescue for this year. We're going to postpone various items for this year to, to special that out right now. This is projected to go to a negative, you know, we have 0.30. We've seen this in previous years as well. We're always, you know, balanced out. But for example, last year we took transportation two years ago, transportation was $8 million. Then it went to six point something. Last year was 3.2, partly to balance the budget. This year it's a seven and I've made the application for 14. We as a county need to figure out how to go and increase revenue, whether it's impact fees, whether it's a 1% sales tax, which the voters get to choose, whether it's, um, you know, change from property so that three landowners don't use the same 5% differential in the school's built, say it's a 5% capacity. And collectively they're going to go over the 100%, but individually they don't. So these numbers don't include the coming debt service increase, right? These are just projections based on. Correct. But I've actually done a separate chart where I have included in there your increase. Just assume that this is your base year. So I also toss in there those years further out where you have an increase in your debt service. As I stated, I believe it's, I think in 28, it's like three. And then it goes up to 11 million. So there was a significant years in that debt service for a period of about five years starting in 29. But we're going to be bringing all that information to the next meeting. So Supervisor Dunn, you mentioned this fund is partly a resource. If budget gets tight, I think, but I think budget already is tight. We're drawing out of this fund to meet the budget and we have debts coming, debt service companies coming. So now obviously there's the spending side. We would have to constrain there. We don't want to raise taxes and that could be imminent. Any other comments? We have our meeting at 13 minutes. Well, I appreciate all the conservative nature of that discussion that was going on. I would just point out that 9 million rollover fund balance in F. F. F. F. Y. 30 is a much smaller percentage of the total budget than it is to do it this year. So it's good that that's a conservative flat line. But I would point out that that will hopefully, I hate to use the word hopefully, hopefully grow over time. Well, I don't know if any of us were here. Maybe a few supervisors, the last recession, or remember it anyway. And things like that can happen as well. which upends the whole game. I'm told. I wasn't here then. Mr. Chairman, I have a question. From February 19th, the capital expenses were $7.3 million. Is that because this fire and rescue has now been brought out as its own capital expenditure? No, that was several other items that were pulled out of the budget. Okay, so they've been, because the projection today is, I mean, we're much worse than we were February 19th. That's just the one I have in my hand, but the $7.3 you say you've cut, but that does not, because that one also did not include the $3.5 for fire and rescue. Yeah, these were the items that were cut out of the original capital, the $7 million, these items right there. Which was presented in? Yes. Okay. All right, thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions? I have a comment. So I want to talk about the rollover for a second. So as your budget increases, you will have to retain more in that fund balance. So the rollover could possibly be less because you're only doing the amount that exceeds. In addition to that, we had this unanswered discussion. We keep having about how the capital fund is everything over 20%. The reserve fund is up to 17%. Do we have a decision to make soon to just make that simpler for everyone and just say everything over 17% is going to be accounted for in the capital fund? That's obviously a policy decision. I will be, I've actually done some of the charts where I've shown you those numbers, taken that out to give you a better idea and just shown you as a point of calling it straightforward. So the rollover is going to be less. I want to talk about the rollover for a second. So as your budget increases, you will have to retain more in that fund balance. So as your budget increases, you will have to retain more in that fund balance. The board, I believe, my understanding is the reason they kept that 3% non-call-and-float was because, you know, you have your 17% for dire emergencies. The 3% was for your small emergencies, i.e., we need $2 million for this this year, and you had your 3%. So it was sort of like your mad money or, I don't know, a better way to describe it. Those things that were unexpected, a revenue shortfall. A revenue shortfall. If you weren't in a year reassessment, that would eat up your 3%. It has confused us in the past. We could just put that into the capital fund, maybe rename the capital fund as you suggested. The board can define that any way they so choose. And just in case, just from a government accounting, most people, some people may or may not know this. Your reserve fund balance that you're set aside is a common practice established by GFO. The standard practice for counties is about two months. That's why you get the 17%. Boards are allowed to use those monies. The criteria is it has to be an unusual emergency. And if you do use that money, when you use it, you need to have a plan to replace it in the very short term. So that's what the reserve fund balance is. It's for those dire emergencies, you know, super bad floods or such where you don't have any revenues coming in for a period of time. It can fill that gap. And the only time you use it is. So it's really bad emergencies. And you establish a plan to pay back that money as soon as possible. So if there's a big recession next year, we're not in an assessment year. We could cut spending, raise tax rates. We can't change the assessment schedule. Or we could draw into that fund in a situation like that. You can draw on that fund. I mean, the board actually determines what that emergency is. But with good practices, generally recession would generally be. An argument for an emergency. But a depression, maybe it'd be the magnitude of the financial crisis. So those bond rating companies look at those policies and look at those fund balance amounts. And they have positive benefits in your rating when you keep those percentages in check. You start cash flowing out of your capital fund. Bond cost is going to drive you right off the edge. Not only that, a lot of bonds will require you to maintain certain levels. If you borrow money on the open market, they will say, you must maintain this level. Any other questions or should we get ready for our meeting? All right. Do we need to consensus adjourn or do I just push us all away? We're adjourned.
