Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-05-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=91
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Also, of course, Renaissance Drive and Redbud Road I've already mentioned. Moving on to the non-hard surface road improvement projects that have been scheduled. We have no projects promoted this year. That's due to funding restrictions from VDOT and largely resulting from the COVID-19 crisis. As many of us know, there were revenue impacts on the state. Statewide, VDOT took a very large hit. So I really feel rather fortunate that most of these projects have remained on schedule. Hollow Road is underway right now. They're still finishing the drainage and that sort of thing. But that's going to be the first project you see paved. And the reason you don't even see that one on your map is because it doesn't even have any new funds this year and in the coming years of the plan. That's why you don't see it in this version of the plan. However. You do see Laurel Grove Road. That's the other one. The final phase of Laurel Grove Road that's going to be completed this year. That remains on schedule. At the only point at which you see changes to your advertisement dates from last year's plan are the last three projects on the plan. Each of those have had their advertisement date moved out one further year from what they were previously. So if you see a project has a year 2026 advertising date, which I think is what's next to Canterburg Road there in your plan. Last year that was 2025. So you do see that impact of the revenue issues. Moving on to the non hard surface road improvement projects, the unscheduled list. There are no new additions this year. However, I must note that right before the Transportation Committee came, we did receive a petition from some folks on Germany Road that wanted a segment of that paved. As that was considered at the Transportation Committee. However, with how late it came in. And just. More questions that came up. Particularly as whether that segment was appropriate or even doing a greater segment made more sense. The decision was made to let's just sit on that one until next year's update. There's really no material impact to letting it wait since no projects were being promoted. Anyway, the scores you see in your document next to those unscheduled projects are as they were last year because consistent with. Board. Projects. And the policy we only go through the re ranking process when projects are actually able to be promoted. Finally, as I've already noted, the Transportation Committee has already considered this item at their April 26 meeting. They have recommended Board of Supervisors approval. We're seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors from the Planning Commission as well. And as you've already noted, this is a public hearing item. Take any questions you may have as well. Thanks, sir. Any questions? You may have answered this, but when did you say crossover Boulevard is going to be scheduled to open September? The contract completion date is September 10th of this year. We've remained very confident of that. Frankly, if the asphalt plants weren't running a little behind right now, I believe we could finish it significantly sooner. But, you know, we're subject to the conditions that exist around us. But frankly, we were so far ahead already that it's really not going to impact. In terms of potentially missing our date. So that's the contract completion date. When it would actually open to traffic is not certain yet. It would be shortly after, though, once we basically once VDOT accepts it. Other questions? Thank you. This is a public hearing. At this time, I'll open a public hearing. Anyone would like to come forward to speak on the road plan that's been presented before us? Anyone? Seeing no one, I'll close the public hearing. And if there's no further questions, I'll entertain a motion. Mr. Chairman, I move that we recommend approval of the primary road improvement plan for 2021-2022. I so second. And I'll start the vote. Mr. Oates. Mr. Oates. Mr. Oates. Yes. Kozell. Yes. Jewell. Yes. Marston. Yes. Emanuel. Yes. Kline. Yes. Thomas. Yes. Strickland. Yes. Yes. Dawson. Yes. Morrison. Yes. Molden. Yes. And the chair votes yes. This was approved. It'll go to a public hearing for the board of supervisors on May 12th this year. It's the next week. Now, before I move forward, and I hate to hold you up. But I skipped one item on my agenda, which was citizen comments. And I did not open the floor to anyone who would like to come forward with citizen comments to anything that's not on this agenda. So at this time, citizen comments. Anybody like to come forward? No big rush. We'll close citizen comment portion. So sorry, Mr. Chair. I had a little housekeeping there. We have before now an information discussion item. It's an ordinance amendment in the agricultural supply cooperatives in the R.A. Zone District. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. As you pointed out, this is a proposed ordinance amendment to add agricultural supply cooperatives as a conditional use permit in the R.A. Zone District. The amendments are proposed tonight, or actually I should say, proposed tonight are three areas for information there in discussion. It's the proposed definition of our agricultural supply cooperatives. Number two is supplemental use regulations pertaining to the use. And then number three, the inclusion. And then number four, the inclusion of the agricultural supply cooperatives in the R.A. Zone District with a conditional use permit. This came about, I think, this body about two years ago. We were looking, and when I say we, I mean the county was looking at uses in the rural area districts. Some of those uses were thought to be, lack of a better word, heavy intensive. So staff was directed by the Board of Supervisors to look at the. Use of the conditional use. The use that we had that we had was manufacturing of feed and farm supplies. It inadvertently got taken out of the ordinance and was found out that we don't have a wholesale, if you will, sort of like a cooperative in Frederick County. So tonight, for this information discussion, this was brought back through the DRC to move forward. And with that, Mr. Chairman. Basically, we have a definition of the agricultural cooperatives, which is established as primarily engaged in retail or wholesale or distribution of livestock and animal feed, fertilizer, agriculture, chemicals, pesticides, seeds, other agricultural products and services. Again, real simple. It's just to serve our agriculture community. It is under a conditional use permit in the R.A. Zoning District. Again, gives us a little bit of control, if you will, of what areas it would be in. And what we would add on the conditions. And furthermore, we added supplementary regulations. And again, supplementary regulations, as you know, in your zoning ordinance, that we have in a lot of our conditional use permits or other uses are additional performance standards we may put on. And those are the sale of agriculture and garden machinery shall be permitted as an accessory use. One of the reasons for that was we've got that. I'm going to throw it out. Winchester. I'm going to throw it out. We kind of wanted to limit it to give you an opportunity for a farmer user or landowner to go there to get smaller equipment but not have the full retail sales there or like Auburn equipment, if you will, the two bigger ones we have in the county. We also was added B, repair of agricultural machinery and equipment shall be permitted. Again, if these things are not just in one area. But let's say you have a lot of equipment. Let's say anywhere in the county would happen if you're going to bring some equipment there to get fixed. Not a garage. Not a public garage. Kind of limited that to look at. Number three, the retail sale of fuel shall be prohibited. But the sale of propane or off-road diesel fuel shall be permitted as an accessory use. And again, there was a concern that if you had, if I could go or just general public could go to get. Fuel that would almost make like a gas station service stations. We took out of the R. A. This allows though off-road diesel, which mostly agriculture uses are again propane also. And D was a safe plan should be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to establishment use. That's a normal condition. We do put on some conditional use permits that come in front of you all. And then E, we added the B to zoning district standards apply, including not limited to the building height, building setbacks, parking setbacks, bus, etc. Buffering screening and landscaping. Again, most of our use of that we do use that the reconditional use permit. That's a supplemental to come on there that you would see normally through a conditional use permit. And finally, the development review regulations subcommittee or DRC discussed this item at their meeting on the on April 22nd, 2021. And the DRC agreed with the tax amendment, minor modification and forwarded to the planning commission for discussion. Again, Mr. Chairman, this is. Zoning ordinance tax amendment presented the planning commission for discussion. Any comments will be forwarded the board of supervisors at their next meeting for turnaround. Does any questions with chairman? I shall be able to hopefully to answer them for you. And any questions for Mr. Chairman? Any discussion? Mr. Marston. Mark, I question your fuel sale business here. We got to be careful because we got to remember that. Um. Fuel sales. Ethanol is a farmer based product and ethanol is I know the Stephen City store that I was acquainted with sells a tremendous amount of fuel. Of gasoline fuel types. Being ethanol and non ethanol and a lot of your farm equipment uses those products and they use a lot of the non ethanol in their chainsaws. And I just question why that would be. Limited in fuel sales. Well, again, Mr. Morrison, we're looking at and obviously if we have to look for any suggestion amendment on the discussion was to to limit a if you will, a service station or a full understand. Yeah, so I. Not gonna lie to you. Not familiar with farm equipment. That's fine. Well, that's what we limited to the propane or off fuel diesel. I know they do use that, but it concerns me that I could say as an always. Uh. Is an agriculture based corn product and and I know, like I say, at the Stephen City store where we we used to have fuel at Steve. It's Winchester store for years, but they use farmers uses a lot of gasoline. As well as off road and on road diesel. So I just make that suggestion. Sir. All right. Anyone else? Mr. Thomas. Why did we limit the maintenance of farm equipment or prohibit the. Farm equipment maintenance. With the looking at as a whole Mr. Thomas was that the we don't want to have, like I said, the public garage and things of that nature because that could lead into outdoor storage and things of that nature. This will be the wholesale as I pointed out the two heavy machinery operations we have now, and that was the only reason why it was added there. Anyone else? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks, Sir. Appreciate it. This also will go to the board of supervisors on the May 12th meeting next week. Thanks, Sir. We're down to that all famous other portion of our meeting. And I do have one thing under other. I do know that we have a meeting coming up on the 19th. So, everybody put that on your calendars. But also, I will make a brief announcement. Bear with me. About two weeks ago, I reached out to our chairman of the board of supervisors who's and to the supervisor of the Gainesburg District, to which I live, to inform them that my decision to step down at the end of this year from planning commission and associated committees and also from your chairman, as your chairman. I do this to allow me to concentrate more fully on my full-time job and my family moving forward. It's not a decision I made lightly, but it is one I had to make. I informed them so early so they could be looking for a replacement in the Gainesburg District for me, and you guys can be thinking about who you want to be your next chairman. I will try to be here to the end of the year. I did have to do some hard thinking, but I will continue to help in any way with our new director, Mr. Pearson, and any request he may have that he needs my help on as he transitions into his new position. And I do thank you for allowing me to do this, and hopefully I can be here to the end of the year unless the situation changes where I'm employed. So. Thank you. So that's the end of the other segment. At this time, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. Do I have a second? Second. All those in favor? Aye. We're adjourned.
