Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-04-21
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=89
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First item that we have upcoming is adoption of our agenda. If there's no changes to the agenda that's presented before us tonight, I'll accept a motion to approve the agenda as stand. I move. Second. And all those in favor say aye. Aye. The agenda is approved. We move right into committee reports. And I'll go to Mr. Marston with the Frederick Water Report. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Frederick Water Board of Directors met last night, April the 20th at 5 p.m. Item number one, they approved their financial year 2022 budget. The Frederick Water Board of Directors approved an $80.4 million budget. This budget captures operations and capital costs with the largest component of the budget associated with constructing the new handover. The Hebdo water industry, however, suffers since itsütfenunuzdegeification. opioid lándings, and revenues in the zweiten half of this year's minimum income for drug users are $8.〜50 СпubBM. So that amount has now too much to say, Mr. Russo. Anda. So fork? Disconnection of delinquent residential accounts. The Frederick Water Board approved use of an exemption to the state disconnection moratorium. This exemption recognizes that delinquent accounts past due now exceed 1% of the operations budget. This exemption will enable Frederick Water to begin disconnecting those residential accounts that are delinquent. Disconnection will begin mid-May. Notice and information will be distributed in an effort to bring accounts into good standing and to avoid disconnections. If an account is disconnected for being delinquent, past due accounts will need to be paid in full before the water service will be restored and reconnected. And then we go into the March operations report. Consumer basis is 18,000, is over 18,000 connections. The monthly water production average is 6.5 million gallons per day. Quarries stay in excellent shape. Water production, the James H. Deal plant at three and a half million gallons per day. James T. Anderson plant at 2.36 million gallons per day. And purchase from the city of Winchester, 0.654 million gallons per day. Rainfall in March was one and a quarter inches, down from February's 3.21 inches. And Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report. Thank you, Mr. Marston. If you would stay on top, we'll go right to your CPPC, our Comp Plan Committee report. Yes, thank you. The Comp Incheon Plan and Programs Committee met Monday, April the 12th, and as you, most of you know, we're continuing to update our five-year update on the Comp Incheon Plan. This last meeting we reviewed the plan draft section review part two, section two, rural areas, section three, residential development, and section seven, natural resources. And then we also went to Normal Planning and Development Act 2017, section four, and it is at the moneyless record as the end of the gourmet, over time.z floor. Please give us percent. If you are not familiar with this program, there's a collection of AHP subjects, category lists to culturally-based existing fits. The first thing you need to note is that in addition to those Tex-to-Mex Peltséquins<|cs|> so if you bear with me I'll say that she welcomes everyone she had one public hearing item at their April meeting was a short-term rental CUP and involved the first ever request for an approval of a short-term rental Airbnb in our LLR district the most restrictive district too much consideration the Commission decided to table the item to move to fully consider the scope and conditions that may apply to those rentals and residential districts additionally they we reviewed the annual capital improvement plan their CIP and focus on replacing water and sewer lines which anyone has drove through Winchester realizes that's an ongoing project we and they reviewed their planning and zoning 2020 annual report trends are all in good condition and they remain busy good direction so that's on that and I'll go to my last liaison mr. Staggmeyer do you have a report for sir or would you like not a report but I would like to thank the Planning Commission for the and the rest of the floor. work session that we just had on a very important issue. You'll notice that, and thank you for the invitation to the Board of Supervisors, five of whom were in attendance today. So I think we had a good airing of the issue, and hopefully we'll be able to come together with some sort of a constructive response in the future. Thank you. Thanks, sir, and we appreciate your all's attendance there. And I hope I didn't miss anybody on committee reports, so I think I caught everybody that's here. So moving on from committee reports, we'll go into our citizen comment portion. This is a portion of our meeting where you can come before us to speak to any item that's not on our agenda tonight. So anything that you have on your mind you'd like to speak to us, please come forward, state your name and Massachusetts District, and come forward. Seeing no one, we'll close the citizen comment portion. We'll go right into our first public hearing item, and it's for the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District addition. Mr. Cherin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a request to add one parcel totaling 27.27 acres to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District. This district is located within the Back Creek Magisterial District. It currently contains 6,849.42 acres. It is generally located along Cedar Creek and Middle Road and Marble Road and Hines Road. It's one of our biggest ag and forestal districts. This request for the addition of the 27.26 acres would increase the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District to a total of 6,921.68 acres. If I could turn your attention, Mr. Chairman, to the map to the left, there's the aerial photograph of the property, and the property is circled. That meets the intent. The location of the Ag and Forestal District regulations is within a mile of the Ag and Forestal District. This is the property that will be taken in to platte. With no, it's a little bigger. As you can see also on the aerial, it's the bottom properties that are actually being taken in to consolidation. With that, Mr. Chairman, the Agricultural District Advisory Committee, or ADAC, an announced me recommended approval of this parcel to be added to the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District. At the and for the addition to the 2020-2025 Agroforestry District after meeting March 31st, 2021. And this is, as usual, we have some folks that come in late after. We reviewed this, I think, February at the Board of Supervisors. This district will last, even though it was taken in 2021, it will run to 2025 for renewal. With that, Mr. Chairman, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors on this requested addition. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Chairman? Thanks, sir. This is a public hearing item. This time I open a public hearing. Anybody would like to come forward and speak to or against this item? But it's a public hearing, so please come forward. State your name and Massachusetts District. Seeing no rush of anyone, I'll close the public hearing. We'll go right into any questions again for anyone on our, my commissioners. Hearing no one, I'll accept a motion. Mr. Chairman, I make a motion that we accept this PC04-2120 South Frederick District Commission. Second. I have a motion and I have a second. And I'll start the vote. Mr. Muller. Holden. Muller, yes. Morrison, yes. Austin, yes. Triplett, yes. Amish, yes. Kline, yes. Cozell, yes. Marston, yes. Jewell, yes. And the Chair votes yes. It goes, this item was approved. It will go to the Board of Supervisors for public hearing on May 12, 2021. Thank you. Moving right on to our next item. We have two items in our information discussion items. First is the Master Development Plan. Number 03-21 for Cincinnati Village. Mr. Kline. Yes. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is Master Development Plan 03-21 for Cincinnati Village. And this is a proposal to develop 107 single-family detached cluster units and approximately 126 single-family attached townhome units on 73.79 acres of land zoned RP residential performance at a density of approximately 1.5 million acres. The property is subject to this Master Development Plan. The property is subject to this Master Development Plan. We're part of rezoning application 1306, which was approved in November 2006 with proffers. And the approved proffer statement allows up to 285 dwelling units, excluding garden apartments, which are not part of this application. Directing your attention to the screen, the subject properties are outlined in blue. They are south of Cincinnati Road, which is at the top of your screen here, and just to the west of the boundary with Clark County. It is also south, immediately south of the Glenmont Village subdivision. Here's Glenridge Drive. And at the current entrance to this property is from the current terminus of Rossum Lane. You'll also notice that future Route 37 bypass also crosses the property on the eastern portion of the property. This Master Development Plan includes 233 units over two phases, again, 107 single-family detached. Cluster units and 126 single-family attached townhome units. Two points of access and interactivity are proposed for Cincinnati Village. One is the extension of Rossum Lane from Cincinnati Road. And a second point of access will be a future road known as Royce Drive, and that will be accessed through the Glenmont Village subdivision from Glenridge Drive. Future Route 37 bypass right-of-way dedication was a proffered improvement and is shown on that Master Development Plan. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Phase one includes single-family detached units and also a cluster of townhome units in the center of the property. And then again, phase two includes a townhome development at the southern portion of the property. Staff would note that the application includes the proffered right-of-way dedication for Route 37, which is just this little hashed area here. At the time the proffers were approved, it included dedication only with the 1992 alignment for Route 37. The future alignment of Route 37 is shown here. Which is this outline, which is slightly to the west of the proffered. It's shown on the master development plan for purposes of noting that it could have a potential impact on the development in the future. The master development plan for Cincinnati Village is in conformance with the requirements of Article 8 of the zoning ordinance for master development plans. And it is in a form that is administratively approvable. I would also note that the master development plan is in conformance with the approved proffers with the Cincinnati Village rezoning, number 03. And this item is presented to the Planning Commission for information. No action is required by the Planning Commission. And following presentations to the Planning Commission, the Board of Supervisors, staff will proceed with administrative approval of this master development plan. And I'm, of course, happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you. It is just an information discussion. Anybody got any questions for the applicant? I mean, for Mr. Klein? I went out there and looked at this. The topography is very severe. This property here. And you're saying we access this off of Rossum? And what's the other? How else are they going? Could you mind going back to that just real quick? Yes, sir. So, again, for orientation, Rossum Lane is here. And there's a proposed extension of Rossum Lane. And then you have your internal street network, which loops around in Phase 1 and Phase 2. And then a second point of access is a new road proposed known as Royce Drive, which will connect to Glen Ridge Drive in the Glenmont Village subdivision. You are correct. It does have a fairly significant. It's a slope. And you can see there is a stream channel here and a riparian buffer that kind of crosses the western portion of the site. And it all slopes up. The development slopes down towards the riparian buffer on both of those. And obviously the homes would be on the high parts of that ridge. Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, Mr. Jewell. What about, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tyler? What about this 37? I mean, looking at this, does this impact if, in fact, it ever did happen with 37? I mean, it looks like this 37 is running right next to a townhouse or a home or something. The current alignment of Route 37 could have a significant impact on the development if it were to develop in the future. It's noted on the plans. However, the way that the rezoning was proffered, it was very specific to the 1992 alignment, which was slightly to the east. So, if you look at the west of the current alignment, again, you only end up with this little right-of-way dedication here. And that future 37 alignment is actually this wider swath that's to the west of the proffered area. So, they can go ahead and build then if 37 comes through? They could proceed with construction. Again, we had them note on the master development plan what that potential impact is. But unfortunately, with it not being proffered, we can only have them show it. That is why we再做那个阻力, and questions that you asked me previously, but they are going back to that and telling everybody the real plan first, and then suddenly take all of it away. So, I agree with dolphin- oncologist. with plastic slats to satisfy the screening requirements for certain types of buffers and outdoor storage areas allowed in the ordinance. This was a request for a Texas amendment that was initiated by a citizen and business owner of the county through their Board of Supervisors representative. And the zoning ordinance defines opaque fence as a fence that is constructed to visually obscure structures, outdoor storage areas, and other uses. A chain link fence with slats shall not constitute an opaque fence, and that's contained in the current definition. The opaque fence requirement is also referenced in a number of other sections of the zoning ordinance. It's referenced in our outdoor storage and processing in part 202, our buffer and screening requirements in part 203, landfills, junkyards, trash disposal, and inoperable vehicles and dumpster enclosures in part 204, and storage facilities self-service in part 204 as well. In satisfying the requirements for an opaque fence in the above sections of the ordinance, a six foot tall, board on board fence, hedge, wall, or berm is typically required and has been allowed, or been required as part of the zoning ordinance. For outdoor storage areas in business and industrial districts, chain link is typically the preferred type of fence sought by applicants on site plans for security purposes. For zoning district buffers and residential separation buffers, which separate differing zoning districts or differing types of residential homes, an opaque element is required as part of the zoning ordinance. For outdoor storage areas in business and industrial districts, a six foot tall, wall, fence, hedge, or berm is typically required as part of the screen between adjoining properties. And the elements for filling the screen, full screen buffer include landscape plantings, plus a six foot tall opaque wall, fence, hedge, or berm. When the request came in, we worked with the Development Review and Regulations Committee to amend the definition of part 101 for opaque fence, and this is the amended definition. The changes are highlighted and underlined in yellow. We're defining now an opaque fence as a fence, that is constructed to visually obscure structures, outdoor storage areas, and other uses, removing the prohibition of chain link. And then we're adding a requirement for chain link fence that would be a chain link fence with slats with a privacy factor of 90% or greater, may be utilized to satisfy the opaque fence requirements, except for opaque fencing utilized for road efficiency buffers. Chain link fencing with slats shall only use double walled wing slats or equivalent approved by the zoning administrator, in the following colors, dark green, brown, tan, or black, and the use of wood slats or plastic slats without interlocking wings and double walls is prohibited. The use of opaque vinyl tarping over chain link fence shall not constitute an opaque fence. And I do have a sample of the slats, we'll pass those around as we continue to go through the definition, but this is what a double walled wing type slat looks like. It's composite plastic material, they can come in various colors, and they have a fairly long lifespan, and you can see on the outside is these flat panels with ridges and they kind of interlock, and we'll go through that as we continue to discuss this item. This is the privacy detail for opaque fence. You can see on a slight angle, they have about a 90% opacity. Straight on, they have about a 98% opacity. And on an even more severe angle, they have a 100% privacy factor. In addition to the proposed changes to the definition for opaque fence, amendments are proposed to the following sections to clean up the ordinance where we've removed that prohibition against chain link and outdoor storage and processing, we removed again that chain link fence prohibition, and in the buffering and screening requirements for efficiency buffers, we specifically prohibited chain link fencing with slats in this section of the ordinance. If the ordinance amendment was approved, chain link fencing would slap, we would remove it. SLAT would be allowed in all other situations where an opaque fence is called for. The Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item at the regular meetings on January 28th, February 25th, and March 25th, 2021. And the committee was generally supportive of the use of chain link fence with SLATs for outdoor storage and buffering and screening where certain criteria such as the type, the material, the color would be met. It was not a unanimous consensus by the committee, but again, they were generally supportive as a group. And the criteria that was identified by the committee as important is reflected in the proposed text amendment language that you all have seen previously. This zoning ordinance text amendment is presented this evening for information discussion by the Planning Commission. And comments from the Planning Commission will be forwarded to the Board of Supervisors for additional consideration. I also have several other examples if there are questions specifically about how it looks, and I can cover those if necessary. Thank you, Mr. Kline. Any questions? I know that... This was three months consecutive, I think, that we looked at this. It was a very, you know, involved discussion. Mr. Marston. Mr. Kline, I know you probably don't know, but I'm going to ask anyway. I wonder why originally they did not want this type chain link fencing back in the day with the SLATs in it. I guess it was, of course, a maintenance because those things, I've seen them back years ago, and they would come pulling out a whole 10 yards. I was just curious. I don't know if you can tell me what the difference was between the two. Yeah, so the SLATs were prohibited for quite a while in the zoning ordinance, and I believe it was related to maintenance. Typical, the products that were available in the past were flat plastic SLATs that became brittle in the sun and snap and break off, or wood SLATs that would be broken or damaged, and they just weren't durable. They didn't hold up very well. In the discussions with the committee, we did go through kind of what the current products are, which has been shared with you all. And shared in the example pictures. And it's more high quality. It's been around for 20, 25 years. Most of the product types that we looked at are guaranteed by the manufacturers. So that's where, the quality of the product is better now than it was. And this amendment request got some traction from a board member, but we received the request to allow chain link with SLATs for a number of years in various applications, primarily in our business and industrial districts. And up until now, it's been prohibited as an appropriate treatment. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate all your hard work on that. These, both of these items will go toward the board also on the May 12, 2021 agenda that they have. That brings us into our other part of our meeting. And I do know that I think we have a meeting coming up for May 5th. I'm seeing it over here. So we do have a meeting coming up. Unless there's something else, I will entertain a motion to adjourn. So moved. So moved. That's quick. I got a second. Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. We're adjourned.
