Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-12-14
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=170
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your love, your compassion, and your guidance. We pray for your peace, for peace in our world that puts faith in you to protect us from the evils that are always present. Lord, be with all of us tonight and with all those who are in harm's way, both at home and throughout the world. In Christ's name we pray to you. Amen. Amen. All stand and face the flag, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. You're welcome, sir. My pleasure. Adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I make a motion. We adopt the agenda as presented. Motion to adopt as presented. Second. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll adopt the agenda as presented. This is an opportunity for citizen comments. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All righty. We'll move on. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Motion. Second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to the Board of Supervisors' comments. Are there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I wanted to make a quick presentation to the public about the tax rebate. Yes, sir. So while he's bringing that up, I don't know about the other supervisors, but I had quite a few queries about the rebate, including are we going to get it, when is the check coming in the mail, et cetera. So I wanted to explain, again, how we did that and where you can find your exact rebate amount and convince yourself in your bill that, in fact, you did get it. Check our math for us. No, it's the – yeah, there we go. Next slide, please. So quick clarification. So there were significant tax increases in the spring on your bills. That wasn't due to our actions. Some people thought we had raised your taxes. That was due to the evaluation jumps nationally with supply chain issues, whatever drove those spikes in car values. A lot of people were upset because they're used to you buy a car and every year it depreciates in value and your tax bill goes down. This year it went up. That was despite the board making an effort to try and make sure that didn't happen. Early in 2022, we reduced the rate by about 13 percent from $4.86 per $100 in assessed value down to $4.23. I'll note that Supervisor Graber thought that wasn't enough of a reduction and he turned out to be correct. It did not fully offset the spike and your June bills did show the increase. So in the fall, we tried to – So in the fall, we tried to – So in the fall, we tried to – So in the fall, we tried to – We tried to make this right and avoid this very, very unusual – never in my lifetime have I seen it increase for the same vehicle you had year over year. But the law told us we could not lower the rate again. So instead we offered a rebate and put aside quite a bit of funds to do that. Calculations were done to try and make it neutral in the sense that it would be more what you would expect year over year. So you received new bills for your December. So you received new bills for your December. So you received new bills for your December. And if you compare it to the last year, you'll see that the rate has gone up. And if you compare it to the last year, you'll see that the rate has gone up. And if you compare it to the last year, you'll see that the rate has gone up. And if you compare it to the last year, you'll see that the rate has gone up. And if you compare it to June, you'll see that you had a reduction, but maybe you didn't keep your June bill. So I'm going to go through real quick how you can confirm the rebate you got. I do want to say that the bill you got for your fall, your second bill of the year, does not explicitly say what the county rebate was. And so that's why I'm doing this. The county has put publicly where you can see it online and find your rebate. So if you'll go to the next – page. So this is the county website, fcva.us. And you'll notice the big text right in the middle. It's not underlined, but it's a hyperlink. If you click on it, it'll download – next slide – a really big file. It'll take a minute to download, probably. And you find your account number on your December-January bill. And you can confirm which vehicle of yours it is, if you have any doubt. So you can check your rebate amounts with the last numbers of the VIN. And then it tells you what rebate you got. And it's quite a difference, depending on whether your vehicle had a big tax jump or not. So I have a newer vehicle and two older vehicles with 200,000 miles on them. So the rebate amounts were quite different between them. Next slide. So how do you check that you really got your rebate? This is a bill, and it doesn't show the county rebate. There is in the green. There's a circle there, if you can see it. Some information on a tax break. But that's the one we've been seeing for years from the state. So what you do is, if you have your June bill, and you have gone to the previous website – I don't know if you can read it, but I can make this available to anyone who wants it – for that account number, if you take the amount of rebate and you subtract that from what you expected to get. So if you look at the bill in December there from the bill on the left, that's the June bill for this vehicle, you'll see that you have a reduced tax bill to pay. That number, after you do that math, should match – if you see the red arrow, what you actually got taxed in your December bill. So that's the simple way for you to confirm that you did in fact get a rebate from the county, and how much it is. The only other thing I would note is some people were confused. If you look again, the two numbers circled in green. So if you look again, the two numbers circled in green. That confused quite a few people. It almost looks like your assessment went up. I could explain it, but I don't want to go at length any longer. It looks the same every year. It's just the artifact of how you show the December assessment and the December state tax relief. It just makes it look like there was an increase, but there wasn't. If you do the math, you'll see that you did in fact get the rebate. If anyone doesn't know, you're not going to get the rebate. If anyone doesn't find that in Shawnee, they're welcome to contact me. If you live in another district, please call a different supervisor or the county directly. But that's it. I just wanted to make sure, because we're going to get a lot of questions, that you did get a rebate from the county, and we're very happy to do that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other comments? Anyone? All right. We'll move on. This is a discussion of draft revisions to Chapter 48. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I don't know if the Board would like just a brief explanation. I think it's in the memo, but this was something the Board directed me to do earlier this year. Specifically regarding the barking ordinance, the issue there was is that it was attempting to prohibit barking that caused unreasonable noise. Some years ago, the Supreme Court agreed to prohibit barking. I don't know if you can see it. I don't know if you can see it. The Board of Virginia ruled that an ordinance that purports to regulate unreasonable noise does not meet constitutional muster for being specific enough. And I know that we've continued to receive different complaints throughout the community from time to time about dog barking, and we've been forced to say, well, the ordinance doesn't really help us. So the Board asked for an update. In the process of doing so, I knew as well that the General Assembly, a few years ago, had updated, had recodified the animal ordinance in state law. So there were various changes that need to be made. So I, in the draft, have made those changes. There really should be no substantive changes there that are other than what state law did. As far as the barking is concerned, I give you options. Because, you know, I'm not a dog. I'm not a dog. I don't have a dog. That's where I belong. That's where I stand. So you have the opportunity to make those crab operation changes because last sobie was push toella, so there was the We checked each and every time the Three things that I'd like to suggest to the Chief of Staff, while I sit here, that there was a reward limit that can give us this quantity of the dog that's not in the office and that we could reduce as we go along. And I sort of re jeded what that's trying to do and I think that's the best thing to do and that doesn't make it so Blood Work. Jeff Morality officer a H slam it gets a jumbo mumble in a Yoga bridgel. noise ordinance and applies the restriction solely to the residential districts, RP, R4, R5, MH. The other half of that matrix of option is what language we would use to define the restricted barking. And I gave two options there. Fauquier County uses a quantified number than they talk about a dog barking once a minute for 10 minutes, which the benefit there is it's quantified. You can count it, measure it. Shenandoah County, and I believe we had some other counties use something similar in terms of, I forgot the exact language. Look at it real quick. Disturbs the PCP. Disturbs the PCP. It's in peace and quiet. It seemed that that was in some other ordinances as well. We weren't aware of any challenges to that language. I can't say somebody wouldn't try to challenge it, but it appears to be good. So that's the document that's before you. I think the choice that's before the board is whether to go ahead with a change. If that's the board's desire, then it would be to direct this to public hearing. And then obviously which of the two would be the best choice? Which of those four options at the end regarding barking, the board would wish to advertise if that's the board's desire. And I can certainly answer any questions. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Williams? Anyone? It's a discussion. All right, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I think that we ought to do something. And the something's to be done. And I think we're doing something. And I think we've been defined by what we, as a County, have dealt with. So some time ago, a year, two years ago, I had a call from a woman who lived in an RA area, said that her neighbor had a barking dog that was continuous throughout the night. She sent me audio and video of that. I listened to that, but because it was in an RA area, nothing could be done to stop the issue. So she'd gone over to her neighbor and said, hey, could you have your dog stop barking? He said, basically, thank you very much, but I don't need to. Have a nice day. Had a conversation with Mr. Williams earlier today on this issue as well. And I'm inclined to support something that would address those issues. In the conversation I had with Mr. Williams' L, we have coyotes in this county. So a bunch of coyotes that are also howling at night, you know, you're not going to be able to stop them. And so if everybody were nice and you had a barking dog, you'd say, okay, I'll shut my dog up and you're good to go. We've had another case recently, again, where I've been contacted by a person saying the dog barks all night. Not during the day, but barks at night. So my thought process here is perhaps to go with something that is definable. That would be 10 minutes or something like that that you can define that calls up in a court. And the second thought is just a thought at this point in time is to add something that says they keep a dog that barks for eight minutes, arbitrary number. It stops. Then barks for another eight minutes after four or five minutes and stops. There ought to be something there that codifies a time frame. If you have a barking dog for an hour, but he's still only barking every five minutes, somehow that might be put into this. This is just a draft. And I am on the fence on whether you do it for everybody. And then if we don't have any problems, address it. Or if we just do it for RP, I'm inclined at this point in time to do it for the whole county, including RA. But I'm also open to the conversation. I agree with the previous chair. I'm open to the conversation. I'm open to the conversation. I'm open to the discussion of having RP only, but for the RA area, have it from dusk to dawn or from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. or something of that nature to try to address the concerns we've had. So that's just a general thought. Supervisor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In reading over these, I appreciate the attorney's time and efforts to try to give us some options and give us some things to consider. In listening to Supervisor Dunn's concerns, I can agree with him on some, but on others, grave concerns. First is constitutionality of things. I like to see folks be able to do on their property what they desire doing. However, having stated that comment, there also are limitations on what you can and cannot do on your property that does not affect your neighbor. And so those, your neighbor's concerns, your neighbor's ability to enjoy his or her property is of importance as well. If I could support anything that comes across the line with this, it would be RP and R4 only. And the reason is... The reason is this. There are many farmers in my district, many farmers who live close to me, who have dogs and utilize dogs for security purposes or to notify them when there is a danger around. I have coyotes on my property frequently. When there are coyotes around, my own dog, my neighbor's dogs, some of my neighbors who are farmer's dogs, will wake to notify the farmer, notify animals, will pen, herd, do different things with animals. And farming, last I checked, was a... Very large part of our tax base and our way of living here in Frederick County. So I would like to see a differentiation of where this applies, specifically probably the RP district or R4 district, because those neighbors are so close. It is such an impact when you have a dog that barks continuously. And maybe it does need to be a dusk to dawn consideration as well. I just... I would hate to see something applied countywide that would affect such a large group of our farmers who do utilize dogs for a multitude of purposes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Other comments? Anyone? I would just comment that... Thank Rod for his work on this. I'm like Supervisor Graver. I think it belongs in the residential section, the RA areas. The agriculture areas are different. They're spaced out a lot farther. And most of my concerns come out of the residential where a house is right next door to another house or across the street where the noise is right in your backyard, if you say. The peace and quiet part of it is okay with me, but I also, after listening to Supervisor Dunn, I think probably a time limit might be where I would go. So I would be in favor of... Of a time limit, something that we could put our hands around for some degree, and also just keep it into the residential neighborhoods. Other comments? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I would agree with Supervisors Graver and Wells that I think in the rural areas also, there's usually large properties. And I wouldn't want a neighbor to complain on another neighbor whose dog is two acres away. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. So I think it makes more sense in the tightly suburbanized areas. And I also agree with the concrete measure. Time limit, for example, most people have a cell phone. They could record it. And so they could create proof of a situation pretty easily and make it easier on our sheriff's department. Right now, we have a vague ordinance. What are they supposed to do with the subjective ordinance that they're going to offend one neighbor or another? I don't want to put them in that position. This way, proof can be generated and a concrete measure would be used. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Kevin? Yes, sir. Let me just address two issues. One, Mr. Graver, I'm empathetic to some of your concerns on farmers and to all of you. And this is a conversation I had with Mr. Williams. If you live in a farm, if you live in a rural area, but you have a neighbor that has a dog that just barks all the time, is there a way to address that? Or are we just going to say, you know, unfortunately, that's the price you pay for being in a neighbor? It's not a right-wrong answer. But when we had this issue, I've had this issue twice in the last two years. Is there a way to say, you know what, if you have a dog that continues to bark for, you know, hours on end and you are in an RA, is there a way to address it? And if any of you have any thought or suggestion on that, if you think it's appropriate, then, you know, I'm open to ideas or give them to Mr. Williams. I asked Mr. Williams that. And he doesn't have a problem. It's a quick solution. And if we were all nice to each other, it would become a non-issue. But for the simple reason that, you know, we have the issue, is there a way to address it? And maybe there's not, but I'm just throwing that out to you all. Mr. Graber, your comments about barking dogs and animals, et cetera, I fully support. So I'm empathetic to that. We don't have a problem with that. So I'm just – that's a driver for me. That's all. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. If I may. Sure. Just as in a response. Supervisor Dunn, I appreciate your comments. I truly do. I have a dog that is a dog that is for alerting purposes. And that dog is going to continue to alert until the threat is passed. So if a farmer has a dog for coyotes or other items, that dog is going to continue to alert. So I just don't want to see our farmers or other folks get hemmed up over an issue that should be negligible to start with. So, yep, thank you. All right. Anyone? Anyone? So I have a couple comments. You cannot legislate neighborliness. It's not possible. I think that probably the time has come that we need to attempt and start someplace. I think that Mr. Williams has given us several good paths that we can try. We can't solve every problem with one set of issues. So I think probably we should attempt. I agree that we should not go into the rural areas. RPR4, I'm not sure. R5 shouldn't be in there as well. But staff is looking for direction in our thoughts. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. A thought just occurred to me. So if we've agreed that the measures of the type that the county attorneys presented apply more in the suburban areas, we either leave. . . . I suggest we do one of two things. We either leave the RA alone, unless we can think of something that works for all situations. But also that other language, which was still a little vague. I forget what it was, Rod, about. . . Disturbs the peace and quiet. Language that's subjective like that could be applied to RA and then. . . Don't get upset. It could. . . Maybe in time, later, we could. . . We could craft some language that would, in a more subjective situation, that would give a sheriff's deputy some leeway if there is something unreasonable going on, but not a concrete measure that would prevent the proper use of dogs for protecting farms. It was just an idea that we could maybe look at in the future if we need it in the RA. Sir, anyone else? So, did we give you enough, Mr. Williams? To try to amend the options that you've suggested? Not in the RA, but in just the limited residential area? I think so, Mr. Chairman, with one clarification. To parallel the noise ordinance, the districts that that ordinance covers now are RP, R4, R5, and MH. Sorry, Mr. Chairman. And what was the last one? MH. It's the mobile home district. Agreed. And I would propose, if it's with the boards okay, that the draft that gets advertised include all of them, and even if the board ultimately decides it wishes to remove one, it would have the option of doing so. It's a meeting. It can't go the other way. Yes, sir. Works for me. Okay. Yes. We will advertise it likely for January. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Well done. All right. Discussion of the legislation. Legislative agenda regarding workers' comp, and I think we have a presentation. Bless you. Thank you. I just wanted to do a brief presentation. At the last meeting, we had language not working. Let's say, well, the microphone is not working. There you go. Press the button. We had language in there that stated that the board would oppose any changes to what illnesses would be added to the presumptive illness. And what you asked us to do at the last meeting was to change that language and make it more positive. So I thought I'd give a real brief overview of presumptive illness and line of duty. And then you've seen the new language that we've added. I will tell you, I've met with John Wright from the fire department, and they are fine with the language the way it has been changed. First of all, I just want you to know there's a lot of laws on this. They're all over the place in the book, so it's very confusing. It's not really easy to determine this. And this is a list of the laws. I won't read them. What is a presumption? And just to let everyone know, if they don't know, it's that. Certain diseases are assumed to be related to employment, and it's up to the opposing party to disprove or rebut the presumption. I.e., that means it's automatically assumed if that disease is on the list that the job caused that disease, and the employer would have to prove otherwise. And it's a two-pronged test. They first have to prove that it's a non-work-related cause, and they also have to prove that the work was not the cause of the eligible condition. These are the eligible. Diseases, hypertension, heart disease, cancer, infectious diseases, and respiratory diseases. This is the list of cancers that are currently in the statutes. These are the list of the infectious diseases that are in the statutes. If you look at these diseases, they're all related. They come into contact with people, and that's why they're listed in the statutes. Why is this important now? This is a bill that's up for consideration at this point in time. This is House Bill 1408, and they would like to add into this bladder cancer, melanoma, thyroid, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. And on an ongoing basis, if you follow this law over years, there's been many different discussions of illnesses and conditions to add. Why is it a concern? Well, the main reason it's a concern is if someone has a presumptive illness, then it now shifts it from being just their health insurance, so it's now considered a worker's comp case, so it shifts them over to the worker's comp carry, which costs. The employer more based on their insurance. For worker's compensation, I will let you know these numbers come from Bayco. I have not validated them myself, but that's the source of these numbers. So the medical cost range for each case could be anywhere from $90,000 to $460,000. Unlike with just regular health insurance, when you're under worker's comp, you also have to face wage replacements. So that's really a true 100% additional cost, and the average claim range goes from $130,000 to $960,000. Also, when it's considered a line of duty, you also have to consider the line of duty act, which means there could be death benefits. For a presumptive illness, that death benefit would be $25,000. The state spells out how that money is allocated to whether the spouse or the children, etc. And it also enables the person to qualify for free health insurance going forward. The disability benefits. Based on the. Low. The line of duty act, our claim range anywhere from $50,000 to $1 million, and the average claim is usually $300,000. And this, once again, is information from Bayco. These are the concerns, and I will tell you, Bayco is the organization that's generally doing the fight against this. And the main concerns are, one, if you add new categories of employees. For instance, if you added a group that wasn't on there, a newer group that could be exposed to environmental issues. It could be jail guards or different categories. They're not currently listed. One, adding new diseases and new conditions will drive up the costs. And three, the other concern is if the legislature decides to increase the amount of benefits. All three of those factors could drive up the cost. What we've done is we've changed the language. I believe you've all read it in your packet. And the language now is much more positive. And what it generally states is what the county is recommending, that if the state legislature does add anything to, this bill, to these laws, that they also provide the funding. So what they're really saying is do not pass along to the counties or the cities any unfunded mandates. This is a language that you see that we recommend to put on our legislative priorities. As I stated earlier, John Wright from the fire has reviewed this, and they agree with this language. And I think it is a good halfway, and it can please both sides. And that's it. Questions, comments? Yes, sir. Surprises are done. Mr. Ball. Hoffer. Can this type of coverage be covered in insurance? In other words, I'm an employee. I have health insurance. I can get long-term disability, short-term disability, et cetera. Is there a way that this can be built into an insurance product so the county and everybody else is covering it courtesy of the state, but you're not having to pay individual claims when those individual claims occur? It can be covered by individual insurance if some employers add additional long-term and such. But one, either the employer is going to pay. That extra coverage or the employee will pay it. And I can tell you from the other side, they prefer it to go into the workers' comp. I think they prefer it that way. And two, if the employer does absorb the costs, there's really not a savings on the employer one way or the other. The real issue gets to be when it gets to be workers' comp is the lost wages and such. And I think one of the big reasons a lot of people in these dangerous professions prefer this route is if they feel it's a safe way to collect the money. And it also includes. The lost wages and the death benefits. But employers can add additional insurances to cover that. Thank you. Comments, anyone? I, for one, have grave concerns. We live in a toxic world. Any of those issues, there certainly are higher susceptibilities in certain employment jobs. But virtually everything we do in life. We run into the similar situations. So, yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just want to put yourself in the shoes of a fireman that's six months on the job because I was there. You call for an unknown substance. You get there and you don't know what you're dealing with. You take all the precautions. You try to do everything right. And things can still happen to you. When you get exposed to that thing, whatever that thing may be, whether it's a virus, a hepatitis, HIV, you insert the blank. Or whether. It's something from a white powder substance that you didn't bank on when you got there. Took all the precautions that you could prior to going in there. Every day when you go to work as a fireman, likely in law enforcement, you wonder, am I going to come home with ten fingers and ten toes to give my wife and children a hug? Am I going to be quarantined for two weeks because I can't give my wife and children a hug because I've been exposed to something or even longer? I believe. But it is imperative that we protect those who protect us. And those fine folks are putting their lives on the line for us. Every day that pager goes off, they don't know what they are walking into. I tell people this all the time, that things are a dumpster fire. When we went to dumpster fires, dumpster fires have everything in them. What do you do at a dumpster fire? What do you throw away? You throw away everything that's not wanted. It's trash. When you go to those types of things, and that's your job, you don't know what you're walking into. You don't know what you're doing to the chemicals. You're being exposed. You're being exposed to that you're absorbing through your skin. After that air pack comes off and the fire's out, there's still carcinogens, toxins in the air. You're still exposed to many things. You do a lot of monitoring. You try to minimize those risks, but you cannot minimize them. And studies have shown time and time and time again that certain professions have a much higher risk of cancer, and firefighting and emergency services is one of them. So I think we need to be mindful of that as we move forward. I agree with the costs here. Insurance would be a route that Supervisor Dunn recommended. I think it's something we definitely ought to consider as well. But I believe the wording in this protects both sides, and I'd like to see us move forward with it. So I appreciate the time. Comments? Anyone? Yes, sir. I'll make one more comment. I'm empathetic to your comments about costs. I'm empathetic to a firefighter's concerns about going into a toxic situation. The reason I made the comment about insurance is it's a way that we, we all cover costs. And I don't have the details at this point in time, Mr. Ballhopper, to go as a comparison between workman's comp and insurance. That's right now something I have to take some time on. But what we're going to do here, I mean, I'd be okay with forwarding this. This is just language that has to go into a bill. It has to get passed. You can go through an amendment process if it goes anyplace in the General Assembly. So, you know, I'll support this going forward, but I also support it going forward with some caveats that say, are there other options to address this? I mean, I think one of the things that I would say is it's a very good idea to address the same concerns, but possibly at a cheaper cost, because if you have short term and long term disability, that covers tax free, depending on especially if the employer is paying the salary component of that. So, if John Doe has long term and short term insurance paid for by the employer, then that's tax free benefits to the employee. And compare that with what happens with workman's comp, et cetera. So, I mean, I'll go forward with this. the cost down or insurance returns a way to address the issue etc it sounds to me like you'd like just more information on whether we can partially cover the expenses with insurance yes but that you're supportive of sending it forward I don't know whether the language is exactly as you would want it to be I have no problem with sending this forward to the legislature so from what I know but the legislature mr. chairman every member gets I think 15 bills most of those bills have been submitted you have to find a member that will submit a bill that has to go through the legislative process and go through committee etc so there's time to draft in the drafting process and the amending process or we go I mean it's not a lot though I understand there's very little time but I'm just saying that's the that's the place to address the issue and I think that's the way I would like to see it done. potentially address this because we don't meet till January so all right further comments for anything we need motion or just consensus to move this forward I think a consensus to move it forward if the board wants to see a draft of the language that we're proposing to send forward we should say so do you want a motion mr. Williams mr. chairman I think when the board adopted the rest of its legislative agenda in a previous meeting it did so by motion so for consistency this year absolutely we can do that mr. chairman yes sir I'll make a motion that we adopt the language that mr. Ballhoffer laid out along with a comment that other alternatives such as insurance be considered in the drafting process and send it to the General Assembly for consideration second second second turning discussion all those in favor aye aye opposed no we'll forward that motion thank you thank you sir many pages all right this is section 9 and its appointments to boards committees and commissions economic development authority we have an application from William A Orndorff how would the board like to handle this one mr. chairman I would move for a motion to approve this motion as it stands in the making by Mr. Williams and Ms. Riefer with the board for approval of William A Orndorff to the Economic Development Authority third motion is there a second second a second is there any discussion sir mr. chairman yes I'd like to table this for 30 days there's some other individuals who are interested in serving in this role I'd like to have an opportunity to discuss a little bit further with them their interest in doing so so I'd like to table this for 30 days a this position is currently vacant is there a motion to approve this resolution by Mr. Ballhoffer I'd just like to say that because of various situations, at one of our meetings we had an issue with having a quorum because we do have business people on this committee and their travel may take them in places. With that said, I certainly appreciate what you're saying. Further comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I concur with Mr. Graber. I'm sorry? I would concur with Mr. Graber. It's a table for 30 days. All right. We've heard both sides of that one. Mr. Chairman, do we need a motion for me to table it? I'm going to ask for it. Okay. Yes. I make a motion we table this for 30 days. And a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We'll table for 30 days. Okay. Did I miscount? Yeah, three. Three and three. Okay. I'm sorry. The motion fails. Supervisor McCarthy just drew a line down. He's going to go to the next one. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You drew a line down. It's Carl. Okay. Motion fails. We'll move on. We need to vote on the original motion. I don't think we had one, but we— Yeah, she made a motion, too. I made a motion. You did? Yes. And I seconded that, so— Okay. We're ready to go. All right. Is there any further discussion? Supervisor Graber? No. I have a question. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy's not with us. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? No. 3-3. We will fail. Pass. Where? 3-3. Three yeses, no? Three yeses and three noes. There has to be a majority. I got you. Correct. We'll try again. Okay. Next time. Board of Equalization, this is a recommendation to the Circuit Court. Mr. Comstock's eligible and willing to serve another term. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reappoint Bradley Comstock to the Board of Equalization. I heard the motion. Is there a second? I second it, Mr. Chairman. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Comstock will be reappointed. Board of Equalization, same thing. Mr. Bowden does not wish to serve again, but we do have an application from AmeriD Power. How would the Board like to handle this one? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reappoint Bradley Comstock to the Board of Equalization. I would move that we reappoint Bradley Comstock to the Board of Equalization. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion. We tabled this nomination as well for 30 days. Okay. Heard the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Grable? Aye. done hi supervisor Wells I'm all right with it supervisor slaughter hi supervisor Ludwig hi chair votes I and the motion carries the table for 30 days I'm sorry I'm making notes historic resources advisory board Back Creek District for your term of Gary Crawford expires on 10th did expire on the 10th mr. Crawford is eligible and willing to serve again the board like to handle this one mr. chairman I'd like to recommend Gary Crawford to serve another term on the historic advisory district board heard the motion is our second second mr. chairman the second is there any discussion hearing none all those in favor aye aye opposed no mr. Crawford will be reappointed historic resources advisory board redbud vacant four-year terms been vacant for quite some time mr. chairman yes first I would like to thank Scott strobe for the work that he did there he's done a exemplary job I appreciate his work I appreciate his his efforts and you know he and his wife both you know deserve our thanks I like this to nominate Dave straw of straws up for for the position he has a good knowledge of history he's a businessman he's ex-military I think would make a good person to preserve our policy would have him forward an application that would be distributed to the board it's already done that in our packet in our packet I didn't see it okay I see it now yes okay you've heard the motion sir second I'll second and a second sir any discussion hearing none all those in favor aye aye opposed no mr. swastika will be appointed finance committee committee postponed from previous meetings that would be 10 a surprise for slaughter chairman I would make a motion to approve the request of a school operating fund and general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of two hundred and sixty six thousand one hundred forty eight dollars and forty five cents this amount represents a carry forward a fiscal year 22 2022 unspent restricted grant funds the committee recommends approval and I would so move heard the motion is there a second second mr. is there any discussion sure yes sir Thank You mr. chairman well I've asked repeatedly since September to see numbers from the school administration and have repeatedly not been shown the level of information that I desire to see I will support this because it is grant funds that are restricted and we do need to get these funds flowing however my support for this should not be construed as a rubber stamp of approval for the actions or lack thereof of getting the appropriate numbers to see the numbers to see the books from the school district in which I've been asking for for ten years Thank You mr. chairman yes sir further discussion anyone supervisor ledwick Thank You mr. chairman I agree that it's been difficult and I've been in the position of the school board to get transparency into a budget especially a budget so large I did meet at the invitation of the school board chairman with him and the super in the interim superintendent and the financial chief there they made a good faith effort to go through and answer some of my questions I'll go over some of that information I received the next item on the agenda if the board wishes I believe that it will resolve at least a number of the uncertainties that we had about the budget process that was followed and the school board's intended funding. With regard to this particular item, I can support it also. This is grant money from outside the county that is simply a loss if we don't allow it to be forwarded. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. We'll bring us to 10B. Mr. Chairman, the finance executive director of the finance request a school capital fund and general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,023,546. This amount represents fiscal year 2022 unspent and unpaid. The fund is a non-obligated school operating funds. Funds will be used to provide support for the fiscal year 2023 capital asset plan. Local funds are required. The finance committee recommends approval and I would so move. The motion is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to present what I received if I could. Yes, sir. I guess let's start with the PDF that's a table. So I know the audience might have a hard time looking at this. So in the budget process, there's an advertised projected budget that we get from the school board and then we have deliberations and after quite a bit of effort this last year, we did come up with a final budget. The process didn't start with the... the state categorical budgets. So there was a lot of translation and moving of dollars around. We eventually approved a final budget that was in a categorical format. So when this rollover came forward, I was one of two supervisors to... to want more information on exactly why the money wasn't spent and where it would be going to understand the need. So I did meet, as I said before, at the school board chairman's invitation and I want to say thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Interim Superintendent Lamanna and to the financial director. They met with me, tried to answer my questions in real time and agreed to work toward a table such as this to understand the monies that moved around. I want to make one comment and that is the public got to see the school budget as proposed and all the deliberations that occurred last spring. during the budget process. Then in October, it's also available to public after everything happened, there's the school budget as it's finally enacted and where they plan to spend the money. The issue that comes up, and we seem to have this problem every year, is that this budget doesn't match clearly all the details and debates that went on before, but there's nothing nefarious there, that's going to happen. Even if we tried to give the school, we were in 100% agreement and gave them exactly to the penny what they asked for, by the time this gets published in October, things have changed. Fuel for the school buses have changed. In July, when the fiscal year starts, the school system starts getting estimates for the projects that we approved, better estimates, and they are invariably different. So the budget's always evolving. As a result, by the time we get to the next year's budget cycle, there can be some negative back and forth between the two boards, and we really want to stop that from happening. Things can occur where they ask for funding one year that we thought we had already covered the year before, for example, and that might just be lost in translation as to how things went. So my effort was to be able to answer public questions about why this money wasn't spent. I presume it was, I think it was largely, positions that they asked for that they couldn't fill. And then where the money would be going. So this table shows the advertised budget and the final budget as shown in the published document, and the variances. Some of those, there's a lot of big number changes there. Some of them were merely recategorization of items. So some items didn't really change. They just moved from one category to another as the school system and maybe our board also gets more proficient. At working with the state mandate categories. But there were some things that changed. And that's what I want to focus on quickly. So to look at instruction, there were some things that the school argued strongly for that they didn't end up funding, including CTE positions and an extra pay that we spoke in favor of here on the board for special education teachers. As the note shows, provided from the school system, that they could have been covered by ESSER III funds that were available. What I think happened here is that the school system decided to leverage those ESSER III funds that they needed to spend. And so they undertook a project that's quite expensive that they had an opportunity to get done. And that is replacement of the Armel School HVAC, which was due to be replaced very soon and in need of constant repair. And that was a big change. And by undertaking that project, which is their prerogative, I'm not gonna question it, then they made a choice that they would have to cut from some other areas to get that project done. And that that was the most sensible thing to do. Now that I see that, I appreciate that clarity. And I don't object to that at all. I'm not even sure it's our role to object to that. There's another change which jumps out. Which jumps out at me, and that is in technology. We funded quite a bit of their request, I think all of their requests, for technology investments. And a lot of that was, for example, new Chromebooks for our students and hotspots. If you've got kids in the public school like I have had, you know that some parts of the schools, they don't have Wi-Fi. It doesn't reach. And that can be a problem. So they wanted to invest in that. The curious part is that, although they got those funds, they seem to have plussed it up. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. They're not gonna be able to get it done. And so they've just boosted up by another million dollars. And from what I understand, that's not an increase in cost due to inflation. Those are additional Chromebooks and hotspots they decided they wanted to purchase. Again, that's in their prerogative. But my goal was to understand what they were doing with the dollars so that I could count for that to the taxpayer. We could probably go into this in more depth. If it's confusing to you, there is another file, if you wanna show it briefly. If it's confusing to you, there is another file, the county administrator, Mr. Ballhofer, was of great assistance. He came to the meeting with me there, and he was the intermediary to ask questions and try and understand, especially in those items that look like big changes that turned out not to be. They were just recategorizations. So there's two of the categories, operations and maintenance and instruction, where he was able to duplicate to the exact dollar with the school, projects that were dropped or initiated, but weren't in the original advertised budget, or dollars that just moved between categories. So we just got this, I believe Mr. Ballhofer got it late last week, and not all of you have even seen it yet. So whatever the will of the board is to consider this new information, but I would say that I share Supervisor Graber's frustration over time, but this does go a fair way to answering some of the questions that, that we should consider in this vote. The last thing I want to say is that, in the engineering world, as you produce a new version of a document, it's common practice, and I'd like to see us adopt it, to create a change page, and a table like this would do it, so that when they publish their final budget, they could be transparent to us and the taxpayer, and tell us what changed from what we thought we approved. That will do a lot to improve relations between the boards, remove confusion, and provide general transparency to the taxpayer. Further? Yes, sir. I'll support Mr., I'll support your effort on a change page, I think that's most apropos, and it's a good item, Mr. Ludwig, so that's a plus. I'll support this amendment as well, but I think that we all have to have a discussion, not a good discussion, but we all have to have a discussion and a discussion. And last year at this very table, I made a motion to make the difference between A and C, a half a million dollar differential. And we were condemned for that, here you have over a million dollars that's unspent, so I think that both boards need to work together and see where we are going forward. I'll support this because I think that we're gonna has to go through a budget process very soon, and we can address the budget issues, in this upcoming budget. I think that from now on, school board, by now, it will be ridiculous. not spending money that they didn't have to. It was a smart thing. So I'm supporting rollovers. So I'll support this and we'll deal with the budget issues as we go forward. We don't have a motion yet. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. We did? I'm sorry. I'd like to have a discussion, Mr. Chairman. Please, discussion, yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fault. I appreciate greatly the efforts that have been put forth by Supervisor Ludwig. I have had multiple conversations with Mr. Ludwig as well as our county administrator as well as some with the chairman of the school board. My concern is this. I was called heartless, inconsiderate, thoughtless when we were looking at the school's budget when we were talking about special education. I asked that we make sure that we fund the CTE positions and the special education positions because they were needed positions. The money was there to fund it. Unfortunately, our special education teachers didn't get that funding as final budget shows would show. However, administrative positions that would appear based upon the budget that I got to see, final budget, went from a 3% proposed increase that was here before us to a 5% proposed increase. I'd like for those very same teachers that called me heartless that used four-letter words to describe me in my face, fingers touching me, pointing at me, pushing you around, to go look at that document and see, to go look at that document and see, to go look at that document and see, we didn't change. We didn't take the money away from the special education teachers. We didn't take the money away from the CTE programs. That was done by the school board. The school board allocated the money where they felt it was best needed to go. I have a hard time seeing what our supposed dire needs in January no longer become needs in July when the actual budget gets printed in utilization. Therefore with continuing to ask for more student union fees and costs, I can't guarantee that it will be enough. ask for more documentation. Still I'm asking for $524,000 went in maintenance for one item last year. I've gotten no response since I've asked the question initially. I cannot support this. I want to see maintenance projects maintained. I want to see schools maintained. I want to have a safe environment for educators and our students. But I also believe that the taxpayers' dollars needs to be accounted for, and that's why I cannot support this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So a couple refinements on comments by the other supervisors. As I understand it, the school argues that they did advertise a 5% raise for administrators, and I've spoken contrary to that before. What I watched was the school board vote a 3% raise for administrators, but I think now that it's possible that vote occurred not for the advertised budget, but in response to one of our scenarios, how they would handle a particular scenario we were considering, and in fact very close to the one that we did pass. So it was something they were willing to give up, but it wasn't in the advertised budget, just trying to be precise. And yet when the push came to shove, you're right. They did give the 5% raise to administrators, and they did not use that money for CTE positions or special education pay increases. So there's a fine line there. And Supervisor Dunn, you might have misunderstood me. I didn't say that I was supporting the rollover. I actually just wanted to present the information that I had gathered. I do want to thank the school board for working with me on this and clarifying as much as did get clarified. And my opinion depends on the discussion here today and the sense of the board. I guess there's two signals we'd be sending out. One is if we don't roll over the funds, then we're sending a signal perhaps to the departments that money could get swept. And we don't want to encourage them to just be in a use it or lose it situation and spend it unwisely. Rolling over has a good purpose. On the other hand, not all this, this is a large amount of money to not get spent. And we've spent a lot of time trying to get to a transparent budget situation. I think there's also negative things by approving the rollover. We really want to have a better relationship in the next cycle and I'm not sure which way we go produces that. The final comment would be a speaker representing the school system last time when we asked this to be reconsidered and be this vote to be delayed, said that the Millbrook roof in particular might be at stake if we didn't approve this million dollar rollover. But I did the school system in the meeting they were very clear to me that that is going to be a critical step. The school system, in the meeting they were very clear to me that that is going to be a critical step. The school system, in the meeting they were very clear to me that that is going to be a critical step. It's at its 30 year life, it had leaks, it's essential to get done and it will get done either way. So what would this million dollar rollover cover? It would go, they have assured me verbally, that it would go toward the next, to finish the roof if for some reason they did have a shortfall, but it would, when they get the final estimate, but it would then go to the capital improvement project list. That they wouldn't spend it anywhere else, they would spend it on items there. Um, that's what I was promised in my meeting over in the school board building. Um, so again, take that under advisement as well, that that's what that million dollars would go. That just raises the question, is that, if you look at that, the next items, um, after the Millbrook roof on that list, is that the most important use the county has for the next million dollars we have available, or should it get re-approved, used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? used elsewhere, or just kept to the next budget cycle, where we go through all of that? It could end up with the schools if we don't roll it over, or it might go to another need if we decided it was greater. So, I get both points, advantages and disadvantages, depending on our vote outcome tonight. Mr. School of Common, I was not saying that you support it or not support it. I simply said that I appreciate, and I support your change, one page change item. So I think that is much better. So I think that is much better. So I think that is much better. So I think that is much better. Mr. Mr. Chairman, I think that is important to roll in. Just a quick comment. If next year the schools ask for $100 million, arbitrary number, and we've already moved in a million, then we would add $99 million if we think that's appropriate. If they ask for $100 million, we can account for this million that's coming there. We're going to support a budget of more than a million dollars next year or so. That's just my thought process. Mr. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I guess it comes down to who you believe. Mr. This board kindly asked them when they built Aylor School, if they were given an additional four-plus million dollars, would they expand the school? And they were assured that they would. When the final school was built, if you look at the final quantity number of students that it could account for, it was the original number. So my question is, in the military and other things, you look at trust but verify, and I haven't seen the verification come along very often in this process. So if this passes, I'm going to ask you to do something about it. Mr. I'm going to ask you to do something about it. Mr. If this passes, we're coming up on a budget season. By April, we'll know where this money went, hopefully. And if it hasn't been allocated, if this is a dire need, then I think those are some answers we'll have to have, at least I'll have to have, before I could ever approve any budget for them moving forward. Because if this is a dire need and it gets approved and it doesn't seem to happen six months later, then it maybe is not such a dire need. That's all I have, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. You ready? Mr. Motion to approve. Supervisor Graber? No. Mr. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Mr. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Mr. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Mr. Supervisor Ludwig? No. Mr. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Bring us to 10C. 10C, the Finance Director requests discussion and direction on fiscal year 2023 funding for the financial sector. The Board of Supervisors is acknowledging the types of funds in programs we値 Carrier 08-12 program as a non-freотри capitalized dollar income that would be needed as an effective investment volume for ourいたters and our economy. the committee recommends funding and i would so move motion is there a second second mr chairman and the second discussion anyone mr chairman yes sir thank you mr chairman so over a year ago this board discussed about the name and the name change subsequent with the college i'd like to ask everyone on this board how many lives would be impacted with 350 to 400 000 for scholarships and for grants that's the amount of money that is proposed likely to have been spent on the name change i think 350 000 to 400 000 could have been spent much more appropriately to look at this funding for this year there's an increase requested from last year as we both see the 92 000 versus the 81 000 i've spoken with county administration and others that have indicated to me that over the last three years with covid and other items the monies that was allocated to the college the full allotment was not spent therefore there is a surplus of around 400 000 is what i'm told instead of continuing to add to that surplus i'd like to see them utilize the surplus that they already have the money is there they didn't utilize it because it was covid and other items students weren't in in school weren't in class let's utilize the monies that they already have and next year instead of just giving them another blank we as a county allocate some money towards scholarships now we can't do it directly i know the county attorney's been contacted about this how this can work we can do it through another entity but think about this for just a moment if we're giving 92 000 and of the 92 000 51 000 was supposed to go towards scholarships towards helping our young men and women the remaining 40 41 000 goes to whatever pet projects the college wants to put them on or different areas that they want to spend them on what if we're giving them another blank and we're giving them another blank or are we giving them another thing so what if we were giving that 91 000 to an organization to help students so that our students who were going there got the full use of the funds i'd like to make this proposal i would like to make a motion or amendment to the motion that's been brought on the table today that we fund the college fifty five thousand dollars this year the reason i throw the fifty-five thousand dollar motion now is that that fully funds the amount of scholarships that they state would go towards scholarships which was 51 000 So $55,000 more than covers it. So if they choose to give the monies to something other than scholarships, that's up to the college. But we will have fully funded the amount of money that should go to scholarships. The additional monies, if they feel that they need the additional monies between there and $92,000, can come from the additional reserves that they rolled over from previous years. And I would kindly ask that this board look at strongly considering funding students next year through a process where they can get access to the $91,000 or the $92,000 or whatever that number needs to be for grants or for assistance for higher education. I think the money would be well spent, and I think it would benefit our citizens and our students much greater than the current situation. So my motion was, again, that we fund the college at $55,000 this year. I'll second it. Motion and second to an amendment. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes. The only thing I will say with that motion is that we have no guarantee that that money would be specifically used for scholarships. In the past, when we have not funded our full amount, there has been a deviation as to what gets applied to scholarships and what gets applied to all the other list of various things that they undertake with that particular money. So I just want to make that clear. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Lud. I like the idea of maximizing the value of our contribution if it's reasonable to do so and maximize the number of scholarships we can generate for our students with the money we normally contribute. I guess I'd answer Supervisor Slaughter that if we give them more than enough to fund the scholarships, the ball is in their court. And if they again deviate, and they cut the scholarships to our children, maybe we can do something about it during the year to restore it, but we'll also have a clearer picture of what we need to do next year. So I think I'll support that motion. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, ma'am. I'd just like to make a point. I spoke to Mr. Ballhoffer after he prepared information, after reviewing all of the documents. And in that documentation, we see in, I guess it was in 2020, where virtually $20,000 was spent. So as Mr. Supervisor Grazer pointed out, there was a rollover of funds that went to the fund balance account. So of that 300 and X amount of dollars, only $20,000 was spent of the contributions of the localities. And that was the way I read it. So there is money that's already sitting there that we have already contributed that didn't get used in prior years. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Slaughter, I appreciate your comments. They are very accurate, very well-founded. And I appreciate you clarifying them for the public, because many folks in the public are unaware that there are these dollars that are fungible. They can be used to make up the difference that are our tax dollars already sitting there to be used for these purposes. So if our students get cut, as Supervisor Ludwig mentioned, that will be their decision. That is definitely not my decision as a board member. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Are we ready? This is the amended motion, 55K as opposed to 92094. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes no. Motion carries. We'll move on. Committee of Business Transportation. Supervisor Slaughter? Okay. Okay. Mr. Bishop usually takes over. I don't know if you're the one who's in charge of these, but let me just review what the committee recommends, that the board authorizes staff to incur expenses under the Transportation Fund for several efforts related to preparation for upcoming application rounds and due diligence for projects, development and readiness. These are the Lenore Drive slip ramps, conceptual layout and cost estimate, concept drawings and cost estimates for transportation alternative program applications, and the application of the project. The project is a comprehensive application that includes the application of the project and the concept drawings and cost estimates for revenue sharing program applications. As you all know, next year we'll be looking at revenue sharing applications versus an alternative funding versus our smart scale applications. The estimated cost for these efforts through the end of the fiscal year is expected to be under $100,000. The Transportation Committee recommended approval, and I would so move. The motion is there. Thank you. Second. Second. Any discussion? Hearing none. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to 11b. Nope, bring us to 12. Sorry. All right. All right. This is a public hearing proposed lease agreement between the County of Frederick and T-Spot Reaching Higher LLC. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is, as you said, a proposed public hearing on a proposed lease between the County and the T-Spot Reaching Higher Heights LLC for space located at 341 Sunnyside Plaza Drive, which is formerly occupied by the Growing Patch Daycare. The proposed space contains approximately 3,000 square feet. The proposed lease would be for a two-year period commencing on January 1, 2023 and expire on December 31, 2024. Rent would be $4,000 per month. And as the board might recall, the rent income received from the tenants at Sunnyside Plaza is used to cover the cost to carry the property to include property management fees, utilities, repairs, et cetera. The county's property manager, Virginia Property Group. has worked with the lessee to negotiate this lease, and the lease document has been reviewed by the county attorney. At the conclusion of the public hearing tonight, staff is seeking board action on this proposed lease. And if the board has any questions, I'll be happy to try to answer those. Any questions, staff? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. Thank you. So we'll close the public hearing portion. Mr. Chairman? Board, yes, sir. Can I ask somebody to speak, or if I have some questions during the board discussion, can I bring somebody up to talk? They just had an opportunity to speak. If you have questions of staff, we can do that. Is the register considered staff? I'm sorry? Is Mr. Binshawsky considered staff? Yes. Yes. Yes. Can I speak to Mr. Binshawsky, please? I believe he's in the room. Thanks for stepping up. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we had a discussion on this daycare center a few months ago. But since that time, some things have changed. And one of my concerns is that we've been in a position to be a little bit more transparent about this, and I think it's important to be able to say that we have a lot of experience. And I think we've had a lot of experience in this area as well. And I think we're going to try to do that. And I think we're going to try to do that. But I think we're going to try to get the best out of the way. And I think we're going to try to get the best out of the way. We had a discussion on this daycare center a few months ago. But since that time, some things have changed. And one of my concerns is that what are we going to do with the registrar's office? The registrar's office is meant to go and deal with elections. Those elections are meant to be held fairly, et cetera. And we have some issues on the potential of things not being seen as they are. So Mr. Binshawsky, I'd like to ask you. Can you please tell us a little bit about the daycare center? Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll tell us the advantages. If you're able to go and put your whole workforce in the Sunnyside spot here, what's the advantage to the public, what's the advantage to you in the office, and what is the advantage to secure elections that are, you know, without doubt good and honest? A lot of questions. Having everything under one roof was much more convenient to the voter and to my staff. If we were to move out to Sunnyside, to my office out there today and now, we'd still have to use the boardroom and this the county building for training and other aspects of voting preparing for elections continued use of the satellites on the north or the top end of the parking lot it is transferring ballots equipment back and forth during early voting if it was all under one roof and you had a doorway between the two sides you know moving between the door but much more secure so just repeat that so if you had it all under one roof you'd have much more secure situation than the proposed current is that correct yes sir okay thank you mr. chairman mr. chairman well we have our register here I'd like to ask him a question would that space sir be co-inhabitable meaning the election season I know we have early voting but when early voting was not occurring could that be the case? would that space be utilized by other departments other areas of the county would that is that something that could be done? I would say why not I wouldn't see any issues with that okay right very well thank you all right further discussion? chairman yes in today's environment of questions about citizen confidence in elections honesty safety etc I think it really behooves us to think anew about putting everything under one roof even if nobody in this county would ever think about doing anything nefarious in ballot season it's still not a good appearance to store ballot machines and ballots in different buildings around the county and have to transport them maybe each day during early voting it's it's not a good look at all I think having it in one place would also be easier to do that in the future. I think having it in one place would also be easier to do that in the future. I think having it in one place would also be easier to do that in the future. for you to keep an eye on it and for independent observers to convince themselves that we don't have a problem here in our county I think we should very seriously consider doing that I've had a number of concerns forward to me from the community on subjects like that I also had an exchange with the registrar and other individuals I've driven around out there and looked I know that the I don't know what the square footage is on the square and I don't know what the square footage is on subjects like that but I think that would be great for us to take a look at that I also just wanted to ask a question to our public and other individuals involved and if you could please ask that. of the space in that same building, maybe 2,000 square feet? For where I'm going? No, for the area that you could get if that whole building was. I think it was 3,000, it was just, yeah. So then that would be about the same size as across the parking lot, the space that was used for early voting an election or two ago? I'm not sure the square feet of the satellite office, right? I understood that it was about 3,000, but I could be wrong on that. The point being that we need to have enough space in election season, there's security, but there's also a lot that goes on. There's all the precincts to train, there's ballot counting as the mail comes in, and that was done this last election, I think in four different rooms scattered around this building. Throughout this building, yes, sir. That's really not, I think, the most efficient and safe way to do things, so I think I'm also in favor of dedicating that building to the registrar. Great. Further discussion? I have to say that we have, ever since we thought about purchasing that property, tried to do the analysis of how much space would take to accomplish that goal. Jay, I know, has been forefront on that work, but I don't know whether we've revised that analysis recently. We have not performed an updated, we've not done an updated space analysis for the entire building. We did one back 2019 when we first acquired the Sunnyside property, but we've not done an updated analysis since then. We had bigger plans for that entire property, and then when COVID hit, everything sort of got put on. A separate front section that we're currently talking about leasing a portion of. Right. Right. Okay. Well, we probably ought to update analysis before we go thinking about them. Okay. Well, we probably ought to update analysis before we go thinking about them. Right. Okay. Well, we probably ought to update analysis before we go thinking about them. go thinking about the bigger portion of that building. Any other questions? I don't think so. Thank you very much, sir. Appreciate you. All right. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'd like to make a proposal. My proposal would be to deny the proposed lease agreement between the County of Frederick and Teespot reaching higher heights at this time. Repeat again, please. I'd simply like to deny the proposal between Frederick County and Teespot reacting higher heights for the facility at Sunnyside. Okay. All right. You've heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. Okay. There's a second. Thank you. Second. Discussion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. So the comments that Supervisor Ludwig has made I would concur with. Voter integrity is important, and if we can keep it all under one roof where it can be observed, we can have due diligence in many eyes seeing the process, I think it is the safest, most appropriate way to move forward. I think at this point with this denial, if it is approved, that we should also have discussions as a board with Mr. Tibbs. I would agree with Mr. Tibbs. There is a reason that Mr. Tibbs, I think we have to have a discussion with Mr. Tibbs on looking into how we can best make this space available to the registrar, not only for his electoral purposes for early voting, but then also for other entities within the county that may have surge needs for them to be able to access that building when it is not being utilized for voter purposes. So I will support this motion as presented. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion? Anyone? Chairman? Yes, sir. So from what I understand, Teespot was expanding their operation. So it's not putting them out of business. And if we can do that, we can have the opportunity to do that. and if TSPOT has concerns about finding another location within the county I'm all for that so this is not against TSPOT as much as is I think that we need to go and have secure voting so for those that are representing TSPOT if there's other facilities within the county public buildings that we can use and rent that'd be fine I'll be glad to help them I just think that we need to may have a secure voting situation in this facility and I think that needs to be done sooner seeing as we have a election in potentially sometime this summer of 2023 primaries a general election in the fall and then a primary in the spring of 24 and a general election in the fall of 24. Just a comment this year is probably a pipe dream I mean there isn't enough time to get contractors in place make decisions accomplish the construction for this spring I don't think. But if we move forward a little we'll get there. All right all right further discussion the motion is to deny the request. Hearing none. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludman? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. The request is denied. Planning Commission business conditional use permit 1122 Richard and Marcia. Margarit Byers. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chairman. So this is a conditional use permit for a humanitarian aid organizational office. The 5-acre property is located at 1107 Cedar Creek grade in the Bat Creek Magisterial District and the zoning is RA. The applicant proposes utilizing a The applicant proposes utilizing a existing barn on the property for an office space and for storage for donated home furnishings and using the driveway to access the barn that also serves the owner's residence. Access to the barn will be limited to staff and volunteers of partner organizations during scheduled hours and to those who are would be bringing the donations. There would be no more than two employees working part-time as well as 10 to 12 volunteers on the farm. There would be no more than 12 volunteers on a rotating periodic basis. This is a location map of the parcel that's outlined in blue. It's a little tough to see but the structure that's closest to Cedar Creek grade is the barn and the structure on the south end of the parcel is the applicant's personal residence. The definition of a humanitarian aid organizational office is listed in the first bullet. And we need to be moreketive in terms of where we have a daily use in the maine community. The subject of the explafocus is SUS. We need to have resources for solutions and development. And we need to have a strong person to suggest that the people of Corivo Amarano could use those resources. Thanks, Marianna. Fabulous. Great. regulations must be submitted prior to the establishment of the use and that is in yellow because it was changed from a minor site plan to a sketch plan and no residential uses are permitted in any accessory structures on the property and finally any expansion or change of use would require a new CUP the Planning Commission recommended approval of the CUP on December 7th and following a public hearing staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this CUP and I'm happy to answer any questions and the applicant Mr. Richard Bias is also here to answer any questions any questions yes I have one quick question staff I apologize for not getting it before the meeting I did not hear any adverse or pro or cons from neighbors has the department received anything from any of the neighbors regarding this conditional use permit no there have been no public comments fantastic thank you thank you just clarification all office uses and etc are not in the barn barn strictly storage the barn has about 1,800 square feet of storage area and then a small office area of about 288 square feet that would be for office yeah and it does meet all Virginia State and federal building codes yes okay thank you thank you other questions anyone all right Mr. Barris is there anything you'd like to add sir I would only take this opportunity to you I'd like to use my time to thank Mrs. Pelequin for walking us through this process and the excellent support of her. Dr. Pelequin I'm very grateful for all the time and I appreciate that. this process and the excellence of your time I appreciate that thank you. Thank you. support that we've gotten from the staff. Thank you. All right. This is Spack Creek. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Make a motion to approve Conditional Use Permit 11-22 as presented. Motion and a second. Mr. Chairman. It's a public hearing. Yes, I'm sorry. Public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Thank you very much. I apologize. Thanks for all the reminders. All right. So we have a motion and a second. No discussion. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I do have a discussion. Yes, sir. We're at that phase. I move to amend the motion by Supervisor Graber to table this vote until our first meeting in January. I have some questions, things that are unclear to me. This only appeared before the Planning Commission, as was just noted one week ago today. It was only posted for... Okay. Supervisors to consider, I believe last Friday with the agenda packet. And there's quite a bit of material there. So I'd like us to... I move that we table this until our first meeting in January. Thank you. All right. You've heard the amended motion is to table for 30 days. Is there a second? I'll second it. And a second. We'll have discussion. Thank you. Any discussion? Any discussion? Hearing... Is there or isn't there? I'll make it a comment, Mr. Chairman. For the same reason Mr. Ludwig had, we've just had a short time to look at it. And so I'd just like to have the opportunity to have the chance to go into this more depth. Yes, sir. Further discussion? Any more? Mr. Chairman. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate Mr. Ludwig, Supervisor Ludwig, sharing his concerns. And out of respect for him, needing more time to look into this, I will support his request. I will support his request. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate his motion, as I would want the same if I were in his shoes. So I appreciate the kindness that has been shown to me in previous times, asking for more time to look into something. And I will support his motion to table this, to look into this a little bit further. And I appreciate the time. Thanks. Anyone else? Further discussion? Are we ready? The amended motion is to table for 30 days. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. This conditional use permit will be tabled for 30 days, and it will be back before us, sir. All right. Motion is for the first amendment. That brings us back to waiver of Willow Run Private Streets. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of the board. This is a request to waiver for public street requirements as required in the subdivision ordinance. This request is associated with the Master Development Plan that is currently in review. Willow Run is a proposed gated age-restricted community. Turning your attention to the screen, the property is outlined in blue. It is accessed off C-29. accessed off Cedar Creek grade to the south and it borders the Winchester City on the east. The Board of Supervisors may provide a waiver of the public street requirements to allow for a complete system of private streets with profit within a proffered age-restricted community. As required by the ordinance the proposed private street base and surface shall meet or exceed the VDOT standard. As a condition of this request the applicant shall provide third-party inspection reports certifying adherence to the VDOT standard prior to bond release. The Planning Commission reviewed this request and recommended approval on the December 7th meeting and this is presented to you as an action item. Staff is seeking direction from the Board on the private street waiver request. Thank you. Questions? Yes sir. The application says it'll meet VDOT standards. My question is, is the third-party, is there a third-party verification that it will meet VDOT standards? Yes sir, we've placed that as a condition. So therefore the width of the road, the weight they could be borne on that road, etc. will be the same as if VDOT had done it and inspected it themselves? Yes sir, it's required to be designed for VDOT standards and if you require the third party inspector to inspect that, it's going to be designed as the VDOT standard. So the base is and the surface, the width, all of that would be 2V.standard and inspected. And the third party will be independent of both the developer, correct? Yes. Alright, thank you. Yes, sir. Sorry? I just wanted to verify that it was third party, yes. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Quick question for you, ma'am. Yes, sir. Is there anything, if we were to approve this this evening, is there anything that would withhold at a future date to allow this to become a part of the state system as far as to become a state maintained roadway? So if we were to approve this, would there be any drawbacks, anything additional would need to be done in order to get this in the state system? I'm going to direct that question to the Director of Planning. It will be designed to meet the current state standards, but the residents of that community or HOA or whoever comes to manage it in the future would have to coalesce to dedicate it in the future. So it wouldn't be, there wouldn't be any functional changes. No. No, there wouldn't be any functional changes. There would be no additional obstacles, just procedural ones more than likely. And they would be responsible for that? The HOA or that community would be responsible for that? It wouldn't fall back on us at any point? They'll be responsible for maintenance of the street as it stands in a private status? Yes, sir. But I was referring to if in ten years from now it would want to become a state maintained highway or state road, become a state road from a private road, would there be anything that we would be responsible for by allowing this to occur that would make us on the road? I think the state would make us then liable for anything to make it a state. If they petitioned you all and VDOT to bring it up and have it brought into the state system, VDOT would require a punch list and walkthrough to make sure that it was in reasonably good condition prior to accepting it. So, and that would be borne by those residents to make those improvements. Fantastic, thank you. Other questions, anyone? One more. Yes, sir. And that is, on this application for a new purchaser, is a new buyer told upfront or not until the time of deed signing that it's a private road that he or she would be responsible for the maintenance of that road and if there's a default that they're responsible for that default? When a development is governed by HOAs, when they purchase the property it's the due diligence of the real estate agent to advise them and unfortunately that's not something we can mandate. But when they do get to the settlement table, it's usually something that's required by the state. So, it's a request that's required to be presented to them and initialed off. Okay, thank you. Other questions, anyone? Thank you very much. This is a request for action. How would the board like to handle this one? It's in my district, so I'll make the motion. I'll make the motion that we approve the request as presented. So, I'll make the motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Sir, Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I have a lot of heartburn with this. I like to think that we make ordinances, we do things the right way to have uniformity and standardization across the county. I also understand constitutionally property rights are paramount and I like to respect people's opportunities to do with their property what they desire to do. This is a private street, so therefore it's private property, not public property. And the reason I made the motion, which I did, is because I think that the public property is a private property. And I think that the public property is a private property. I think that the public property is a private property. And I think that the public property is a private property. I think that the public property was to allow them to do what they desire to do on their property within reason. So, while I dislike giving exceptions like we did, I think it is appropriate in this case and therefore I'd like to see it pass. Thank you. Yes, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman, I'll just make one comment, and this is a comment to staff. Going forward, if this is a way to make certain that we are not left with a financial burden if for any reason an HOA fails, which we've had before, or something's not met up to standard, and if everybody that goes and buys a home there knows fully well that they are responsible, that would just be helpful. This may not be the vehicle to address that issue, but I think that we as a county just have to look into that a little bit deeper. That's all, Mr. Chairman. No comments, anyone? Are we ready? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Aye. Supervisor Schlatter? Aye. Supervisor Ludd? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion carries. All right, board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none. Citizen comments on any issue they might like to bring before the board. Did anyone sign up, Ms. Phillips? No, sir. All right. Did you have something, sir? Yes, I have. If you'd come forward, name, magisterial district, limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Yes, sir. I'm not sure if this is, I'm sorry, Tim from the Back Creek District. Microphone, microphone, please. Tim from the Back Creek District. I'm not sure if this is your last meeting or not for the year. If so, I'd like to wish you all a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. You guys are doing a great job. Mr. Ludd, you had brought up things about the schools and monies. I'm sure you're aware of the $1.9 million air conditioning change from $800,000. That's something that should be really looked at because that's a really odd amount. So, but I just want everybody to have a good time. Have a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sir, anyone else? Yes, sir. Alan Schaefer, Shawnee District. I'd like to talk about the intersection of Tasker. There you go. The intersection of Tasker and Warrior. There's been a new development of storage units. There's another one proposed on the adjacent corner. I know there's future plans for Warrior Drive to be connected over to, the Warrior Drive there behind Home Depot. The neighborhood there has a lot of children. There's children that walk down from one side of the neighborhood, have to cross Warrior to go to the community pool, as well as the children like to walk across Tasker to go up to the Dunkin' Donuts to get ice cream and to go to the park. Currently, the sidewalk comes down from the park. It ends in front of a shopping center before getting to the Dunkin' Donuts. And then there's a patch of grass that they have to walk through. And then the sidewalk continues down to Tasker Road. There's no sidewalk on the other side of Tasker going into the neighborhood. There's no kind of crosswalk. And as that intersection becomes more and more busy with the traffic from both the storage units and when it's connected behind Home Depot, I would like to see before it becomes a must-need situation, some kind of crosswalk, put in across Tasker Road. I think that's what we're looking for. I think that's what we're looking for. I think that's what we're looking for. for children and families to be able to cross from the neighborhood to go to the park. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been a while since I've been up here to be a part of the process. But with the comments with regards to the recent tax bill, and the extension of the due date, I thought it would be an opportunity to do some clarification. And based upon Mr. Ludwig's comments last week and again tonight, I thought it would clarify a few things. With those comments, I understand there was some confusion. And, in fact, the county administrator at the time that we discussed this back in September indicated one of the confusions was going to be a lack of being able to show the credit on the tax bills based upon the time frames that we were working with and trying to meet the timelines and not going too far into January, then a March due date, and then a June due date again. So with that process, just as a reminder, there were several options offered to the board, a rebate by way of check, which was a huge effort and a huge. Huge calls. Rebate using credit towards the December billing. Add the excess funds to the 2023 PPTRA amount to be distributed, which I think Mr. Wells commented on and had some questions in regards to. And reduce next year's PPTR rate to absorb some of the excess funds going forward or do nothing. Mr. Bohoffer indicated that item one was. The most difficult. And obviously, item five was no effort at all. The board selected the second most difficult and somewhat confusing process. We were able to advise that the credit would not be shown on the tax bills, as I've indicated. Some accounts would not be included in the process, and there would be errors based solely upon the magnitude of data being processed. I will say that the magnitude issue did not debate. The board was able to process the $4.6 million and get that down to within $0.76 of the amount allocated over the number of vehicles. The October 28th meeting, the board approved and voted on the ordinance for the rebate of personal property. While at that meeting, the process was not defined or who would be responsible for implementation. The board was able to process the $4.6 million and get that down to within $0.76 of the amount allocated over the number of vehicles. While at that meeting, the process was not defined or who would be responsible for implementation. In the next three weeks, myself and my staff proceeded to try to implement what was outlined in the ordinance as approved. And based upon that, I think the staff did an excellent job. There was some talk during the work sessions with regards to the rebate, and I wanted to follow up on that with regards to the need for the rebate. Um. The ordinance. Uh, amount was 4.6 million. The population of vehicles impacted was 98,500. Of that population, 11,800 did not get a refund. 34% of the vehicles received 78% of the refund in the balance. 66% of the vehicles received 22% of the refunds or roughly 1 million dead. Uh, so with that said, uh, we're going to move on to the next item. We've got a couple of questions. Um, and I'll pass it over to you, Mr. Chairman. Um, and with that said, um, we're, we're pleased with that. If there are questions, our staff, um, has certainly been answering the phone and working with that as a note for those that are writing off any type of tax liabilities for tax year 2022 would need to pay before the end of the year or otherwise the January 18th due date is in place. Certainly. I will answer any questions if anybody's had anything that's unique that we can make available to the public. I don't know if we have any questions between the two of you. I'm going to go back to the board. I don't know if you have any other questions. We're going to go back to the board. Um, thank you. Um, we're going to go back to the board. for tax year 2022 would need to pay before the end of the year or otherwise the January 18th due date is in place. Certainly I will answer any questions if anybody's had anything that's unique in your telephone calls. Anything that you all might like to share with Mr. Ornott? Thank you. Thank you so much, sir. More supervisors comments? Are there any? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to congratulate our County Administrator, Mr. Ballhofer. If memory serves me correctly, November made a year for him. So I'd like to say thank you for a job well done. I appreciate your efforts. I know you've worked very diligently on many projects and you've been a great asset to our County as well. I'd like to thank our employees, those who may be working on Christmas who put on a badge, whether that be a fire rescue badge, a police badge, any other type of work, water sewer, other items where you do help us out and make sure that the County can function on a daily basis. Thank you for your services. Thank you for your time. Thank you for taking time away from your family to make our lives better. We appreciate your efforts and due diligence. God bless you on Christmas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyone else? So on behalf of the Board, I'd like to wish our entire community and each of you a truly blessed holiday season and we will stay. Thank you. Townouble Stgunabbo, we stand adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
