Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-09-10
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=293
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Good evening. I will call the meeting to order for the Frederick County Board of Supervisors Wednesday, September 10, 2025. Supervisor Wells, would you kindly lead us in invocation? I will. Let us pray. Dear Lord, in these turbulent times, with wars and hate taking place, and spread hate, and lead them to a peaceful solution, we pray for your guidance and directions as we go about our personal lives and the business of Frederick County. We pray for all of those who are suffering with illness and personal sadness. We pray for our servicemen and our women, and our first responders, and our caregivers. Hold them in the palms of your hand and keep them out of harm's way. And most of all, Lord, we ask for your forgiveness and love. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Supervisor Wells, would you kindly lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? We stand and pledge allegiance to the flag... Can you all hear me okay? Okay. I'm sorry. Is it working now? Yes. I'm sorry. The first item of business is the election of a temporary vice chair, and I will open the floor to nominations. Madam Chairman, I nominate Bob Wells. Oh, okay. Sorry. I nominate Bob Wells. All right. Thank you. So we have a nomination for Supervisor Wells. Are there any other nominations? I will close the nomination period, and I guess we will do a roll call. We will do a roll call, and Supervisor Jewel, I'll start on your end, please. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. All right. That is accomplished. Thank you, Supervisor Wells, for your willingness to fill that spot. Thank you. Thank you for that. The first item of business, or the fourth item of business, is the adoption of the agenda. How would the Board like to handle the agenda? Mr. Chairman, Madam Chairman, I adopt it as written. We have a motion to accept the agenda as presented. Second. And a second. All in favor? Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. That'll take us to citizen comments. Mrs. Phillips, has anyone signed up? Yes, Madam Chairman, Brian Nury. If you will come to the podium, state your name and magisterial district and also limit your comments to three minutes, please. Madam Chair, members of the board, am I on? There we go. Is that good? Okay. There we go. I can be heard. Thank you very much. My name is Brian Nury. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I just want to come up here and be the first to say our long local nightmare has finally ended. And I hope now under items A and 8B that you members remaining make the best choices so that we can start to move Frederick County forward again. Thank you. Mrs. Phillips, you did say that was the only? That's the end of the list, yes. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Hearing none, we will move on then. We will move on to the consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Madam Chairman, I would move that we approve the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Is there a second? Second. And a second. This is a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. And the chair votes aye. We have a consent agenda. Madam Chairman, I just want to mention that there were no, in our consent agenda, there were no local funds being spent on any of these projects at a taxpayer's expense. Thank you. Thank you. Most of those were carry-forwards, donations, insurance claims that were coming back. Right. Right. And most of it had been carried forward from the prior year. So, yes. Thank you. All right. So, the next item of business then is Board of Supervisor comments. Is there anyone who wishes to present Board of Supervisor comments? Supervisor Dunn. Madam Chair. First of all, on what just occurred a few hours ago, just keep Charlie Kirkland's family up in your prayers. What occurred was just totally wrong. We can have political civil debates, but killing people is just wrong. Madam Chair, this is in response to the letter of resignation letter. Since he specifically mentioned me in his letter. He said he wanted to control spending, yet in the last two years that he served as Chair, our budget has increased more than $50 million. We have had budgets in the last two years in which operating expenses have exceeded operating revenue. He appointed all people in the Finance Committee, including Supervisor Lockridge and himself. However, none of them had any proposals to close the $15 million budget gap between revenues and expenditures. Instead, he took money from our capital fund to balance the operating budget. When the capital fund is depleted within two years and the county has to figure out how to have enough revenue to meet expenditures, do not complain to that Board. Chairman Ludwig and his team could have offered solutions to solve the problem. He did not. I made several suggestions on how to fund that difference. Unfortunately, he refused to work with me or anyone else to try to solve the problem. Instead, he simply said no to any solution and offered no solutions himself. I made a suggestion earlier this year to use $30 million from the capital fund. He said no to any solution to decrease the amount of money needed to borrow for the schools. Using capital fund money for this specific capital project instead of borrowing would have saved you, the taxpayer, $19.5 million in interest. Ludwig opposed this idea and his decision will leave you with the bill. The Laurel Center, which he mentioned directly both at our last meeting and in his letter asserts that, quote, gave a charity four times what they requested based on an emotional appeal from a single supervisor, namely me. The Laurel Center provided a service to the county by giving temporary shelter, 60 days maximum, to battered spouses, primarily women, to protect them from abusive husbands. If the Laurel Center closed its shop, where did those women go? What is the policy position of the county? Do we let women sleep in the streets with their children? Do we have an obligation to protect them on a temporary basis? Ludwig offered no solution, nor did he offer a private alternative solution. Every board member voted on that proposal except Ludwig again. Ludwig voted no with no solutions. I support economic development as the primary source of revenue for this county. However, our current population growth far exceeds our economic development growth. As an alternative to increasing real estate taxes, we're to neutralize the tax increases that are being made in the county. We're to neutralize the tax increases that are being made in the county. We're to neutralize the tax increases that are being made in the county. When real estate values rise, which also causes you, the taxpayer, to have to pay more taxes, I did advocate for a referendum on a 1% sales tax on all purchases excluding food and medicine. That would allow you, the voters, to vote on whether you wanted an alternative to a real estate tax, which would have been less than the tax most of you had after we raised real estate taxes earlier this year. That would have increased revenue more than $20 million. That would have increased revenue more than $20 million. That would have increased revenue more than $20 million. That would have increased revenue more than $20 million. The cost to each resident who spent less than $10,000 on purchases would have been far less than $100 and less than the property taxes most of you are going to pay this year. The Board increased the tax rate by 7 cents, which brings the county an additional $12 million. Most homeowners in this county have seen their tax increases exceed $100. The Board refused to allow you, the taxpayers, from having a referendum in which you could vote vote for or against such a proposal as an alternative to having a real estate taxes increase. Our current debt is about $250 million. With increased school debt of both the renovations and high school, that debt will be increased by another $180 million. Finally, I do support an increase in supervisor salaries. The last time the county increased supervisor salaries was 2001, when the county had less than 60,000 residents. Today, the county has more than 100,000. Ludwig voted no on the salary increase, yet he himself got an $1,800 raise as chair. Mr. Ludwig is entitled to his views, but if he thinks the board's salary should not be increased, then it's a taxpayer who's helping to fund his job as a rocket scientist. He should ask his employers to pay him at the 2001 rate for his job, and he can refund the difference to us, the taxpayers. It is not willing to do that, they should stop being a hypocrite by taking taxpayer-funded increases in his regular job, but opposing a salary increase for board members. On a related note, Supervisor Lockridge also resigned since her last meeting. I'm sorry to see her go. One of the concerns she had was the non-support for a third-party value engineer to oversee the school's architectural design and construction. I did attend a school board meeting in August and raised this issue with the school board. The school board is hiring an independent third-party value engineer. Again, they are hiring an independent third-party value engineer. Those people are going to do what we were proposing to do. The school board members have told me that certain members of the board didn't even have the courtesy to talk to them. As elected officials, I think we all have an obligation to talk to any elected official, whether you like them or not, because that's the way we interact. And I've talked to people that I agree with and disagree with, by the same token. The board's decision not to fund $94,000 for value engineering saved you, the taxpayer, $94,000. The school board is taking that money from the money that we appropriated to them for the schools. Good job, school board. I appreciate that. Madam Chair, congratulations on your new position. I wish you well. Thank you. Are there any other supervisor comments? Yes, sir. Supervisor Chilwell. Madam Chair, I just wanted to say that I'm very grateful to the Board for the opportunity to be here. I'm going to say to the citizens and everybody sitting in this room that you've got five supervisors that are taking it very seriously, that are working together. We've already resolved the issues with covering the committees. And we just appreciate the phone calls and support and just know that things are working very smoothly and we appreciate all the communication. And Madam Chair, thank you for stepping up and doing and Supervisor Wells for going in as the Vice Chair. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Is there anyone else? No. Yes, one more comment, Madam Chair. To the officers in this room, thank you for your service. We really appreciate that. For those that are here tonight, for those that have been here previously. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right. That concludes then the Board of Supervisor comments. The next item of business is the County Administrator's Report. Mr. Bolhofer. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I have something afternoon here that was very more than enormous. Speaking after a former federal flatbreaker, I remember Eric lay out the buildings on the Nashating. And he signed a letter and the only thing he was going to say was, you know, you cannot expand. However, First, we had one supervisor resign, then the chairperson. So we've been working very diligently to find all this information to provide you all your options. I will tell you the state has passed recently many changes to the election law that have made it difficult. And the interesting thing about those changes, of course, they're all in different sections of the code. So you cannot go to a section of the code that says special elections and figure this out. So we've been working hard. And I want to thank Anne and Jay, our interim attorney, Rich Bernofsky. We've all been trying to work together as a team to get you the information, and it has been a challenge. So we're going to do our best to present this to you and make it as easy to understand as possible. I will tell you, first and foremost, with all these changes in the rules, the fact you have now early voting, changes in the primary rules and such, the state has done everything they can, perhaps not intentionally, to make it difficult to have a very early special election. By code, if you do not make a decision on when that date is, it defaults to November of next year. So I'm going to go over the basic. These are the basic statutory rules you have that within 15 days of the notice of a vacancy, you must file a petition with the circuit court. That's why the statutes, which would mean you have to do this by September 16th for the Gainesboro seat and September 23rd for the chairman position. On your agenda tonight. To address this, you'd have to make two decisions, really. First, to make those dates of when you want the special election, and then to authorize us to take the petition to the court, because that resolution with the petition is the official document that will set the whole thing in motion. If this board doesn't make a decision, then the circuit court will set a date, and the date they have to set it is the date in November of 2026 by state statute. And please interrupt if you have any questions as I go along with this. It may be easier. These are some of the other rules you must follow. And these have a lot of these have been addressed in the memo. I just done a stripped down version. It must be on a Tuesday. It may not be on the same day as a primary and may not take place 55 days prior to a primary or general election. Historically, the board has avoided days when school is in session. I did contact Dr. Hummer if indeed the board wanted to do this on a day when school is in session. They would have to use a snow day or such to shut down the schools because they will not open the schools on the same day of the election. They said they would not want to do that. But if this board so asked, if the board asked them to do so, they would do what this board needed. Another parameter we have is our election equipment is not available for 60 days after an election. There's the rules. It's tied up and such. You don't have access to it. So that takes away a 60 day period after the election. I believe that primary this year. I don't remember the date is June June 16th, I believe. So you would lose those 60 days. When just administrator. So it's 60 days after June 16th. I think that's the day of the primary. So for 60 days after June 16th, you would not have access to that equipment. Okay. And then one of the questions and 60 days after the election in November. And I think that's the fourth, but I'm not certain. Meaning the fourth of January. Fourth of November this year. Okay. And then my next question is 50 to 55 days prior to June 16th. Do you know what that day is off the top of your head? What the date is? I do not know. But I know in the packet I gave you, we did have a calendar. I believe that may be on there. Okay. Okay. I'll look for that. Thank you. And I think what I'm going to do, I actually have some more specific dates that may answer those questions easier going forward. One of the things that I'm going to do is I'm going to go back to the last slide. One of the things they did change is for a special election, you are not required to have a primary. For other elections, you are. So after discussions with Rich and all our staff and our county attorney, the earliest possible date that you could hold an election would be February 24th, 2026. And the voter registrar did tell me that would be very difficult. But that is the earliest date you could hold an election. Following all those other parameters, including having to do early voting and such. And not only do you have to do early voting, what makes that date even more difficult is you have to have time to print the ballots, et cetera. So that's why it pushed that date to February 24th. I think from the registrar, if you wanted an early date, he would much prefer the 31st of March because it gives him more time and a little bit of extra time if you wanted to choose an earlier date. In the original memo we sent out to you, we had the date of July 28th. Because we found out it's a 60-day timeframe after the election, that date is no longer any good. And then the last date on there is the default date that it goes through the state, which is November 3rd. So your three options we found were the February 24th, March 31st, and the November 3rd, 2026 date. Mr. Bolhoffer, you did say, though, the February 24th date, schools are in session. Yes. If you did it on the 21st, you would have to do it on the 22nd. On the 24th, you would have to close down the schools. And I think that's why the argument is if you're going to do 24th, the 31st may make more sense because, one, it gives the registrar more time, and, two, you would not have to close down the schools because March 31st is spring break. Thank you. Mr. Administrator, though, does that mean that any date between February 24 and March 31st could be available? The problem with those dates is that, yes. Mr. Bischof is in the back, so he might. Mr. Bischof. Yes. Okay. I'm going to ask him. Yes, please. Mr. Bischof. Yes. March 31st would not be available, actually, because 60 days after that is actually going into early voting for the June primary. So that would be out. So, Mr. Bischof, if February 24th is the earliest date, then what is the latest date? November 3rd. No, wait. Is February 24th the only date between now and November? I'm not trying to put you in a spot. I'll give you time to. Let's see. Let's see. Okay. I'll give you a second. I'll give you a second. I'll give you a second. Okay. I'll give you a second. Okay. Okay. Okay. Just let the administrator finish, and then if you want to come back or whatever you want to do is fine with me. It would be, like, say, the 1st of March, because the 1st of May is early voting starts for the June primary. Okay. So you'd have a very short period. Okay. Like the 24th or the week after. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Another question was asked, what would be the additional time for the June primary? What would be the additional cost if you held a special election on any day other than November 3rd, and the additional cost is $70,000? I think that covers the basic information. I'm here to answer any questions you may have. I'll try to answer any questions you may have. Are there any further questions for Mr. Bolhofer? No. Okay. So, our order of business is to accept a motion to adopt the resolution that is at your seat this evening, and for us to fill in the dates as far as when we would have the special election. Madam Chairman, I'd make a motion that we go with November 2026 for the... November 2026. November 3rd. November 3rd, 2026. Okay. Yes, ma'am. We have a motion. Is there a second? I second. And a second. All right. Anyone else? Madam Chair, no. Then he's made a motion, a second, so we would now have discussion, correct? Yes, sir. There would be discussion. Okay. Is there any discussion? Yes. All right, sir. So, for all of you. When I first came onto the board, I was the first person to have a discussion with Mr. Bolhofer. He was the first person to have a discussion with Mr. Bolhofer. He was the first person to have a discussion with Mr. Bolhofer. You can discuss anything. Time's up. I can wait and see what you have to say. Okay. That would be my motion. Over. All right, sir. So, for all of you, when I first came onto the board, five of the seven people had been appointed. And as I think I've been said before, I'm in favor of an election. And I would favor an election, maybe not February 24th, but perhaps March 1st, that gives the registrar a chime to have an extra week to print ballots or whatever we could do that. But the reason I'm opposed to an appointment that are... Let me do one number. Let me put it in the chat. Okay. Okay. prefer a special election is it gives everybody in the county the opportunity to vote because everybody in Gainsborough the opportunity to vote. My experience when I first came on the board was that for the previous years we've had people that resigned in year three, had an appointment, then they were unchallenged in a general election and I just didn't think that was appropriate. I'm the product of somebody that challenged a person who was appointed and so for that reason on a philosophical basis I think you let the voters decide whom they want, you create a special election to do so, and then let them choose whom they want so we can agree to disagree on the policy but that's that's my premise. I think that if the voters choose they can and for the five of us to choose who's going to represent Gainsborough for potentially 14 months I just think Gainsborough people should have a better choice among all candidates. Madam Chair, I agree about the constituents but that's exactly why I'm November 2026. If we do it in November 2026 we do not have to pay $70,000. You have a federal election in 2026 where you're gonna be selecting a senator and you're gonna be selecting a congressman. You're gonna have voter turnout so I'd rather see a good voter turnout. We've learned that these special elections do not bring out people. It doesn't. I mean it's just a fact. So I think the appropriate thing to do is let the constituents speak and I think it's appropriate for it to be in November of 2026, November 3rd, 2026. Mr. Jewell, good to have a good conversation. So I'll give you a different thought. And the different thought is if there's an election in the spring then those people that are elected will have to deal with the next budget issue number one. The $70,000 cost is a cost of doing business. And for those people that are interested in who runs this county they will come out to vote. I think both of us know there are people that are interested in what occurs in this county and those people that are not interested really don't care. So for that reason even if it's a smaller number of people voting at least they have an interest. If candidates are saying I'm running for Gainsborough, here's who I am, my opponent's running, etc. Those that have an interest in what occurs in the county will vote and I agree with you that you will have probably less people in November but we may just agree to disagree on this one. That's good. Are there any other, is there any other discussion? Yes, Ms. Chair. I concur with Supervisor Jewell. I just think that February or March timeframe is going to be an extremely low turnout election and I just think that that does not give the voters of Gainsborough a fair opportunity to come out. And like Supervisor Jewell said we have House elections, we have Senate elections in November. That's our opportunity to have the most people come out and have give the voice to the Gainsborough populace. Thank you. Are we ready to vote? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. All right. So we have a motion and a second for the resolution to read November 3rd, 2026. I will start with Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Yes. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. The special election will be held November 3rd, 2026. Okay. That will take us then to the next item and that is the application process and Mr. Bolhoffer will go through the steps with that as well. Thank you. Oh, you're welcome. First of all, I'm going to give you the parameters and these are defined by the state's statutes, so everyone's familiar. I think I know you've seen these before. First, you must make this appointment within 45 days of the office becoming vacant. This is a new law that was just put into effect within the last year. You must hold a public meeting at least seven days prior to the selection. Now, this is not a public hearing, this is a public meeting. At this meeting, you will have to announce all the names, and you will have to make the applications or resumes or whatever. whatever paperwork you use to have someone submit, you have to make those available to the public at that meeting. The board is allowed to and has done in the past hold a closed meeting to deliberate even that night or the following week or when you need to. However, no matter what your deliberations are, when you make your final decision, and this has always been the case, you must make that decision at a vote in a public meeting. If the board does not make a decision within that 45-day parameters, and here's the key word here, the circuit court may make an appointment. Now it's my understanding they usually do, but they are not required to. It just states in the statutes they may make an appointment. These are the key dates. This is your timeframe for the 45 days for the Gainesboro seat. That timeframe is October 16th. If you see what's written in front of you, just change that date on there. It's October 16th, so it matches. And for the chairman, it's October 23rd. Those are your deadlines. And what's key is also you want it before then because you have to have time to bring the writ to the judge. When we looked at this to try and make it easier from a staff's perspective, we looked at a way to follow this timeframe, and we created a timeframe that made the most sense logistically. We didn't consider politics. We didn't consider anything such as that. We just looked at this as a straight math operation in which way logistically made the most sense. And so following this methodology, we would open the application period from September 11th, which would be tomorrow, until September 24th. And that would be a two-week period. I know Anne has already created an application ready if that needs to be done. We have a sample sitting in front of you. Anna, you should watch this yourself. This was in March. Nanette says, I'm sorry, just wait until. 1 3 and she said I missed a thing for one second. And that's ½線 in the back,ё That's for all things cable. But that's what we basically didn't know that it was for. A lot of people put it in until the end. So I'll leave it for 28 seconds, but there's a 7-point nênie because I don't need to do that to you. So I'll just do it because I need to have a percent. I see Michelle before I think she is in the 60s. Not sure about the!* The final question, whichUFF moment, did the same SEM Entrant get to? That's right.itate. There you go. At the moment? Yes. these, we would send you these in a timely fashion so you would have time as we're going through this process to read any applications. If indeed any board member wanted to apply for the chairman's position, they would have to fill out an application because once again you have to follow that rules where your application has to be presented at the public meeting on the public meeting date. So if anyone was interested, they would have to fill out the application. At the public meeting, you are only required to read the names and make the applications available. However, you can do other things if you so choose. We've done surveys and unscientific, just calling around, and most people, the most input they generally do is they've allowed applicants like a three-minute speaking period but not put them under the questioning or the review. So if you have any questions during that period, because just like you do with personnel matters, you don't always want to air your personnel matters out in the open. As you know, in the state of Virginia, we usually deal with all our personnel matters in closed meetings. But that's all up to this board how you would like to do that. So following this, if you were to open up those applications, close it down September 24th. That gives you a week period to review. We will have been sending them out in a timely fashion. And then you could hold your public meeting on October 1st, 2025. Obviously, we need to know this information ahead of time because we have to follow the advertisement rules because you have a public meeting, it has to be advertised. This would allow you to make your first attempt to do an appointment at your regular scheduled meeting on October 8th. It also gives you the opportunity if for some reason you cannot make a decision that time, you would have all the way to, you know, the October 15th, which would have to be a special meeting on a Wednesday night to make a decision on the Gainesboro seat. And it will give you until October 22nd if you weren't able to make a decision to make a decision on the Chairman position. Obviously, you can make it before if you're able to do so. We thought this way gives you a little bit of a benefit of having it if you're not able to do it, some time to get it done. Now, obviously, if you do not appoint someone and the courts decide not to do so, then you would operate with five supervisors until the November 3rd election. And I'm here to, any questions? Question for you, Mr. Baldwin. Sorry, Madam Chair. Going back to the October 1st date, is it allowable for this board to vote to have not only the candidates speak, but also public comments of folks who are not running at that point? The board has, there's a minimum requirement of what you have to do. Outside of that minimum requirement, you can do what you choose to do after that. So if this board so decided, they have that right to do so. Okay, thank you. Are there any other questions for Mr. Bolhoffer? Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Okay, so the, the, order of business here is a motion to set the application period. We could use Mr. Bolhoffer's timeline if, if the board would like to do that. And if not, then you could offer up other dates and we would confer to make sure we're within the parameters of the code. Madam Chairman, I would, I would make the motion that we follow the recommended guidelines of the dates that, that Mr. Bolhoffer. September 11th through the 24th. Is that what we're doing? September 11th through the 24th for the applications, October 1st for the public hearing and then October 8th for the meeting, scheduled meeting. Like he, like he, Mr. Bolhoffer said, it gives us a cushion there, a little bit of a cushion. You don't know if a storm comes, you don't know. Of course, you don't know what you don't know. So. And it will be a public meeting, not a public hearing. It will be a public meeting. Not a budget, just a public meeting. Right. Right. I would second that. We have a motion and a second. Yes, ma'am. Any further discussion? Just a couple things that I'm sure. On that October 1st meeting, I'd like for us to give the public opportunities to speak on, on their thoughts over and above what the candidates are, are, are doing. And the other thing I'd like to say is I've been given a lot of speeches in, in different forums recently and three minutes is, is a tough thing to do to, to whittle your speech, your comments down to three minutes. I would recommend five minutes for the candidates for both. For both of those positions. And I think it's well worth the extra couple minutes to get to know somebody. So I'd go for five minutes and then I'll have the public speak as well. Madam Chairman, if I may interrupt. Just for a clarification. That night is the night of a PC meeting. So you do have an hour timeframe there. However, if you so decided to add that you can always start that meeting earlier at 430 or such. We're going to have a meeting at 430. We're going to have a meeting at 430. We're going to have a meeting at 430. Right. I did not mention it at the, at the podium, but yes, that is a planning commission meeting that night. Supervisor Lear, would you like to continue with your thoughts on that and we could adjust the time that meeting would start if that. Yeah, I mean that, that creates some issues too. If we're starting 430, five o'clock in the afternoon, that's going to limit people getting here on, on time for the, for the start of that. So if, if we were doing that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If we were going to keep doing that then I would go back to three minutes per, per person. The other question I would ask, is, is there any way that we can get the planning commission to start a little bit later than, than seven on that evening? Maybe 7.30, eight o'clock or so. I believe so. Supervisor Liero. Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, I'd recommend if we can do that, if we can move that meeting to 7.30 and then maybe start at whatever time, 6 o'clock, and limit to three minutes, candidate's species. Mr. Ball, what time did you plan on? What were you thinking time-wise? I believe definitely start at 5.30. Even if you move it to 7.30, that gives you one hour and 45 minutes. You could wait and see how many applications you're dealing with as well. Yeah. Supervisor Dunn. Number one, for Mr. Liero's comment on five minutes, I'll support that. I mean, if a person wants to make his comments, I'd support five minutes. It's for a candidate. I do have some concerns about other people speaking, because if a person's running, he's going to get 20 best friends to come and talk. A candidate who runs gets his 20 best friends to come and talk. So I'm not quite sure that that's ... I think all of us have an obligation to interview each candidate, make a decision, but I'm not quite sure that having other people speak is to the best interest ... and that's my concerns. I would agree with Mr. Dunn on that. That becomes some personal conversation. Yeah. I think some personal comments might come out. I don't like this gentleman. I'm going to tell you why and so forth. I think we'll bear off just to let the candidates present themselves, and folks who want to come here and hear that can. Any further comments, discussion on this item? If we do limit it to just the candidates, then you can go back to five minutes. You'd have the timeline you need, right? Yes. I would think. I would think you would. I would think you would. I would think you would. Okay. So, Madam Chair, the motion is what? The motion is to ... let's see. Let me get my notes here. The motion is for the dates ... The motion is to set the application period and use Mr. Bolhofer's timeline as presented this evening. Is it appropriate to amend that motion to talk about how long each candidate should speak, or is that a second item to deal with? You could vote to amend it or ... Okay. Okay. Okay. So, that's the motion? Oh, it's a second item. Okay. Okay. So, Mr. Bolhofer, would you like to ... I think that Mr. Bolhofer could just withdraw that part of the motion, if it'd be easier. I don't sure if you agree. I'll withdraw my second. You withdraw your motion. Make another motion that is inclusive of the opportunity ... it'll give the same dates ... Okay. ... with the opportunity for the participants to ... I'm looking at the parliamentarian. Are you good with that? I was kind of lost. I believe it was ... who made the original motion? John. John. Mr. Jewell. Okay. Okay. So technically, I'm not sure if Supervisor Luehrer actually made an amendment to the motion. So I think if you just vote on the original motion, you're good. But Mr. Administrator, we had a discussion on three minutes and five minutes, and that was not included in this. That's why if Mr. Wells withdraws, if Mr. Jewell withdraws, and then Mr. Jewell reiterates with a timeline or minutes for candidates, that would take care of the issue. So she would just amend yours to make it a five-minute speaking time? Yes, amend the motion to make it a five-minute speech for the candidates. Second. That's easy. So are we good? We're good. All right. So we will vote on the amendment, and then we will vote on the original motion. All right. And we will start with Supervisor Luehrer on the amendment for five minutes for each candidate to speak. Supervisor Wells? Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion then on the floor is the motion to set the application period according to Mr. Bolhoffer's timeline. And we will start on Supervisor Jewell's end. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Supervisor Luehrer? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. Motion carries. And if I make it, just to be sure, that was to approve the entire schedule on there? That's correct. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. All right. All right. And let's see. We will move on. Let's move on to the next item of business. Madam Chair, before we move on, make a comment. My comment would be that if you're interested in running, even if you're interested for just serving out the terms, so in other words, a person says, I'd be willing to serve until November of 2026. I don't want to do it after that. I'd like to hear candidates that have that interest because then that means there's still an open seat in November. Thank you. All right. Thank you. All right. The next item on our agenda is the updated board committee assignments. And we had a lot of voids in areas. And I've spoken to all of the supervisors. And everybody is in agreement with the new matrix going forward. So those positions of attendance would start immediately. All right. We will move on then to item 8B. Supervisor Dunn. Madam Chair, I'd like to have a workshop to discuss salary compensation for constitutional officers. Right now, constitutional officers, their salaries are determined by the comp board. Then the county makes an additional compensation because of some issues that occurred. I'd like to see that. I'd like to see that done next year where the county says, fine, here are the salaries, here's the compensation, and then to have a vote on that. In addition, state law requires that any candidate that's elected when we come up for salary reviews in July, that they're automatically done. And I think that for a new person that's newly elected, they ought to serve a year before they get a salary increase in the private sector. I know very few people on secure cancer are getting. You know, $10,000 or more salary increases after six months. So for that reason, I'd like to have a workshop to discuss it and see what the state law says. We can go into more depth. Don't have to take tonight's time. But that's my purpose. So I'd like to make a motion to hold a workshop on salary compensation for constitutional officers. There's a motion on the floor. Is there a second? The motion will die. Okay. Secondly, I'd like to make a motion to have a work session with all county stakeholders to discuss transfer of development rights. And those transfer of development rights ought to include the Piedmont Council. It ought to include landowners that are in favor of development rights. It ought to include landowners that are opposed to development rights. It ought to include HOA presidents or their representatives. And receiving areas such as Redbud, Shawnee, Opec, and Stonewall. I'd like to hear also developers and their views on that. In other words, I want a broad sector of everybody that's involved with development rights to sit around the table and have a discussion on the pros and cons. That would include this board. It would also include the planning commission. After our meeting in August, right now, in my view, the board has limited capabilities on helping to plan what occurs in this county. So this is a way we all can get together, talk, hear the pros and cons, and potentially get a better TDR situation. TDRs were first developed in 2009, 2010. And this county is a lot different than it was 15 years ago. So we can go through the reasons that it was developed, the pros and the cons. But I'd like to have a workshop on that so we can go for that in depth. So that's my motion, Madam Chair. Okay. We have a motion on the floor. Is there a second? Hearing none, the motion dies. Madam Chair, I'd like to have a legislative work session in late September or October. And with everything that's occurring here, I've written this prior to Mr. Ludwig's resignation with Delegates Wiley, Oates, and Senator French to discuss legislation that's coming before the General Assembly. The reason I'm asking for it now is that in early November, the window closes. This is where delegates and senators can introduce legislation. They have only so many bills that they can offer. And this will give us the opportunity to go and have an in-depth conversation with our local delegation to say these are the things that are important. I know that those delegates are more likely to support items that we all agree on, or at least four or five of us agree on, and if there were seven of us, six or seven. And that way we can say to them, these are important items to us. And I know this list usually is a longer list, but if we have certain priorities, I'd like to lay those things out. And we have to figure out ways to raise revenue. That's an issue. We have some other issues that ought to be dealt with. So for that reason, I'd like to see if we can have a work session inviting all three people to come. And that's my motion, Madam Chair. I would second that, Madam Chair. Okay. We have a motion and a second. I might just offer a reminder that next week, VACO is having a meeting in Woodstock. And they have invited all of us. All of our districts. The representatives will be at that meeting for this very purpose. So I just want to remind you that that invitation has been extended to all of us. Madam Chair, I appreciate that. I'm also running a business, and I have other commitments for that day, and so that's going to make that difficult. By the same token, for the five of us, talking to them, even for an hour, would be helpful. Last year, I was not able to do it for the same reason. I was out of town on a conference. So that's why I was making the motion. All right. So we have a motion on the floor. Is there any further discussion? Madam Chair, I think that... If we're going to do that, it should be after we've made the appointments. We're working on a timeline of October 1st with a decision made on October 8th. So with October 15th and October 22nd is fallback day. So I think that it would not be appropriate to do it yet without the new members appointed. Madam Chair, I agree with Mr. Jewell. I mean, if we can do it in late October, that's fine with me. Or even November. Is that what you were suggesting? Yes, ma'am. That's exactly what I thought. Supervisor Jewell, that's what I thought. My only concern on November is the legislative deadlines that the General Assembly has. Understood. But... Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So we... There would be time there where we could discuss things with our representatives. Okay, so... But my understanding, Mr. Jewell, is that the General Assembly has a deadline. I believe it's sometime in early to mid-November where they say you cannot submit any more bills and or some of those are carrying bills and they only can carry so many bills. Mr. Tibbs, thank you for the Division of Legislative Services the date for pre-filed bills is Wednesday, January 7th so we do have a little bit of time before the pre-filed deadline thank you sir for that so we do have a motion on the floor and remind me was it specific to those dates of late September and October and if it was, could we amend those dates to allow county staff to direct us as far as time that we all can participate and also that the legislators could join us so Madam Chair, yes sir I can amend my motion to say for a date such that we will have an opportunity to meet with them prior to a closing date for legislation and give the legislators at least let's say one week to be able to file something if they need to, in other words I don't want to have something on January 1st but we can give them a week any time up to a week prior to them being able to file legislation would be fine okay so we have an amended motion and do we have a second? second and a second so we will take a roll call vote Supervisor DeLero aye Supervisor Wells Supervisor Dunn Supervisor Jewell and the Chair votes aye the motion carries that will move us on to item 8C Madam Chair I'm going to make a motion to allocate $10 million from our capital fund for the first leg of the construction of Route 37 between Sensity Road and Route 7 the reason I'm going to make this motion and we'll see if we get a second is that in February this year we'll take a step back this board voted on Winchester East Little Peckin last month the developers using TDRs to go and build almost 300 homes those 300 homes are all going to flow into Sensity Road in Redbud your homes that are being built are scheduled to be built there's more than 1,500 homes all which would flow to Sensity Road this road here would allow some traffic to go north to Route 7 as opposed to everything going on to Sensity back in February when we were having discussions with the developer the developer did not have a fourth vote for rezoning in his proposal he had talked about building a road and I had talked about the fact that the board might have to put in money to bridge the gap going north there was a talk about a box culvert and that was an $8 million cost the $10 million figure here would allow the developer as he's building his houses to at least build the road it may include all monies necessary or you might need a supplement of a million or so in next year's budget fund I've gotten a number of comments about you want to build infrastructure first before you have houses this board has not approved any rezoning in the last I think 15 years and so for those people to say before you have more houses build infrastructure we have not had any rezoning it's all been done prior to any person doing it and so I think it's important to note that we have a lot of money here on this board but if we're going to build infrastructure we need to do it it's as simple as that Mr. Bishop has earlier this year said that if we build Route 37 here's the cost and here's the layout if we do not build Route 37 or its equivalent we also have additional cost for the increased population our population right now is 100,000 people approximately it is scheduled to grow another 30 to 40,000 people for those of you that have lived here a long time back in 1912 or 1980 this county had 34,000 people so look at the growth that's occurred and the roads that have been here need to be expanded and that's the reason for having this Route 37 we have a capital fund that capital fund has been used to run operating expenses for the last three years for the last three years we've had operating expenses exceeding operating revenues and the capital fund has been used as a slush fund if we can go back and use this money for a capital purpose it benefits everybody if it is continued to be used as an operating expense slush fund within a couple of years it's going to go away and you'll have to figure out how to solve this operating deficit that we're running in so why not go and spend the money here for the $10 million to get a road and we can all figure out how to solve the budget next year I think it's a win for everybody but using the capital fund for operations does not benefit anybody because in a couple of years we're all going to be in a situation with no capital fund and if we then have to figure out the budget problem we're not going to have a road either so for that reason I'm going to make the motion to go and spend $10 million we have $20 million according to staff, Cheryl Schiffler we have $20 million of uncommitted funds in our capital fund the money set aside for the fire department has already been set aside and if for some reason we had an emergency there's another $8 million that's the difference between the 17% and 20% of extra money that we have that if we really had an unexpected expenditure we do have $8.5 million so for that reason I'd like to make a motion to use $10 million for a capital fund for the construction of a road between Route 7 and Cincinnati Road and that's my motion Okay we have a motion is there a second? Hearing none the motion dies Thank you Madam Chair hang on a second please My last motion then I sent all board members this layout here so they're not hearing it new but to you board members I've been extremely tied up for the last few days so I sent it to you earlier today you know I did it as soon as I could I'm sorry I didn't know that's just courtesy to you Again we have $20 million of uncommitted funds in our capital account We have two school renovations that are occurring Middletown and Stonewall and we have a high school that's being built Earlier this year I made the suggestion to move $30 million because we had $36 million at the time but I made the suggestion to move $30 million for those projects and that would have saved me $10 million and that would have saved me $10 million and that would have saved me $19.5 million that did not pass therefore I'm going to make the suggestion that we spend $20 million in other words I'm going to use everything in the capital fund for the schools so the schools can pay for the two renovations the two elementary and middle schools we have and those total costs are running about $28-29 million so this will help to go and do that means that we will not have to borrow as much money and that will save us approximately $13 million in interest over a 20 year time frame it will also allow this board then to figure out how to go and solve the budget issue next year and we will have to work on doing that but therefore my motion Madam Chair is to take $20 million from the capital fund to give to the school board so they can use that instead of having to borrow money for the renovations of Stonewall and Stonewall and Middletown or as they see fit for school buildings we have a motion on the floor is there a second hearing none the motion will die thank you Madam Chair thank you we will move on to item number nine Social Services Board this is the Redbud District Supervisor Dunn Madam Chair I'd like to nominate Vicki Bentley for the position she is a foster parent she has been a surrogate parent for children with disabilities she has good people skills she is involved in social services and she will be an excellent fit for this the application you have all seen the information on the application and she will be a good member of this board if you so elect her so we have a motion is there a second and a second Supervisor Liero Aye Supervisor Wells Aye Supervisor Dunn Aye Supervisor Jewell Aye Supervisor Liero Aye Supervisor Leal Aye Supervisor Leal Aye Thank you Madam Chair and on the committee this is item number nine the finance committee the finance audit committee charter adopted by the Board of Supervisors requires an annual review and assessment Supervisor Leero I will defer this one to you please Thank you Madam Chair the committee recommends no changes to the current charter well so is that a motion that would be a motion so we have a motion and a second and supervisor wells has properly seconded so we will start on supervisor jules and aye supervisor dunn aye supervisor well aye supervisor liero aye and the chair votes aye that'll take us then uh there are no public hearings so we passed item 11 and we will move on to item number 12 which is rezoning 04-25 of laurel ridge college foundation inc and miss feltner will present thank you so much thank you madam chair and members of the board this is a application to rezone 19.81 acres from ra to higher education the property is located at 131 garland snap drive in the back creek magisterial district the property located the property location is marked in red it is located adjacent to the existing laurel ridge community college just north of the town of middletown the property is outlined in purple and is located on the valley pike just west of middletown elementary school and interstate 81. the proposed facility will be located just north of the current student union building shown here along garland snap drive the middletown lord fairfax area plan provides guidance for this area the plan identifies these properties as institutional and the proposed rezoning implements the plan by enhancing the existing educational institutional uses that serve frederick county and the broader region this is the generalized development plan that was submitted with the proffer statement the existing student union building is shown to the far left of your screen the new facility and training components including the proposed substation are to be used for training purposes only they are positioned behind the existing student union building to the north the proffer statement provides that the property will be developed with college university and professional schools in conformance with the future plan a right-of-way dedication for the expansion of route 11 is proposed and the development shall be in general come from conformance with the general the GDP in summary the proposed rezoning implements the middletown lord fairfax area plan the proffers provide monetary contributions to offset impacts to local fire and rescue services and the dedication of right-of-way for the future improvements to route 11 valley pike is provided the concerns is the board of supervisors policy requires development within the sewer and water service area to be served by the county public utilities for development of the new facility the plan is to be implemented within the the plan is to be implemented within the new facility and the development shall be in general come from conformance with the general concerns MATK Oh I have I to be Like 24 year and the application representative Mr. Ramos and Mr. Patterson are also in attendance to answer your question. Thank you. Do any of the supervisors have questions for Mrs. Sveltener? Seeing none, do the applicants have a presentation Mrs. Sveltener or are they just here to answer any questions? They do not have a presentation. They are just available to answer any questions or concerns. Very well, thank you. Are there any questions for the representatives? Seeing none. Supervisor Jewell, let's see, this is a public hearing so we better take care of that order of business first. Is there anyone here from the public who wishes to speak? Madam Chairman, we had no one sign up. Thank you. Is there anyone that hasn't signed up who would like to speak on this matter? Seeing none, we will close the public hearing. Thank you. Back to you Supervisor Jewell, this is your district. Madam Chair, I'd like to make the motion to approve rezoning number 0425 of the Laurel Ridge Community College Foundation. We have a motion, is there a second? Second. And a second. All right, we will do a roll call vote. Supervisor Higuero? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The rezoning zero. Retz? Aye. Is there anyone else? So Krystal Taylor? Aye. Donna DeLong? Aye. Mack? Black? Aye. Carhart?ther? However, it's not new. It's something that has been in state code for many many years We just fairly infrequently have these reviews and we do have one coming up as was referenced earlier this evening and Staff felt it prudent to go ahead and adopt a formal policy that makes it clear not only to Potential applicants but also to ourselves the board and Planning Commission on what the process is how it works and why it's there So that's really what this is So as noted already consideration of a draft policy to govern the handling of these state required 15.2 dash 2232 Applications and what this does is it's actually a Planning Commission review required by state code In which the Planning Commission looks at the board's adopted Comprehensive plan which of course the Planning Commission weighs in on fairly heavily as well and says does this application Match the comp plan or does it not? The last 2232 formal review was done in Frederick County in 2011 There are some key exemptions in this proposed policy Among those are maintenance items Frederick County water projects that are within your sewer and water service area Most new or expanded Frederick County public school facilities I would note when they are not would be if it's not in your capital improvement plan already basically are not Already been considered And finally Telecom towers and I know that wouldn't get great gather some attention So I want to make sure I make clear why telecom towers are Exempted from this particular review. It's because they already have their own more robust Conditional use permit review in which that goes to the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors for its own approval the review itself is a public is a public hearing item at the Planning Commission and Appeals of a denial by the Planning Commission would come to the Board of Supervisors And that would be an applicant appeal the way the state code is written Finally this has been reviewed by the Planning Commission and recommended for approval They looked at it last week. We are seeking an action by the Board of Supervisors and of course I can take any questions you may Have are there any questions for mr. Bishop? Hearing and seeing none This is not a public hearing How would the board like to handle? This request that would require a resolution to adopt the policy for the 2232 review Is there anyone miss madam madam chairman? I'd make the motion that we move forward with the resolution to approve very well. We have a motion is there a second second and a second Supervisor jewel all right Supervisor done. All right Supervisor well Supervisor Leera and the chair votes aye the policy resolution has been adopted Next item of business is the information discussion ordinance amendment outdoor lighting standards Mr. Klein has been working on this and we have a very outdated policy So we're delighted that you've had the opportunity to update and bring it to us. Yes, ma'am This is a request to consider amendments to chapter 165 the zoning ordinance as it pertains to the county's adoption Of outdoor lighting standards as you can see from my slide We last really comprehensively updated this section in 2009 and there's been significant changes in the technology and the type of lighting that are being used on our sites So this would be an opportunity to modernize our outdoor lighting standards It would be an opportunity to review our permitted illumination levels comparing where our county is versus other localities and what are considered best practices for lighting To consider revisions to our photometric pattern requirements That is the details of the lighting on a site. It's included with our site plan submissions that staff does review and approve. And to incorporate those LED lighting standards, this ordinance was initiated by staff at the request of conversations we've had with various board members over the years to address lighting concerns in our community. The current standard, and I didn't provide all of the sections, but I did provide the intent of the chapter, is the purpose and intent of this section is to establish outdoor lighting standards to reduce the impacts of glare, light trespass, and over lighting, and to promote safety and security and encourage energy conservation. Contained within our lighting ordinance, we have various standards as it pertains to residential lighting, commercial and industrial lighting, which is our main lighting areas that we see concerns raised, and also recreational lighting. The light standards address hotlighting. The type of fixtures, how they're shielded from the public, how they're directed onto the property. And then also there's illumination levels, which is like the maximum amount of light that can be on a site. So we'd like to take a comprehensive look at this section and to provide you all with recommendations on what could be amended. So with that, this item is presented this evening for information discussion. Staff would obviously take any feedback you have on this section and then would be seeking consensus from the board to move this item forward for further study. And to authorize. To hold public hearings. If you do choose to move it forward, staff would obviously initiate a draft, a redline draft to our lighting ordinance section. We would also go to our development review and regulations committee to present that to them. That's a panel of experts in development in our community. It includes planning commission members, and they would evaluate the proposal and then send it forward to the planning commission with a recommendation. So tonight we're just seeking your direction to move forward, and I'm happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein or comments? I have some comments on that. I'm certainly in favor of the study. We've had over the past years several commercial folks come in and residential homeowners come in. We really do need to take a look at it. Our lighting is getting a flashlight that used to carry you could barely see with. Now you can almost see them, you know, all the way to the sky. So lighting has really become an issue. And we have the down lighting and so forth. I'd like to see work as hard as we possibly can to offer security lighting for those businesses that need it. Keep it as low as we possibly can. Any other comments? Just one. And as you know, in my district, we have greenhouses that are correct. They have an impact from warehousing and such. So if there's a way we can look. At how maybe we can refine any of that. Certainly would appreciate you honing in on that aspect. Of course. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions or comments? I just think back Creek. I get comments a lot from folks about the lighting. So I appreciate the staff taking a look at it. Absolutely. Thank you. Good move. Thank you. Okay. All right. So I believe we need a motion then to move. This forward directing the planning commission to hold a public hearing regarding Chapter 165 zoning ordinance. The amendment. So move. Madam Chairman. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Rightly so. Seconded by Supervisor Jewell. So we will start on Mr. Liero's. And this. Hi. Mr. Liero. Supervisor. Well. Supervisor Dunn. Hi. Supervisor Jewell. Hi. And the chair votes. Hi. Thank you, sir. I meant Supervisor Liero. Excuse me. All right. That will take us then to the update on R4 district standards. Yes. And this is the second of three ordinance amendments for your consideration this evening. This would be a proposal to amend our design requirements contained in our R4, our residential planned community zoning districts. Staff would welcome the opportunity to review and consider changes to the minimum. Size for this zoning district and also to consider amendments to the residential density requirements that are permitted in our R4 district. You all will be quite familiar with the R4 district. That's our Lake Frederick. That's our Snowden Bridge. Our large planned unit type developments. The R4 district standards was last comprehensively updated in 2013. But the section actually predates that part of our ordinance. This ordinance meant was initiated by staff. And we again welcome the opportunity to consider changes to this district. If you're not familiar. With our R4 district is intended to be a mixture of housing types within a carefully planned setting. The district is intended to create new neighborhoods with appropriate balance between residential employment and service uses with innovative design encouraged. Specific to those design requirements that staff would like to consider changes to and present to the committee, the planning commission, the board would be under the design requirements for a the minimum size. Presently, the ordinance requires that anyone considering a rezoning to the R4 district. Have a minimum of 100 acres, which is a large assemblage and quite difficult to assemble as we've seen even Winchester East, which was our most recent residential rezoning was under 100 acres. And then also consider amendments to item C, which is our residential density, which specifies that the maximum gross density for residences in a planned community development before dwelling units per acre in our comprehensive plan in some of these districts where our four may be appropriate. In our comprehensive plan in some of these districts where our four may be appropriate. Actually, the comprehensive plan supports densities greater than four dwelling units per acre up to up to 16 or 20 dwelling units per acre, depending on the housing type, such as multifamily. So there's there's some conflict between what our comprehensive plan says about our planned unit neighborhoods and what the ordinance actually allows to be developed in those districts. So again, we'd like the opportunity to review and see if this is a best practice or some other number may be appropriate. So again, this is an item presented for information discussion following your direction this evening. If you authorize. If you authorize us to go forward for further study in the in the public hearings, we would take this again through that development review and regulations committee and then present it to the planning commission board for a public hearing. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein? Hearing none. How would the board like to handle the request? The action that you're asking for is directing the planning commission to hold a public hearing regarding Chapter 165 zoning ordinance as it relates to the R4. District. Madam Chair, so moved. Yes, sir. We have a motion on the floor. Second. And a second. Thank you. We will move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Leero. Aye. And the chair votes aye. The motion carries. That'll take us then to item 13 D. Our final item for your consideration this evening and quite possibly maybe one of the more obscure parts of our zoning ordinance that we don't always get to talk about. I'm going to go ahead and get to the next item. I'm going to go ahead and get to the next item. I'm going to go ahead and get to the next item. I'm going to go ahead and get to the next item. I'm going to go ahead and get to the next item. Which is our traditional neighborhood design business overlay district. And this would be a proposal to amend the dimensional requirements contained in that section for the TNDB overlay district to modify the maximum height allowed in that zoning district or with that overlay district. This ordinance amendment was actually initiated by staff at the request of a local engineering firm that was considering a project that may utilize this overlay district but had some concerns with what was otherwise permitted as the zoning district. This ordinance amendment was actually initiated by staff at the request of a local engineering firm that was considering a project that may utilize the zoning district. This section again was last updated in 2008. It corresponded as a follow up item when the 2007 comprehensive plan was adopted. So we think it aligns with some of the work that was done with our urban centers and neighborhood villages where they anticipated use of this overlay district on top of a base zoning like B2 general business or an RP residential performance zoning district. So again the TNDB or traditional neighborhood design business overlay district is in place. So again the TNDB or traditional neighborhood design business overlay district is in place. This is intended to implement the comprehensive plan goals of supporting business climate conducive to the economic activity and orderly economic growth and provide for a variety of housing types and location to meet the varied needs and income levels of the county. Specifically in the dimensional use and intensity regulations it caps the maximum height at 45 feet. This is in our estimation to be some kind of average among the various zoning districts that could have the overlay. In the RP district the maximum height could be up to about 5 feet. You can go up there to 45 feet. In the B2 you can go up there to 60 feet for mixed buildings. So there's a little bit of a conflict if someone was intended to utilize this overlay district, the base zoning would enable them 60 feet but the overlay only enables them 45 feet. So you can see the inherent conflict there with trying to implement something that we see as a priority in our Comprehensive Plan, but not otherwise enabled by our zoning ordinance. So we're seeking the opportunity to review that and consider what would be the best practice for establishing a height maximum in that district. A lot of work has gone into this. I mean I think it's a hard thing to do. The people who want to do this, right. And understand this and work with them. I think there's a lot of work going on. We're excited about this. Yeah. So I think it's an excellent approach. So again, this item is presented for information discussion. Again, following your consideration this evening, we'll be seeking to move this forward to committee for further study and then to hold public hearings. Of course, happy to answer any questions you have. Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. Klein? No. I do have one question. I'm looking at the highlighted information that you will be looking at, which is the maximum height. And this ordinance wouldn't include the buffers and such between... It would not modify any of those other requirements specific to the height. If there's something else you would like for us to look at, we certainly could do so as part of this process. But we intended, because of the limited request from that engineering firm, to only look at the height option. I guess I was just curious if we looked at, you know, the rears of the, you know, the rear and the sides of the property and how those buffers- have we updated that? The buffers were modified several years ago, but we certainly can look at all the dimensional requirements and make sure that it doesn't you know create an issue that would otherwise, you know, impede on the neighboring property. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any other questions or comments? All right. Thank you so much. Thank you. You all have been hard at work. How would the Board like to handle then the request, theи The action is to direct the Planning Commission to hold a public hearing regarding Chapter 165 zoning ordinance as it relates to the traditional neighborhood design business overlay district. Madam Chair, I so move, but also I like including what you, with the buffers as well. Thank you. We have a motion on the floor. Is there a second? Second. And a second, properly seconded. I'm going to start on Supervisor Lieros and Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. And the Chair votes aye. The motion carries. All right. The next item of business is Board Liaison Reports. Are there any? Yes, Madam Chair. Planning Commission met last Wednesday, September 3rd, took up several issues. First one, rezoning 0525 of Firestone Complete. Auto-care. Auto-care center in the Stonewall Magisterial District submitted to rezone plus or minus 2.96 acres from B2 General Business Zoning District to B3 Industrial Transition Zoning District with proffers. That was approved by the Planning Commission in favor of unanimous. That will come to the Board of Supervisors at our next meeting, September 24th. Next item was rezoning 0625 of Harrah Properties LLC submitted to rezone. 13 acres from M1 Light Industrial Zoning District with proffers to M1 Light Industrial Zoning District with modified proffers. That, again, was approved unanimous in favor. That will also come to the Board of Supervisors on September 24th. That's in the Opec and Magisterial District. The last thing was ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code, modifications to the transfer of development rights, programs receiving property criteria, transfer process, and the development of the property. That was approved unanimously except for one abstention. Again, that will come to the Board of Supervisors on September 24th. And that's all I have on that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Are there any other liaison reports? Okay. Seeing none, the next item on the agenda is citizen comment period. Is there anyone? Anyone who wishes to speak? Yes. Yes. We do have Willie Deutsch. Okay. Mr. Deutsch, please come to the podium and state your name and Magisterial District. And if you would kindly limit your comments to three minutes, please. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair, members of the Board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opec and District. Just wanted to follow up on the discussion from the last Board meeting surrounding data centers. I appreciate the work that everybody is putting into this. But I just want to ask that this Board... Is proactive in engaging with the public. A lot of us came away from last Board meeting with the feeling that between the Board and staff, there is this feeling that, well, if we just give the public the information, they'll shut up and start agreeing with us. And what we've seen through this whole process is one of veiled secrecy. We know there are NDAs the county is engaged with when it comes to the data centers. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. But I'm sure the Board meeting issues have been how it has developed or how it has grown as as we've been able to move into a system where there's a level of secrecy what we we think of is just wanting to talk about these things through pages without güzelkam information. what we we think of is just wanting to talk about these things through page two of this And so I would call into consideration of the NDAs why we were able to batch out things We should note that the NDAs are much more all explosive to the improvement of data centers if we went into our career intensive goal walking and not getting access to corrective data centers. the community engaging and valuing the public before going down this course and throughout the whole process. Same thing, I know this wasn't the county, but this was a developer. The public hearing related to that data center project had absolutely minimal notice and very few people were able to attend. There was very short notice and very little disclosure. So this entire process has been one of secrecy, minimal public information, and so I think it's the public we'd appreciate proactively engaging with the public. Thank you. Thank you. Deanne Kinney. Good evening. Deanne Kinney from the Gainesboro District. I'm finally here. I've been waiting about a month to give you this report, so here I am. I'm here tonight representing Seniors First, the Shandell Area Agency on Aging. And first of all, we'd like to thank you all. Thank you for the funding that you provide for us so that we're able to provide services to the senior citizens of Frederick County. We feel it's important to keep you all informed on what it is we're using those funds for. Seniors First receives funding in a combination from the federal, the state, local, and private dollars. We provide services that help more seniors stay in their homes as long as possible. We are on the cusp of there being more over 60-year-old people in the state of Virginia. Thank you. Let's go on to the next slide please. First, first of all, we are the largest civil service agency in the state of Virginia than under the age of 20. So, what we have is 32%. We estimate 32% of the senior citizens live below the poverty level in the state of Virginia. One in five would be facing food insecurity, isolation, premature placement in nursing homes. So here's what your dollars are providing for the senior citizens in Frederick County. Transportation. We provide non-emergency medical transportation to the citizens that qualify in Frederick County. From October of 24 to the April of 25, we provided 1,100 door-to-door trips for the citizens who qualify. The senior center is in Stephen City, and it provides meals, socialization four days a week, care, other services or care coordination, home-delivered meals, personal care, and other assistance programs. And we measure those in units. So every meal that's provided at a senior center, every bit of consultation that someone receives on how to get into a nursing home or get their families there, those are all considered units. And in Frederick, Frederick County from October the 1st of 24 to June of 25, we provided 37,946 units to the citizens of Frederick County. And those are qualifying. And we qualify each unit as of a year ago, that cost was $17.71. So those are dated numbers, but that would be $672,000. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $17.71. $23 that Seniors First has provided for the citizens of Frederick County. So you can see that the funds are well used, and we have a strong need for all those services in Frederick County. As you know, the cost of services go up every year, increasing, but we cannot turn anyone away. The state does not allow us to turn anyone away. So anybody who qualifies, we have to find a way to provide those services. So again, thank you for your funds. And I just want to give you a shout out to the Seniors First. I want to keep you updated on what's going on. Thank you. Thank you. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, Madam Chair. Congratulations on your new position. And Mr. Vice Chair. First, I want to recognize how much you give to the public in terms of your time and talent, away from family, away from your businesses. This is a big job. It's been a particularly intense period of the last few months. But I wanted to comment on voter participation. I think you've been very active in the process. And I think you've been very active in the process. And I think you've been very active in the process. So I want to thank you for your participation in the democratic process a little bit. I know you live this every day. On August 13th, excuse me, on June 18th, we had a joint study session of the Planning Commission and of the Board of Supervisors. Big turnout. It's been repeated that there are 100 people there. This room holds 260, according to the fire marshal. I think there's probably, in deference to the fire marshal, I'd like to say that there were 260 people here, not 100. And then I've heard, you know, there's a lot of people here. I'm not sure if you've heard of the fire marshal. I think there's a lot of people here. I think there's a lot of people here. And then I've heard since that the, you know, 1300 people on a petition really doesn't count for much. So I downloaded the Virginia Department of Elections database for each race that you all have run. You know these numbers probably better than anybody. In the Redbud District, Blaine Perry-Dunn won by 317 votes last time around, the 2021 general election. Ms. McConslatter, Madam Chair. I'm going to take a few more minutes to thank you. I have one thought before we close the verelike by a vote. I think it's one day to 1,001 votes in the 2021 general election. I don't know if you all know, Voncho, but in why I'm on the board, Supervisor Jewell in the Bat Creek District and I reside in the Bat Creek District, I want to make sure that you know that that's clear, won by 1,333 votes. Congratulations. Of course, Robert Wells from Picking won by 332 in your last election of 2023. And congratulations to Supervisor Learno running, I don't know why he had a lot of votes, and now he's on the board. His vote is Susan Lueb. 1944. opposed. But nonetheless, the point I'd like to make is that these races are won by small margins. And as you engage the public, as people get involved, you know, a couple of thousand people can really swing an election. So I want you to make sure that you're listening really hard to people, building on what Mr. DeWaage spoke about, being transparent as much as possible. Because we'll be involved. We'll still count on you and hold you accountable. And we want to thank you for all of your hard work. Thank you. Thank you. Ross Hewitt. Good evening. Ross Hewitt, Back Creek District. Coming here kind of out of left field tonight. I want to talk trash a little bit. My wife and I own RCS Waste and Recycling here in Frederick County and the city of Winchester. We just, here three years ago, invested almost $10 million into building the area's only single stream MRF, which is a multi-stream recycling facility to handle all commingled cardboard, shrink wrap, everything on the residential side. And we also do commercial hauling and stuff like that. The reason I'm here tonight is because we're a local community. We just went through the budget process of last year. I think most of our local trash here we haul in like 20 different counties, but this is our home here in Frederick County. And so we had an 8% increase landfill in the tipping rates last year, 20% increase this year. And also found out in March, they eliminated the concrete recycling at the landfill, which I used to do. You can still take it there at 190% increase, and then it gets buried in the lined MSW landfill clean aggregate. At $65 a ton, it was 20. Anyhow, long story short, I'm happy to say in the last, so I found out in March, last three months, we've invested $2 million into concrete processing, brick aggregate block, crushing screening, and recycling this. So we're trying to fill the voids that sometimes are created through with the recycling plant going out here. Mr. Williams, five years ago, we stepped up, filled that void. Mr. Williams, six years ago, we stepped up, filled that void. Why I'm here tonight is there's an extreme problem with illegal dumping in this area. It was mentioned at public works committees, run out of airspace, we need to build these new cells. All this money, increased costs for building new cells. But there's nothing being done about all the out-of-county and out-of-state trash that is dumped in our landfill, which is a subsidized landfill. It's revenue neutral, subsidized, whatever you want to call it. So all the constituents and taxpayers are paying to keep those ramparts running. Mr. Williams mentioned that. At 10,000 and rates low so we're getting haulers some local a lot of out-of-town haulers bringing trash from West Virginia Loudon Fairfax everywhere else that's issue number one issue number two on the recycling side that 10 million I talked about we just built that plant in the last year alone actually less than a year since January over 3 000 homes have been taken out of the recycling pool and all that recycling is going to the landfill they are picking the trash up from their customers in some of the neighborhoods that have been mentioned tonight on a separate route recycling route and then buried at the landfill they're also bringing out a county full recycle only loads dumping them at the landfill I've reached out to Ron Kimball I've reached out to Gloria Puffenberger our recycling coordinator Mr Ballhoffer is great to always answer the phone the only response I have is we have no enforcement mechanisms because we don't have the county attorneys so kind of at a loss here I've got a day and a half of workers 15 guys my plant looking at me with no work because now 3 000 homes have been taken with no new work because now 3 000 homes have been taken out for recycling this year I'm just a little bit curious I'm going to go to the other side of the lab for just a minute please hold on a minute I think then we'll get to the next question but I think this is a one-season out and being illegally dumped. So I'm trying to step up and help the community with recycling. I just want to know if we let this business model of burying all our recycling go, when do I shut the doors? So I just want to kind of raise that to light. Thank you. Thank you, sir. That's the end of the list. All right. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Mrs. Spencer? Hi, my name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainsborough District. Thank you for the discussion on lighting. And maybe in the future, we could try again to study the TDRs when it's not so busy. I hope you had time to read my e-comments. And I just wanted to reach out to anyone at home that wants to help me make sure our EDA includes sustainable data center designs in our educational sessions. Lastly, I just wanted to invite the community to join us in this discussion. I'm going to hand it over to Leslie. Thank you. Yes, sir. Good evening, Board of Supervisors. My name is Gary Krause. I'm in the Shawnee District. Supervisor Lero here. And just wanted to bring something to the public's attention, maybe your own attention. Back in December 9th of 2009, meeting the Board of Supervisors in Frederick County adopted some core values. And two of those stuck out to me, given the recent discussions about data center and agricultural heritage of this county. The first was a government concerned with the long-range planning that protects our rural heritage. And the second was a government that looks to the future and implements plans to ensure the quality of life for future generations is preserved. That is all. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Jim from the Back Creek District. Congratulations on your appointment. Tomorrow is 9-11, September 11th. I'm sure you all know what that means. 2,972.7. That's the number of days that we're going to be in the state of Texas. And we're going to be in the state of Texas for the next couple of years. So, I'm going to hand it over to you, Mr. Lero. I want to thank the Bureau for your generous help with planning all the way to making this happen. I do believe that the Department of Roquefonte has insulted the yeah, it's an endurancely an yeah, that's where 37 of them was the Port Authority Police. There's only two places in Frederick County that I have found doing any type of memorial. I'd like to thank Lake Frederick, they're doing it, and Mission Barbecue, they're doing it. Why don't you do it? You have all this money that you can spend to give non-profit organizations, you're telling me you can't come up with $20,000, $30,000 to build a memorial for fallen officers. This is 24 years later, and you still haven't done it. Seriously, I think you should be ashamed of yourself. And for those people that are interested, if you're gonna go out Winchester, stop in at Mission Barbecue and get something because they do support our firefighters and police department. That's all, thank you. Thank you. Anyone else wish to speak? We will close this citizen comment period. Thank you. Thank you. Thank everyone for participating and sharing your comments, and they are duly noted, so thank you. Board of Supervisor comments. Supervisor Dunn? So let me make, so I'll make a couple comments and responses. To Mr. Krause, we can chat some more. In that same value system, there was also a comment about businesses and developing businesses. To the general issue on data centers, there have been a number of comments saying that those that are supporting data centers are being paid. That is a false comment. Nobody up here, pro or con, is being paid one way or the other. So for those people that make those allegations, it's not helpful in the public debate. And if it were, then you ought to go see the sheriff because it's illegal for anybody here to take money for a policy one way or the other. As a meeting that was referenced in June, in which Mr. Krause said that there were more than 100, and I'll say, you know, the place was full. So we don't have an exact number, but the place was full. I do think it's important for all sides to be laid out on the table. There were a number of same issues that said, here's all the problems, but there was no discussion on can those issues be mitigated? And we need to have that discussion in a fair manner. Mr. Deutsch, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, Mr. Krause, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, Mr. Krause, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, Mr. Krause, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, Mr. Krause, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, Mr. Krause, I don't know what NDA is, but I do know that I'm, strong advocate for everything strong advocate for everything strong advocate for everything being on the table. We have a here's the pros, here's the cons, here's who benefits, here's those that do not benefit. You ought to have generators, transmitters of electricity, landowners, the Piedmont Environmental Council. Everybody that has an interest needs to be at the table to do that and to hear that. So as we go forward, I'm fully, you know, supportive of hearing all sides of an issue. We've heard a lot of people that are We've heard a lot of people that are opposed, not heard a lot of people that are in favor. I think that if the county goes and starts to have town hall meetings, et cetera, in which all sides are presented, the youth, the public can do that. Just keep this thought in mind. I'm familiar with Loudoun County and the huge number of data centers that are there. There have been comments about if you allow one, you allow 100 foot under, you know, camel's nose under the tent, but that's not true. You can also limit it. We've also had discussions on is it possible to just say we will have data centers in one area and not another. Again, this is all part of a discussion process. So we need to have a thorough, fair, unbiased, here's all the information before I make decisions. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. Is there anyone else? Yes, Madam Chair. Yes, sir. I'd like to go back to item 8B on the agenda and just make a couple comments. Supervisor Dunn proposed a work session to discuss salary compensation for constitutional officers and a work session with county stakeholders to discuss transfer of development rights. I just wanted to explain to the viewers out there. I did not second either one of those motions, not because I don't think those are important discussions to have, but we have three races this fall, Stonewall, Redbud, and Shawnee, and we have two seats that are going to be appointed soon, Chair, the Chairmanship and the Gainsborough seat. And depending on who gets the Chairmanship, there might be another position that's going to be appointed. So I think that's a good reason that we have to backfill. So I think the discussions on constitutional officers and transfer of development rights are conversations that need to happen, but I would like to see the new board seated before we have those discussions. So that's the only reason why I did not vote to second those. I'd like to compliment Supervisor Dunn. He's got a couple months left on his term. He's not mailing it in. He's working up to the bell. I'm an old teacher. I'm a teacher. You know, when you're a teacher, you have your students work from the opening bell to the end of the bell, and I congratulate Supervisor Dunn for working to the end of the bell on that. Same with our Chair, our new Chair, who's leaving office here in a couple months, but has stepped forward to take the Chairmanship. I'd also like to congratulate Bob Wells for Vice Chairmanship position. So thank you. Thank you. I would just like to make one comment regarding the data center issue. And our staff. Obviously there will be meetings of education. My understanding, obviously our planning staff is, has quite a lot on their plate, as you can well see just from the items that we have taken up this evening. And I believe that when all of that information is collected, there will be public engagement. But until they've had the opportunity to pull all that information together cohesively, and make sure that they're taken up, I think that's going to be a big deal. And I think that the Board is going to be very, very careful about that. And I think that if we're making sure they're touching on all of the things that the Board has asked them to do, it would be premature for us to conduct public meetings without all the collected information. So I just know what a fine job they do. And the first order of business is always to make sure our public is well informed. So I just hope you all understand that they are working very diligently, very diligently, and it's coming at them from all sides. So we appreciate your work, and hopefully your patience. Anything else that needs to come before the Board? All right. And Supervisor Welch, your act, your first act. I will move we adjourn, Madam Chairman. Thank you, sir. Thank you. We are adjourned. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
