Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-12-11
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=255
========================================================================

I think we should start. I understand that Supervisor Dunn will be here, but since we have our meeting at 7 o'clock, and this is of a lot of interest, I don't know how many questions we'll have. It could be a lot. So I think we should begin. Before handing the floor straight over to you, I just want to offer my condolences and that of my family, and I'm sure for all of us, for the passing of our Commissioner of the Revenue's mother a few days ago. And so Mr. Brill will be presenting for us. Yes, us as well, and I'm sure she appreciates the gratitude from everybody. You know, before I start, I just want to talk a little bit about, it's probably one of the biggest, the reassessment project that we have is one of the biggest we have in the Commissioner's office. I just want to take a quick second here at the very beginning to thank the Commissioner's staff for the job that they've accomplished. It's a big job for the staff that we have, and they do an excellent job. They've done an excellent job in that process, and the other two divisions, they do support us quite well during that time frame, so I just want to take a second to thank our staff for that. I'd also like to thank the county departments. I was thinking about in preparation for this, you know, presentation, and realized that every county department at some point in time throughout this reassessment process, we utilize their expertise. We ask for their support. And it's just appreciated. I want to make sure that, you know, the county departments understand that, that it's a big project for us, and we do appreciate their support. So now I'll kind of go into, I'm not long-winded by any means, so we'll go through this, and if I get quick, can you have a question, just let me know. This slide's basically just to give us an idea of what our reassessment is. It's just a periodic mass reevaluation. It is required by law. State code says at a minimum for the size of our locality, we should do it once every four years. Now, Frederick County has basically said we're going to do a two-year reassessment cycle. So our previous one was done in 2023. Our current reassessment is going to take effect January 1st of 2025, and our next one will take, will go into place at 2027. The bottom number, and as I go through these slides, there's going to be, you know, I think you all have seen most of them, and there's, the numbers do fluctuate, and not only with the number of parcels in the next two slides, but also the end slides. We're still keying some information, so those numbers will fluctuate, and they're subject to change a little bit. But we, as the Commissioner's Office, we are responsible to set it, the values at 100% of the market value. I know, you know, some people say, oh, well, you're not assessed at, you're not assessed at 100% of market value because you're a little bit lower. Well, because it's a mass reassessment, we try to get it up to the 100% of the market value. The total number of parcels in the county, as of December 2nd, was 50,675. You know, for 2023, the number that I had was 49,096, so approximately a difference of 1,600 parcels. That's a lot of parcels that we've increased from two years ago. The next slide that we have gives you kind of a little bit of a change by class, and the numbers are by parcels. As you can see there, our urban class category of class ones have changed by 11%. They went up, and then you can see the different classes down through there, and how they've changed as well. Some of those changes throughout our two-year reassessment cycle could come from property reclassifications. So if by chance something in a class two property needs to be reclassified and moved up to a class one, if it had access to public water and public sewer, we would have changed it to, you know, class one. That's one way. Subdivisions is another. Of course, everybody knows with, you know, your small lot subdivisions, and they have public water, public sewer, they're going to be a class one property as well. Rezonings, boundary line adjustments, and consolidations, those are all reasons for changes and fluctuations in those numbers as well. But we did think it was a good idea to kind of show you by parcels how they change and how they fluctuate. Question? Sure. For a person who owns a piece of property, a house, and has 10 acres next to her, 9.9 acres, where is that shown on this? And just so you know, it would be RA, so that was the classification. So it would be a class two property. It doesn't give the breaks. So anything below 20 acres would fall in your class two property with a house. And no, if it did not have a house. I own a house, I've got 10 acres someplace else. Where's that other 10 acres? It would still fall under a class two. Okay, thank you. Yep. Sure. I have a question. I'm not sure if you can answer this. I'm not sure if you can answer this. The commercial industrial, it looks like you've increased seven properties over a two-year period. Is that what you're saying there? You went from 1,617 properties in 2023 to? Yes. And what makes up that? Because you see all this commercial industrial property being developed. So why is it only seven additional parts? Well, and those could just be new parcels created in that timeframe. So let's say back in 2023, we've created only seven new parcels for commercial, but there's still a bunch of commercial parcels already vacant that could be developed. Okay. But if a building is erected on these parcels, and I would guess within a two-year span, we've had more than seven new parcels. Okay. But if a building is erected on these parcels, and I would guess within a two-year span, we've had more than seven new parcels. So in the last three years, we've had more than seven new buildings erected on the commercial side. So in the last three years, we've had more than seven new buildings erected on the commercial side. This is just new parcels, new parcels of land, not necessarily new buildings. Just parcels of land created. Let me follow up. Created for commercial use? Is that what you're saying? Take a look at what occurred in Shawnee two years ago. The whole area, you know, the public safety was in that whole area, it was RA. And now, you know, the former Dick property, now it's a state property. Right. And that's a state property, it's a state property. So it's a state property. Let me follow up. Is that created for commercial use? Is that what we're saying? Take a look at what occurred in Shawnee two years ago. The whole area, you know, near the public safety, but that whole area was RA. Now, you know, it's a former Dick property, and that's all buildings. So I think you have more than some pieces of property set in there. And there are some classifications in, like, your Class 5s that can have a few commercials on them as well because it doesn't necessarily just say you have to put them in commercial. Just Class 5s and 6s sometimes can go with industrial stuff. But we try to reclassify. But it's just the number of parcels that's been created new or changed. I know it seems low, but from the last time, numbers that were on there to this time, that's what we've come with. And there's been some that might be moved back to RA. Rezoned back to RA. That could have changed as well. Or some consolidations. Like, you take one commercial piece. If you had two commercial pieces and created it and made it one, it would have removed at least one from it. So there are different fluctuations in play there. It doesn't mean that you're not capturing a reassessed value on individual buildings and such that are being constructed. Oh, no. We gather all that information. Absolutely. Absolutely. Sir, would you like to know if there was a limited set of properties that were created or combined? Is it of that much interest to you to get a report on? And I can talk to maybe Derek afterwards. But I think it would be helpful. I mean, as much growth as we've seen in our county and the development, that we've seen both in the business sector and obviously the residential sector, it just struck me that that seemed like a very small number. Mr. Chairman, I guess that would be my question. You may have had property sitting there for 10 years, commercial or industrial, but now there's a building on it. So it's fallen in the category. 2023, it could have been sitting there in an empty lot or an empty piece of property. 2025, it has a building on it now. Is that true? That could be correct, but we're not going to add that parcel. It had already existed. It already existed, but now we've got an empty lot that now has 4,000 square foot buildings on it. Correct. We have recovered that value during the reassessment process and put it on at full value. Okay. So that's where you captured the value, if the building's been put on there. Yes. I mean, we had a land value before. They've put on the building and we've captured that value too. Okay. Thank you. Sure. Anybody else before I move on? Good. All right. So this one's got the meat and potatoes of everything, so to speak. Over the timeframe here when we've ended, like I said, these numbers are going to fluctuate a little bit, but they're going to stay close. Residential properties overall increased 17.57%. Commercial properties went up 26%. Let's see. From there, based on the values that we set at 100% of the market value, if the tax rate stays at 51 cents, the revenue would increase from 2024 to 2025 by the 16,461,406. Yes. And that's an approximate 21%. So that's an increase overall. Revenue neutral allowed by the state code. I have up there is 42,57. So essentially 42.5 cents is what you'd be looking at that would be allowed by the state code for us. So at the new reassessment values, what does one cent... What's the new reassessment? One cent of property tax equate to in terms of revenue. And I did not have that on there. That's one of the things I was talking to him about of having that on there. It is 1.86 million for one penny. One point... Eight six. Eight six million. Thank you. And the current fiscal year, total revenue from all properties, do you know what that's for? What's the figure? It's off the top of your head. From the current year? FY25, which is what we're in. We was about... We was at 15 million. No, no. No, if your addition... If your current tax... The current tax rate times 51 cents is 94 million. But seeing as we have not gone through that, so I'm... So it's something closer. In the budget, it was $78,300 that we budgeted for the fiscal year. So I think that's about... So I think it's about... I think it's about... I think it's about the same. I think it's about the same. I think it's about the same. I think it's about the same. I think it's about the same. So I think it's about the same. So I think it's about the same. In the budget, it was $78,300 that we budgeted for real estate tax. $78 million. $78 million. Okay. Okay. I thought that's what I said. You moved to zero. $78,300,000. Okay. Okay. We're good. Okay. Thank you. We're good. That is all I have. You know, any questions you want to come up with, we can go through. I just want to say thank you. You know, I'm not a big fan of the budget. I don't know if you're a big fan of the budget. I don't know if you're a big fan of the budget. I'm not a big fan of the budget. I'm not a big fan of the budget. Like I said, from this slide right here is normally what we bring to the table at the end to kind of give you these estimated numbers. They're going to fluctuate some for now and the end of the year when we actually do the add for the tax increase in January. But, you know, we're going to do that. This is where we stand really as of the beginning of December. So to clarify, the additional revenue and the increases are calculated on, this all does not include new properties or it does include the addition of homes and businesses? Well, and first of all, let me clarify, it is based on just taxable values. Tax exempts are kind of pulled out of this information. They have no really bearing on this portion of it. But new construction, those type of things have to be pulled out. New construction supplementals have to be pulled out of these values. So they are pulled out. So they're not included in this? They're not included. So revenue neutral. Wait. When you say not included, I believe the new construction and all that is included in $94 million and it has to be pulled out separately. Okay. So the $94 million is actually pulled out of that number already because what we're looking at is based on just the reassessment values that you're adding onto. So the $94 million is just reassessment, does not include any growth in new buildings? Yes. So if you added to your home or added a building on your business, that is included because you've added value to your lot. So you would expect your assessment to go up. That would be here. Okay. So if you built a new home or you rezoned and built a new business that wasn't here two years ago, that wouldn't be included? This is only for the current year, like new construction information. So we have basically two supplemental billing timeframes that we have to pull out that information so we see the increase in reassessment. If it was two years ago, it's going to be, if it's current, we pull those out. So we have time to figure this out? Yes. But I was trying to understand. So if the board was to pursue a revenue neutral rate, normally when we do that, which we did most two years ago, the goal was to have no tax increase on people whose homes had not substantively changed, for example. They hadn't added or subtracted. However we still had a growth in income because they were new homes and new businesses. But I don't know if this is a good thing. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's one of the things that we're going to have to figure out is are we going to have less revenue neutral figure? In other words, is there more gain besides the 16 million due to new businesses and homes? So allowed by the state code is kind of where it comes into play of there's 101% that we're allowed to factor into that revenue neutral equation as natural growth. If I may interject because I know, Cheryl, we've talked about this, we are going to be working to calculate. This is the amount of money that increased that is just new buildings, et cetera, et cetera, because as you stated, if you wanted to get to just not add an increase to existing people, but you still wanted to capture any tax based on new buildings and such. And that's the number we will still have to determine, so I know that's an important number to look at. The reason I'd like to understand that by January as well as we could is if the supervisor has it in mind to keep revenue neutral, but there's still some gain from new businesses and new homes, you know, he's going to go into the budget, he or she's going to go into the budget cycle wanting to know what's our increase that we have available to use on our budget. Or, you know, someone was going to say let's hold it at 51 cents, keep the rate the same. It's helpful to know in January those numbers as best we can before we go into considering all the... All the spending decisions we have to make. We consider that a critical number and we will determine that and get that to you at the very beginning of January because I know it's important to your decision making. So the revenue neutral number, that's controlled by the state? No. We can take that down if we want to, can't we? I mean, we could lower that. We can set the tax rate at anything... That's what I mean. So revenue neutral tax rate of 4.425... 425 cents. 425 cents. 425 cents. Yeah. If we want to go lower, we could. Okay. Please. Can you capture the new real estate that has come online? Is that captured when someone receives an occupancy permit? I mean, when you provide us with these increased real estate numbers like any new building that came on, you'll be able to tell us what that increase is maybe in January is where we're making these decisions. And is that done on the commissioner's books at occupancy permit pulling time? I believe when they pull a certificate of occupancy, yes. Yeah. We receive building permits and we're putting those on constantly as well throughout the year. Anytime we have a building permit, we can add that value onto our books. And then sometimes we'll, you know, as long as we can get them on for January 1, we will, and then we have to supplement them sometime. I mean, we're not going to have to do that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If you get a building permit, and you're going to do this on January 1, we will, and then we have to supplement them sometime as well. And if... When you say building permit, you're talking about add-ons, but for a new home, when does it hit the books? When it's completely done. Certificate of occupancy. Certificate of occupancy. Yes. We're allowed to go by 90 %, but most of the time it's by the CEO. And your tax, or your tax assessment at that point is driven by current market or how are you calculating what those new... It's driven off of our 2000 or 2025 rates that we have in place. We can't change those rates until 2027. Okay. So it's based on, for instance, square footage, X amount per square foot is what you're calculating on. Right. So we have multiple different rates in our model that we have set up through our new software. And as those rates are created and put into place for 2025, because we're on a two-year cycle, those rates will be carried out through 2025 and 2026. We can't change those rates at any point in time to there. We can add all the new construction that we get as far as to the new permit process and when they become CO'd, but they are based on that 2025 rate that we have in place. Thank you. So let me follow that up with a question. In Redbud, Nopekin, come January 1, December 31, you're going to have a certain value. So between January 1 and probably June, July of next year, I know you're going to have houses that are going to be built and occupied in Redbud. Same through and through in Nopekin. Are you able to go and give us an idea of approximately, keyword approximately, additional dollars we would like to spend on the new construction? In the Kart cooled skyهاut, bol Stars prop, but we don't be where your on your kons0 Essential charges, so the expansion in Wiemenhagen and else the That's going to be an additional revenue? Because if we were more into Africa, below 184 standards, street in NY. This would be. So people. Commlings. include those in in the budget time frame as far as what that revenue comes in at but we run our supplementals throughout the year we normally coincide them with the first and second half tax bills as well so our first supplemental will go out with the second half tax bills but we can calculate what we're going to add on at that point in time i'm going to add one other question for all of you and that is and cheryl you've done a good job um but you know cheryl comes up with a budget of a hundred dollars or a million dollars put it that way and she has done a good job on making sure at the end of the year we have extra dollars if you will that either was increased in revenue or decreasing expenses are you able to factor in this because that would help in the budget projections that we're having or this is i think cheryl's numbers because i was looking at have about a three percent differential is that fair sure very close so my question to you derek is between the numbers you have here and the actual numbers over the course of the year is that also a three percent differential or is it something different i would say that's something different if it's something different if it's something different i'm not i'm just asking if it's something different then can we see what those numbers are over the last four or five years we've had the growth so if we get an average over that and if that's intellectually honest and if it's a good number that's why i'm asking the six of you then that gives us an idea to say probably we can expect x dollars but if it's not if you have one year you have a spike the other then i could throw out my comments but i'm just looking for something that is a thought i mean i i think we try to have an idea of what supplementals we're going to do through the year and put that in the budget okay so i think it's included in there for the budget and then we'll work our way through that. you know one of the things we're looking to do with the financial impact we're looking to do is you know we're going to look at the diverse project we're going to look at the social and economic impact and okay so i think it's included in there for the most part yeah he does and we also you know we have he has some delinquents on there and you're not going to collect 100 right okay that's fine derek i got two questions uh are you based your your reports or your numbers are they based off the the weekly packet report that we get regarding the growth the housing growth each month like we just received this week's report we're currently setting at 133 houses more than we did at the same time last year so is that when you say occupancy is that do they reflect i mean does this report give match what they're doing obviously it's a good indicator but that comes out ahead because like you said i guess they can do it at 90 but i guess for convenience sake you probably wait for cfo just so you know we do we do both okay we have our we have our confederate they get 50%. we also have funders and Nejabil there's a network of funders currently we're part of a echo jeff with the total location 40. they're getting the most out of itartex are they ready but the budget for two inches i'm sorry. yes Are you still getting those phone calls? Are you still getting people saying, this doesn't make sense? I mean, we've had our assessor appeal hearings already. They finished up on December 6th. We're still doing some finalization of those things. We're not getting as many phone calls as what we had. You know, the initial, we're sending out, you know, assessment notices. There's just an influx of calls. There's an influx of emails the whole time. But once you talk to those people, it goes from, hey, there's a thousand issues, to really there's only this many issues. I'm just confirming if you're still getting, you know, it was a shell shock for a lot of people. A lot of the folks I talked to, it wasn't 17%. It was in the range of 25% to 32%. And there's always going to be those outliers. There's always going to be those pockets. And we try as much as we can to, like, single out. The neighborhoods that have the increase and just touch those versus trying to spread that across everybody. But, you know, it is mass reappraisal at this point. So, you know, you hit one number, it can affect a lot. Absolutely. Thank you. Sure. Any other questions from the board on what was presented today? I have one slightly off topic. But I wanted to have one to finish. If I don't interrupt. So, this is our second largest revenue source. The property tax revenue. I think the largest is personal property, vehicles and machinery, vehicles, both business and personal. So, I know we don't get, it's unfair to ask you to speculate on that right now. I did talk to the commission of the revenue a week or two ago. And she didn't have an estimate yet. She thought, my question was based on the idea that should we expect something unusual after COVID. You know, there was the supply chain reduction value of used vehicles jumped up. In fact, we offered a reduction from this board so that people's tax bills wouldn't go up. And is that still winding down? She thought it wasn't, that we're back to normal increases year over year. But she wasn't sure yet. Do you have any thoughts or updates on that? I mean, we had the same conversation. We had the same conversation with Tanya concerning, you know, personal property. We don't see anything odd or outlandish that's going to happen. You know, we might see a little bit of a decrease in value once we get the upload. We won't necessarily know that until a little bit later. But everything looks at with the influx of the population that's here and maybe a little bit of decrease in value that we should be still kind of stable at where we're at. When do we get that? We'll see. When we get that typically. I think it's in February when we get the download from our supplier, JD Power, who does our personal property values. Please. Because I've had a constituent over the last week and I've been in contact with your office as well. And the question that came up from the constituent is why we use JD Power. It's up on the distributed product. You know, they also need pipe and water or if in some way sales or agent or anything, are they�� clear massage got 911 progress. Iceberg have any savings. These are all expu squared line. I can't watch that Beijer. He's not cool around the clock. He thought that was really exciting. just because keep on using it would be, I don't just put off such even if it's a take home, whatever. of how to change, you know, if people were, I don't know whether it would come from the board, whether it's just a commissioner's decision, we'd have to get back with you on that. But, you know, if we really wanted to look into that, we could. Just curious, the constituent I spoke with, I guess they actually were, they too had sticker shock. And fortunately, they had the pricing off of their vehicle and all the options and such and had come into your office and realized that it was one model versus another model. But they also had gone to the dealer and had them price it based on the Kelly Blue Book. Right. Right. And there was some disparity in that number. And I honestly, I have no idea how or why you've chosen one over the other. But I was going to follow up with your office next week on that to know what the rationale. And if one is better than another. Right. And that's probably best that we, you know, sit down, talk about the personal property with Tanya and our personal property supervisor. We can sit down and go back through maybe even the history of how we've come about with the NADA books, how J.D. Power kind of took it through. And then we can kind of go from there. Right. Thank you. And Derek, I'm going to say, I had a constituent on Monday. We had a great conversation. And he has. He's experienced the same thing. He's paying $6,000 in personal property taxes. And, you know, it just sounded really off. So I would really relish that conversation. Okay. Any other questions? Thank you for bringing it up, Mr. Chairman. I have more, but I don't want to put Derek on the spot. And I know some of them are premature. You know, we all know that. We'll have the data until January or February. But just to put them out there, not to you, but to the board, it'd be nice, I've said before, if we could project more than one year at a time, we could build a strategy for projecting, you know, multiple years forward. We do know some things. The schools tell us they're going to need over so many more years a few more elementary schools. We have staffing that we've committed to. And, you know, we're going to have to do that. We're going to have to increase in fire and rescue and certain large equipment purchases. So, but we have major uncertainties as well. And that's a new category, especially with the election change and administration. Is the government going to be reduced? Is the tax code or the government dollars we get from the state or federal, that's part of our budget? Is that projected change? Nobody can answer that now. I wouldn't ask you to. It might not even be in the commission of the revenues. But there's a lot more uncertainties. There's a lot more uncertainties this year, maybe, than we've had in past years. So we need to keep all that in mind as we begin the budget cycle in January. Did you want to, if we're done with questions, were you going to discuss the budget calendar at all? Just one item on here. I'll support the chairman's comment. I think that a multi-year budget is a plus. So even if you have an idea, possibly, of what you're expecting to spend, possibly what you expect in revenue. That way you have projects run three or four years. I think that's a plus. I've said that before, and so I'll support that. I guess if it's hard or controversial to project a full budget or a full revenue or expenditure, just the big deltas that departments see coming. If they know they're going to have a big expense or some other change in two years or three years. You know, we have the landfill. They have major things they have to do from time. To time. It's nice to line all those up so we can ourselves project multiple years. That's another way to do it, I would think. Just so we see those big things coming. Mr. Chair, one more comment before we get to the administrator. Getting back to Mr. Dunn's comments about that growth in housing. I would point out that we're probably looking at a big change in the federal government's rules about having to work in a new way. We're going to have to have a lot of work in person rather than from online and stuff like that. So there, and I talked to a federal employee the other day, and that's a real thing. Like, he's not going to be working for Frederick County anymore. He's going to be working in the office down in D.C. So that is something to think about. I mean, we could be building the same number of houses that we were planning on doing, but they may not sell as quickly. The demand may not be there as much as it has been. And the last couple of years since COVID. Just to... Supervisor Vero, I had the same thought. I don't know if we discussed it or not, but I had someone today posit the opposite to me and said that one of the things that federal government's talked about doing is requiring everyone to be in the office five days a week, 40 hours a week, and getting rid of a lot of the telecommuting that was done. Well, it's speculated that there's quite a few people who don't even live in the national capital area. Who are filling it? Who are staying in positions in the national capital area. And that they could be moving to the capital based on some directive like that. So it makes it really hard to know what's going to happen. That directive could happen more easily than getting Congress to agree to shut down or move a department. That could happen more quickly. I don't know if that could be by executive order, but that's something we could definitely see happen. So. I wonder how many other big things we're not thinking of here today that might be hitting us next spring. Maybe a lot of commuters like I was. Just every day. That's what you do. Yeah. That's all right. That's all right. One of the things we were looking at this year that may or may not help, and the thought behind this is all for y'all's benefit, is to looking at having a single day where we came in for a full day workshop. The primary goal with that would be was to be bringing the people in. Bring in the department heads. Not necessarily all because some of their budgets may be smaller and not really needed. But to bring it in in a day long process and have a one day budget workshop. We would schedule perhaps even the capital plan. I'm not sure everything. But that would maybe help out in this process early on to get a lot of things done. And really it's at the pleasure of the board. It's easier for us as staff because we're here all day. So it's much more difficult on y'all making sure. Schedule. I gave you a calendar. And this is based on after talking to some of the supervisors what days work better or don't work better for them. And there was a Friday the 24th. And the Wednesday of 5th we're actually scheduled for a workshop that evening. If you decided to do a full day on the Wednesday, then we would probably just not have to cancel the workshop. You can go as long as you want up until 7 o'clock because there is a planning meeting that night. And then we also had on there the 7th and 14th. If you remember the original calendar I sent out had some earlier dates. The problem with those earlier dates is you may not have enough information where you would have the information sufficient to ask the questions you may want to answer. So we wanted to make sure to give you enough time. You've seen the budget. You've taken a look at a lot of stuff. So you're prepared to have questions. If we have a workshop, you don't have all the material with you, you're not going to be prepared. You're going to be here all day not getting anywhere. So that's just an idea for what this board wants to or doesn't want to. Based on how we've done it in the past, it seems hard to sit for an entire day and absorb one department's presentation after another. I know you sent out templates this time. So there's some hope that they'll be more consistent in format. The other big thing is to get them in advance, not just the night before but a week before, even if it's still draft and changing. And that's why we scheduled this. Thank you. We're going to be in advance a couple of weeks later as opposed to earlier so we can get you the information sooner because if we can't get you the information in advance, the meeting won't be productive and it'll be a waste of time because you need to see the information to give you time to formulate your questions and et cetera. So that would be the goal of using these dates is to provide you with the information and give you the time to answer questions because our goal is to make the process work smoother. I didn't mean to be presumptive of your opinions, but we've had enough conversations in the past. It's nice to get the data in advance. I think it would be nice if we got the information ahead of time to go ahead and do this in a day. The only thing is I can't do the fifth. I'm out of town. Excuse me? The fifth, I'm out of town. And the fifth, Wednesday is the hardest day on there. We just include it. Well, I mean, personally, if I had the information ahead of time, it would be great to listen to the heads, the different department heads. So we're looking at what? Four or five? How many presentations would you anticipate? Well, for the department heads, it would be four, perhaps five. You're going to want to see fire, the sheriff. You're going to want to see parks and recreation, because a lot of those have more of the capital, higher expenses. I discussed, I met with, discussed with Tammy Green. She probably would not be doing, because she is not asking for anything extra in her budget. As a matter of fact, her budget this year will be $100,000 less than last year. So probably not necessary for her to do her budget. What other departments? I think I see IT. IT, because there may be some IT expenditures. Obviously all of this is subject to change because we haven't even had the budget submitted yet. So we haven't had a chance to review to see. And you'll get your notebooks, you know, the ones that we sent out. And that'll give you lots of detail on the expenditure side, maybe not as much on the revenue, but you'll have a line item expenditure. You'll have us identifying the increases and decreases. You'll have a capital tab. You'll have a, you know, a list of the things that we need to do. You'll have a new position tab. And you'll have revenue, but we still, we'll put like place cards for like personal property and stuff, so that keeps on changing. And we'll do that on January 22nd. So you would have all that, plus we would send out all the presentations. Yes. If you decided to do something on the 24th, what we would do is send those departments to you earlier, just so you'd have time to look over. Does anyone have questions? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Does anyone have, vote for or against setting a day aside to do it and on these particular days other than Supervisor Jewell who already said one day he couldn't make it? I'm inclined to think later rather than earlier so that we have as much information as we have, unless there's a reason not to. To do it earlier gives us a chance then to come back and assess it. If we do it earlier, I want to be able to come back and say, fine, here's where we are, but if we do it later, we might have more information to do. Okay. So, we have a couple of questions. One is, what is the most important step in your decision making process? Well, I think we all know that the most important thing is to have a decision-making process. And if you have a decision-making process, you might have more information. Then you have to go through the thought process, the decision-making process, and chew on the data on what you have. So, I don't have a preference, but if I pick something, maybe the 7th, maybe the 14th, but if the 14th, you know, by 5 o'clock we end. If I may interject, the reason the 7th, 14th, sort of the porridge test, this one's too hot, this one's too cold, you know, this was sort of in the middle so you have enough time to review it. But it's not too late where you can't make changes. Well, I'm going to take this opportunity to earn points with my wife by pointing out February 14th is Valentine's Day. I don't know if we want to meet for a long time that day. I offered by 5 o'clock, so if you want to make it to 3 o'clock, we can do that too, you know. If it was between those two, I'd go for the 7th rather than the 14th. But we all need time to look at our calendars, I guess, to get back to you. I was going to say, as much as it's Valentine's Day, that's the only thing that's going to be important. I don't know if we're going to have a day that I don't know. The other weekends I have gymnastics meets and I don't want to miss, but I just don't know schedules and they can be Fridays. So this 14th I'm completely open. I'll let you call my wife after the meeting. But the 5th I was completely open as well, but you're not. People will be at the 14th because your cycle will work until midnight. And the 21th is still, it can be done too, correct? 21st? 21st, yes. February? Yes. Is that a three-day weekend though as well? Is February 21 a three-day weekend? Not that I know of. I didn't look. Washington's birthday weekend. President's weekend. So Thursdays weren't available? Thursdays weren't good for him? President's Day is the 17th. President's Day is the 17th. I think everyone, I've seen the preference seem to be Fridays. Okay. So I'm going to go with Friday. Okay. So I'm going to go with Friday. Okay. So I'm going to go with Friday. Okay. So I'm going to go with Friday. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Mr. Chairman, I would be good with any of those Fridays for us to meet if it works with the other Board members' schedules. I think it's a good idea for us to go ahead and add the presentations and understand if there are certain things that are out of the norm for these budgets. And we've always asked questions in the past. We can submit questions. to you and you can give us answers back. But I think the sooner that we move with getting this information, maybe it would help make this whole budget process more productive and us honing in on the important issues that we're going to need to decide during this process. So I'm open to those days if we can all come together on those times. The 5th is out for me as well, but the Fridays are doable if Supervisor Lockridge's schedule can work in that as well. Yeah, we don't have a meet on the 14th and they're on weekends normally. They're Saturdays, so it wouldn't affect it, but it just depends. They don't give you a schedule until a month in advance. They're usually Friday, Saturday, Sunday. You don't know until the week before which day. Right. And they're often out of town, so you can't work around. The 14th, I'm fine with as well. So the departments are giving you their inputs this Friday, right? Is that all departments, including the ones you listed? Was it the 15th? I forget what day it was. It was the 13th. 13th, yes. So, and that includes fire, the sheriff, et cetera? Deregulately, everybody. So you just need that time to go through it. Correct. And get it together and ask questions before it comes to us. Not that I want to do it earlier in January, but just asking. So the last meeting that we have, you know, before we go to the papers, March the 12th. So earlier is better. This is time to hear the needs and talk about it. If you decide to do the, what happened to the 24th? Just not enough time? No, you're the staff. You're going to have to do a little work. Well, I'm going to give you your information. I can send you information on the 22nd, but I can send you out whoever's going to be at your presentation earlier than that. I might not have the notebook. I might be sitting on the notebooks on the 22nd, but I can, if we have four departments, I can push out that information. But about the 24th, I don't have. You don't have your schedule. That's another one that's questionable, but I can make it work. So, Cheryl, on the 24th, you're saying from a staff perspective, you can go and give us stuff to say here's what is being expected in revenue. Here's what's being expected in expenses. Here's what's new from FY25, et cetera. So you'll have a chance to land a good case for. So I don't know about the revenue piece. Okay. But I can say we have four departments. I can tell you what those increases are in those four departments, the new position and the capital. There are questions that you can look over, so you may have questions for them on the 24th. Corresponding on the revenue piece, when, when do you have a better feel and when you have a good idea for revenue? I think that I need to work with the commissioner on the personal property. Personal property is the biggest one because we, I mean, we can figure out the new growth on the real estate and then we can talk about the reassessment numbers. But I need a personal property. So that would be in February? Hopefully January. At least, at least a place card to put in there so that we can start discussions. I'm okay with the 24th. I mean, I'm not. I'm not opposed to that. So. I'm flexible in whatever works. But I do. If staff can do the 24th, I'm good for that. The 24th works well. If you want to go later, that's fine. As I stated, it's easy for us because we're already here, so. I'm good with all the Fridays. So that, is that during the day or in the evening? During the day. During the day. Okay. So is that good before I talk about something else? Okay. 24th. So can I talk about this? I have to check. I can't be sure. So our next meeting here is on the 8th, which is like a little less than a month. And at that time, we would like to have a consensus on the rate that the commissioner is going to advertise for the real property. On January 8th? It'll go to the paper January 10th. Okay. And then we'll have a public hearing on January 22nd. And that's all on that calendar, Belaine, that I gave you. Because without that, it's really hard to talk about revenue numbers. And then, based on what we advertise, we can do various scenarios. Or one scenario. Okay. That is your advertised rate. Not necessarily what your final rate will be. There's advertising, the reassessment. That doesn't lock you in. You can always go down, but you can't increase after that. That's correct. Without reassessment. Yeah. So the problem is, we're hoping to have a consensus by the 8th, but we have no more meetings between now and the 8th. The only number that you requested tonight that I had written down as far as the reassessment number that is different than those numbers is the new construction. Did you say that again? The only numbers that were asked tonight that's not part of that presentation was the new construction amount. Which I think Derek's going to send that out. And personal property? I won't have personal property by then. But we're also not talking about personal property that night. We're only talking about the reassessment. Okay. The only problem is they're part of a whole, right? So if we were to make a decision on property tax rates when we don't know what our other... You're just making a decision on what you're advertising to give you flexibility to continue discussing it. And what we will do, we will do our best to look at projections, what everyone's looking at out in the field, what they're saying about the personal property. Obviously, it won't be a concrete answer. But, you know, people, there's industry people, people that work with you in this business, and they'll say, this is what it's looking like. So at least you may have an idea. And as I think Derek stated, because we had a long conversation with Derek and Tanya. Nobody seems to be expecting anything unusual in a personal property tax. That's what they think now. So the work session scheduled for the 8th is for budget. The work session that's scheduled for the 8th is to continue discussion on the reassessment ad. It's really not... You don't have your budget books yet. We don't have the spreadsheets turned around yet. So it's mostly reassessment ad. But we at least have... We have conversation time amongst ourselves. Sure. And Cheryl, that work session would be before our board meeting on the 8th? Yeah. It's like 5 or 5.30? Yes. That's correct. Mr. Chairman. I'm cut. Mr. Administrator, we're going to go through expenses and revenue. So do you have any thoughts or ideas or ways to make the accounting more efficient? I'd love to hear them. I think you've done a good job. Right now, I know that when you got hired, you've brought down the cost per citizen by a penny or two, which is a plus. But if you have any other thoughts that you want to add to the mix and add that in at that point in time, that'd be good. More than willing to do that. So we have a tentative day session. I thought everyone should check and make sure that they're... Good. As best as you can in advance. The 24th is good for me. And I'm good with the 24th. And it will be televised because it's a work session, so it will be videoed. And if somebody can only like have to do something, I think we could always arrange for a partial part of that time being virtual if it was needed for someone. So we can always look at those options too. One other question for you. If a long day... If a long day... Is too long because you have to work at like, you know, other commitments, you could do two half days too. I mean, I don't know what your schedule is, Josh, for... Stop it. I don't know what your... Bob's... So when you say an all day, what time does the all day start? You know, it's not established. It might probably be something like 8 to 4. And we would bring in lunch for everybody. And if we're having a meeting... 9 to 4? Excuse me? Do we do 9 to 4? 9 to 4 works. There's no... I just mentioned that because... But Bob has some reasons. I just mentioned that because... But Bob has some reasons. I just mentioned that because... Between 6 and 8 is my busiest time. 9 to 4 would work. And then take 30 minutes for lunch, have the food here. And you can actually continue while we eat if you want to get stuff done. Or 9 to 4, 30. The late doesn't bother me. That's what I'm saying. So if we need to run over, we can. Yeah. And there is no end time. There are no meetings following. So if everything's going well, the board wants to carry on, that can take place. One other question. I'm serious. What if we have a snowstorm? Excuse me? What if we have a snowstorm? Then we'd call you out. I'm not talking about 5-H. I'm talking about a Pilsner snowstorm. Well, then you have options. Especially if you have the 24th, because you have... Yeah. I don't mind coming in. It's cool enough. Yes. If we have a snowstorm or something, we'll just have to come up with a rain day or something. Snow day. We can ski in from a place, you know. All right. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now go to the ability centers. CAP cooldown 830. Wait for it to start playing back into your cup. I'm going to. Wait for it to start playing back into your cup. vocals from a Wild Fabricated Garden. Sounds like a wild fire.
