Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-02-28
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=214
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Let us stand, please, and face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Next up is adoption of the agenda. Board, how should we handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any against, say nay. The agenda is adopted as presented. Next up is citizen comments. Can you please call any who are signed up? No one is signed up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is a time reserved for citizens to comment for items on the... on the agenda. Is there anyone who'd like to speak who had not signed up? None seen. I will close citizen comments. Next is item six, the consent agenda. Board, how would you like to handle? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the consent agenda? Hearing none, we'll approve this by roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Chairman votes aye. And the consent agenda is adopted. Next item is Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn? In 2014, the Virginia Court of Appeals made a ruling in which they put time and place limits in how far a dealer could be from a user's death and still be charged with a felony. We're dealing with fentanyl. Fentanyl, a drug in which if you have ten users, seven people will die. And so the Virginia Court of Appeals made a ruling which basically said that if you have ten users, seven people will die. And so the Virginia Court of Appeals made a ruling which basically said, that if a dealer sold a drug to a person and then went away, it was not considered to be a felony. It was considered to be a misdemeanor. If a person was at a party and gave a friend the same drug and the person died, the person would be charged with felony murder. And so there was a bill in the General Assembly that said that the person that goes and sells a drug, that kills somebody, seven out of ten that use fentanyl die, that that should be a felony. And that was defeated on a party line vote to make that a felony as opposed to a misdemeanor. The reason I raised the issue is a week ago I attended a fentanyl awareness program at Fellowship Bible Church. At that place there was the sheriff, the attorney general, there was a person from DEA, and a woman whose husband died from fentanyl she had been a former drug user. And fentanyl has become so much of a high that it's made heroin a lesser drug. So I make the comment to all of you, if you think that a drug dealer who goes and hands out pills in which seven out of ten people die is inappropriate, I'd encourage you to contact the General Assembly to take a look at those people that voted against making it a felony as opposed to a misdemeanor. That's something that we need to have here in this community. Unfortunately this community is an area where you have a number of drugs and so for those people that are dealing drugs in my opinion, if they cause a death, it is a felony, it is murder, and shouldn't be treated as a misdemeanor. So consider contacting your Delegate Wiley, Delegate Oates, Senator French, and the people also in the General Assembly such as the Speaker to say this law needs to be changed. Thank you, Supervisor. Mr. Chairman, I have the privilege of attending the Laurel Ridge Small Business Development Center Cultivate Your Agribusiness Conference. The guest speaker was our Virginia Secretary of Agriculture, Forge Batlor. There were over 130 people attending and it was a wonderful opportunity to talk to people about our small business, agriculture, and how it's growing in this area. So I just wanted to I really appreciated Laurel Ridge Small Business Development Center putting that on. Thank you. Any other Board Member comments? Hearing none. Are you presenting? I'm presenting. I know Wyatt had the drought last time, but he handed it off to me this time. This is a minor change. The ordinance, if you remember, was approximately five weeks ago. We discussed it. We made changes. Primarily those changes were to address some of the concerns of the people in the construction industry. And I think we made changes that helped do that significantly. But that one item that was left off is we had the bulk water haulers who still had issues because during a time of a drought emergency, they would not be able to get potable water. They would be able to get the non-potable water from the plant up north. So what this is is really just a triage to an ordinance. It's not a permanent fix. It doesn't solve the long-term issues. The idea with this ordinance change is to the first part you see up there is under emergency. They're not allowed to get potable water. What this does, it allows them to get potable water, but they have to pay a rate based on what we pay to Winchester. So in effect, it would not be costing the utility any extra money. Now this doesn't address some of the other concerns that have been out there. For instance, I know Supervisor Lockridge, your concern was at some point in time, is that fair if one person bears the burden on all the other users aren't using it? And that is definitely a valid point. But the idea with this is to just fix this one component and maybe come back and look at this. As you know, I believe that Frederick Water is doing an analysis now doing some studies now to determine where we stand water-wise in regards to droughts and regional water supply, which is very important. And we may need to do some more studies to really get a good idea of where we stand when it comes to water, droughts, our capacity, and what's going to happen when we get the new plant up online running and when that plants. So a lot of, there's probably more questions right now than there are answers. And this is just triage. Just helps Ryan. The bulk water haulers, Ryan's here, he's the largest bulk water hauler. And I did talk to him and he, obviously he would rather see the rate be changed so everyone pays it. But this would at least accommodate him and he would be happy if we were to pass this. Having said all that, we just received some more emails, more information from people saying there may be some other issues with this ordinance, maybe some of the contractors and such, and some of their complaints may be valid. We received at least one email I saw and read through it. And so what we would recommend tonight is to not take any action tonight of sending this to a public hearing. Let us go back to the drawing board, take a look at this, if there's any more comments from supervisors to see if we can make some changes then come back and maybe even have this ordinance better than it is now. There is no critical situation as we speak because we're not under emergency so we do have the time to do that. Thank you. Are there any questions from the board? Mr. Administrator, approximately what type of time frame would you like to have to do the further revisions that you're looking to do? I have no doubt we could do it in four weeks. The key thing is looking at all budget hearings and such we'll be timing it with the meetings and the public hearings, but we could gather that I believe in four weeks. Okay, the reason I'm asking the question is I'm empathetic to the bulk water haulers as a way to solve a problem. So right now we are under a drought emergency so if four weeks is it then that's fine. Thank you. So we're under just a drought warning now currently, is that right? Drought warning, correct, I believe. So their problem was resolved by move to the warning at least to some degree? Correct. We're no longer under the emergency. If you're positive it's just a drought I believe you, if that's the case I thought it was emergency. No. Now I know they still have issues with water but they're no longer officially in the emergency status. Any other questions for the county administrator? I'll just make a comment. We met on this subject last week, you and I? Correct. And the county administrator has come up with a lot of ideas. The conflict is that when we're in a drought we want to take active measures to reduce water use for emergency and priority needs like being able to fight fires. On the other hand, we're entirely sympathetic to to the water users and haulers and all the businesses in the county. We don't want to restrict and harm businesses in the county. So how do we play that off? And the administrator had some great ideas that I'm sure he's going to flesh out and bring back to us where including possible ways to have graduated fees so small users individual homeowners people who can't afford a price increase, it wouldn't hit them right away but over time large for the cost of reducing water usage to fall fairly on the public and on the business. I think there were some new ideas I hadn't heard before. I very much appreciate the work you've done already and it's encouraging that we'll have some good ideas to make this ordinance fair and better for everyone after we're done. Is that a fair enough description? I really appreciate the ideas you already presented. Any other questions? Not a question but just a comment. Not only does this affect businesses but I had several farmers contact me last year when there was a drought and the bulk water I actually talked to this gentleman about it because they needed water for the cattle and the bulk waters were providing water for the cattle. So it's more than just businesses here. It does roll into the agriculture side of it. And I neglected to mention that thank you for that and we also have to check with Frederick Water to make sure any of our ideas are implementable by then if there's something that they have to change in their metering or charging. But thank you. I appreciate that we're moving forward and I hope being out of the drought emergency has resolved most of the problems for people. At least temporarily. And we have gotten reports that the reservoirs are recharging. They are recharging, yes. Mr. Chairman, on a discussion point, on the 20% max fee, I'll just make the public comment that I'd like to see that revised because the cost of water between Winchester City and Frederick Water is about 100% more. So this is a 20% cap. So at least I'd like to have a discussion on that. And I'd also like to have a discussion on watering personal families are watering for vegetable gardens. So those two items which was number 8 and number D on page 4, you know, be addressed going forward. Thank you. So that closes item 8. Next, item 9, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. 9A, we have a planning commission vacancy that's just occurred that's in the Back Creek District. Supervisor Jewell, do you have a nomination for that? Mr. Chairman, I would like to nominate Jeff McKay to fill that position. For those that don't know, Jeff, Jeff, and his family, the Marker-Miller family, Heather is his wife, and Jeff's very involved both in agriculture and he's also he's a CISO for the Farm Credit so he comes with a lot of knowledge and help and I think he'll be a great asset to the planning commission. Mr. Chairman, I would second that motion. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll proceed to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Yes. Um, one second. Sorry, I had my sheet out of order here, so Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye and the nomination is approved. 9B, Planning Commission. We have a vacancy also in the Stonewall District. Vice Chairman, how would you like to handle that? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to appoint Charles Chad DeHaven as our representative for the Stonewall District on the Planning Commission vacancy. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll proceed to roll call vote. And forgive me if I'm a little slow. I grabbed the wrong sheet to run down the line today. Um, Supervisor Liero? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes no. The nomination is approved. Next is 9C, Planning Commission again. This is in the vacancy for a four-year term. This is in the Shawnee District. Supervisor Liero? Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you see on your agenda, I'm just going to read that off for everyone else who does. I'm going to read it off for everyone else who doesn't have an agenda in front of them. Roger Thomas currently serves on the Planning Commission representing the Opecan District, but because of redistricting now resides in the Shawnee District. So he did not move. The line was redrawn. The appointment of Mr. Thomas to the Shawnee seat would allow a new representative to be appointed from the Opecan District to fill the unexpired term ending 6-14-2025. First of all, I'd like to give a shout out of thanks to Mr. H. Page-Manuel who served in that Planning Commission seat in the Shawnee District. Mr. Manuel did not seek reappointment. Just a couple other comments on Mr. Thomas. I think the Board members are very familiar with him, but for the public, Mr. Thomas has a bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh in Civil Engineering, a master's degree from the University of Maryland in Civil Engineering. He's a retired or he's a registered professional engineer. He retired with 42 and a half years of service in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the last 38 of which were in the Transatlantic and Middle East divisions. He was working in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the former USSR. His competencies are in planning, geotechnical design, various civil engineering design disciplines, and project and construction management. Again, he retired in 2015 from the Corps of Engineers as the Chief of Construction in the Operations Division. He's served over 30 years on the Planning Commission from Opecan and the last 20 years as Vice Chair. So that's a summary, Mr. Thomas. Quite a summary. Thank you. So that's a motion to appoint. Motion to appoint. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? I would just note that Roger Thomas was recently elected again to serve as Vice Chair from among the members on his board. So we're happy, although we moved him among districts, that we're going to retain him as Vice Chair. Or I am anyway. We'll see with our roll call vote here. Any other discussion? So we'll proceed to roll call vote. I'm not sure I'm starting on the right side. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chairman votes aye and the nomination is approved. Next is 9D. The at-large representative is vacant as of January 1st. The previous at-large representative, I believe, was Supervisor Jewell. But upon his election, it became vacant. It has sat vacant for a number of weeks while we contemplated the size of the Planning Commission. But that issue was recently resolved. And so now I have nominated Ms. Molly Brannon. She has served and been very vocal advocate and has put in a lot of legwork investigating issues all over the county, even though she was serving as a representative of Just Back Creek. I've been impressed with the work she's done for the whole county and I think she's proven that she would be able to handle the load of this same job at-large across the whole county. So I've made a nomination. Is there a second? Second. There's a nomination and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Dunn? I think my vote's going to reflect trying to reconcile some of the differences between or among certain members, so you'll see that when I vote. Any other discussion? Very good. Then we'll proceed to a roll call vote. On Molly Brannon at-large. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chairman votes aye and the Vice Chairman votes no. Thank you. Thank you. And the nomination is approved. Next, 9E. Parks and Recreation Commission. There's a vacancy for a four-year term in Gainsborough. Supervisor Lockridge, how would you like to handle? Yes, I would like to make a motion to appoint Von Whitaker to that empty seat. Natalie was up in February and I would like to go ahead and put in Von Whitaker. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and that nomination is approved. This is a question on the agenda. The agenda is the resume. I don't believe I can engage and answer the question now, but I'll certainly please speak to me after the meeting. Yes, but we can provide it for you if you need it. Thank you. So we move to item 10, Committee Business, the Finance Committee. Yes, sir. Chair of the Finance Committee, how would you like to handle this? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee met on February 21st at 8 AM. The first item of business that we took up was the Audit Committee, the financial reports which this Board approved under consent. So I will move on to the actual Finance Committee action item and the first one was the IT Director request a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $142,208. This amount represents PEG funds to replace cameras and video control systems in the Board of Supervisors meeting room and includes the option to add cameras to the back of the meeting room to broadcast work sessions. PEG funds are derived from cable franchise fees and can only be used for items related to the broadcasting of meetings. No local funds are required. The Committee recommended approval to include the option to add cameras to the back of the meeting room and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Then we'll proceed to the vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor, uh, Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The next item, the Parks and Recreation Director requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $300,000. This amount represents proffer funds for the installation of an outdoor spray ground facility at Clearbrook Park. This item has been approved by the Parks and Recreation Committee. The Finance Committee recommended approval to include the option to add cameras to the back of the meeting room room and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The next item, the Parks and Recreation Director requested general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $10,500. This amount represents funds for an easement and will be used to purchase a snowblower that attaches to the Vintrac mower. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? None heard. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. This item is approved. Next item of business, the Parks and Recreation Director requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $3,364. These funds represent proceeds from the sale of salvaged equipment and will be used to repair a vehicle headliner. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye in this motion. This item is approved. The Parks and Recreation Director requests a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $46,000. This amount represents a donation for enhancements to the walking in the Winter Wonderland light show. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. This item is approved. The Winchester Regional Airport Authority Executive Director requests an airport capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $15,155 and a general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,273. These amounts represent an increase in the eligible amount of $15,155. The final amount from the DOAV grant, $15,155 and the corresponding increase in the local share which is $2,273. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Motion and a second. Any discussion? I would just note that up to now, I guess we don't explain this to the public all the time, when we say no local funds required that means you're not paying for it out of taxpayer funds. When we say, as we did once already, that proffer funds are provided, that usually comes from developers when they're approved to work. So that's also not money taken from the taxpayer. There are things, however, that we do have to pay a share of or take out of taxes and this is a small amount of this is that case. So, just wanted to stop a moment and explain our processes that we've been through. We've rushed through all these items. If there's no other discussion, we'll move to a vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The Winchester Regional Airport Authority Executive Director requests an Airport Capital Fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $13,496. This amount represents a contribution towards the terminal project. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The Chair requests a General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $7,952.79. This amount represents two auto claims and will go toward the repairs of vehicles. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The Chair requests a General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $10,000. This amount represents a donation received and will go toward the building at the impound lot. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Hearing none, we'll move to the vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The Chair votes aye and this item is approved. The Sheriff requests a General Fund Supplemental Appropriation in the amount of $29,914. in the amount of $29,914. This amount represents e-summon funds to be used for 25 printers and mounts to be used for 25 printers and mounts and you're very limited in what these funds can be used for. They will be using those to, as they say, for the printers and the mounts which is an allowable use. No local funds are required. The Finance Committee recommends approval and I would so move. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? So on all these items, there was only one that involved local funds. So, very good. We'll move to the vote then. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chairman Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye and this item is approved. Mr. Chairman, that concludes the financial side of this except for I would like to recognize our Finance Department for the work that they do. The Government Finance Officers Association, the Government Finance Officers Association, GFOA, has awarded the county the award for outstanding achievement in the popular annual financial reporting for the June 30, 2022 year popular annual financial report, the Paffer. This is the 17th consecutive year that Frederick County has received this achievement award and I would just like to express my appreciation and gratitude for the work that the Finance Department does under the leadership of Mrs. Schiffler. We are so fortunate to have such tenured staff and the excellent work that they provide for us. So, just want to say thank you. And that concludes my report, sir. Thank you. So, today we have no public hearings. So, today will be a short meeting as well, it looks like. Moving on through the items, no planning commission business of other types. So, we move to Board Liaison Reports. Do we have any? Mr. Chairman, I have two. Thank you. The Agriculture District Advisory Committee met on Tuesday, February 20th. These items will be coming before the Planning Commission and then to the Board of Supervisors. It was for the addition to the South Timber Ridge Agriculture and Forestry District, a removal from the South Frederick Agriculture and Forestry District and removal again from the South Frederick Forestry District. The Committee unanimously approved this to move on to the Planning Commission. So, we will see it in the next, I guess, I don't know, four to six weeks, whatever. So, the second report I have is with the Extension Leadership Board Liaison. I appreciate being put on this. I guess this is an agriculture theme for me tonight. So, the Frederick County Extension Leadership Council last met on Wednesday, February 20th and February 7th. The staff took the opportunity to highlight the 4-H Youth Development Program that is taking place in Frederick County. They had four seniors speak. These kids were amazing to sit there and listen to these seniors and that they're going on. One was going to Oklahoma, University of Oklahoma. I mean, they're just amazing, amazing kids. Several of them I recognized from the Frederick County Fair doing the STEER and everything like that. So, it was really fun to see them out and about. Frederick County has nine active 4-H clubs and two after school garden clubs. There was a 53% rise in adult 4-H volunteers with 197 total in our area last year, 2023. And we have 1,735 youth enrolled in 4-H. Our youth involvement increased 204% from 2022. In 2023, 18s joined Frederick County Teen Council engaging in five meetings of various activities. Additionally, 27 served as 4-H camp counselors, eight as horse day camp counselors. Notably, five became Virginia 4-H delegates. One joined the Virginia 4-H cabinet, two were recognized as 4-H all-stars, and one, Emma Lloyd, received the overall Virginia 4-H Youth in Action Award. For those that don't know, the Virginia Cooperative Extension was established in 1914 as a partnership between Virginia's two land grant universities, Virginia Tech and Virginia State University. Today, the Extension operates out of 107 offices. One is based in this county complex. Eleven agriculture research and extension centers, one being the Allison H. Smith Jr. Agriculture and Extension Center here in Frederick County where much of the tree fruit and wine grape research for the state occurs. Six 4-H centers across the Commonwealth, the center serving our region is located in Front Road, Virginia. The Extension agents, specialists, and volunteers work to assist farmers, empower youth, guide responsibility, resource management, and advance well-being of all Virginians. Mr. Chairman, we have the honor of our son and daughter, boy-girl twins, are now young adults, but they went through the 4-H program. They did accomplish the 4-H all-stars. It's an amazing program, and I hope parents will really look into it and look into what the Extension agents do because there is just so many opportunities there. So, thank you. Thank you, Supervisor Jewell. Any other board liaison reports? Mr. Chairman, we interviewed today with a person that's going to fill the tourism spot. There's a 501 C 3 nonprofit tourism spot that's available. Jewell will be on the board next week. I hope you'll be able to approve her. Winchester City also has to approve her. She's the person that started the Renaissance Fair. She's put together programs for those that are 12 to 17 in this community. So, if you have kids, they have a place to go. I'll give you more information, but just be aware that in two weeks, I'll be asking for a supportive vote on that. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Lero. On the Planning Commission, on their meeting last week, on February 21st, they basically took up five items that will be coming to us, I believe, in mid-March. The first one's dealing with fall zones for telecommunication towers that would allow us to evaluate those on a case-by-case basis and allow a fall zone of basically 50% of the height of the tower, more or less. So, that's the first thing they took up. They also took up two Diamond Communications telecom towers. One's a 185-foot telecommunications monopole up near Martins and Sunnyside in the Route 37, 522 area. Once again, that was a 185-foot telecommunications monopole. That was approved to move forward to the Board of Supervisors. The second one, same company, Diamond Communications, 135-foot monopole at 127 Mercedes Court, which is off of Welltown Road near Route 81, exit 317, I believe. The last two items they took up were to expand slightly the home and cottage occupation allowances to allow a few more people into those type businesses. And the last one, amend the secondary or accessory uses of secondary buildings to a square footage of up to 500 square feet or 25% gross floor area of the primary building on that site. So those five items. A couple of other liaison reports, Parks and Rec, not really much to report there other than their new chairman, Dennis Grubbs, ran his first meeting recently. The Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission canceled their February 15th meeting, so the next meeting is in mid-March. And the library board, they're working on new signage for the Bowman Library, and there's going to be some new carpeting installed there. And the spring-summer timeframe at the Bowman Library. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? Mr. Chairman, a question. Mr. Leroux, or Mr. Chairman, I listened to the planning commission, and are the engineers that were there that were talking, will they be here when we, when they make this presentation? Because I'd like to see them there. There's some questions I would like to ask that weren't asked at that planning commission. Do you know? I don't know the answer to that. I do know that the engineer that spoke at the planning commission last week is not, is certified in seven or eight states, but Virginia is not one of them. So I'm not sure if they're going to plan on, the planning department's planning on having somebody that's registered in Virginia. I can answer that question. I was speaking with Mr. Pearson today about some of the issues with that and had watched it, streamed that. And the engineer that did speak and addressed the various questions that were asked will be present to my knowledge. Hopefully he will be here. But that's what I was told today. Yes, sir. Very good. Any more board liaison reports? Well, I'll just mention that I woke up this morning to, I think, ten invitations to meetings, one of which I wasn't even aware of. But I did manage to attend most of the meeting. It was the Virginia Department of Emergency Management meets monthly. And we're, we were represented by our Fire and Rescue Department, but I wasn't aware since I had very short notice before attending. It was very interesting. We don't always report on it, but just so the public knows, the state coordinates with counties in various regions on various emergency preparedness. Today's highlight was on shelter availability for hurricanes, torrential tornadoes, etc. And so all the counties are asked to report what their capabilities are. We in January had approved our most recent emergency hazard and management plan for all different kinds of emergencies. So just to make the public aware, that's a constant. That's an ongoing process here so that the county would be ready to respond and coordinate with regional authorities and neighboring counties in the case of any emergency. So I certainly appreciated the fire and rescue representation of that meeting and it was a good one. So that's the end, I believe, of board liaison reports. Citizen comments. Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Alice Strickler. I brought this tonight because you've only seen my son on the video where he's crawling on his hands and knees and his heart's beating out of his chest at 200 beats per minute, that some of you didn't want an independent investigation done. And tonight you spoke about fentanyl, that we should contact our representatives. I totally agree. But on that same thought, there's no charges pressed about my son and the dereliction of duty that was committed by the lead trainer. Why isn't he held to a criminal charge? Because he should be. Because he didn't do his job and it's negligent homicide in my opinion. Today we were informed, and I will say Mr. Ballhofer has addressed me about this, that workman's comp is denying our claim. My son died working for your county. He died in training. 35. 35. No children. I'll never be a grandma. He'll never build his house. And you're going to tell me that I can't, that we don't get his funeral paid for and we don't, they don't pay his hospital bill? He died in your service. Tell me that's appropriate. That I should have to pay for my son because he died working for your county? No. It's wrong. He may have had an enlarged heart but I guarantee you if you go to the hospital one of you at that lectern will have an enlarged heart and you still carry on every day your duties. He died because they didn't stop him and they had the technology that you all paid for. And I I can't even begin to tell you but this, I want you to look at this picture. This was my boy. And now he's gone. He sits in ashes on my TV stand. He deserves workman's comp. He deserves a whole hell of a lot more. This is my boy. This is my boy. That is in a container. And no one has been charged with it. Nobody's been had anything done. I'll see you in two weeks. Thank you, Ms. Strickler. Is it Idina Penny? I neglected before, please name and magisterial district. I'm a resident in the Rosebud district, yes. Thank you. At Senseny Place, which is an over 55 building, which I understand our friend Mr. Dunn was instrumental in having changed from the former ownership to the present ownership, which is doing a lousy job, I'm sorry to say. Wesley Property Management is not responsive to the residents in any way, shape, or form. We have lost four, count them, in one year, four property management managers who have just up and quit. One of which was an embezzler who was taking rent checks and putting them in her own account. She made my life a living hell. She put me into, well I'm not even going to give you the background. I'm here to talk about the bus service that hasn't materialized in an entire year. I initially talked about this with Mr. Dunn back in April, I think, or maybe even March last year. And we came up with a list of people who were going to be able to get into the bus service. And I've spoken to a number of people, everyone short of the Mayor of Winchester, who it seems is the final decider on where the Wintran will extend its existing service to Cork Street that stops right before Route 81, a mere half a mile away from our building. Our residents, many of whom are disabled like myself, but who do drive. In fact, I'd say the large majority of people have no conveyance whatsoever, no relatives in the area to give them lifts to go grocery shopping or buy themselves a new frock for the spring or winter clothes or anything. Or even to go to the thrift stores. And a lot of them are on what they call limited income. Social security only kind of income. It's not enough to live on these days. And so the residents really need a bus to at least stop a couple of days a week at the building to take them into town and bring them back. But the fact is it doesn't exist. So I've talked to I can't even tell you how many people, at least six people across the Frederick County and Winchester transportation organizations. All of them tell me that you guys don't talk to each other. Frederick County and Winchester. When it comes to bus service. Yada, yada. Because people out here need to get into town. And vice versa. So that's what I guess I wanted to talk about. And to request that it be put on an agenda quickly. Soon. I mean I've been here a year and there is still no bus service. And all those people are like staying in their apartments kind of vegetating, sort of waiting for the paramedics to pick them up and take them to the hospital. For one thing after another it's just a very depressing atmosphere in that building. And it shouldn't be that way. It used to be a church. It used to be an uplifting place. In fact there are future plans for some church to be added to the building. I didn't know about it. We found out when we were given a map of where we can park when it snows. And it said future church. Where we have a garden, a little walking circle with pavement and benches. No benches in the back. Because Wesley property management won't spring for a couple more benches for people to sit in the back by the cars. Like a transition point between getting in and out of cars that come to pick them up and drop them off. And going into the outside of the building. So it's almost spring. At least we can get some benches. But that's a side point. We need a bus. Preferably a handicapped bus. There are lots of wheelchair bound people. So I'm just speaking up so it's on the record that I've spoken on the subject. Please do something. Please. Thank you. Thank you very much for your comments. That's the end of the list, sir. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here who would like to speak? Good evening members of the board. My name is Brian Nurem. I'm a resident of the Opecan District. I'm sure everyone woke up this morning with our new headline. That made the DC news that one of our own, Miles Adkins, was arrested by federal agents yesterday. Facing four charges. Stemming from actions on January 6th. Entering and remaining in restricted building or grounds and so forth. I'm not going to be here to tell anyone that he needs to be fired from his job. Elected officials, there is a process to do that. It requires about 420 signatures if my math is done correctly. However, I don't think we have to go that far. I think we have to go that far. I think we have to go that far. I don't think we have to go that far. I think really all we have to do as a community is recommend that he not represent our community anymore. As the chairman of the board, As the chairman of the board, I'm sure that Mr. Ludwig has his phone number and he can text him himself during the meeting. Mr. Lero, as the Shawnee District supervisor, I'd also recommend that you have a discussion with Mr. Adkins as to his behavior and as to his conduct on this matter. Now, I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Lero. Now, according to the paper tonight, he says that he refuses to be bullied out of office. But I think it's time for him to do the honorable thing and just back out. He's not doing this community any good by representing us on the front page of the newspaper and even on DC News multiple times. So I would ask also the members of this community, Frederick County, contact your supervisors. They're right here. Contact your school board members and ask them to have him step down and stop representing this community. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Hearing none, I will close the citizen comments portion of the meeting. Last, before adjournment, Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Supervisor Wells? A lot of folks in my community at Opecan are new folks moving here from Fairfax and Loudoun County and other areas outside of the Washington, DC territories. And I'd just like to get word out to them about our firefighters. Our firefighters in Frederick County are volunteer firefighters. Most of the places that they have come from were paid fire departments. And we're very fortunate to have the volunteers that we have. Only two of our fire stations are Frederick County owned but participated by volunteers. So, they do a lot of hard work. The county does pay some supplements to the volunteers. We do have two paid firefighters in each station. And we give some financial support through gas and insurance and some revenue recovery. But last year, $2,238,000 was raised through funding activities like bingo and pancake dinners and all those kinds of things. So, they sold a few things and $632,000 was some of the old equipment that they got rid of. But $2 million is raised with bingo. This is Wednesday night and Friday nights and Saturday nights. These are volunteers who have full-time jobs in our community. And I just think they're superheroes and superstars. I just want to get the word out to everybody to know who they are. And when you see a volunteer, thank them for what they do. If you get an opportunity to help fund them or make donations to their fire companies, please do. Thank you very much. Thank you, Supervisor Wells. Any other Board comments? Supervisor Dunn? Yes, any place? We've had chats with the Planning Department. So I know that the Planning Department has talked to the Winchester City Planning Department. I'm very cognizant of your requests. There's a process that has to go through this process, both on this Board and on Winchester City. They have to decide where their current buses are, whether they can do an expansion. And so that conversation has begun. I've talked to both Mr. Pearson and John Bishop who have talked to Winchester. But that's going to take a longer process. I empathize with your please get it done yesterday. I fully understand that. So there's a process that's going on. We'll try to move that process as quickly as we can. But it's not going to occur, I mean, just realistically, tomorrow morning or the next morning. So we'll move the process along as well as we can, emphasizing what you have raised here. Any other questions? The representative I spoke with told me that they are scaling back all of their services. They're going to be going to move the city no more. So, so, so, a quick comment. Supervisor Dunne, we... We can't have a conversation. I'll be glad to come down to there in a minute and have a conversation with you. But basically, we're going through a process. We'll try to move that process as quickly as we can. I'll be glad to talk to you afterwards on specifics. As for the property management and the loss of four people, it's a private entity, so I don't know if we as a board have a say on that. We approved a certain situation, but that's now a private entity and we can talk some more about that if you see fit. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Supervisor Dunne. Yes, there is a coordinating entity between the city and the county and I believe the Vice Chairman and I have been in those meetings and she'd like to report on that. Just to speak to the issues that have been presented here tonight, the MPO is, has actually taken up a study, a micro-transit study, and they're also looking at bus service from Winchester as far as Deloral Ridge. The idea about something on Cincinnati Road has come up as well. There will be a public meeting just to mark on your calendar for March the 14th from 6 to 8 in this room where we will have a representative from DRPT, which is the Department of Rails and Trails and all of those sorts of things and she really is the expert. We do receive, or I should say that the city receives federal funding to run some of this bus service and such, but there is a study underway that we are looking at it. Studies take time to make sure we get it right and do we integrate Frederick County with that business of providing those transportation services. So it is ongoing to your point. Yes indeed. Thank you. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Any on this side? So I'll just add yes that the city has bus service because it's a city and it receives federal funds because it's urban. But as the county grows, as you will know, we become more urbanized or suburbanized as well. And so we are talking through the Metro Metropolitan Planning Organization about being able to join all those services and share in that funding so that those kind of things can be extended out into the county. Not to the borders and the far reaches of the county, but certainty to some of the developments like you spoke of. So I believe that concludes Board of Supervisor comments. Vice Chairman? Do we have a second? We have many seconds. All in favor say aye. Aye. Anyone opposed? We are adjourned.
