Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-06-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=352
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mennon, thank you, and a very warm welcome to the address, Smoot County Doug King. Through your cadelluna's I'm Dan Rit managers media Highlighting what a conditional use permit is, I think you all are well-versed in the rezoning cycle, having gone through Virginia Technology Park over your previous two meetings, but conditional use permit's a little bit different. The role that the Planning Commission plays is a little bit different. So a little bit of context in regard to this application type is required for certain uses in certain zoning districts. The zoning of the property does not change as a result of a conditional use permit. Again, it's specific to a singular use. And that use may have more stringent requirements and a more stringent review process due to the potential impacts that that use has on adjoining properties. Unlike rezoning, where the applicant offers voluntary proffers, conditional use permits, the board may impose certain conditions to mitigate impacts that are reasonably related to the use. And conditional use permits are revocable or amenable if those conditions are violated. So again, this is not a rezoning application. The applicant is not offering any proffers. This is a conditional use permit. You'll see as we go through the analysis, it's handled a little bit differently than the rezoning process. For the public that are here this evening, this is an overview of the planning process. Again, as the chairman noted, there'll be opportunities for public comment through the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors public hearing that later dates to be determined. Right now, this is our anticipated schedule. Again, your work session is this evening. Should this continue to go forward, July 1st will be the Planning Commission's public hearing. Thank you. And then depending on the outcome of that meeting, it may go to the August 12th Board of Supervisors meeting. And staff notes the dates are easily influenced by actions of the applicant or the deliberating body. And the dates will never come forward. They just potentially move out. If you've not visited our meeting portal on our county website, this is what it looks like for the upcoming slate of meetings. There you can see what meetings of the Planning Commission and Board are upcoming, access the agenda, the agenda packet materials. And you can leave any e-comments. If you have any questions, you can email me. I'll be happy to answer them. I'll be happy to answer any questions that we may have. And we'll be happy to answer any questions you may have. Next, we have the next item on public hearing items. So without further ado, for your consideration this evening is conditional use permit or CUP number 0326 for Winchester Gateway LLC. You all may recognize that name. This property was rezoned back in 2024. And it's 71.85 acres of property zoned M1 light industrial. So this property is existing industrial property in Frederick County. They are seeking a data center conditional use permit. And the property is light industrial. So this property is a located at the intersection of Apple Valley Road and Middle Road in the Back Creek Magisterial District. Directing your attention to the screen, you have our countywide locator map showing the location of the property. It's generally south and west of the limits of the city of Winchester. Providing a more zoomed in version, this is our location and zoning map showing the subject property outlined in that magenta color. Volunteer вам k coupling datum ssø Royce Coolingwaldaronk from Main Street flyer Nam ta Reh, Dis regarding Western, we welcome you to the S.M.N. att 깨 borders all faces也是 Alyssa Brown Nutrition Strongman's topic. Benan Nuho Owlum in las Vegas community포 zdef! with rezoning 0623. And at the time, for those of you who were on the Planning Commission, you will recall that one of the potential uses of the site was a data center, and the applicant, who is the same applicant this evening, did proffer a number of mitigation measures to address the potential use of a data center on the site. They included enhanced buffers and screening along Apple Valley Road and Middle Road. They proffered to provide sound attenuation measures within any potential buildings, and they actually capped their maximum noise generated on site to 65 decibels, which was under the ordinance standard of 70 decibels. Subsequent or following that rezoning approval, the Board of Supervisors, through an ordinance amendment in 2025, actually changed the use permissions of data centers in the M1 Light Industrial Zoning District from a permitted by right use to a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit. So because of that change, the applicant had to come back to this body to seek a conditional use permit to establish a data center. This is a concept sketch provided in the application materials. It more or less shows those kind of proffered requirements for the screening from Apple Valley Road and Middle Road, and also the general layout of the buildings. They're proposing three 60-foot tall data center buildings and a substation on the property, which they can provide more details about the specifics of their operation. Similar to rezoning, there are ordinance standards for the Planning Commission to use in guiding the application. They are consideration of evaluating the potential impacts of this use. These are contained in the zoning ordinance section under the conditional use permit section. We'll go through each of the requirements, and staff will provide comments, and then we'll summarize at the end with the recommended conditions of approval. So for your consideration, A is the conditional use shall not tend to change the character and established pattern of development in the area of the proposed use. As I noted, speaking to the surrounding uses, the existing zoning of the property is M1. It's light industrial. To the south and southwest of the subject property, the adjoining properties are also zoned for industrial, and there are existing industrial uses there, and the proposed data center would otherwise be compatible with these adjoining industrial users. However, to the north and northeast of the subject property, the existing zoning is RA, rural areas, and RP, residential performance. It includes existing single family detached residential uses, institutional uses, including the church, and recreational uses, and residential use. This is an order of thumb. Thank you. And the proposed data center uses the current town battlefield. So in this respect, the proposed data center would be otherwise incompatible with these uses if the impacts are not properly mitigated. The next area of analysis for your consideration is the conditional use shall be in harmony with and shall not adversely affect the use and enjoyment of surrounding properties. As staff has noted, the proposed data center campus, if not properly cited, if not properly screened and buffered, may adversely impact the adjoining properties, particularly residential properties through noise and view. Thank you. And now, from an information aspect, the Dollay Group on Audio Proof, We've had an opportunity to write a conversion of your benchmarking into some of the features that DBA provides for the BSB. The next area for consideration is the conditional use shall be in accord with the policies expressed in the comprehensive plan and with the intent of this chapter. Your comprehensive plan adopted in 2021 and your Kernstown area plan provide guidance on the future development of the subject property. It identifies the subject properties with an industrial land use designation and being within the limits of the sewer and water area. Further, the Kernstown area plan notes that this property is part of an area of the county known as the Shady Elm Economic Development Area. This is an area of the county slated for significant commercial and industrial use, included those targeted industries identified by the Economic Development Authority, one of which is technology which data centers would be compatible with. The existing zoning of the property aligns with that future plan land use, as does the conditional use data center that aligns with those area policies that staff described. This is a look at your long-range land use plan, again, showing the subject property and the blue areas, the future industrial land use. The Shady Elm Economic Development Area extends to the south and to the west along Shady Elm Road. Next, the conditional use shall not adversely affect the natural character and environment of the county. Again, as staff noted in a previous slide, if not properly cited, data centers may adversely impact adjoining properties. And again, we covered the noise item, but it's provided here to show how it fits into the context of that evaluating criteria. The next criteria. The next criteria for your consideration is that the conditional use permit shall be approved only if adequate facilities, roads, safe access, and drainage are provided. As noted in the staff report, the proposed use is anticipated to result in a substantial reduction in traffic impacts to the transportation network, particularly along Apple Valley Road, Shady Elm Road, and Route 11, compared to other high traffic generating uses permitted in the M1 zoning district, including warehouse and distribution type uses, which were also contemplated at the time of the rezoning. Power serving the facility. The facility may already exist through adjoining overhead transmission utilities along the Route 37 corridor and overhead facilities and nearby substations. However, they may need to be upgraded to provide service to this. There is some uncertainty based on the materials that were included with the application about if the existing substation and overhead utilities in the vicinity can actually provide the megawatts needed to service this facility. And we have not gotten a firm answer from the applicant on the total megawatts needed to service a data center campus at this location. We are not sure what the actual demand will be. Further, water and sewer infrastructure serving the site would be provided by a local utility provider. In this case, it would be Frederick Water. And the application proposes use of a closed loop cooling system, and they anticipate that their total daily use is 35,000 gallons per day or less. And in regard to stormwater management, they are identified on their concept sketch. At the time of development, they would go through the process of site plan review and getting approval from public work should they be approved for a conditional use permit. The final criteria for evaluating the proposal is if the conditional use conforms to the applicable regulations of the district which is located. The zoning ordinance includes district regulations for the M1 light industrial zoning district. That includes dimensional standards, required setbacks, and building heights. And we also have additional regulations for data centers which are contained in our additional regulations section, which were added in 2025, which you all are quite familiar with. Staff would note that a site plan would be required. Prior to the establishment of the use, if the conditional use permit were approved, it would certify conformity with all of the Frederick County zoning ordinance requirements. Not only those district dimensional standards, but also those additional regulations for data centers, which you all are quite familiar with at this point. Site plans are reviewed by applicable county agencies. That includes building inspections, public works, the fire marshal, and planning and zoning. And outside agencies, including the Virginia Department of Transportation and the utility providers, including Frederick Water. And they require approval by the zoning administrator. So even if they don't approve, they're still going to be approved. And if they get through the conditional use permit process, if they don't meet all the other criteria of the county ordinance, they wouldn't get a site plan approval. So again, in considering a conditional use permit, the power kind of shifts back to the planning commission, the Board of Supervisors. In granting a conditional use permit, the Board may place appropriate conditions on the permit. That's outlined in our comprehensive plan and enabled by the Code of Virginia, rather our zoning ordinance and enabled by the Code of Virginia. And the Board of Supervisors, and by their appointment, the planning commission. And may impose conditions, including but not limited to noise, lighting, landscaping, building height, and hours of operation to mitigate the potential impacts of a certain use on adjoining properties. With that in mind, staff has carefully crafted a number of conditions that speak to some of the comments that were raised through the review agency comments, particularly from the Historic Resources Advisory Board. But also to manage the use as it pertains to the adjoining properties. And we'll walk through each of those, and then you all can ask questions, certainly. The first condition of approval relates to Historic Resources. It says that a Phase 1 Archaeological Survey shall be performed for two sites that were identified in their Phase 1 study. And then a copy of that final Phase 2 Archaeological Survey would be provided to Frederick County prior to the site plan approval. And that no land disturbing activities, including grading and or above or below ground utilities, shall occur within those features identified in the Phase 1 Archaeological Study. And these features shall be clearly delineated as the site plan is outside. The limits of development. The second condition pertains to site access. Access to the site would be limited to one full movement entrance from Apple Valley Road. And the entrance shall not be directly across it from any residential homes along Apple Valley Road as to maintain a contiguous buffer and berm along the frontage for sound attenuation and view shed mitigation. A second entrance may be permitted for emergency vehicle access only if required by the county's fire marshal and reviewed and approved at the time of site plan. Further, the site plan is not required to be used by the City of Jacksonville. The site plan is not required to be used by the City of Jacksonville. The site plan is not required to be used by the City of Jacksonville. The site plan is not required to be used by the City of Jacksonville. Further, the location of the site entrance would be reviewed and approved by the Virginia Department of Transportation as part of the site planning process. Condition 3 deals with construction management and states that prior to final site plan approval, each phase of development of construction mitigation plan shall be submitted to the department for review and consideration. The mitigation plan would address at a minimum construction traffic control measures, including but not limited to mitigation measures implemented during weekday, a.m. and peak travel hours, school bus travel times. Any was diligentlyő Moreover, the Upon completion of the再wn shardcak Email Fill wound plzz wellнуть information officer for publication on the county's website and other social media. The liaison shall act as a point of contact between all citizens, construction crews, and available in person by phone during active construction hours and must respond to any questions related to the project or the site. The liaison's role would commence prior to the county's issuance of a land disturbance permit and remain a minimum of six months following the county's issuance of a final certificate of occupancy for the project. Further, if requested, the applicant would provide a joint construction traffic reaction team, which may include members of county staff, VDOT, or the sheriff's office, or the Virginia State Police. To identify and expeditiously mitigate or resolve traffic issues that arise during the construction of the project, the applicant shall insist in resolving and implementing solutions to traffic issues. Finally, pavement damage to roads, including shoulders and aprons, attributable to the construction of the project as determined by the zoning administrator, must be repaired by the applicant within 120 days of notice prior to any issue. The applicant shall initiate the process of repairs within 48 hours after receiving notice from VDOT, and the applicant will diligently conduct all repairs here in a timely manner. Condition 4 pertains to public utilities, that public water consumption by the subject properties limited to $35,000 per day or less, that no groundwater resources via private wells or unguarded water sources be used, and that no groundwater resources be used by the public or other methods shall be used for the operation of the primary or accessory uses, and that prior to site plan approval, the sanitary discharge method shall be reviewed and approved by Frederick Water. Condition 5 pertains to noise and noise monitoring. It states that the maximum noise generated by the operation of the data center shall not exceed 65 dBA and C during daytime hours and 60 dBA and C during nighttime hours measured in accordance with the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance, and that mechanical and mechanical equipment shall not be used for the operation of the facility. The equipment, HVAC generators, etc., installed on the property shall be rated to produce noise that is equal to or less than the equipment studied in their environmental noise study prepared by Salas O'Brien dated November 24, 2025. Condition 7 deals with power generating facilities on site. Power generation for the use shall be limited to backup generators in accordance with Condition 6 and or the use of solar panels. Condition 8 is a fairly lengthy condition. Condition 9 is a very lengthy condition. Finishing with clean rules such as 25% less storageEMV, enhanced housing for the shareholder, which is about $50 million per feet. We will now take a look at the表 on comparable construction at the Supreme desorm Skill startate, we'd like the the sites building in the following lines which in theseल percent of the facade including concrete block stone brick glass metal or architectural precast concrete that at least two neutral earth tone or natural color palettes shall be used in the building facade that the maximum length of any wall facing apple valley road without modulation shall not exceed 100 feet and the minimum modulation depth would be two feet and the minimum modulation width would be 20 feet and finally the building elevations and rendering shall be provided to the county for review and acceptance with the above conditions prior to the issuance of the first building permit condition nine pertains to buffers and screening we would propose that a category c type full screen landscape buffer shall be installed along the property front edge with apple valley road middle road and route 37 and unless otherwise modified below the buffer area shall fulfill minimum distance and opaque screening element requirements of the frederick county zoning ordinance contained in section 13 80208 that along the property front with apple valley road and middle road the buffer distance shall be a minimum of 200 feet and include a minimum 10 foot tall earthen berm plus an enhanced landscape screen and that the minimum plant size at the time of planting for the landscape screen for all buffer areas shall be a one and a half inch caliber deciduous tree six feet in height for evergreen trees and 36 inches in height for evergreen shrubs that the planting species to be reviewed and approved at the time of site plan shall be a minimum of 2.5 inches and a half inches in height for evergreen trees the plant species shall include a mix of species in which at least there's one native variety of deciduous tree at least one virginia native variety of evergreen tree and at least one virginian native variety of shrub and that in addition to the minimum ten foot wide landscape screen described above along apple valley road and middle road there should be an additional double row of evergreen trees and the evergreen trees shall include at least two varieties of plantings one of which shall be a virginian native bald and burlap and be a minimum of 8 feet in height at the time of planting and finally the double row of evergreen trees will include a set of trees that are going to be used as a base of the the double row of evergreen trees shall be planted between the earth and berm and the building and plantings shall be spaced appropriately within the inactive buffer to allow for regular maintenance and mowing condition 10 pertains to signage we would permit them to have one freestanding monument sign permitted along apple valley road not to exceed 50 square feet in sign area and not to exceed 12 feet in height that the base of the sign and the sign face shall be of material and color complementary to the building facade materials and that building and wall mounted signs and electronic messaging signs would be prohibited on site finally condition number 11 that any change in the use for which the conditional use permit was granted shall require a new conditional use permit that is a condition that we attach to all of our conditional use permits so in summary winchester gateway is seeking a data center conditional use permit on 71 acres of property zoned m1 light industrial as is customary with our staff report staff has highlighted positives and concerns with the application for positives the existing zoning of the m1 aligns with the plan featured land use contained in the comprehensive plan which is industrial and does not and and the proposed conditional use data center also conforms with your comprehensive plan the proposal further aligns with the area plan policies highlighted in the shady elm economic development area and with the county's economic development authorities targeted industries and that the proposed use is expected to result in a substantial reduction in traffic to the transportation network compared to other heavy traffic uses which would otherwise be permitted in the n1 zoning district in regards to concerns the facility is proposed in areas identified as core battlefield and listed as second kernstown core area the first kernstown study area and the second winchester study area and has the potential to impact significant historic and cultural resources in the project vicinity further the proposed building height and block massing which is currently proposed at 60 feet excluding any rooftop equipment may have a significant impact on area view sheds particularly from neighboring historic resources that would be the kernstown battlefield and shenandoah valley battlefield association properties and the single family detached residence along apple valley road while buffers and screening including an earthen berm are proposed as part of the concept sketch they may be otherwise insufficient given the proposed height of the structures while significant electric utilities exist in the vicinity of the subject property including those along route 37 there is considerable uncertainty based on the applicants provided supporting documentations that the existing substations and overhead utilities are sufficient to provide the megawatts needed to power a data center facility at this location further the application is silent on the total facility megawatts needed to service the service the property重 lifted by 80 hours young acuteій and throughout the entire community construe the ourachi here today jetzt is that's okay If you guys want to sit down, we're going to be here until 8 o'clock. So if you want to stand for two hours, you're welcome to do that as well. And I know there's some ladies standing in the back for the gentleman who practiced chivalry. This is your opportunity to show that to the public. May I start? Awesome. Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission, I'm Ty Lawson here on behalf of Winchester Gateway. And we've got several folks here. As the chairman pointed out, it's our turn to give you a brief presentation, but more importantly, respond to your questions. So we have Chris Mitchell here to my right, Hobie Mitchell, not a coincidence, to his right. And then Alex Hornacker, who is board-certified Institute of Noise Control Engineering. I should say Chris. He is a lead engineer with Brothers Mechanical, International Mechanical Engineering Company. And, of course, Darius Sidditi, who is Winchester Gateway. And then Greenway is in the row behind me, Josh Reynolds and our Chris Moon. Very quickly, it is, as Mr. Klein just pointed out, in an area that is zoned. Not only designated to be industrial, but it is zoned industrial. And our site is adjacent to Shockey, Newell, Trex, Hood, and others all around us. It's served by public utilities. We've got significant water, sewer, gas running across the front of the property. 138 kilovolt electric lines on our side of Route. 37 that I'm sure everyone has seen. It's one of the reasons why it was chosen a while back by our client and the others to put industrial. And, of course, we have Apple Valley Road across our frontage. A real short stint there of Middle Road. And then 37 across the back of the property. The zoning history is... Mr. Klein did a great job. Reminding us what we're doing here. We're not doing a zoning. This is conditional use. This thing actually has been zoned twice. It was zoned back in 2015. And I'm sure you all remember when we came back before you in 23 and 24. A little more than half of the property was actually zoned M1 when we appeared before you. And did a proffered rezoning for the balance of the triangle along Apple Valley. And we're still in the middle. And 37. And so it has been through a lot of the processes that you see with other filings and certainly with other rezoning. So not only the various agency reviews including historic resources and all of the others. But we've done it now three times. So same site. First in 15. Second, 23 with an approval. In 24. And then today. And as Mr. Klein pointed out, what will be before you all and then ultimately the board is have we mitigated the impacts for our proposed use from what it is. Which is M1 and industrial and all the uses that are allowed under M1. And I'd be remiss if I didn't remind everybody. We proffered out two uses. One was a jail. And the other was outside fast food with the speakers and an order window. I didn't even know that was allowed in M1. But apparently it was and it's not. We proffered it out. So all the other uses are allowed on this property. Here's a sampling of them. And they are the buy right uses. As many of them are around us. Just to. Give you an example already. And so we did when we filed. We were we were proceeding as M1 and we proffered a lot of mitigation. A lot of screening, sound attenuation and things of that sort because we were proceeding and and fully intending to be data center in the intervening time. The ordinance changed. And so that's why we're before you again. But I would I would suggest. We're quite consistent. We we've always represented what we had planned for the property. This is the plan. And the key features I'm going to show you a minute of contrast with the plan that we had provided to you when we were zoned as M1. But it is three buildings. The 60 foot height limit is the same height limit that was proffered. Two times. And then the generator and utility areas are internal to the site. I don't know if you all remember when we did industrial. We said that we wouldn't have any loading docks along Apple Valley. No outside processing. Everything would be internal. This is consistent. And then of course we have a significant setback and landscaping. And we'll talk in a moment more about that. On site ponds and floodplain. Generation. We do show two entrances. We understand the comments. We had proffered two entrances. If it's allowable for us to just have one entrance. That's that's fine. But we had located the entrances intentionally. So they're not opposite anyone's home there. They're opposite open land. And that stays the same. We've also for the entrance. To the right. We've done it at an angle. To help further with noise attenuation. And to follow the spirit of what Mr. Klein said. That that's an emergency access type entrance. That's not a significant entrance like the one closer to Middle Road. Here's existing by right versus what we had presented. And gotten approved for industrial. We're a little less than half the square footage. So. When we talk about mitigating impacts. What we're proposing is less than half. Of what exists right now. What was approved. And I'm sure you all remember when we got the M1 zoned. We actually had to test it if you will for traffic. Excuse me with warehouse distribution. Which would be the highest impact. Of trucks and cars on Apple Valley. And we proffered to do improvements along Apple. Valley. To match the property and the improvements to the east. All those impacts disappear when we go. And are significantly mitigated when we proceed to a data center use. Our vehicle trips according to the VDOT manual. Are at 852. I kind of challenge that. But that's okay. It's still a fraction of what you would have. With industrial. And we don't have the high traffic. The water usage again mitigating impact. We have. And Mr. Klein went through the conditions. Those we've been working together on that. We've agreed to cap at 35,000. And M1 there is no cap. And then noise at the property line. 65 decibels were. And we have our sound experts. We have our sound expert here. If you want to ask questions. But we're agreeing as our voluntary conditions. To drop it to 60 decibels at the property line. These are the commitments and a summary of them. I went through all of them. The economic. That is at the current. Personal property tax rate. Which is a. I believe it is still a little bit lower. For data centers. If we end up. And we're supportive. Of an increase in the rate. To the rate that we all pay. As citizens on personal property. That number jumps significantly. And we have no objection to that. In fact when we first ran our model. Our economic analysis guy. Thought that it was at the regular rate. And so that was one of the assumptions that we had. When we submitted. And I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. When we first handed out this money. It had a little bit of installed space for that proposal. We did want to run out of space. But I'll tell you we eventually got those offers costed. I mean. The actually came up with it. So. kind of caught up to that as well and requires high electric users to pay their their costs so that they're not borne by the rest of us as Shenandoah Valley electric cooperative ratepayers so we're doing all that and then the utilities were just blessed with those being across the front of the site water sewer and and gas they're they're already there the conditions we had proffered conditions that run with the property and those remain we're not changing any of those we're we're taking it up a notch as you will to put additional conditions mr. Klein actually went through several of them noise we've we've talked about you will to put additional conditions mr. Klein actually went through several of them noise we've we've talked about vision vision from theducting you know the theory that goes in at least two budgeting you know those are so far you are thinking that's for installations that would be large and we have we have gotten into them at least roughly twenty five yard pale this year and then it justappyματα me go and collect it subject to curtain road and then we get they had recorded around eight the project to that but viscous downtown is that closer to home and so I said suggested that. And we do have some renderings, if people care to look at them, about what you'll see, or put it another way, what you will not see as a result of the enhanced buffering and screening and the 14-foot berm along Apple Valley. And this is an example of some of the renderings. And we have other slides that we can go to as a resource. But that's my presentation, and we'll be happy to answer your questions. Hopefully that was quick enough. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Yes, sir. Yeah, we'll have a whole series of questions. So you might want to pass them among your team members or however you want to do it. So in no... Yeah, they look ready, I can tell you. They are. They're here. Sitting up in their seats. I'm curious, is anybody from the board of the Kernstown Battlefield Foundation here? I was looking for Gary Crawford. I didn't see Gary. Okay, there they are. Welcome. Glad you could join us this evening. With Mr. Lawson's introductory comments complete, let me turn to commissioners and I've broken this down so that it's not a heavy lift for any one of us. And Mr. Vaughn-Whitaker is going to begin asking questions, leading us into questions pertaining to water. And other commissioners may follow in with additional questions on that subject, but he's our lead on this topic, Mr. Whitaker. Thank you, Chairman. Would you elaborate on the statement that you would not be using groundwater? That is a condition that we had agreed to. We're connected to... Frederick County Sanitation Authority's water line, which runs along Apple Valley Road. And so we have committed no wells, no groundwater usage. So you're talking about your own well, you're still using groundwater then? We are not drilling any wells. I believe what you're referring to is Frederick County Sanitation Authority uses multiple sources, including the quarry, the OPEC, and I think we still buy a little bit from the city, which is the Shenandoah River, if that's what you're referring to. Yes. Okay. Also, the amount of water that you're using, has been greatly reduced due to the closed loop system. Would you explain how you maintain that closed loop system and what materials it is made of? I'd be pleased to, but I think Mr. Mitchell will do a much better job of it. He's our mechanical engineer. Yes, sir. Thank you. You guys are welcome to use the microphone. Yeah, yeah. This works pretty good. Yeah. All right. Just checking you can hear me all right? All right. So the mechanical systems for the cooling will be built out of primarily steel piping, and then with either certain joints, but they're all going to be suitable for the application. There'll be some copper piping in there. There'll be some copper piping in there. There'll be some copper piping in there. There'll be some copper piping in there. There'll be some copper piping in there. Some of the drainage piping might be plastic PVC or CBVC, but primarily for these data centers, it's going to be metal piping. Okay. And the equipment themselves also going to be metal heat exchangers, metal heat exchangers in the cooling equipment. And the coolant that will be used inside those systems will be a propylene glycol. These are australian new zoals mascaras call solution, usually about 30% propylene glycol. The propylene glycol is for antifreeze. That's the primary function. This secondary use for it is really corrosion inhibiting for maintaining good quality piping longterm, just mitigate corrosion. So that's the materials. Now every so often that has to be exchanged just like you would already in your building. or on a car? Yeah, from time to time, they'll have to do some exchanging of the solution. It's not frequent. Usually what would happen is a chemical expert would come in there on a quarterly basis. They'll assess the quality of the water. Example is dissolved minerals like iron, for example. If the iron concentration gets high, they'll adjust the dosing of the corrosion inhibiting, but they'll also say, we need you to change out about 10%, 20% of the solution to get that concentration down. But that can be done over a period of time. And when these propylene glycol solutions are put in the system and when they're removed, they follow industry standard practice. So they're going to be purchasing a pre-mixed solution in drums from a provider. They'll be brought on site. It'll be filled into the piping systems. And when it's removed, it'll be also pulled out or pumped out of the piping or collected, stored, and then removed from the facility. This is not something you would put down a drain, a sanitary drain. Where does it go? Do you get recycled or cleaned? Yeah, it gets recycled. Usually some places will either recycle or it'll get treated before it goes into a standard system, which will essentially break down the propylene glycol. And that'll be done by a provider that handles that product. The closed-loop system is a high-energy demanding system. It is higher energy demand for the cooling. It's less efficient, so to say, than a water-cooled system. But there's pros and cons to all these things. I would say that air-cooled systems, a closed-loop air-cooled system, is probably the predominant type of data center cooling methodology across the United States. There are plenty of water-cooled systems out there, but the majority of them are air-cooled systems, and this is no different. Now, once you clean this antifreeze that you have to extract, where does it go to be cleaned? Where does it go? Yes. It's going to be... I don't have an example of a provider that receives it, but there are plenty of facilities that can take it. Wastewater specialty facilities that deal with non-standard liquid waste. So we don't have no real specifics then right now? I do not. I was not prepared to give you that. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Whitaker. Hey, may I ask? I do have one question on the water. Is the 35,000 gallons a day for the entire property, or is that per building? It's for the entire property. Entire property. It's for the entire property. Okay. I was a little unclear on that. Yes, sir. The amount of cooling in a closed-loop system, the amount of cooling fluid that's in the system, how many gallons are we talking about? It depends. It has to be engineered, calculated. But... I wouldn't be surprised if the total fluid in one of the buildings could be in the realm of 50,000 to 60,000 gallons once you add it all up. So if you have four buildings, we're looking at 200,000, 250,000 gallons? Three buildings, yeah. Yeah, something. But don't quote me exactly on that. I'm just giving you an idea of something to this size of a data center. Do they... If you have a leak or a spill, what kind of a containment system do you have in place to keep it from getting... Getting out of the building and into the groundwater? Right. So the piping inside the building is going to be located in areas that are designed to deal with or at least accept a leak if one were to happen inside the building. There'll be leak detection devices that would be following, tracing the path of the piping and the equipment that goes in the building. And those are individually addressed. So you can tell where the leak is happening so you can respond quickly. Traditional tier two, tier three data center designs have a network of piping with a ton of isolation valves so that you can shut off sections of piping without interrupting the system. And then you can focus on where that location is. And that way you can plan to address just that section that has to be in the building. So you can see that the pipe has a leak without shutting down really any of the cooling. The slabs at the ground... At the building, at the bottom of the building would typically have drains. And those... So you don't have a leak that just starts to fill up. Those drains in this application with glycol would typically go to an in-ground sump that's sized for the worst case section of piping that you would have to deal with. And then you would have to do some kind of a and then typically that pump system would be put into a place where you could actually extract it from the sump and put it in the drums and then remove it properly from the facility and not put it in... to a sanitary system. On the roof, that's where it gets a little more tricky. So there are usually in those cases policies that are established for quick reaction with certain types of socks, absorbent socks. Leak detection is similar to inside the building for under the equipment, but you can't do that for the pipe. And so that's where it gets a little more tricky. So there are usually in those cases policies that are established for quick reaction where it's outside. Usually what you can do is you can put a leak detection rope that's inside the insulation of the piping, and then you can identify it that way. That way you're getting it immediately before it even starts to hit the roof. And then that allows you to go up there and properly shut off that section of piping that's got the problem or the equipment. And then you can extract the glycol in a quick response fashion and then store it in the sump. And then you can extract the glycol in a quick response fashion and then store it in the sump. And then you can extract the glycol in a quick response fashion and then store it on site and remove it that way. In a closed loop system, what's a typical pressure in the system? Well, for a building this high, you're talking somewhere in the realm of, let's say, 60 PSI, no more than 70 PSI at the lowest point in the building. Up on the roof, it would be closer to the 50 PSI range. In your application, I would expect to see more on how you're going to contain any spill, not just leaks, if it's a catastrophic failure. You're in the pipe. How you would contain that outside and inside the building. Yeah, so there's the possibility of doing an on-site cistern as well that can have sensors. And then that way, stormwater has a chance to be stored before it gets extracted off the property. But we just want to see that in your application on how you're going to do that. Yeah, we'll do that. And I think, to his point, we wanted to also... Is this working? Hit the red. There you go. We talked about collecting the rainwater for cistern control for other water supplies as well. So the cisterns also act as a good backup mechanism in case you have some catastrophic event. But we'd like to use the roof water, rainwater, for storage when it does occur. So for site irrigation? Yeah, site irrigation or other things for water conservation. But we have that. So we want to do that on this project. Mr. Marker? Yeah, I have a question. The closed-loop cooling system is like a car. So the radiator being air-cooled. I heard you mention air-cooled. Correct. Is this going to be air-cooled? Yes. And then the question becomes, how is the 10,000 gallons per building a day used? Because... Yes. Is the heat transfer from the closed-loop system to somewhere? Right. Is that where that 10,000 gallons of water? No. So the cooling is not going to rely on any water for evaporation to do cooling. Okay. So you have air-cooled chillers in the winter. You also have some dry coolers as well. Those are taking the heat out of the fluid and putting it directly into air through a refrigeration cycle. Right. Like an air conditioner. So the water consumption for the mechanical systems is going to come up in the wintertime for humidification. So there will be something I calculated somewhere around 7,000 to 9,000 gallons per day max for all three buildings to humidify outside air that you're using for ventilation for people and just general... Right. ...water control, odor control, all these other reasons, and then also for pressurization of the buildings. So... So just for humidification? Correct. Correct. So when you're bringing 10-degree cold air in, it's really dry. So you need to get it up to about 30% relative humidity when the space is, let's say, 75 degrees. And so the calculation pans out to be about 7,000 to 9,000 gallons per day. So you use less water in the summertime because it's more humid outside? Correct. Okay. Thank you. Any other water questions? Am I right? Am I left? Let me just add one. Mr. Thomas. You talked about pressurization of the building. Is it going to be under negative or positive pressure? It'll be under positive pressure with outside air. A very slight positive pressure. That's how you want to fight infiltration of air that's not conditioned. So you positively pressurize the building by a small amount. Thank you. Thank you. One last question. I know in my discussion with Darius, there's not an end user identified for this project yet. So what we're talking about here is pretty specific. Is this what we're going to see? Or is the user going to come in and say, wait a minute, I want to do something different? Well, they can limit the user to say, okay, you can't use airside economizing, for example, because of the water limitation. Or whatever calculations you have, they cannot exceed that 30%. What we're working on is building more 35,000 gallons as a whole for all three buildings. And that is something that can be controlled through agreements with the end users. Thank you. Do we need another condition, Mr. Klein, that would address this type of thing? Or is that getting too far into the weeds? We consulted with Frederick Water about that 35,000 gallon, and they felt like that was a more than adequate condition to stipulate requirements that the engineer talked through. Well, I think with the application, Since you aren't the end user, I would really want to see in your application a list of requirements for the end user, whether it's power consumption, noise, water, pollution, how you get rid of your antifreeze cooling water. I would want to see some kind of a list of requirements that you're going to give to a leaser, buyer, or renter that supports everything that you're telling us you're going to do and the requirements that are on there that are not just the ones that are the conditions but the other things we've talked about tonight, the containment of the spills and things like that. Yeah, we'll put that list together now that we – Yeah. We'll put that list together now that we – Yeah, we'll put that list together now that we hear these comments, so we'll be more specific. Okay. We want to move to energy. Mr. Marker is going to lead us in questioning on energy, and following that, we'll get into noise because we'd hate for Alex to sit there and have nothing to do. Thank you. Mr. Larson, who do I speak to relative to the energy part of this? Depends on the question, right? Yeah, that's not yours. Yeah. Batter up. Okay. The team will be happy to respond. Okay. Okay. Good. I understand that currently available is 138 kV. Yes. On the line. Your project is requesting 158? Yes. Megawatts. Okay. 160 if I'm not wrong. And you also did a study, PJM study. To verify the electric load, and what load did that come up with saying that the demand would be what? We are in the process of negotiating with not only our local, but FirstEnergy Power Company. I don't know that there's any conclusions on that at this point. But we are in that process. Is that why we didn't see the study in the application? Well, I think it's still underway, number one. And number two, as I understand it, it's subject to a confidentiality agreement that the power company issues with all end users, I guess, until it is finalized. I understand you all, the county, have written a letter under the new law to the power company to ask for that information to be daylighted. And we've shared with the county we're happy to allow that to be produced. But it is an ongoing work in progress. Is there a chance that you're going to have to have another transmission line to bring in power? We have no information. We have no information to support a new power line. Everything that we have seen and talked about runs along the existing easements. It's one of the reasons why we located next to those significant lines. And they're on our property. And the easement, and it goes up to the Meadowbrook substation and then connects to the heavy transmission line that is there. And everything that we have talked about. With the power company involves that. We have no information that would suggest that you would want to pull anything anywhere else. And we've been asked this question in light of what's happened in northern Virginia. Where, in fact, there are actions in front of the state corporation commission to pull new lines across parts of northern Virginia. That is a very public process. Certainly, there's been a lot of folks that are opposed to that. We understand that. We are not part of that. We are not aware of any of that. We're not aware of a power company even making a draft of an application for us. And the last thing I'll say, we're not that big. I mean, we're a nice site, but we're only 71 acres. We're not going to warrant a brand-new power line being brought across Frederick County to serve this. Another question. How many emergency generators would there be in this? Do we have a layout of that? I know we did a sound study on the tier four generators. Do we have a number? 14 per building. 14 per building. Is there any way that you can bury them? I mean, here's the reason I asked that question. It's purely sound. Sound is one thing when it's variable. I lived a block away in Burke from a railroad track that had 17 trains a day. And after a while, you don't hear them anymore unless they're interrupting your conversation. But that's different from a constant hum that I hear so many people suffering from, complaining about. And that hum is purely the air conditioning units, right? The heat exchangers. Well. Where else would that constant hum come from? Actually, and Alex will fill you in more, but it's been explained to us that our area understands a constant hum real well. They're hearing one right now. And they believe it's coming. No, that's from Renegade. They believe it's coming from Trex. And it's a processing sound, and it is the same sound. It is that constant sound. It's been explained, and Alex can do this better, but the noise that we would generate is not that. And it has not only been measured, all the equipment's been measured, and that's how we're able to commit to the lower decibels at the property line. But also, he will tell you through sound. It's a constant hum. It's the continuous hum. It's the continuous hum. And the noise that we hear is not the constant hum that's being used. It's the continuous hum that's being used. And the noise that we hear is the continuation and the machinery that's being used that it is much different. And it is not the constant hum that folks here and have reported to us is quite annoying in that area. But I'll let him explain that better. The reason I'm asking also is, my position has always been, we need to bury these things, the entire data center. The emergency department. The emergency department. The emergency department. The emergency generators. The air conditioner, heat exchangers, so that we eliminate all of the bad stuff that's coming, even though everybody doesn't understand all of the bad stuff that's there. I mean, there's a lot of speculation about what sound does what to what humans and animals. And it's being studied, I'm sure. But my presumption was, if we could bury it, we could eliminate. Some of those things so that data centers could be good neighbors. And what's a good neighbor? Somebody that doesn't bother you. Somebody that tends to their own business and helps the community. So anything that you can bury, whether it's the air heat exchangers. I know you can. I was in a VA hospital that was being built one time and they had an emergency generator in it. They had emergency generators. They had a lot of good stuff. And they had a lot of good stuff. They had a lot of good stuff. And they had a lot of good stuff. They had a lot of good stuff. The engine that ran the emergency generator was about 20 feet long, just the engine. For us to go into that building, into that room, and it was in part of the hospital, we had to have ear protection because we didn't know what second or two that engine would fire up if there was a power failure and your ears would be gone. So that's something you need to deal with. But I know it can be done. So I'm asking if there's any way to build these things underground or in a totally enclosed environment, then you're going to go a long way to have the public support this whole idea. When we set about to do the work and to Mr. Klein's presentation to mitigate the impacts from what by-right industrial would be, we did a series. We did a series of design changes, sound attenuation, putting in quieter tier four generators, for example, and so on. And we're confident, and we are agreeing to put this in as a condition that runs with the land, that the sound that is generated from this will be not only less than what would be allowed under a by-right M1, but actually we're going to generate sounds that are less, our sound people went out and measured the sound that exists now, the ambient sound that exists now. We're going to be under that, and we're agreeing to commit to that as well. We understand there are things that can be done, and I'm sure I'm not doing them justice, but our engineers can explain about following with your comments, things that are being done, wraps and certain screening with sound. We've got attenuation materials in them, and so on, all to bring the sound levels down, and we're willing to commit this site and any future user to those lower sounds. We're going to get into noise next, but let me, before we get away from energy, thank you. I'm good. Let me make sure I understand what you said. I'm assuming you've done a phase one interconnect study with PJM. Is that correct? And you've gotten some kind of result back, or you wouldn't, be here tonight because you know the site can work somehow, somewhere. Electricity is going to show up to power this. So are you in the phase two portion of that study now where you've got to shell out lots of money to get them to? I'll let Mr. Siddiqui tell you what phase. Okay, right. Yeah, we're in phase two of the study. How far are you into that? Because that's a, is that a multi-year process? Yes, we've, how far along are we? Yeah. Well, as you know, we previously got zoned and we started the process shortly after the 2024 rezoning. Okay. So we've been working with the utility provider for almost two years. Okay. And have you gotten any response, any indication whatsoever as to, I mean, you've told us, I think when you and I talked, you were talking 150, 150. 158 megawatts you needed on site. I think the slide said 160 megawatts tonight. Yep. So have they told you they can supply that or with the existing infrastructure? They, we believe that there may need to be upgrades to the existing infrastructure, but we have been told that those upgrades would be along current right away, along the 138 lines that are serving the site currently. Okay. Obviously, they're going to need some upgrades to build the new substation. Okay. Well, you guys have heard me say before, and you'll hear me say again, I am dead set of posts and new high voltage power lines being strung across Frederick County. So, and we have, we have no information that would support that. Yes, sir. Mr. Thomas. Uh, you, you seem very confident that the existing 138, the KVA line can supply the power, but at this point you don't have a user that's going to be putting the servers into the building. Uh, the amount of power that would be consumed is very dependent on the type of server, the size of the servers, the density of the servers, whether you have double stacked racks, whether you have single stacked, whether you're talking fourth generation, fifth generation servers. So I guess I'm curious on how you've been able to determine that that 138 KVA line will provide sufficient power when you don't even know who's going in there yet. And two or three years from now, what is being said now is that when we transition to more of an AI server requirement, AI servers will require two to three to five times as much power as the current servers. So if we meet the power demands now, what about two or three years from now, what about two or three years from now, what about two or three years from now, because the current servers are going to be outdated and you'll want to replace them with new servers because you're going to get, I mean, you're the, the amount of money that they're going to make from using telephones on a server is not, is going to be minimal compared to what they can make using AI. So I'm curious how, how you're so confident that that current line is sufficient to meet your power demands unless you're going to put in your requirements for the leaser or whoever comes in and buys a business. So I'm curious how, how you're so confident that that current line is sufficient to meet your power demands unless you're going to put in your requirements for the leaser or whoever comes in and buys a business. Are you going to put maximum power consumptions, maximum density of servers, maximum stacking of the racks, types of servers that's going to limit the amount of power they're going to use? Because that, that then the density of the servers, the type of servers and all that is a, is a huge factor on the heat generated, the sound generated and all that stuff. So I'm curious how you're going to be able to, how are we going to get to that? Point that what you're telling us now is what actually happens in two or three years from now. And, you know, the other part of that is, can they string a two, two 58 or two 55 KV line on the current towers or would they be stringing in another set of towers? I mean, there's two questions there. So there is, and, and it all, there, there's a base and you said it before. I want these conditions. These are conditions that, if we're approved, we'll, we'll not only run for, for this, for this property owner, but for all subsequent users and they're going to have to pay if there, if there is a need for more, if there is a need for an upgrade, actually under the Virginia code now, which has caught up with all of us, they're going to have to pay for those upgrades. So you're asking how do you prepare for something? That's going to happen years in the future. Well, we're, we're having not to exceed the conditions that run with the land. And so these are going to be obligations. And so if there is going to be a need for more upgrades to the, to the electrical lines, those users before they can do whatever that upgrade is, they're going to have to bear the cost of that. They're going to have to enter into the study and the agreement with the power company. And they're going to have to accomplish that. It is going to be their obligation. It's not going to be a ratepayers obligation. And we have zero information. And in fact, I would think it would not make any sense to, for the utility or for a user to go through the process, which is years to try to do what Mr Stowe and none of us want to run new lines across this county. I mean, that, that is not contemplated in that that is not an allowable condition here. And frankly, we, we located intentionally, unlike some other sites where they're, they're in a more rural setting and, and they're going to need some utilities brought to them. We, we chose this site because there are significant lines and easements already on our property. So we feel like we're a little ahead of the game and maybe a little more prepared for your point, too, but we're not going to be able to do that in the next two to three years or, or whatever it is into the future. My, my point, Ty, was being able to see the requirements again, back to the requirements that you're going to put on the property and whoever you lease it to, what's going to be in that package of documents that they sign as a lease agreement or a buy agreement and what goes through, what goes along with the land in addition to the nine or 10 conditions that are put on a conditional use permit. What, what goes, what goes with the water, water, power, all of those things. What, what's going to be in that package? It goes with, it would be the conditions that, that we impose on this property that you all recommend. And if the board of supervisors accepts that they impose on those, on this property and put it another way, the only way that would change and they could exceed things is someone, not us, but that future tenant or owner would need to go back through the process and try to seek, uh, an amendment. But that's the beauty of this is, is it's locked in not only through M1, but also through the conditional use terms. Let me ask this and I'll throw this over to Darius. One of the conditions that Mr. Klein read earlier was to limit the height of the buildings to 45 feet. Would that cut in half the amount of data center floor space that you have for this project? Yes. Would that cut in half the energy demand for the project? Well, it also make the property unmarketable either because there aren't any one story data centers being developed right now. You have a two tier two story data center. But with that said, we've also looked at that with the heights. So that's why we've done some cross sections to raise the berms, lower the grades, add more landscaping, add some more visual, uh, like a green walls to the buildings to mitigate any visual impacts. But we looked at that to try to figure out how you raise the height of the berms. Even maybe more than 14 feet and lower the grades, existing grades that what we have on the existing zoning. But we have done some load studies on the, on the power side. And we shared that with the energy company, but they're in the, they're the ones that have to provide it, but we don't need any new routes. We believe they may be to have to upgrade the existing lines that are there. And we have to put a 300 megawatt substation in order to service our own. There's not enough backup, uh, to supply the property or anything without doing some upgrades. But that's why we're putting a substation on the property really service us. But, uh, we'll see if, uh, we have to ask the energy company because we can't share anything without their permission because other ones doing the study. Uh, but we spent a fair amount of time. We had, we hired Rosden engineering to do load studies for our buildings based on data center, typical data center demands. Uh, but, uh, but we do know we don't need a new corridor for burning new power lines. We don't, we need to do substation. That's why we put it on the property. And they may ask this is approved. What's that? Once this is approved, it's out of our hands. When you guys go after power in the state corporation commission, we got what you heard. I think we're going to talk it over and see what you know, that your concerns and any residents concerns, but we have a lot of existing stuff there. And so what do we do to, to help make sure that, make sure that there's nothing that goes beyond a lot of the existing infrastructure that's there. We heard that. Mr. Fox, there's a, a, if I understand correctly, governor Spanberger signed into law, a new law, right? That requires the power companies to provide these, uh, high energy, uh, studies to localities. Is that, do I have that correct, sir? That's correct. Mr. Chairman, I think that's correct. I think that's correct. Um, it's got some interesting language in it and I am going to be speaking with my counterparts at the SVEC about what, you know, what they see is, is their requirement. Um, but yes, uh, they will be required prior to, uh, any, any approval of a facility such as this under any rubric, be it debris zoning or conditional use, uh, they're required to provide known and, uh, known and to the extent known and practicable within the land use calendar. You know, the land use decision, uh, calendar requirements, uh, new or existing substations that will be, uh, used to serve the facility, uh, and, uh, anticipated transmission voltage. Those are the two things the power company is required to provide. So as you heard, the, the, the, the voltage requirement is anticipated. Um, you know, whatever that means. And then there's this, uh, extent known and practicable requirement. So, uh, I think that's, uh, that's, uh, extent known and practicable limitation on how good the information they provide is. And that's just my sort of editorializing of the language of the statute. I pretty much shared the language of the statute with you. And, and that's why I have some reservations about it. Understood. Yeah. Cause these guys are under non-disclosure, so they can't give us whatever SVC is cooked up. And, and I understand that it's incomplete at this point. But we have, we have, and I've shared this with Mr. Fox. If he needs our approval, if, for example, someone says we'll do it, but that, that party, Winchester Gateway needs to approve it. We're happy to turn that over. Could we, could we add a, a, um, condition to this, uh, process that limits the amount of development on the property to the available existing power? I, I know we can't get into the power lines and all that stuff. Um, I know that's, that's off limits to us, but how do we, how do we protect the citizens from, the citizens from what's going on in Loudoun County? Um, so as a general matter, the, the commission, the board of supervisors can place reasonable conditions that reflect available resources, impact on resources, including public utilities. Um, the, the big word there is reasonable. And whether, whether it would be reasonable to, you know, put a forever limit on the, uh, utility usage of this type of facility, uh, whereas the board may not take the same approach to an unauthorized, uh, approach to another similar type of facility. Um, generally speaking, if a company wants to relocate, relocate here and they say in year one, we're gonna make 20 widgets and in year five, we're gonna make 20,000 widgets, that's generally gonna be considered to be a positive thing, that they're increasing their activity, their economic impact. So that would be part of that reasonability analysis. But that's, that's about as far as I can go with that. It's, it's a reasonability standard. It's an objective standard you'd have to look at. Would the, the requirement be placed on a similar use in the same circumstances? That's, that would be the analysis. Okay, understood. Uh, and there's not a way we can limit first energy to reuse in their existing poles on existing alignment. Should they need to upgrade the power source to this? I'm sure. Um, that would be, I believe that would be, uh, delving into the jurisdiction of the state corporation commission, sir. Yes, sir. That was my interpretation as well. So, okay. Um, thank you. Uh, Mr. Kerns. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Uh, Mr. Marker kind of took some of my, uh, thunder over there, but it's okay. Saved us some time. So thank you. Um, do we have the, uh, do we have the application up here? I, I wanted to get to page, uh, like 70, 71, where we have the, where we have the visuals. So we could look at those. I, I have a couple of questions off of those, but I want, I want to pull that up. We'll have to pull it down off the meeting portal for the website. So it might take a minute. Oh, here we go. Yeah, this is, uh, well, kind of they, they get into the actual, or is that, I think that's all that is that all that there is in there. We can pull it up, but it's, it's going to take a few minutes. Okay. Uh, while you do that, I'll, I'll thank you for doing that. Thank you. Um, I think it's important to be able to visually look at that while we're, while we're talking, but while they're pulling that up, I didn't see that gas turbines were, were written out as a, as a condition. I know that gas turbines create a significant amount of noise. I know that some as an alternative, like kind of a backup generator type type option. Um, is that even considered for this? Is that something that we're okay to, to, to write out of this? One of the, um, to the most comp and I'll speak to our piece of the conditions that we imposed. There was one relative to the, relative to the diesel generators and the tier four certification, but there was another related to just general power generation and saying that there wouldn't be any other power generation on site except for the emergency backup and for solar panels, if they choose to use that. And that should cover the typical, bring your own power, natural gas turbines and what you're referring to. Cause those are the ones that have it basically a jet engine sitting there screaming at you. Right. Okay. All right. Um, tier four generators. We, we have those written in as well. Okay. Um, all right. Thank you. Thank you for pulling this up. All right. So what I want to kind of get to, this is, this is, I think test, let's see here. Actually, I was saying, can we scroll down a little bit? This is normal operations, right? Can we go down to what the, uh, normal operations on a day? I think it's number 79, slide number 79. And I want to have them explain slide 79 to me a little bit. Um, uh, no, I'm except normal operations. Then you have your test conditions, your emergency can keep going down. There there's another, you'll see, you'll see a whole lot of color. There you go. Could you, could you explain this? So this is telling us. So what we did on this, this plot is that we took the existing ambient measurements that we had done and use that to create a baseline of sound in the area and then added a normal operations on top of that to see what it would do. And if you look, it's, it's primarily driven, uh, the loudest parts are actually the road noise, uh, during the day. That's, and that's not expected to change. Okay. And then the, the nighttime, the next one, sorry, you're, I'm making you jump up and you might as well just stand there. Uh, and then the normal operations at night, uh, if you go down one slide, I want to take a look at that as well. Okay. And so this would be normal, normal operations, no testing, just operating all of the coolers, all of all of that, plus all the road noise ambient noise. Right. So there, and, and our mechanical engineer can speak to it a little bit more. Um, uh, the, this is assuming that there would be a hundred percent operation of the mechanical systems. However, that is not usually true, right? There's a percentage of that mechanical system that's designed to, uh, handle ambient temperature. Um, and that, so there would be a portion of that, uh, mechanical system that size to handle the heat generally. Uh, so that would be a constant. There would be some fluctuation with, you know, daytime and, and ambient conditions. And so we're sizing everything based on, and we're assuming that's that everything's running a hundred percent, but that's not really true. We'll, we'll probably be running slightly less than that because at night there isn't the sun heating things up and we don't have those, that same ambient, uh, heat conditions that we're, we're trying to mitigate. Okay. Um, another question I have on this, I didn't see where, uh, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, uh, you know, I didn't see where Hertz were measured. I saw where decibels were measured, but Hertz and decibels are significantly different because, uh, you know, 20 to 80, that's that low base. Is this all? So DBA is a measurement of all frequency from, uh, 30 Hertz all the way up to 10,000 Hertz. Right. Um, it's weighted differently, depending on which frequency it is. And then it is all summed together to give you an overall level. It is the primary measure of, uh, measuring system used because the weighting system for DBA most closely resembles how the human ear experiences sound. Because what I mean, you know, a thousand hertz, you know, that's that annoying beep, beep, beep, somebody backing their truck up, you know, that's a lot different than that low bass rumble, that low hum, that low rumble. And that's where I would like to see, do you have that separated out in the study? Is there something where we can visually see where those frequencies are? Because that's where I'm, that's where I'm, I think that's where most people are concerned about is that low, really low level. So this goes back to the source levels that were posed further up in the study. I forget the exact page number, but all of our, all of our source information was included. And so everything that would be based on reductions from that, right? Reductions by the berm, reductions by the sound barrier walls, reductions by distance, reductions by mufflers, should they be, you know, needed to meet those levels that are in that, that report. And so as you can see on that page, and again, forgive me, I don't have it in front of me what the exact page number it is. It has specific octave bands and performance at different frequencies listed for each of those pieces of equipment that we're, we're estimating are going to be put in the building. Okay. So there's no way that you can kind of pull that out visually? The only, the only way to do it would be to provide one page for every single octave band breakdown. And so it would get very, very messy, very quickly. And it wouldn't tell, I've never looked at it that way. One thing that we do and what we could include as part of our, excuse me, as part of our land development and building permitting, process would be to put receivers at each of the locations and have a printout of what the expected sound is at each frequency for those receivers rather than as a whole map. Right, right, right. Or even just a lower range. I mean, even 30 to 80 or something. That's that, that's that low. If you have that data, if it's possible to use that. And that would be something that we could pull out of our model. It's baked in. I would love to see that. Okay. And I think that that would help me make a decision better. And then seeing all frequencies mixed together, I'm really most concerned in that lower. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Last question I have for you is, so you have the, the, the generators on the back side. So you have the coolers on the roofs, right? Yes. So what sort of attenuation do you have built in for the roofs? So on the roofs themselves, the plan is to, to include sound barrier walls around all of the equipment. That'll block line air quality. of sight to it that's part of your ordinance as a requirement for all data center equipment. There's also a low sound selection for fans. It has to do with how the fan is shaped, how it scoops that air. It changes the sound profile coming off of it. Compressors have to be wrapped. All this is part of your ordinance. That's all planned. The reason generators are put in kind of that central courtyard, for lack of a better term, is because we actually get benefit from the buildings providing some of that shielding for us. If you notice that, excuse me, if you go back to, I don't know who's controlling it right now, but if you go back to the report where we issued just past the use of the normal operating conditions, we show the test conditions with one generator operating for each building. And you can see in that map, I believe it would be 80 if we were at 79 for the, yeah, that would 80. So I'm sorry, two more down. Come on, Mr. Klein. There's only 370 pages in this. There we go. So that's test conditions during the day. If you look, where, around where the generators are, and again, you're a little far away from it at the moment, but around where the generators are located, sound is actually a little bit higher. We're planning on using a custom sound enclosure for each of the generators. They'll have mufflers on them, on the exhaust to control sound off of them. That's all part of that package to meet the level that's stipulated in the report, as measured at 23 feet, which is an industry standard distance, which gets used to, some different effects and allows all the different pieces of that generator to combine. You don't measure right up next to it because you get some funny effects of how sound behaves as it's coming right off of a piece of equipment. And so we've limited what that generator can produce at that distance, and we've put that in the model and then showing what that does. And so by hiding it in that courtyard, the buildings act as some of our sound mitigation in addition to the sound mitigation, the sound mitigation walls, in addition to all the different pieces that we're thinking about for the building. And excuse me for not having this right in front of me, but do we have the percentage of how many generators they can be testing at any point in time during the day? Is that in there as well? They'll alternate. You don't turn them all on at the same time. You do it in the middle of the day too, not in the evenings. Is that a condition of when they can cycle those? We'll try to get from an operational side about how many. Okay. Okay. We don't have a condition specific to that. We do have the ordinance requirement for the time of day that they can be tested, but not the same standard that went into the Virginia Technology Park proffers for no more than 15, 50%. Okay. That was it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Thomas? Yes, I have a question on low frequency long wave noise propagation. There's a number of housing developments around this area. And when I say around, they may be a mile, two miles away. There's also very limited information on the propagation of long wave low frequency noise. Now, it's been experimented with for years, and they look at the impacts. And, of course, the human ear can't hear any of it. But it does have an effect on the human body. Animals can hear it. So how far would the long wave, low frequency sound propagation extend from the site? Are we talking one mile, three miles, five miles? Is somebody living in Stonebrook, they're never going to hear it, but are they going to feel the effects, the nausea, the headaches, the anxieties that supposedly goes along with it? And, you know, it's been experimented with for years. So what are we talking about here? The... The levels needed to experience those levels of kind of effects are higher than what we're estimating is going to be coming off of this site based on the information we have right now. There are mitigation plans that we've taken. Part of it is, again, looking at how fans are selected. Using different shaped fan blades, we can change the shape of the fan blades. We can change what the frequency is coming off of those. And we're moving away from 20 years ago. One of the primary cooling methodologies was big fans, few blades, right? So you got a lot of low frequency energy coming off of that. What we're moving to now in terms of different cooling technologies is moving to smaller fans, more blades. That changes the frequencies that are generated by that equipment. We're moving it away from that low frequency because it is hard to control. And it does tend to propagate. But it's still going to be less than what's being generated by the road right now in that area. Okay. But you didn't say how far that could go. Sound doesn't stop propagating until it hits a vacuum. Right? It does decrease with distance, right? That's one of the things that happens. But it all comes back to how loud are we being, how loud are we generating it at. And with how loud we're generating it at, with the mitigation strategies that we're using, we're keeping it to being at or below the level of the street that's already there. Thank you. Ms. Cosell, can you help us avoid ugly buildings? I don't think so. I'm sorry. I don't think so. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ms. Steele? I'll try to speak to my best. I think the biggest item architecturally that we're all concerned about is how this large massive development fits into the existing conditions, which you have residential across the street, the battlefield, and how we better blend this development with that. So is there opportunity to reduce the building height? What is the minimum building height you need within a data center of this? Ms. O' Sure. Okay, why don't we, I'll take a stab at that. Can we look at the last slide, this cross-section? Because we heard a lot about it. A couple things we did do is even for sound attenuation, between buildings one and three, there's a gap. And so what we did there is added a precast wall, probably 40 foot, and we decided to make it a green wall so it's a living wall. So architecturally it looks much better, but it also takes care of a lot of sound attenuation. So visually, you know, not only do we deal with acoustic treatment, but also visually we treat it. But we also, let's go, there's another slide after this, it's a cross-section. Yeah, there we go. So what you saw on the right is sort of the existing conditions. So what we tried to do is, effectively, make the building look lower. So it's a 60 foot building. So what can you do to visually make the building look smaller from the road? So you effectively get to that 45 feet. So what we did is we raised the grades of the berm, but we lowered the site. Because the site sits up. So we did a cross-section. So what we'll do is we'll lower the site itself by five feet over what we had with the existing conditions. Maybe more if we can do it. But increase the size. So we went from 10 feet to 14. We were talking earlier, I think maybe we can get that up to 16 feet. So that visually you've accomplished what you want is having a building look smaller from the road. And so I think that's what we've been working on over the last week is how do we effectively give you that 45 feet by raising the berms and lowering the grade and adding some more landscaping. Or in this case, you saw before some of those living walls. And adding at least 10% of the building elevations have to have a living green wall along these roads. Both on an end elevation and in a front elevation. Because I think it'll make a big impact. You know, some of the things you saw in an earlier thing. And we'll have that agreement built into this application to make sure that whoever does it will be required to do it and maintain it. It's not just putting it in initially. It's the maintenance of it as well as part of the conditional use permit. So. Because it's one thing to put it in, but you've got to maintain these things too. So from what I understand, 60 feet is kind of, you have to have a 60-foot building. 45 feet would not be suitable for the racks that you have inside. We need 60. It's a two-story building. Each level in the building is effectively 30 feet. That includes the space for conditioning space. You've got it for the equipment itself. And we need at least two stories. That's the market on the data center business. Nobody's building one-story data centers. It makes it unmarketable. And the rooftop equipment, is that 60 feet encompasses the rooftop equipment from the top of the equipment and the screen walls around it? Or is that? The 60 feet is to the roof line. Equipment would then be on top of that. But the equipment is set back from the edge of the building. And we can put something in there that says it has to be set back at least because if it's set back in the building, you're not going to see it from the street. So it's all about sight lines. So we can look at that and make sure that the equipment is set back far enough that you don't really see it anyway. But the purpose of the parapets would be strictly for acoustical treatment. How many units would you have on the roof for these size buildings? I'm sorry. How many rooftop units are you thinking? I'm not sure about that yet. I'm glad that asked him. Essentially, the entire footprint of the roof minus the setback is going to be completely populated with equipment, every usable area. How do you plan with the facade? How do you plan to, you've got the green wall. Do you plan to use other brown colors, like a wood facade, like a metal cladding, something that you can blend in with? Nature, I mean, it says two colors. But precast, you can get it colored. But that really doesn't, I don't think, give us the design intent we're looking for. We actually worked with staff and actually the San Antonio Valley Battlefield Foundation to come up with the earth tones and to blend it in with the landscaping. And you'll come back with more information and renderings? We've got a lot of slides. Yeah. And we will. We were cognizant of trying to get a presentation of 10 minutes. But we've actually done some engineered drawings as what you're going to see, or more importantly, what you're not going to see through the screening. It's going to be hard to find these buildings because of those treatments. OK, because, yeah, the current renderings, you can see them. Pretty good. And this is like a site plan type thing. The actual images, I think you guys did, like photos, like true renderings, you can. Oh, heck. I just. Their photo renderings were done prior to the Historic Resources Advisory Board meeting. They have not been altered to reflect the conditions that are being recommended, the height or the building design. So we've not seen that reflected in any of their renderings. The slides below, actually, believe it or not, the building's behind it. And you don't see it. OK. So we were asked to come up with some renderings with some architectural features, no solid walls. You heard about the variation, 100 feet, and then you've got to go in two feet and so on. So we actually, our engineers came up with, and these are real data center buildings with different treatments on them and so on. But I think where you're headed and where we are as well is, below it. OK. Whether it's glass or whatever it is, you're not going to see it because of the landscaping and the berming. And these, I have to point out, these are a little dated. The ones, the street views, I don't believe there's berms in those. So berms are going to elevate all your landscaping, in this case, 14 feet higher. Here's another example of this, say, the use of this elevation. We talked about a minimum of 10% of what we'll call the living wall. So as an example, you'll see this building. Let's look at the building elevation on the left side, top left. So the solid surfaces of that would effectively be covered with a living wall. Call it a green wall. And it could be the piece in the middle. It could be both in the end. But it's at least 10% of the elevations would have to have this material on it, the living wall, and maintain it. So that was sort of the raw. The. Our. Our. Our. Listening to the public and comments from the commissioners, what can we do to mitigate visually what these buildings look like? And so that was one of the ideas that we came up with here recently, and would agree to do that. But also looking at how the grades work. Raise the berms, lower the grades of the building so effectively you get what you want, plus cover the buildings with a green living material to mitigate some of those other visual. impacts okay you know it's typically not done but i think we really want to be good people here and try to do our best to mitigate that yeah so just when you come back more renderings roof level as well because you could have 10 foot you know depending on how tall your rooftop units are that could be another 10 feet onto your building height so thank you you can just chair i have a question yes sir do you have an idea how how much more elevation how much higher you're going to be with the units up on top of the roof are you going to be at 70 feet 10 foot more because what happens is i think from the battlefield area the further back you are the more you're going to see the higher you are that burn that 14 foot berm doesn't only helps if you're up close the further back people are the site's actually sitting up higher anyway from i think the battlefield site if i'm not mistaken the grades so you're sitting up high and you're not going to be able to see the roof you're going to be able to see the roof you're going to sit up high and you're not going to be able to see the roof you're not going to see the roof higher anyway because adding the berms i'm sure what the study one more time but the site's sitting up much higher than what the battlefield is anyway and so with the berms we really want to make sure we mitigated the neighbors across the street more than anybody or next to us and i think since the site sits doesn't sit down low okay that's up high so how much higher are the units on top of the roof so they're going to be approximately 12 12 and a half feet no we're We're now in the 70s. Yeah. Right. Maybe less because there's, like, new equipment coming out there because people in the data center business and mechanical designs are understanding. We all know technology is changing every six months. That's the worst case. By the way, that would be also the sand screening that goes around all the equipment. Right. I think for clarity, the zoning ordinance permits the principal building height at 60 feet. It does not preclude rooftop equipment. So most industrial buildings, the rooftop equipment is not part of the principal building. The condition that was proposed by staff in the memo this evening stipulates a 45-foot tall height inclusive of the rooftop equipment. So the actual principal building structure would be 10 to 12 feet less than that if they were to do it the way that they've described. The living wall is a new item that they've presented to you all. It's the first time staff has seen it. That's not reflected in our conditions. Obviously, we can certainly, at your direction, put that. Put that. Put that forward. And again, the renderings, elevations they're showing are not reflective of the conditions that are written, particularly to the berm, I think requires some clarity. We're proposing a 10-foot berm with no landscaping on top. After consulting with a landscaper, they advised against doing the plantings on top of the berm. They tend to get blown over in high wind, and the plants don't thrive and get to the heights that are desired. So that's not something that we're recommending our conditions. But certainly, if you all are interested in that, you can direct us to make that change between now and the public. And I think that's what we're doing. I think all of their elevation stuff are well done, but they don't reflect the conditions that were crafted by staff at this time. They were prepared for the HRIB. And for clarity, the battlefield is significantly higher than the grade of the site. Okay. Let me move us along here because we're going to run out of time. Mr. DeHaven, can you lead us through fiscal impact and employment, please, sir? Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lawson, thank you and your team for being here. Thank you for being here, participating and going through all these questions. I just want to touch on a couple quick things. Just looking through the fiscal and economic impact, including your proposal, indicating the projects intended to serve as a substantial economic driver for the county. And I'm thinking about that in kind of two key metrics there, jobs and then kind of direct tax benefits. Could you walk us through real quick methodology? Okay. So, first, I want to talk about the fiscal impact on this. It looks like you're projecting 116 full-time jobs. I'm just curious how realistic or how comfortable we are with that number with a project that doesn't have an end user or an end type of data center. I think it's in your packet. The economic analysis, and it was based on their experience working with end users in the industry. And that's how they came up with the job numbers. They ran the tax numbers, I think I said in my initial presentation, they ran it a couple different ways. But at first, they ran it with what they assumed the personal property tax was that you and I pay at our homes and businesses. And didn't realize that data centers actually had a discounted rate. But the number that you see on the screen is at the discounted rate. And I think that's the number that we're looking at. And I think that's the number that we're looking at. And I think that's the number that we're looking at. Well, I know we've given to staff two different reports. One is if it's at the rate that we all pay, it's a much higher fiscal impact. But this is the impact at the reduced data center rate. And my understanding is with different types of data centers, you can get a pretty drastically different need for full-time employees. Is there a range or how would one project something like that? Obie, do you know? Do you know how many cap? Well, what's in the report is what was the industry standard. I don't have that in front of me. We should have been prepared for that question. And we'll have Municap here next time so they can walk you through the model. I think that's probably something important to include kind of going forward is, hey, yeah, we just picked a number. They didn't just pick a number. I'm sure it's based on the industry standard. But with the variability we're seeing out there, if we could start to get an idea of what that base is. What the best case, worst case scenario is. I think that would be helpful. I think on the tax side, too, getting a good understanding of what the projections are based on equipment replacement cycles and things like that. I know on the personal property tax side of things, with the depreciation schedules and accelerated depreciation and things like that, they can have a pretty drastic change on what that direct impact is. It could. And there's an assumption. And they'll be able to explain it. That they. They. They have a discipline of buying newer equipment much more frequently than you or I would with our computers, for example. And that's factored in. But fair point. We're happy to bring a representative and, frankly, the person that wrote this report. They broke it out. The job was created in really three categories. One was construction activity because there's really a lot of construction jobs initially. Then there's permanent jobs for the site. And that was in the report. And that was based on industry averages throughout the Northern Virginia area using Loudoun County, Prince William County, all the other counties that have data center employment. And a lot of statistics actually came from Loudoun County economic development. And then the last one is ancillary positions that support the data center. You know, it could be landscape maintenance, could be servicing for other facility. It could be maintenance. So they broke it up into three categories. So there was actual job creations. And this is running 24 seven. So you're running, you know, three shifts. And so while you may have a lot of employees at one time, you only have one third there at one time. But we'll have that broken down. It's in the report. And we'll make sure that Munich is available to make sure they go through that. And I think if you get an opportunity to run it by our commissioner and that type of thing, just to validate would be helpful. And then the last thing I had, have you done any analysis about the fiscal impact of this project versus the fiscal impact of your buy right use? It's it's we didn't do the comparison, but basically the big difference in the tax revenues and personal property tax, the real estate tax is probably relatively the same on the existing uses the real differences in personal property tax. And that's why you see a big jump in the number. In fact, we had a comment from the commissioner revenue because we use the we assume that it was at the what everybody else pays on taxes. And we little that we should have researched it more. But years ago, the county reduced the personal property tax rate for data centers to incentivize data centers. They come in here and and we actually support this data center project should pay the same rate as anybody else. And so but it's a policy issue that the board will have to look at. But we're I don't think we can add as our condition that will pay the higher taxes. I think it has to be a policy issue, but we have we're not adverse to that because it's it's a huge check generator personal property tax. And so the buildings here would probably generate close to the same building values. It's the personal property tax where you get a big jump in revenues. Thank you. Yeah. You just saw I'm clear. I mean, a mini cap can can do studies of other data centers and it's it's a I assume there but they'll explain it an average user and average turnover equipment and so on. But you're asking for. How would this compare to other and the wide array of M1 users? Correct. If you if the data center CEP wasn't approved what your no, no, I'm thinking forward. If the commissioner revenue would provide the information of what a Trex pays versus a hood versus a craft. I'm guessing they're very different because it's all very different equipment, but I'm sure I'm confident. Unicap can do that analysis if they can get that information, but I'm thinking what we're looking for is probably pretty proprietary and confidential. Well, and if you have folks now is used for your build out if that site was to go to whatever at the higher square. You're back footage. Well, it would be for all the M1 uses. It'd be a wide array. Unfortunately, right. I think on the muni stuff if we could look at ranges on things and stuff just a short hundred and sixteen. What is really best case? Worst case that fair enough gives you a better perspective and we'll bring them to the public hearing as well. Mr. Whitaker. Did you have a question, sir? Yeah, you got to make it quick because we're gonna run out of time here. Yes, sir. Mr. Chair. Could the end user possibly be for a non-profit or a bank? I doubt it'll be a non-profit. Is that what that type? Sorry. I'm talking to somebody. Yeah, he's asking if the end user could in theory be a non are there nonprofits that that own and operate data centers or what was the other a bank or a bank or the bank Bank of America could own and operate a data center an entity that would not be paying taxes. I doubt it. I doubt that. But pay a flat fee. Okay. Yeah. Okay. I mean anything is possible, but I don't I don't see it. Okay. Thank you. Miss bring back. Okay. Mine was on citing and the residential impact. If we could go back to the slide that shows the proposed sketch plan. I had a couple questions there. There's three buildings that shows it. And I couldn't see anywhere where that we have a proposed size of the building. Do we know the lineage of linear foot of what you're proposing like 200 by 800 or any of that? Yeah, the dimension. We do have this. I mean you have a sketch plan. So somewhere somebody knows what it is. No, we do. And on this slide. It's 340,000 square feet. I know it has square footage, but it doesn't say is it? Yeah. I'm just the building configuration. I know and I know that can change. Yeah, I guess what I was getting at is if you look on down, I guess this the development to the south a lot of those buildings are several of those buildings have the short end of the building. Yeah. So you're not looking at 700 foot of building as you're driving down Apple Valley Road. And I know we said from the noise standard if we switch that around that they would be noisy or noisier substantially. But is there any way to mitigate that noise and and do that and make it more visually appealing looking at 300 foot rather than 900 foot? The if we were to lose the shielding of sound provided by the buildings, we would have to look at operating significantly the mitigation packages probably past the limits of what's currently available in terms of what's engineering possible. And the other challenge might also be that that. If we provide silencers that are too too robust on there can actually reduce the effectiveness of the equipment by changing the way the air moves across it. Therefore leading to more equipment being needed to to meet their needs. So it would be from a sound standpoint. This is this is going to be a very much more in their their interest to have have the long side of the building and and I strongly suggest that we look at burn. And then. And plantings to to break up that instead of trying to to reorient the buildings from a sound standpoint. I could lead to some there's some conflicting interest there potentially and generators cannot be enclosed. So they don't close the generators are in an enclosure. But there are again like like anything there are limited engineering limitations on how much mitigation those enclosures can provide. We do still have to get air into the generator. It is an engine. There's mufflers and wasted to control sound as it comes into and out of those openings. But there are openings needed. Otherwise it doesn't work. Okay. And then how far 200 foot from the road to the first building from the right away from the road. The ask on the right away to run right away. This within right is bright is more than that. The road is actually. Yeah. So you're more like. So probably as you. And then I'd like to know how close the closest house is to because I think we had that on our other project. They had exactly how many feet to from a house from the closest house to the we can measure that. Oh yeah. We can measure that actually see the houses. I can see them but I'd like to know what that measurement is. Yeah. The engineer to to do the I think one of the slides actually shows the slice of the berm and and a red line through that. But we could do that. And show the distances. And I also believe the see the county staff had mentioned doing. I was that. Hold on the modulation. That's the word of the of the wall so that there's some step back set back in. So there's not. Let's say it's 900 foot. It's not 900 foot. We have some setback. Is that possible. Yeah. Maybe the way that is having to sit down with the staff because we introduced something this week new for them. You know we're added their green walls and some other things as we're really trying to mitigate including the elevations and the berms. Lowering the site. You know do whatever we can to mitigate the visual impact. So maybe it's worth a discussion with the staff to say listen here's the things that would be recently done. And let's kind of build that and word wordsmith it so that you feel comfortable that we're accomplishing what you want. What its materials living materials other materials. The height and how we mitigate that. So I think it's worth sitting down with them and trying to do another run at. Okay. And this living wall that you're talking about would be on the building itself on the building itself. Yeah. So what happened. This is if they irrigate it. You have to. Yeah. It's Winchester Virginia. Yeah. So what happens in the winter. Does the living wall still live. Well you know I was thinking about that you know because that was I figured I was going to be a question that came up. You know what happens in the winter. I guess you can make it more of an evergreen kind of like an ivy wall too. But and then they make the stuff that's it's not the real wall you know it's you know fake material. But you always got to over time everything changes. So you want to whatever if it's. It's. Not a natural material other material you have to maintain these buildings. So I think we're trying to come up with a system that the operator is going to maintain and it's easy to operate and maintain it. You have to irrigate these things. But we think I think visually I think it's better off to have the real living wall than having a call it a fake wall. You know it's green because it deteriorates and sun. And so we're we prefer that one. And our. We've actually Josh has done a lot of work on that particular area. So he actually kind of came up with the idea for us. And we actually said this is a great idea. So we want to incorporate that into this. Do we have some of those examples here in Virginia or is that a California and Florida thing. Well we sure it's been done on data centers before. So this is it's been done on other buildings. I know but other buildings in our. We can give you examples. And we did. We're lucky. We met with Metro Mount which is Shockey precast. Right. And they do build them. This is not just a thought. The buildings themselves are rather robust. And so they are. You can add whatever feature you want to them. And we do have examples of what they have done for other users in the area. So yes they exist in Virginia. OK. And to Hobie's point you do have to water. But but other than that they're what you think they're they're stuff growing on those walls. Let me jump in here because the appointed hour has arrived. And we're going to need to bring this in. I know Eric's been over there diligently taking notes and it's going to summarize for us. I think one of the. One of the big concerns I have is the building height. And we've heard Mr. Mitchell say you know we need the 60 feet to make it marketable. We've heard from staff. We've talked among ourselves that the 45 feet is where we think it should be for the for the purposes of aesthetics for view shed for a variety of different reasons. And that's the maximum that includes the equipment on the building as well. So I see this as a. As a point that requires more work. We're not we're not there yet on that particular one. I mean we've gotten a lot of answers to questions this evening. We've we've created a lot of questions. But I think the sound modeling for example if it was modeled at 60 feet of roof on roof height then then that's not what we're looking for at the county level. We're looking for for it to be lower. And I'd be curious to know what the impact is if it is at a lower level. That makes me wonder if we're ready to go to a public hearing July 1st. So I'll just let me pause there ask staff for their summary of what they've heard tonight and what what needs to be worked on by the applicant to come back. But I'm not sure I'm I'm ready for this to go to a July 1. That's only three weeks away less than three weeks. I think you all covered a lot of ground tonight. I think you're right. The previous work session were a week later than we close to the next public hearing and there's there's some substantial work that you all have asked for clarity on this evening. If I may you wanted clarity and information regarding the close of cooling system particularly as it relates to spills and contamination response and how that would be handled either within the building or on the roof. There was some clarity sought regarding the environmental noise impact study. There was some clarity about the The applicant introduced something new this evening and then taking into consideration the conditions that were drafted. And preparing elevations and renderings that reflect what is being conditioned significant clarity is required regarding the fiscal impact analysis particularly as it relates to the jobs created in the taxation, but also comparing this use to other by right industrial uses that could develop on the site presently. And those are the major points that I captured this evening and then also providing the distance to resident adjoining residential from the actual buildings as well as miss. And then also providing the distance to resident adjoining residential from the actual buildings as well as miss. I think I'll leave it up to the public to make a comment before I move on to the next item. As I noted in her remarks. Okay, very good. And you did do a public outreach meeting because I attended one of them. Is that correct? We've done several of them. We were pleased to see you at one of them. And actually we we have still others. I think we have one on Thursday in fact, but we're happy if if you're inviting us to do another work session because we have good information here and we're pleased to show it. It is interesting, though, and we have to keep reminding ourselves, we're M1. And so we are addressing, Mr. Klein said it well, to address or mitigate potential impacts coming off of M1. I think we have. I know we have. And we've got some, frankly, some very innovative ideas through Birmingham landscaping, living walls, and so on. But the ordinance that governs this site has been through the process twice, two rezonings, and that height has always been there, not inclusive of rooftop units. And so when we say mitigate impacts, we're going to have to keep that in mind. We're going to screen our rooftop units. And M1, you can have processing stuff on the roof, and you don't have to do that. So we are mitigating, and it's not a subjective thing. Objectively, we are mitigating those impacts. But we would be pleased, and Mr. Mitchell's reinforced it, if you want us to come back or would have us back, we'd be happy to come back. Because these are great questions, and I think we have even better answers. And we'll bring the mini cap and others so that you can look at it and see the measurements. And our wrap-up will be that we believe we are addressing impacts. And by any measure, what we're presenting on all levels, with the exception of the financial, we're providing something that's less and lower, quieter. Less vehicles, et cetera, than what we're approved at right now is M1. We are not an agricultural property trying to become industrial. We're a little unique in that regard, and I think it bears reciting that a few times. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lawson. You've worked with us on the rezoning of this property previously. We did. We appreciated that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. at this point, particularly on the building height, is something that's got to get resolved. Thank you. That's a big open door right now that concerns several of the folks up here. So we appreciate you and the team being here this evening and the time you've invested in this. And I would just ask you to work closely with Mr. Pearson and his team going forward. Mr. Chairman, we really appreciate your taking the time to ask us the questions, and we want to be constructive and good. citizens in this community and we heard a lot of stuff tonight and we'll sit down with staff and make sure we answer as many questions as possible that reflect your questions tonight and but we were not ready for July 1st for a public hearing understood okay mr. Pearson is there anything else we need to go over then I will adjourn our work session thank you very much for being here this evening we will look forward to seeing you perhaps next week you you
