Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-04-08
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=46
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Mr. Dillon, would you lead us in an invocation, please? I will. Laura, we just thank you for who you are. We ask that during this time of illness and disease that you really comfort and give protection to those that are ill. We ask that you give us wisdom as we go through these budget discussions and give us wisdom as we go through the next month or two of this pandemic. We ask that you protect those that need your protection, comfort those that need your comfort. And guide us all. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. As well as would you lead us in the pleasure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Terrible. . . . . I would like to add an item under 8-D for canceling the April 22nd, 20 board meeting. . . . For canceling the April 22nd board meeting. Anyone must entertain a motion or to adopt the agenda as amended. . . Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. . or one item under section 12 relative to a discussion on the date of March 11th, 2020 regarding the rezoning of Winchester Medical Center and their amended proffers. That would be 12A, and we will scratch the none. Is that correct? Yes, sir. All right. All right. Supervisor McCarthy is asking to amend a comment under 12A as well as the 8D. Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the agenda with the two amendments under 8D and 12A. The motion is there a second? A second. A second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you. That's unanimous. So we've adopted the agenda as amended. Citizen comments, agenda items that are not subject to public hearing, did anyone sign up? No, sir. Thank you. Consent agenda. How would the board like to handle the proposed consent agenda? Motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Motion to approve as presented. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. And we're unanimous. Consent agenda is adopted as presented. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Thank you. We'll move on. County officials, request from the Commissioner of Revenue, Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir. I would make a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. the request from the Commissioner of Revenue and the supplemental appropriation in the amount of $63,583 to BB&T Trust. Yes, sir. Second. Any discussion? Supervisor Dunn. I had a conversation with some various officials on this and I think we'll support this motion. I was concerned that BB&T came back and basically said that because of their mistake, they wanted to say they were charging us interest and that was used as a negotiating tool. I'm also concerned about the time frame. This initially occurred in 2012. They met the deadline in 2015, but we did not have any information from the Virginia Department of Taxation until this week. I'd like to see if the General Assembly can go and propose legislation. I would like to see legislation in the coming week to give the county the opportunity to input into the Virginia Department of Taxation before we make a final decision. For example, in this BB&T situation, they went and said that the net capital dropped. If they say that the net capital dropped, they also have to file reports with the SEC, which would affect the value of their stock. Did they do that? And in the future, if they come through and it's their numbers and they say this is what the dollars are for our net capital finance, and then they change their numbers, it's inappropriate for them to turn around and say, now you owe us money for their numbers. So I'd like to see some General Assembly changes, and I just want to make these comments so that our Commonwealth Superintendent, Ms. Thatcher, and some others are not left in a bag where they're all of a sudden given a bill for some $60,000 and they have no input. I think we should have the right to have input, and so I'll just make those comments in the legislative session. Hopefully we'll be able to get that changed along with others in the Treasurer's office and the County Attorney's office. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The place will be our agenda for next session. Thank you, sir. Any other discussion? Supervisor Graber? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Supervisor Slaughter? I'm sorry, 8B? 8B? Emergency Ordinance for Continuity of Operations. I'd like to make a motion to permit remote participation in meetings of County Boards, Commissions, and Committees. The motion is there. Second? Second. Any discussion? Anyone? So moved. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Giddens? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Supervisor Slaughter, 8C. Adoption of the fiscal year 2020 budget, adoption of fiscal year 2021 budget and appropriation and setting the 2020 tax rate. And I believe Mr. Tierney has a resolution that he would present to us. Yes. Mr. Chairman, in your agenda. You have a resolution which sets out the budget by funds in a total amount of 4 million, I'm sorry, $465,183,292. The resolution sets the budget and also appropriates the funds by those categories. It sets the property tax rates. The business and professional licensing rates. All other general taxes. Our sanitary landfill fees. Shawnee Land district taxes. Lake Holiday sanitary district taxes. Star Fort subdivision taxes and fees and street light fees for the three subdivisions where that's applicable. I would also point out that excluded from the appropriation is the Shawnee Land sanitary district taxes. That was a result of the timing when this went to public works, etc. So the board has not yet acted on that. So the appropriation of that money would happen at a future date. Public hearing on this budget was held on March 25th. You held a work session last week. This resolution reflects the board's stated and desired changes to the budget. The board has stated and desired changes to certain of these funds. Significant changes that were made as a result of that work session were the elimination of a merit cola for employees. A reduction in what the county will contribute in terms of covering the increased cost of health insurance to the employees. The elimination of architectural fees that would have been incurred with the redesign of the Sunside Plaza that the county acquired. And the elimination of an operable contingency that has traditionally existed at the county administrator's discretion. So with that, that's a fairly quick summary of the resolution that's before you and staff would look to answer any questions if you have them. Otherwise, it's there for your consideration. Thank you. Questions of Mr. Tierney? Anyone? Seeing none. How would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt fiscal year 2021 budget as presented and set the tax rates accordingly. The motion is there second. Second, Mr. Chairman. Second, Mr. Fisher. Yes. Discussion? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, in light of the fact that we are going through a pandemic, and in light of the fact that the additional $4.7 million that we're going to spend on the city, the additional $4.7 million that we think we may have, may or may not have, I want to make an amendment. The amendment would simply say that the same dollars that went to the county next year, the same dollars that go to the county this year will be the same dollars that go next year. The same dollars that go to the schools this year will go next year. And if $4.7 million, if it materializes, that will determine at a future point in time how that's utilized. My concern is that if we do not have the same dollars coming in next year that we have this year, we may actually have less dollars. And if that's the case, the news of county, you're going to have to take money out of the general public to do that. So that's our risk. But if we do that, at least it gives us a chance to see where we are. The governor has his veto session ending on Saturday. The general assembly said that they might be $2 billion short this year. The schools have been told they're going to get $3.9 million, but we don't know if that's a good number. And so I'm just likely to see if we can just say whatever we had this year, the schools get, whatever the county has this year will get. And then at a future point in time, you know, in a month, have a look at this to see if the additional dollars are available or not available, et cetera. All right. We're now talking about a proposed amendment to the current budget document. Supervisor Dunn, is there a second? I'll second that. Second by Supervisor Graver. Discussion of the amended motion. Anyone? Are we ready? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graver. I would concur with Supervisor Dunn's comments simply because we are in such uncharted territory. And I believe that we're going to have to come back and possibly cut positions or cut other things if we move forward with the spending of this $4.7 million, that we take a prudent approach, see if the funds are there. If the funds are there, I don't know of anyone who hasn't seen the need to spend some of these funds. But I also think that it is prudent that we don't go and hire folks or do other things with these monies and then they not materialize. So I believe that it is only prudent that we take this approach. See what revenues do materialize and then have open discussion amongst us at a later date. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? All right. So we're voting on the proposed amendment to the current budget document. Supervisor Graver. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Fisher. No. Chair votes no. The motion is defeated. We are back into the discussion of a motion to adopt the current budget document at that time. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman, I would just say that by putting a motion to adopt the current budget document it is a tool, it is a guide for us. We've had issues in the past in 2008 where our administration has looked at our budget and made the necessary changes. I know Mr. Tierney has sent out an email advising all of the staff that no positions would be approved until we are on firm footing and knowing where we're going. So I think that's a good thing. I think that would be a very good Pasadena for us to consider a motion to adopt if we are not meeting the needs of all of the department staff. I know there's no institutions approved and anything that people in your department leave behind. But by just knowing where we're going to be, positions approved, departments have been asked to monitor their budgets and not make any expenses that are not necessary at this point. So given the strength of that administration and they've carried us through recessions in the past. go ahead and move forward with what we have today. None of us know what tomorrow is going to show us. And I have every confidence that administration will not spend and not authorize positions unless revenues do materialize. It does allow our finance department to have a benchmark to work with. And I think it's really important that we move forward. Thank you. Further discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Graves. Thank you. In response to those comments, I appreciate the comments that are made. I do have a little bit of concern thinking long term. As I've spoken with some of the staff and others, there has been a general consensus that revenue for taxes for this first half of the year in June will likely be pretty close to what we anticipate them being because everyone has been paying into their mortgages, been able to pay their mortgage and do things. And escrow obviously should cover. The real estate side of the house. It is a large unknown the last half of the year whether those folks will be able to continue to make those mortgages or whether those escrow amounts will be able to be maintained. If you look at some national trends, some of those have said a third of mortgages and a third of rents were not paid beginning in April, just one month into this pandemic. So I think it's concerning to move forward under the assumption that the money will be there. However, I think it's a little bit of a concern. I think it's a little bit of a concern. I think it's a little bit of a concern. However, the motion has been made and I cannot support the motion as it is presently presented. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Supervisor Fischer, I believe is who I heard. I just want to reiterate that the budget is strictly a guideline and I have it from a good source that the dealings with foreclosures and mortgages in this particular crisis are totally different from what they were in 2008. That's right. That's right. As I said, the two years of the pandemic, I don't think we've been able to meet the 2008. But I have complete confidence in our administration, and that's the type of government we have in Frederick County, is we have a county administrator that administrates, and I think they will react accordingly as, you know, the revenues come in, don't come in, come in above, or whatever. I have full confidence in them. I just reaffirm Supervisor Slaughter's whole list. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Slaughter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with both what Supervisor Slaughter and Supervisor Fisher said regarding our administration. I think they're fine administrators. My only concern with this budget proposal is that we'll be appropriating the additional revenues that were anticipated coming in according to the traditional split with the school system, which means that we're going to already be... appropriating to them money that we don't know that we've collected yet. So if there is a shortfall, then the whole burden of that shortfall falls on Mr. Tierney and his staff to make up the shortfall. There's no wiggle room left from not having shared that split. So I have a real concern that if there is a shortfall, we're really limiting what wiggle room we have with additional funds that might come in. We already know that we're having reduced revenues from our occupancy and meals tax. I suspect that'll continue because we're going to be able to get the money back. I do think that there will be some reduction in the amount of real estate tax that's being collected. Our neighbors in Winchester are already anticipating that, and they're making adjustments to their budgets. Our neighbors in other counties are doing the same. So I do think it just doesn't make a whole lot of sense to sort of hem ourselves in by appropriating money that very likely may not materialize during the next fiscal year. So I will not support this. I think it's going to be a lot of work. I do not support the tax rate. I do not support the plan moving forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. For any discussion, anyone? Mr. Roswell. Last board meeting, I held back and wanted to take a look at what's going to happen to Frederick County as we move forward. After a lot of time and consideration, I think we're doing the correct thing. I should be compassionate with the construction. I think we're doing the right thing. I would just encourage that, along with Mr. Fisher and other board members, I feel comfortable that this is a guideline that we've done this before. We'll get through this again with those divisions without having to... I think the... Fund one... Fund the school system if we don't have the money. I think we'll work our way through that. We have from the past. I think we'll do it again. But it is a concern of mine that we also need to look for the future for Frederick County and keep our eye going down the road because we will recover and there will be a future for Frederick County. And all these amenities that we enjoy, we'll keep them. Our Sheriff's Department, Parks and Recreation, Public School System, Social Services, Fire, EMT, we depend on them. And I just hope that as things start to recover that we don't forget that these are folks that in the years past will keep putting off things. And I'd like to see us look ahead and say when the time is right, we need to fund these things and move ahead. So we'll get through this position, but I don't want it to be a negative position for the rest. We need to move ahead in Frederick County. So... Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the tax rate as well. My concern is that if we allocate money tonight, the schools have to go and use that money in the middle of May. They have to make their proposals in the middle of May. They have to make their proposals for teachers, et cetera. And if we don't get the revenue, then we're going to be holding the bag. If we, as the amendment to the tax rate said, we just gave them the same dollars they had before, that gives us a reserve that's not there. So when Mr. Wells made the comment that he's having faith with the administration, so do I, my concern is that if we allocate this money and the schools then rightfully so make it. If it's based upon that, if it's a shortfall, we're short of dollars. So that's my concern. Further discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graver. If I may, could I ask a question of Mr. Tierney? Only if appropriate, but go ahead. Just a question for clarification, sir. If we were to set the tax rate tonight, but not allocate the funds, would we be allowed to do that, and would that cause any inconvenience to our commissioner? I am not aware of that. We have to do that every day. That is the only response we can get. Just set the tax rate but not adopt the budget? Right. You could do that. That is an option. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Tierney. In light of that, Mr. Chairman, I would like to make an amendment to the motion that we set the tax rate, vote to set the tax rate this evening, but vote to allocate the funds at our next scheduled Board of Supervisors meeting. I heard the motion, and it's a motion to amend the existing motion. Is there a second? I'll second it for the discussion. Okay. Second. We have a second. The motion is to set the tax rate this evening and do nothing else. Discussion? Anyone? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments? Sir? One comment? Shirley? We have to have that discussion at our next meeting because the schools, from what I understand, have to make their offers in the middle of May. So if we've already ended the April 22nd meeting and the first meeting in May, we would have to do that to give the schools the opportunity to go and know what their needs are. And they would have to know what their dollar amounts are. This is the $2.8 million additional dollars that they would have to. Okay. Mm-hmm. Discussion of the proposed amended motion. Anyone? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Dutton? No. Supervisor Dutton? No. Supervisor Dutton? No. Supervisor Dutton? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Fisher? No. Chair votes no, motion fails. We are back into discussion of the motion to adopt the agenda as published. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor Fisher? Just one repetitious thing for me from previous, but we can't control how the schools spend the money we give them. But just to be on the record, we built a brand new elementary school. There's enough money that will go to the schools to open that elementary school. I have faith they wouldn't waste the investment and that they will open that elementary school. And I just want to go on the record that I certainly hope they don't put those monies into something else, that they will open that school. I can't control it, but I'm just kind of letting my opinion be known. Thank you. Good, sir. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Motion to adopt the budget as published. Supervisor Grave? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? No. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye. Any other questions? No. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. The budget is adopted. That will bring us to Chapter 89, public hearing. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir? We added the 8D for cancellation. I'm sorry. Thank you. The April 22 meeting. The staff is offering that in light of the climate we're in right now. We have no precedent business that needs to be addressed at that meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So entertain a motion to cancel the April 22 meeting? So moved. A motion and a second? I'm sorry. Second. Second. Supervisor Welz, discussion? Any one? State this meeting has been dinner with paychecks. Like to have a game? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McAuliffe? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Our 422-20 meeting is canceled. That will bring us to committee business. I don't think we have anything there. That will bring us to a public hearing, ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code, Chapter 89. Okay. Mr. Chairman, that's our Fire and Rescue Services Code. Our paid staff have worked fairly closely with volunteer companies over the last year to make some modifications to that code section, which enables us, hopefully, to continue to make progress on programs and procedures that we need to do to work jointly and cooperatively with those volunteer companies. I know that Supervisor, sorry, Chief Lindenberg, and Assistant Chief Myshak are here. If there's detailed questions on that ordinance or where it comes from, where we're hoping to go, I would look to them to try and help answer those questions. Thank you, sir. Questions of Mr. Tierney, anyone? Questions of Chief and Deputy Chief, anyone? How would the board like to handle this one? As soon as, did anyone sign up to speak? No. No public hearing? No, sir. Participants? All right, then we'll close the public hearing portion. How would the board like to handle the proposed Chapter 89 amendments? We move that we adopt the ordinance to amend Frederick County Code, Chapter 89, Fire and Rescue Services. Commission Supervisor Wells, second. Second. Second by Supervisor Dunn. Discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Discussion? Second. Second by Supervisor Grieber. Second. Second by Supervisor Graber. Second. Second by Supervisor Dunn. Second. Second by Supervisor Wells. Second. Second by Supervisor Slaughter. Second. Second by Supervisor McCarthy. Second. Second by Supervisor Fisher. Second. Second by Chair votes aye. The motion carries. I just want to thank all those involved. It took several years, but I think it's a huge step forward for us. That will bring us to CUP 019. Mr. Ruddick? Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Members of the Board of Supervisors. This is a request for Mr. Ruddick. Mr. Ruddick? Yes. This is a request for a conditional use permit to construct a commercial telecommunication facility consisting of a 150-foot high monopole facility with associated accessory structures. You will note, of course, that this is different from the 195, which was the original request. Through the planning commission process, the applicant requested to reduce the tower to 150 feet, and that was their January 15th meeting. The property is located in the Opequon District, 107 Emory Court. It's a four-acre property that is currently zoned RA. The primary use of the property is residential. The properties that are immediately adjacent to the CUP are currently zoned RA, and that is the Sharando Park. Immediately to the north of that is property that is zoned RP, residential performance, and that is the Old Dominion Green Sub-Vision. If you look at the screen to your left, you can see the property outlined in blue where the tower is proposed to be located, the park surrounding it, and the sub-vision of the sub-vision, and the sub-vision of the sub-vision. The sub-vision is the old Dominion Green Sub-Vision. It is now currently zoned RA. It has been used for the last two years, and it has been used to renovate and renovate a few houses. Park. Immediately to the north of that is property that is zoned RP, residential performance, and that is the Old Dominion Greens subdivision. If you look at the screen to your left you can see the property outlined in blue where the tower is proposed to be located, the park surrounding it, and the adjacent Old Dominion Greens neighborhood. This property is located within the UDA and Swimwater Service area, in the area that is encompassed by the Southern Frederick land use plan. That plan identifies the property as a recreational resource, with the area to the north remaining residential in character. Now of course we are familiar with the zoning ordinance requiring commercial telecommunication towers, now over 50 feet in height, to continue to require a conditional use permit. So as we do with conditional use permits, they should be evaluated to ensure that the adjoining properties, including the surrounding residential properties, land use properties, and land use properties are protected. The zoning ordinance requires the land use property to be in the area that is protected, the zoning ordinance requires the land use property to be in the area that is protected, the zoning ordinance requires the land use property to be in the area that is Nemucan, Lake and הצinnia, Seaside, Ari Zuko, Tacoma, and La� Rong Muitoarea in particular. The zoning ordinance also has additional performance standards that help guide the placement of telecommunication structures, and it also requires an applicant and making application provides confirmation that attempts have been made to evaluate locating facilities and structures in the area to see if there's a possibility for that areas of opportunities as part it also requires an applicant and making application provides confirmation that attempts have been made to evaluate locating existing facilities and structures in the area to see if there's a possibility for the areas of opportunities as part of the application In this location, the applicant provided an inventory of existing telecommunication facilities in the area and has stated that no additional, excuse me, that no other facilities available for possible colocation within this vicinity. On the screen to your left is a site plan or a general plan, if you will, that was provided by the applicant which provides a little bit more detail about the parcel, the location of the tower in relationship to its access, the adjacent properties, etc. Should the board ultimately find that this use is appropriate, then the following conditions are recommended with the Conditional Use Permit. As traditional with Conditional Use Permits, number one, that all review agency comments should be complied with at all times. Two, that the tower should be available for colocating personal wireless service providers. Three. That a minor site plan is approved by Frederick County. Four. That the tower shall be removed by the applicant within 12 months of the abandonment of operations. Five. In the event that the telecommunication tower is not erected within 12 months of the approval of the Conditional Use Permit, that the CEP will be deemed invalid. And six. That any expansion or change of use shall require a new Conditional Use Permit. And some guidance, if you will, if the Board of Supervisors chooses to move forward with this request. The Planning Commission, when they held a public hearing at their meeting on January 15th, received a number of public comments from citizens who attended. The majority were not in favor. Ultimately, the Planning Commission recommended denial of this Conditional Use Permit request, which ended with a proposed height of 150 feet. This evening, we're seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this Conditional Use Permit. Of course, we have a plan to approve it. The Board of Supervisors has provided some guidance on the public hearing. That public hearing is a little different than it has been in the past. And I will point out that indeed, a good number of citizens have taken advantage of the opportunity to be reminded of the comments. And they have been forwarded to the Board of Supervisors, available online. I believe the last count was we had 62 before 4 o'clock this evening. And of course, we were preparing for this meeting. And I know the Board has all of those comments. I know also that Mr. Williams has provided some guidance of alternative ways to move forward with this. And I know that Mr. Williams has provided some guidance on the possibility of a new Conditional Use Permit. And I think there's a lot of alternative choices, if you will, that the Board may have in dealing with this particular request, should you choose not to support it this evening. With that, Mr. Chairman, I'm available to answer any questions that the Board may have. And we're going to do this a little bit differently. The applicant, Mr. Ty Lawson, representing Tower Companies, is here. And he has a presentation, a brief presentation to make. And he'll be doing so through the adjacent office. And I will assist moving through the applicant's slides for that purpose. I'm going to ask Mr. Lawson to present the presentation. Mr. Lawson will be presenting the presentation. Mr. Lawson will be presenting the presentation. The person on the left, Mr. Lawson, will be presenting the presentation. The person on the right, Mr. Lawson, will be presenting the presentation. the applicant mr ty lawson representing tower companies is here and he has a presentation brief presentation to make and we'll be doing so through the adjacent the adjacent office and i will assist moving through the applicant's slides for that purpose thank you sir questions of mr ruddy anyone thank you thank you to lawson can you hear us in the executive session room we'll be set up here in just a minute thanks a lot that speaker phone and a webcam cool thank you now speak with the board all right can you all hear me okay sorry mr chairman can you hear me now yes thank you uh mr chairman members of the board of supervisors i'm ty lawson here on behalf of the applicant tower company i greatly appreciate the board and staff putting this together in these in these tough times as you all know the conditional use permit for this tower was filed back in november of last year uh the board and staff are putting this together in these in these tough times the reason it was filed is because there's a need to improve service in the area that is depicted on the slides that you all have seen before and and we're going to just show you a few of them here tonight the service of course is telecommunications which is a utility service required for daily life and which has become quite important recently engineering work that was done and which confirms the need for enhanced service to be introduced into every learning environment and with this stages in mind we are stepping up the technology I think a remarkable degree of importance to the development of competitive learning and we're going to wooden that on the board the next departments district lines about the importance of a United States section to sell in cable service. As the letter I sent you all and hopefully is in the packet of April the 2nd states, at the time of the conditional use permit was filed, Shentel was seeing and experiencing approximately every 18 months the amount of data demanded from its customers doubled. That demand has dramatically increased as a result of the health crisis. I appreciate and thank the significant amount of time and coordination that has occurred with county staff and the county attorney to put this hearing together and the information that has been provided to the board and the public. As we all know there are federal regulations that apply to regulations and applications as these and they mandate timely hearings and hence the hearing tonight. We have all staffed and we are all in the process of making sure that we are able to meet the needs of the public and that we are able to meet the needs of the public. I want to thank the board for their support and I hope that this meeting will be a great opportunity for us to continue to work together on the issues of health and safety and safety and the health and safety of our community. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity to meet with the board and the staff and the county administration. This board and this applicant have been working diligently to satisfy this federal mandate. The first slide Mike if you can. Mr. Chairman give me a moment. I'm looking at them in hard form. I'm hoping you're looking at a tower search overview. I'm looking at the numbers. I think I'm looking at the numbers. I think I'm looking at the numbers. I think it's the number. I think it's the number. I think it's the number. I think it's the number. Yes. Now. Here we are. Excellent. Prior to this application there were two other sites that were tried through the public conditional use permit process to install towers and serve the region that's in need of enhancements. In a later slide I'll show you a yellow circled area that we're trying to provide service to, better service to. Those two sites were the Bowman Library which was a Chantel effort. And the site next to Bass Hoover Elementary which was an application filed by Vertical Bridge for Verizon. Both of these sites and the site that is currently before the board are designed as co-location opportunities. That is to say that although the sponsor and immediate tenant is one carrier, the tower is designed so it can also hold other users. And it is believed that if this tower is allowed to be installed other providers will take advantage of the opportunity and co-locate on the tower and provide service to this region. Issues arose with the other two sites, Bowman Library and Bass Hoover. And the result, the conditional use permits were not ever approved for those sites. As a result of that and other searching, we are not aware of any other viable sites for the installation of a tower to serve this region other than the site that is currently before you. And of course, the demand remains. And in fact, the demand that we were experiencing when we filed has actually gone up. The next slide hopefully says proposed new tower. Yes. Thank you. The site that is proposed is represented on this slide. It's on Land Grant Lane LLC property which is private property and located south of the Old Dominion Greenhouse. And it's on the right-hand side of the tower. This is the existing Greenhouse subdivision north of a portion of existing Sharando Park. And of course, the portion which lies north of Fairfax Pike. It's actually surrounded by land that is owned by the park but has not yet been developed. The next slide, Mike. This shows the construction of the tower. It's monopole. And it also shows the opportunities for co-location. which is certainly a requirement of the ordinance and something that we want to comply with. We've had meetings and communications with our neighbors. Actually, we had a very well-attended meeting at the Bowman Library. Supervisor Wells was present, and one of the planning commissioners, Roger Thomas, was there as well. The original proposal was for a 195-foot tower, but after receiving comments and conducting additional engineering, we're able to reduce the height by 45 feet to what's before you and what's being requested, which is a 150-foot tower. The next slide, Mike, is an aerial of the Land-Grant Lane LLC site. Note that property is surrounded. It's surrounded by board privacy fencing and a significant amount of mature vegetation, and that internal to the property, there's still additional areas that are fenced in with board privacy fencing to serve as screening. I have to point out, the photograph on this slide does not accurately depict the site in its current condition. As part of the CUP application process, and actually before November, it took us a little bit of time to get the site in place. It took a couple of months, but working with the county and the property owner, the vehicles and other things that you see and outside storage that was not allowed per ordinance was actually removed from the property. It was a condition of the filing of this application. And in fact, as I said, the application was delayed several months until this occurred. The current aerial of the property would show that, if there is any storage there, it's all in compliance with Frederick County ordinances and stored behind privacy fencing that is internal to the site. Also, we depict on this slide additional trees as a part of the conditional use permit. And in response to neighbor comments, we've agreed to plant additional trees on a portion of the park property, which is outside the perimeter of the property. And we've also agreed to install a new privacy fence to fill in areas where vegetation does not currently exist or is thin. Again, the idea is to screen the private property, the land-grant LLC property, and improve the viewshed from what currently exists. The next slide is ground level. And this is actually a view of the property as you're driving into it. You can see on the right, the privacy board fence. And it actually runs the length of the whole front of the property, which would be viewed from the Old Dominion green subdivision as they look south. Also, you see the existing trees are quite mature and evergreen, many of them. There's some deciduous on the right. And that runs in various places along the fence line. And again, we're proposing to add a little bit more to that so that there is additional screening and the viewshed is broken up a bit. The next slide, thank you, is the yellow circle that I talked about before. That is the area. And you'll know that within the circle, you'll see some streets and no homes. It's hard to keep up, but this whole area is building out quite rapidly. And as you drive down those streets, you'll see additional homes that have come in. But this is an area that we're trying to desperately to provide coverage for. Shentel throughout its network and Frederick County is no different, has experienced additional demand. What is depicted here, is the area that we're trying to provide coverage for. And what it shows is the area and what you're going to see in the yellow circle and the communities located within it. There's only service outdoors and not inside the residences. With this tower, we'll be able to enhance that service. That's the next slide. Red is bad. And the red areas are, and again, these slides are somewhat dated. These are, again, the red areas are the areas that are most affected by the flood. And the red areas are back before we filed. So prior to November of 2019, what we're experiencing is there is no indoor coverage in the areas that are red. There is in the grain. And so what we're again trying to do with this tower is, is improve service within the yellow circle. The next slide. And the green is good. If the tower is built, what this is going to do is greatly enhance service within the yellow circle and provide, as you can see in the area shaded in green, indoor coverage. There still will be some areas of outdoor coverage, but I'm sure you can appreciate the significant difference and improvement if this is approved. We have received, and there were, there was a mention, by Mr. Ruddy of the comments that have been submitted from the residents online. Although we detected there was a cutoff and I'll speak at the end. Someone was kind enough to send me a copy of a comment and a screen save, confirming that they had downloaded it to the county website, but it didn't show when I had left my office to come to this meeting. So I'll bring your attention to that. Thank you. Thank you. I think that's a great point and I think it's worth mentioning. I think it's a great point, and I think it's a great way to bring attention to it. But numerous comments, they all seem to fall into general categories, and I'd like to address them also. I note that some individuals have commented more than once. The first is the application is taking advantage of the current health crisis to move forward and prevent public comment. Well, the way, we've noted, many comments have been delivered, so that, that seems to be working. Although, again, it looks like there was a bit of a cutoff in order to deliver them to you. This CUP application was filed in November of 2019. We've been working diligently with Frederick County to satisfy the federal requirements for a timely hearing. Additionally, the current health condition has created an even stronger demand of the cell service, which creates more of a need and urgency for the approval of this tower. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you very much, Dr. Hays. Thank you, Mr. Dixon. I think we now have some questions. Another common comment amongst those that have been submitted is there seems to be some confusion about the height of the tower. It was initially filed as 195 feet. We heard people's comments about, can't you do something to lower it. We did. After going through the engineering, what is before you is a request that by several is that another site or location that is more rural ought to be found and used for the installation of the tower. And then coupled with that is a tower was rejected for Bowman Library and Bass Hoover sites. Why should it be allowed here? This is to confirm that efforts have indeed been made to find other sites without success. If you scroll back at your leisure, a couple of those slides, you'll see the circle and the area in which we're trying to serve. It's densely populated with commercial and residential, and there just are not sites available. Land-grant lane LLC property is quite unique because it's privately owned, does not have any restrictions on it that would prevent the installation of a tower. It is rural, and it is in proximity and able to serve the region that currently needs to be built. And so we have to consider those needs and enhancements to its service. Also, it's important to keep in mind, as we have stated in our letter of April the 2nd, that the only other alternative in terms of finding sites that our engineers have been able to find is to go and resort to the 50-foot towers that are allowed by right to be installed in the right-of-way. Engineers have determined, assuming those 50-foot towers can be fairly evenly disposed of, that the site is not going to be used for the installation of a tower. So, we're going to have to consider those needs and enhancements to its service. It would require approximately 16 towers, 50-foot towers, in the residential and commercial right-of-ways within the yellow circle region to equate what this one tower would be able to serve. Another comment, and quite a few have made this, tower will negatively impact residents' views as well as those enjoying the park. Land-grant lane property is on private property. It's not on the park. And therefore, it should not interfere in any way with the use of the park when the park property that is immediately adjacent to land-grant lane is developed as a park. The area currently, it's owned by the park, the property around it, the land-grant lane site, it is undeveloped and it's in a natural state. There were actually some comments about that and that it was not especially well kept up. But again, we're going to have to look at that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I also point out that especially in the evenings, and I'm going back in time when we were allowed to go out and enjoy things, if you were to drive through Old Dominion Greens and you look to the south in the direction of land-grant lane, what you would see on the horizon are the lights for the softball fields, which are in the park. They're on the property just north of Fairfax Pike. And again, those lights are in the park. They're on the property just north of Fairfax Pike. are above the tree line quite visible from your car. I would feel certain that they'd be visible from the houses. I have been informed that there will not be a requirement to install a light on this 150-foot cell tower, so visually what the residents from Old Dominion's greens would see when they look to the south would be what they are seeing now. Another comment is property values will decline. We've attached information, learned articles that say just the opposite. And, again, in these trying times, properties, I think it's common sense, properties that do not have quality cell service and Internet connectivity are disadvantaged and devalued. And then next, there are a few comments about health concerns, risk of exposure. One suggested that cell towers may somehow enhance the coronavirus. The Telecommunications Act has determined that if a structure complies with FCC requirements, it's dispositive that there are no adverse environmental or health effects. Any user of this tower would be and is subject to these federal regulations and must comply. And we are certainly agreeable as a condition to this. We are certainly in agreement with the FDA and the FDA's decision to introduce a policy that would ensure that there is no risk of exposure to this. And we are certainly in agreement with the FDA's decision to introduce a policy that would ensure that there is no risk of exposure to this. Finally, there are comments that some folks have another carrier and they don't have any issues with this service. Fact of the matter is that the data demand load is increasing exponentially, that all providers need to enhance their service and their ability to serve their customers. And so, I think it's important that we have a consensus that this is going to be a very important step forward in our action. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to note that one of the prior applications was one that was advanced on behalf of another carrier and they have not installed another tower. So that need is still apparent. This tower needs to be installed in order to maintain and continue such quality service. And, finally, we do appreciate all the comments that were made. I do note that Mr. Williams sent a copy of a positive comment on the e-mail that he sent the other day and said that we are asking you to move forward positive comment to me just prior to me leaving the office, and it should be on those website, and we appreciate. I've received other emails from folks in support recognizing that there's a great need for this essential utility service that is, and is more importantly, a requirement of daily life. Appreciate again the opportunity to appear and present, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lawson, in light of some of the comments that I have received in regard to this tower, some of the concern was, is while they were able to present their thoughts in writing, they felt it would be most appropriate to delay this for 30 or 60 days so folks could come. And make comments and have interaction. Is the applicant willing to delay a forwarding of this as far as a vote up or down by 30 or 60 days? Although the need for this tower is pressing and urgent, I do understand the point, and certainly this is awkward. And we do have authority if that would help and alleviate that concern to table to a public hearing with the hope, and I know we all share this hope, a soon hearing or a quick hearing where we can all get together so that we can go forward with this tower. So just so that I'm clear, that is an affirmative. The applicant would be willing to do that? It is. It is. Thank you. Questions for Mr. Lawson. Anyone? Lawson, Supervisor Wells. Weren't you offered that opportunity prior to this evening and said, no, we're not interested in that? We had talked. Did that change? I've been asked this question. I've been asked this question recently in advance of this hearing. Prior to this, we were asked about scheduling and Mr. Wells, we're all in such a state of flux. We don't know when this will be. Each day hopefully we learn more information and get a little more optimistic that we can get together again. But yeah, previously, gosh. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is going back to probably certainly several weeks and maybe even longer than that ago. With with no understanding of when there may be a hearing. And what Mr. Graber, I heard him just say was 30 to 60 days. But with with no known date, we were pressing under the federal. uh requirements for a hearing the reason i was asking that was i i honestly don't believe that it will be within 30 to 60 days it doesn't look like that's going to be happening in our world right away that's just my personal opinion so i just wanted to bring that out but again like i say one of the things i made special trips into the administrative building to find out one of my questions uh was just in fact uh has the client chantal been contacted about um being willing to to table this and the uh i was told that they had been offered that and that they said no they they wanted to proceed so i'm ready to proceed thank you other questions of mr lawson anyone supervisor dine mr lawson this is blaine dunn you made a comment about increasing the number of people who are in the building and the number of people who are not in the building and the number of people who are not in the building and the number of people who are not in the building coverage for the areas and we've seen dozens of emails coming back and i've asked and called people in that area they all seem to indicate that they are satisfied with their coverage including people from verizon chantal sorry sprint and at t so can you elaborate on the reason that you're making the comment that there is less coverage when existing people seem to indicate that they have adequate coverage number one we we are required as a as a regular regulated utility to provide a certain quality of service and our engineering determined and this is going back mr dunn to last year and as the charts reflect that there are many areas within the yellow circuit uh circle where there is cell coverage and there's a number of areas where there's a cell coverage where there's a coverage, but it's only outside the home. It is not inside the home. And as a result of that, and this actually dates back quite some time when there was an effort to install a tower under a conditional use permit at the Bowman Library. This condition was known. It was progressing. The demand, as I pointed out, is doubling from existing users every 18 months, and that's a pretty steady pattern. I've been advised by the engineers. But the need is there, and we are charged with keeping up with that and satisfying that. And we don't have, I don't have tonight an engineer to put in front of you, but the demand, has increased even more as a result of what we've experienced as a result of this health crisis. Thank you. Further questions of Mr. Lawson? Anyone? Thank you, Mr. Lawson. Thank you all. Public hearing. Anyone who would care to speak to this issue? Yes, sir. I will note that you did receive previously about 61 comments in writing of folks who had wanted to be here. We do have two that are signed up. The first gentleman is Mr. Lawson. He's the director of the Center for Public Health and Health Services. The second gentleman who would like to speak this evening is Kevin Seapley. Thank you. Kevin Seapley. I'm sorry. Yes. Welcome, sir. Thank you. Thank you. I'm getting my glasses on here. All right. Everybody hear me? Yes, sir. All right. Good evening, and thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Kevin Seapley, and I live at 105 Emory Court. That is the house directly in front of the proposed cell tower. I sent in a PowerPoint presentation to all of you. I don't know if everybody had a chance to see it. The reason why I did that is because I've heard Chantel's presentation. I've heard her presentation. I've heard her presentation. I've heard her presentation today a third time now. And their pictures aren't as clear as what I put. They've taken pictures from outside the neighborhood, and all my pictures show from my house, inside my house, around my house. Now, I'm not, they're not professional. I just had my camera and Microsoft Paint, but they were just to give you an understanding of what I'm going to see every day. You've seen the pictures, so I'm not going to rely on those. I'm going to go with other points. So, it's going to be an eyesore. Everybody knows that. It's this big monstrosity. It's going to be not even one football field away from my house. I have two little girls, a wife. We don't have a deck on the back of the house yet, but when I do, that's what I'm going to look at day in and day out. When I play with the girls, it's going to be there. One只 Real Boom Music. But we're going to be there probably time for cornerbacks and when it's not going out. And that's been one of the main reasons that I'm so excited about with this video and my guests are going to hate it if they find out the video isn't good and all of this stuff. They're going to hate it. That's who you are going to be seeing them on street as soon as they interested in that. So, I'm going to go out and head over to my first собирative outlet, which has a pretty good sophisticated idea. I think it's fun and creative. We're heading down there and I'm moving up and down over there and driving 25 miles at times into our ac perm. This is going to be the town, 26 miles to downtown Franklin posted earlier. But when you're going to see 110 miles of street It's going to be green. But what they're telling you is their network. They're not showing AT&T. They're not showing Verizon and other carriers. That is how poor their network is. And the inside, the outside of the house, I don't understand because if everybody had cell phones, I'd be seeing them out in my neighborhood standing outside talking. They're inside their houses talking on their cell phones. So I don't understand that point that he made. We paid for a premium lot to back up to the park with trees and an open view of the mountains and so on and so forth. But with this big structure, it's going to obstruct that view. Yes, the lights are from the softball fields we see, but they're in a distance. They're not so close to the house. We bought a house on a court so my girls can play. Not so much traffic. In previous meetings, Chantel said that there will only be one. One extra truck a month. So that's 12 trucks. What they're not telling you is if there's four carriers leasing that, that's times by four. So now there's 48. Let's round it up and say 50 trucks now. So that's more traffic throughout the neighborhood, not including the landscaping business that's going on back and forth. And my last comment would be that the property owner, he rents that. So he doesn't see this every day. He rents it, he goes to and from business, and he leaves. Whereas I'm going to see that every day. So I leave that up to you guys on your vote there, but I really appreciate taking the time and listening to hear me out. Thank you very much. We appreciate your comments. Thank you. Anyone else? Court Maddox. Welcome, Mr. Maddox. Thank you for having me and thank you for being here. I believe I'm on a timer, so I'm going to try to keep this short. I submitted my comments, one of the 62, which all were against. I wanted to make a couple of additional comments. You know, for one, I know that Mr. Lawson has referenced the fact that there will be more coverage, and especially now during this time of the pandemic. To me, it's quite frustrating in the fact that the infrastructure is already there. We already have internet via cable and Fios. So this tower isn't going to add any additional resources for any of the neighboring communities. So to utilize the pandemic for that, it's completely unacceptable. But I also wanted to point out the fact that the last time this was proposed, which was over by Bowman Library, Supervisor DeHaven made the motion, to decline it based on the fact that it was surrounded by RP, residential performing property. If you look at their original slide that was where the proposed or where the previously proposed towers were, you'll notice that there is far less space between that proposed or those proposed towers as there is to Old Dominion Greens with this proposed tower. So there are other green spaces that could be utilized. I'm not sure if you can see the green space. Whether it be way back behind Wakeland Manor subdivision or up White Oak Road. But there are other spaces. But I think that I'll allow the other community members to speak for themselves in the fact that you had 62 just in that one forum. And I believe that a lot of other ones may have emailed you all individually. So for that, we apologize for flooding your inbox. We know that you have a lot of emails coming in about the pandemic. And this isn't necessarily something that we wanted to address with you now. But since Chantelle is broken, we're going to be able to get you to the next one. But if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me. I'm going to be happy to answer them. And I think we're going to get to the next one. So if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me. And I hope that we've been able to get to the next one. And I think that we've been able to get to the next one. So thank you for all the support that you've given us. And we're very grateful for your time and your support for this. Thank you for all the support that you've given us. And we're happy to oblige and be here and support against this tower. Thank you. Thank you, sir. If I could, I did not make that motion. I believe that Supervisor Wells did. So the Bowman Library, that would have been Supervisor Fischer. That would have been Fischer, yes. That was me, yes. I did vote to approve the motion to the number. Thanks again for sharing your comments. Thank you. Is there anyone else? No, sir. All right. So we'll close the public hearing portion. I believe this is Opeca. And I'm going to ask the motion to be approved. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've worked diligently on this with the residents that live there and other residents in the Opecan District. I go back just a short period of time ago when this came before our Planning Commission and was voted 11-1 against the request. The only change has been the height of the tower. The other conditions that Mr. Lawson was talking about where the height of the tower was more than the height of the tower. But that's probably a long story, isn't it? That's probably a long story. I think it's a really good point, and I think it's a great point, but I think it's an important point. I think it's a really good point. That's one of the reasons that I think it's a really good point. I think it's a good point. I think it's a really good point. I think it's a really good point. And I think that if we have a better design that we can put it on the site and improve performance for the residents, it really doesn't have an effect on those particular areas on that side of 81. And even in discussions way back when, Shentel even said one of our main concerns and one of our main target areas, and this is the perfect spot for it to be, is accessibility for Shentel users up and down the 81 corridor. up and down the 81 corridor and I think that still probably is part and part and most of the reason for placement of the tower where it is. As you know it's been said you've got 60 some emails and majority of those are certainly negative and those folks could not be here tonight but they've been calling me they've been meeting with me as best they could throughout this situation so based on on that I would move to deny the conditional use permit number 08-19 to construct a commercial telecommunications facility consisting of a hundred and fifty foot monopole telecommunications facility and accessory structure located at 107 Emory Court as identified with property identification number 75-A-118. Thank you. Motion to deny is there a second? Second Mr. Chairman. And a second. Discussion is there any? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber. I would concur with the thought process that this is probably not the correct location to put this tower however the applicant has applied at two other locations which were likely much better suited for the tower one being the Bowman Library. I've been told by many folks in the in my district and other districts it's very clear we know what the board doesn't want. But it's becoming increasingly difficult to know what the board does want being. We know what the board despite them. The board says they want which is increased broadband capability and other things as far as Internet access and improved services but there was a study done I believe it was in 2013 a broadband study that has kind of been shelved. So. I think that if we're going to continue to deny companies the ability to put up a tower to enhance the networks here in the county, that we need to at least go back and look at the broadband study and set up a work group or a committee to work at implementing some ways to increase coverage in our county. So I'm a little disappointed in what I'm seeing. I had well over 300 folks reach out to me, call me, e-mail me when we were putting the towers up and saying the 100-foot tower conversation back on February the 11th. And I had a lot of folks say we want towers, but it is starting to become apparent that folks say we want towers, but just not in my backyard, and that's concerning to me. So I think that the way that we get around some of this is to look at that broadband study, get a work group together, and move forward on a way that can work for everyone. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Further discussion of the motion? Mr. Chairman? Supervisor McCarty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you know, I'm a proponent of providing excellent telecommunications coverage to our citizens, and I've heard the argument made that this U.P. request is somehow akin to the request that the citizens of Gainesboro and Back Creek make desiring Internet access in our rural areas. But I would point out that there's a major difference between the two. The towers requested by the citizens in Gainesboro and Back Creek are just that, towers requested by the citizens. In this case, I haven't seen any comments from citizens stating that they have no cell coverage or that they need this tower in order to improve their cell coverage. I spoke with Mr. Lawson yesterday and brought this to his attention and told him the fact was that I hadn't seen any citizens yet come forward stating that they needed this tower. I've seen a couple residents of the county state that the tower should be built, but none of them stated that they are current customers needing better service or citizens without service. So while I'm in favor of allowing towers to provide services that may be desired or needed, I'm not inclined to vote in favor of the C.P. So I'll support Supervisor Wells' motion. I also concur with Supervisor Graber that we need to do a better job on the planning side to identify solutions to the telecommunications desert that we have in our county. There's far too many people without access to telecommunications. It's just in this case, I think there's plenty of people within the yellow circle who have access. Just maybe their access is through different providers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Motion to deny. Supervisor Fisher. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, Mr. Wade. This motion requires a federal and state law, a written statement of the board's reasons for denial. The board has received later this afternoon and has, I think, has it today as copies of that. Statement of denial. So I would ask that the record's clear that the motion to deny is a motion to adopt that statement of denial. As well, if you haven't heard this evening's presentation and public hearing comments, I would note three possible changes to that. One is the addition of the PowerPoint. The PowerPoint presentation from Mr. Sibley is one of the attachments to it that incorporates that as part of the record. Also, there's a paragraph in the document that has two blanks in it because we did not know who was coming tonight. It's on the fourth page in the middle. It says, whereas, and I'll read it with the numbers filled in. Whereas, at the Board of Supervisors public hearing on the application, two citizens spoke against the proposed commercial. Telecommunications facility and none spoke in favor of the proposed commercial telecommunications facility. And then also one of tonight is complete record that other suitable location in the search area or other other locations within the search area would be appropriate. And we can add according language to it to include that provision. And. If that is acceptable to the board as the motion, I seek that. I'm going to check. Supervisor Wells made the motion. I have seen the motion. Accept the amendment. That would be acceptable. The resolution. Second. Second. Second concurs. Is there any further discussion? The resolution is in front of you with the amendments that Mr. Williams just spoke of. Ready. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Sir. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Gray. Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. It is unanimous to deny. And adopt the motion. And adopt the resolution as a. Thank you very much. Bring us to 12A on the planning commission business. I believe that was you, Mr. McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On March 11th, 2020, our board voted to deny the rezoning number 06-19 Winchester Medical Center's revised proffers as one of the standards for the planning commission. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the board is in the majority to deny the revised proffers. I would like to make a motion to rescind our vote on that matter and bring it back before our board to reconsider. I have spoken with board members of Winchester Medical Center that have indicated they are willing to revise the proffers further to include the specific language originally written on the development plans as well as include language in the written proffers regarding access being granted to the neighbors to Botanical Drive. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right, sir. As you've heard the motion, is there a second? I will second that, Chairman. Second. Second. Is there a discussion? Supervisor Dunn. Supervisor McCarthy, in the items that you said, what I heard you say was that they would write in the proffer as well as to confirm what was in the 2004 plan. Is that correct? That is correct. That is correct. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any discussion? I have to comment here. I think that this is the wrong thing to do. If they want to offer something new and different, let's see it before we approve a motion to rescind, just my view. Further discussion, anyone? I didn't. Mr. Chairman? No. I didn't. Mr. Chairman, I didn't make any comments on that, but I certainly felt the same way that you did. I really appreciate what Mr. McCarthy, Supervisor McCarthy, has done to get that, and I don't think it would be a big deal to get that in writing and bring it to the board. And that would make it official, as far as I'm concerned, and I'd be a lot more comfortable with that. Comments? Supervisor Dunn? Mr. McCarthy. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question. If you want to consider to withdraw that motion, here is why. The question becomes that if there is a change and it is significant, keyword significant, under normal procedures it would go to Mr. Ruddy. If Mr. Ruddy then said this is significant, and I personally think that it is, because it brings it back into the key words in my view, in what was laid out in 2004, then Mr. Ruddy can bring that to the board. to the board and say, this is what has been changed. Here's why it's significant. Go from there. So as a venue, that's something we can still think through. That was the thought process behind what I was saying. I wouldn't be opposed, Mr. Dunn, to postponing a vote on this matter until we get something in writing from Winchester Medical Center. I do want to be on the record, though, saying that I think we're making a step in the right direction. Talking directly with some of their board members versus with their attorney seems to have borne some fruit. So I do want to be on the record saying that we're willing to work with them to encourage them to continue down this road. But I do think ultimately them being able to develop their property and their neighbors being able to develop their property in concert is a good thing for the county overall economically. Okay. So I would be on the record saying that we're willing to work with them to continue down this road. I would be willing to vote in favor of a motion that would be made to postpone a vote on the rescinding until we see the actual writing. Mr. Chair? Mr. Williams, that doesn't sound like we can make that decision. Mr. Chair? Yes, Supervisor Fischer. I just seem to deal with this thing. It's been a little bit confusing. I've been a little bit involved. I've been a little bit involved with Supervisor McCarthy on this. This is the exact statement that was on the last development plan, which is part of the proper. They're willing to put that on the proper statement, the exact wording. I think it's just kind of cut and dried. I will take Valley Health at their word that they will do it. I've seen the modified drawing, which was the original drawing. I think we ought to move on with this and be done with it and get them back in here. And move forward. I would support Mr. McCarthy's motion. Mr. Chairman? Mr. Williams? Just for clarity so that the board is with clear direction here. If the motion is approved, it's a motion to rescind the previous denial. It does not, in fact, then grant the requested proper tradition. The board would still have to do that and presumably would want to do that at a future meeting date as at least one of the board members has suggested to have staff review it. So I want to make sure the board is clear on that understanding of if the motion is granted, what happens, that they're not actually, the board's not actually approving the change tonight. It's just taking a step back and bringing it back to where it was on March 11th and no more. Yes. And are there any time constraints on that motion? It really should be done sooner than later. At some point, the period, typically the period within which a party can appeal a denial decision, a decision on a land use matter is 30 days. That 30 days is, in fact, up. It's up to the board to decide whether or not they want to appeal a denial decision. And the board has said that it would be best if the board could appeal a denial decision on this Friday. Now, I will say this. In light of the current pandemic, the Supreme Court of Virginia has entered now two orders that essentially extend all deadlines. So it may well be that that time has been, is extended further. But if the board is so inclined to consider this matter further, it probably would be best if the board got it back on its agenda. And that's what we're going to be doing. And as well, we'll remember that earlier this meeting, the board canceled its April 22nd meeting. And with everything that's going on in the world, you know, we don't really know for sure, absolutely, when we're next going to be here. So that at which time then Mr. McCarthy's motion to rescind, the actual motion to rescind, would be able to be heard. Well, that changes things for me. We need to go back to the March point. Yes. Thank you. I'm okay with that. I don't think we should play with an ill-defined deadline or cutoff, not being able to predict it. All right. Further discussion, the motion in the second is to rescind. Supervisor Dunn. So, Mr. Williams. My question. My question. Okay, Mr. Williams. All right. Sorry. Okay, fine. We're good. My question to you is that if we vote to rescind, and then the applicant comes back, and if the applicant then, we have then what was presented in March, and Ms. McCarthy has said that there was new language that was going to be there. Therefore, if we had to vote again after that rescission, we would then have, we would be voting on new language that would be presented to us beforehand in writing that would be binding to all parties if we accept it. Is that correct? That is correct. That is correct. Again, this would basically just be a reset to where the Board was on March 11, except that, presumably, the applicant is bringing something somewhat different than it did when it was last, before the Board, on March 11. So, therefore we would be voting on a different proffer that's being offered by the applicant? Potentially. Potentially. Potentially. It depends on what they give us. That was great. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a question for our attorney as well. It is my understanding of Robert's rules that when someone is entering a rescission, like to rescind this and enter into the minutes, that it does not need a board vote. It simply needs a second to be carried to the next regularly scheduled meeting. And since we canceled the second meeting for April, it is my understanding of Robert's rules that this would then automatically be put upon the next meeting, which would be in May. And my question then lies, once we get that answered, does that give staff enough time and where do we stand? And then lastly, is this not a continuation of the wording that was already there? It was simply whether they were going to honor the wording that was in place. So I don't see it being a major revision to what is being considered here. It was on the original documents. There was no consideration or discussion given whether they would or would not honor it. And that's, in my opinion, ultimately what killed it. Therefore, it's just an affirmation that they would honor what was on the 2004-2008 documents. I think that in terms of the procedure, I will say at the outset that Robert's rules of order does not neatly cover the concept of rescission. But as best as I have been able to piece it together and figure it out, a motion to rescind is still a motion. It's not a motion that requires an action. It's that there's two distinctions there, is that if the motion is without previous notice to the body, then the motion would require either a two-thirds vote of the body or a majority of the full membership of the body. And from having read up on it, it seems that what Roberts is saying is it has that. There's an extra clause in there to ensure the rights of a potentially absent member. At the meeting tonight, we have the full body here. So in essence, all members' rights are protected. So the motion, I believe the motion is properly in order and that for it to carry with all members present, it would require four votes. And I know the issues have been, not entirely clear, but as best as I've read through it, that's the way I'm seeing it. And on your second question, I think that depends on what the applicant were to give us. If I understand what's happening here is what they're saying that they would do is both restore the language that was on the attached generalized development plan and make a change to the proffer text itself. But again, I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. I've heard that. It is the procedure we've been following for some time. If it helps. Further discussion, anyone? The motion is to rescind. Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye. The motion is unanimously passed. We rescind that action. All right. Brings us to where liaison reports are there in? Hearing none. Board of Supervisors comments. You all would permit me the privilege I had a comment on the last meeting. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. All right. Board of화� stock symbol, please. So this looks like a couple . . . one is that we wanted to recognize the National Telecommunications Week, which we have discussed before. February 16th, 1968 was a monumentous day for public safety. It marked the first time a 911 call was ever made. In the five decades since, emergency communication centers and their dedicated teams of telecommunicators have become the first touchpoint for emergency response. Telecommunicators are the first voice that we hear when we call for help and are life-saving heroes. Next week marks National Public Safety Telecommunications Week. It honors and acknowledges those people who dedicate their lives to answering our calls on what may be our toughest day. We recognize and acknowledge the work that they do every day to protect our community. They provide critical assistance during a person's worst moments, providing the calm reassurance they need to handle any situation. Their dedication is immeasurable, their commitment unwavering, and we thank them. Following on that one, I would just like to share with you the way our staff has responded to all the issues that we are now dealing with. Our staff has gone above and beyond. Every day, anything that could reasonably be expected of them, they have performed outstandingly and continue to. We would ask that particularly that you continue to remember those frontline folks who are the first responders and the medical personnel that are rendering care. We'd ask you to remember them, thank them when you have the opportunity. And please remember them. Please remember them in your prayers. And I appreciate the privilege. Other Supervisors' comments? Anyone? Supervisor Dunn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to reiterate a couple of comments. One is on fire and rescue. I've had discussions with more than one volunteer fire and rescue team in the last pandemic. For example, the bingo operations at Round Hill is costing Round Hill $4,000. That's significant. It's also costing $10,000 for the golf tournament. I know that in Greenwood, the pancake day has been canceled. That's a fundraising effort. So for those in this community, recognize that their ability to raise money has been severely diminished and writing them a check would be helpful. The second item is this issue on towers. As Mr. Gravers said earlier, the issue is that the fire and rescue team is not doing their job. We're going to have to do a tower system for our personnel. In the next 24 to 36 months, we're meant to go and redo a 911 next generation tower system for our personnel. The thought process to see if we can go and co-locate one of those towers is meant to be only 8 to 12. The internet and cell service are required for this county. The towers are meant to go and have about 95% coverage. We're going to have to do a tower system. We're going to have to have coverage in the county. If those towers can go and provide that same service for everybody else in the county, then we're going to have to have these small, fixed-foot towers to connect the remaining 5%. In a conversation I had with Mr. Linderberg, he said that the current situation has been designing for 911, not for co-location. So as chairman, I'll leave it up to you, but if you can go and try to put those two together, perhaps that's a way to address the broader issue of coverage in the county. We're going to have to have a lot of There are quite a few issues that we have to address in that consideration. I'm not opposed to it, but the RFP does not address it. The towers have to be designed for the loads that they're carrying and other technical issues. So I'm not opposed to that thought process. But we have an RFP on the street. I don't know if you can get that. We have an RFP on the street. We need to evaluate it when it comes back in and move from there. If we can do something together, why don't you open that? I'm going to pay for it. It's the other side of the question. I was just proposing something, and the questions are good. The questions are good. That's why we can address this. It is. I agree. Mr. Grayberg said put it out there, and we can talk it through. I am supportive of that discussion. Thank you. Thank you. Others? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Grayberg. I think Mr. McCarthy buzzed in first, and I'll let him if that's okay. It's fine with me. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In light of the fact that our next meeting has been canceled for April, normally I would be at this time of the year encouraging everyone to go out and celebrate Apple Blossom, which is probably the pinnacle of our community pride each year. Unfortunately, with the pandemic, it's affected just about everything, including the Apple Blossom Festival this year. Most of the festival is closed. Most of the festival has been canceled. Courses of it hopefully will still occur later in the year, but that doesn't mean that we can't still take pride in our community and celebrate Apple Blossom while social distancing. So I would just encourage all those folks in the area that have their pink and green to hang it out that first weekend in May and show some solidarity and find a good reason to get outside and enjoy the beautiful weather and maybe drive through some apple orchards, but keep your distance until the governor says otherwise. But I just want to encourage everyone to remember who we are as a community and what we're doing. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I'd like to follow up a little bit on what Supervisor Dunn stated regarding the towers. I believe that we are at a very unique point in our county regarding our towers. I agree with Mr. Dunn that we should look at the co-location factors, the costs affiliated with such, and any additional revenue that we might receive by leasing out tower space, because I believe it may be costs that we might have to pay for. But I think that we have to look at the cost of the tower space and the cost of the cost of the tower space. And I think that we have to look at the cost of the tower space and the cost of the tower space. I believe it may be cost beneficial to the residents and also be of benefit to our citizens in having additional internet or other access that they presently have. In addition, by doing so, as Supervisor Dunn has indicated, you may significantly reduce your number of towers and the amount of time that staff dedicates to the CUP process or simply permitting processes for towers. That was my first point. Second point is this. I want to thank my neighbors and other folks who have been involved in this. I want to thank the city of New York for the support that they've given us. I want to thank the city of New York for the support that they've given us. I want to thank the city of New York for the support that they've given us. I know that we have to continue to work together during this time of trial. I know of many who have given to food banks as have I. I know of others who have given to the fire departments and other things due to their fundraising efforts being hampered. I have greatly appreciated the togetherness, even though we've had to be quarantined, our togetherness as a community. And I would encourage folks who have some additional funds or resources and have the ability to give to food banks or give to our fire departments or those on the first line to continue to do so. And I thank you for the kind words and the efforts that you've made in this process. Thank you. And I want to thank the board of trustees for their support and their support for this project. And I want to thank the board of trustees for their support and their efforts that I've seen, at least in my district and my community, put forward to this effort. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Anyone else? Comments? I would just thank you all for your participation. I ask you to continue looking after each other. Vice Chairman Wells. Chairman, I would move that we adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Is there a second? Second. We'll stand and adjourn. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So motion approved. And second. Second. The motion Mainly to be agreed to. Second. I would please Jones-Mround signify him well. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
