Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-09-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=365
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Are we expecting a long line? Unless we have to extend it. The bill. My words don't make a lot of sense. My words don't make a lot of sense. 26 inches. I can see a lot of scuttlebutt on Facebook. Here, here. 26 feet. People coming. People playing. You saw a fair amount? Yeah. All righty. It's 530. We're going to call this work session to order. And we're going to move right over to Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to begin this, the project staff's been working on for many months leading up to this. And as you can tell, there's some representatives from the different departments on our project management team who are part of this process all along. And we'd be happy if you have any questions to speak to their individual situations regarding this effort. But I'll let. Jonathan, Grace, and Ross DeFell with Barry Dunn take you through the mechanics of what we've been through. Thank you, gentlemen, for being here. And go right ahead. Perfect. Good evening, gentlemen, chairman, members of the board. As Wyatt indicated, this is Jonathan. I go by John. We'll do some introductions here momentarily. We also have some printed handouts as well as the electronic as well. And as we go through, please feel free to ask questions. You know, we'll plan to go through a few things. So, again, kind of. A little bit more of the Barry Dunn team. Very brief overview of the firm. Discuss some of the work that we've done for phase one. And really kind of keep some of that discussion fairly high level where we can really dig into more of the activities for phase two, which is the next phase that we're recommending going forward. So as we look at the current phase, we'll discuss some of the goals and objectives, you know, the project approach that we took. Some of the themes that we took away from the phase and some of the key decision points that the project team has taken. And some of the things that we've done for the project team, you know, made in areas that we recommended. And like I said, we'll talk through the phase two approach and then some of the key dates and activities. So we've got a handful of folks here on the project team. So if folks may or may not recall, we were on site a few months ago when we kicked off the project to do some of our initial fact-finding meetings. So the project team member that we have participated on this project is myself, John Grace. I'm a principal within our local government practice group. And I lead our enterprise digital transformation practice. I've been with the firm for 14 years. And then prior to joining Barry Dunn, I spent 12 years providing various and working with various ERP systems in the public sector. I'm a ProSci certified change practitioner. And I am actually based out of our Portland, Maine office. Ross. Hi, folks. Ross DeFalle, project manager for this engagement. I've been with Barry Dunn here for about three and a half years, but have an additional seven years, roundabout experience just in this environment, in this role. It's been an absolute pleasure to work with our project management team and specifically with Patrick so closely throughout this project. I'm really excited to get to all the work that we've done and what we're looking ahead to here in the future. And thank you for letting us present and for your time this afternoon. And then some of the other folks. One of the other team members that we have is Charlene. So she assisted me from an engagement management standpoint. We have Alicia as our lead business analyst. Kate, who is our procurement subject matter expert. And so all of these team members in some form or fashion have been participating in this project. And we actually have a call with Kate tomorrow as it relates to one of the tasks that we'll be talking about, which is a request for information. So just a little bit about the firm. We've actually been in business since 1974. And originally and still based in Portland, Maine. At that time, based in 1974, we were providing accounting services regionally and started providing consulting services to the public sector in 1986. So to this date, a majority of our work actually comes from the consulting work that we do across the country. The accounting work is still more regional based, but of our firm, of those thousand employees, 400 are on our consulting team. And then of our clients, we have about 150. And then of our clients, 900 are government clients. And of those 900 government clients, 600 of those are considered local government. Specifically, some of the organizations that we've worked with and are working with in the Commonwealth include Warren County, currently working with the town of Front Royal. We've worked with Fauquier County. So we've worked with a number of cities, counties, and towns in schools in the Commonwealth. And I myself, I always enjoy coming back to the Commonwealth. I actually went to high school down in Richmond. So I always enjoy coming back to the Commonwealth. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And then, over on the right, you'll notice a number of different practices that we have. Each of these practices also focus in work within the public sector within each of those areas, right? So we have folks that work with health and community services, just in public safety, public utilities. And in these projects, it's pretty common to pull some of those folks into this work just based on their knowledge and experience. And then, the last point that I'll make is even though we have folks like myself and others that have prior vendor experience, we're not tied or independent. independent from the vendor community. So all the recommendations are in the best interest of our clients and the county. Any questions about the firm, myself, the team before we continue forward? Perfect. All right. We'll talk about the project goals and objectives. Yeah. Really at a high level for phase one project goals and objectives, right? We were tasked with developing a gap analysis. So understanding current business processes utilized at the county and trying to find where gaps are maybe with modern business processes or identify some efficiencies, right? That was essentially coming out of our fact finding and our first written deliverable was that gap analysis in and of itself. We also were tasked with identifying and developing a list of softwares currently used, right? So not only our main ERP and financial accounting system, but any other ancillary systems that might be used in the day-to-day to aid county business processes and financial transactions, human resources, and the like. So essentially that gap analysis reviewing primary opportunities and current challenges and then key decision points with our county PMT that led to identifying and developing future considerations that the county may choose to undertake. That was documented in the form of a recommended action memo. Right? That laid out different paths forward and we'll kind of outline some of that as we move forward in the presentation. And essentially our project goals, the last one was gaining consensus as a project management team, right? We have a team of eight to ten individuals trying to all agree on a path forward that it took a lot of teamwork at the time. It took a lot of coordination. So from that phase one we've documented our software and our systems in use. We've understood and documented the multiple paths forward and as a group we've come to a conclusion that everyone is willing to move forward with and I think looking forward to moving forward with here in phase two. Phase one, just a quick recap here. Phase one started in March of 2026 of this year whenever we first started our project management calls and planning for on-site fact finding. We came on-site in May. We've developed written deliverables all summer and then wrapping up last week with our final version of the stakeholder validation memo. We anticipate that we'll be able to do that in the next couple of weeks. First, we started doing piece one the other day, phase two. So we have and we're and we're and we're and we're in gw will in gü will in есть the project foundation right we we started to engage our stakeholders we started to you know really understand the the current environment and the software is in place at the county we used or we we leveraged our fact-finding discussions with with staff to I to identify you know current business processes and then some wish list items and everything else that we that we might have moving forward again this work resulted in a gap analysis that was our first real written deliverable the gap analysis and software inventory we used findings from the gap analysis and software inventory along with just our industry knowledge and conversations with the PMT conversations with with our county staff and our and our state stakeholders to develop an action plan recommendation memo we reviewed this with the county project management team the county project management team also reviewed independently with themselves we came to a recommendation and that was captured in the stakeholder validation memo that outlines the recommended path forward and also asked that our county project management team sign off on that recommended path forward okay okay kämm excuse me um just from a high high-level our fact-finding sessions uh we don't have to talk too much to this but but over four different like kind of operational over four different like kind of operational areas within the county we areas within the county we were able to speak with were able to speak with 30 different 30 different functional areas or 30 different functional areas or groups of subject matter experts right across groups of subject matter experts right across finance tax human resources and finance tax human resources and our community Development folks again we Nick Stelzner ik but our team and at the poor soldiers community and all of our employees together it was a really tailoring process but I think now that we are hours in this And the county's team was open. We had these open conversations when we came out for fact-finding. We also had open follow-up and dialogue, right, should our team have any questions. And we spoke with numerous folks here. I just wanted to call that out. There's not many opportunities for us to actually, like, get into 30 different, you know, business areas. There's a lot going on at the county, and we were able to meet with quite a few folks. Our main themes here, this is pulled essentially from, you know, areas that we, that based on best practice, there's opportunities for improvement, right? These came from our fact-finding sessions. We identified eight improvement, or eight main themes for improvement. Improvement opportunities, kind of organized them into your four priorities here. Automating workflows, connecting systems, improving insight and planning, and then clarifying ownership and enabling users. So essentially, we want to automate work that will be done in the future. The idea here is to stop emailing work, stop doing work outside of the system, stop having to. Manual, or enter information into the system manually, stop duplicate data entry, things that just cause inefficiencies, and then ultimately could also lead to mistakes with so many manual efforts. The connected systems, just software that is currently utilized at the county, let's work on tighter connections, right? Like, things that speak back and forth to each other. Right. Right. Right. So we want to be able to do that. So we want to have manual uploads, look for APIs or nightly batches to where folks don't have to do things. We can rely on schedules and timing and automate some of these tasks. Insight and planning, I understand that you all are getting into budget season, and this is a, budget can be a great example, right, for insight and planning. We talk through reporting and dashboards and real-time visibility into accounts and departments. Also real-time visibility into budgets, right? Being able to really dive into a budget or to an accountant and understand what's making that up. And then clarifying ownership and just some of the processes that we might need moving forward. Really giving our staff members the power and the tools to submit things. To check on, you know, their pay stubs. Just putting some things back on our staff, but also providing them the tools that they need to actually do that. Okay. We're at the point where we're going to outline our decision, but I guess before we do, is there, do we have any questions really about phase one up until now? Because now we're setting the decision and we're going to start talking phase two and moving forward. I have a question. I have a question. Are all departments in the county involved in this? Just to be sure. Yes, sir. A clarification. Yep. Thank you. All right. So based on findings from fact finding, our review of the current state, our project team and the county's project team had some pretty frank conversations. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Everyone is on board with full suite modernization. There's a caveat or two, but for the moment, let's just say full suite modernization broken down into two main functional groups, right? Like core ERP, which would consist of finance, human resources, and tax administration. Okay. And then community development, which would consist of permitting, engineering, planning, public works, and inspections. Okay. Based on that natural break and just kind of how those functional areas kind of work and align so well together, there is also a decision made to run or to develop and then facilitate two separate RFP processes. Okay. One, again, would be core service, right? Finance, HR, and tax. And RFP two would be community development focused. Okay. And then the other one would be community development focused. Okay. There's... Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. They fit nicely together. It works well. And it could... It would just make evaluation and review a little cleaner whenever we get to that point. Okay? I'll just jump in when we... I'll jump in and just to provide a little bit more clarity, right? So when we talk about RFPs, requests for proposals, right? So it's pretty common in the public sector where, you know, even for the services... we do or for the services that the vendors are doing. We develop a request for proposal that includes documentation or asking for vendors, what can you do in a future system? How long does it take to implement? It would be going through and developing a request for proposal for both of those. And then one of the other areas is even before we get into developing the RFP, we would and one of the things that we're also talking about for phase two is going through and developing a request for information or an RFI. So it's not a formal solicitation process, but it is a way to go out into the marketplace to just do that, to request information. We ask vendors about what are the systems that they can provide, the modules they can provide, range of cost, range of timeframes for the implementation. And coming out of that request for information, and vendors don't have to respond, but the majority of the vendors in the marketplace are aware of us. They've gone through this process, so they're usually pretty open to responding, and it is a way to do that. And it's a way to really kind of help also guide these future RFPs. So one of the items that we've talked about within the project management team is at any point through this, whether it's the RFI or RFP, we can have the tax administration folks remain included until we find at some point where maybe they want to do something separate or step aside. But we've kind of found a good balance between these separate RFPs and RFIs approaches that should appease the group. Jonathan, did you guys at any point, or have you, or do you plan to do research to see what other counties are already using? So I don't know when we can look to see if we have any sort of like benchmarking. The short answer is we do know what a lot of the local entities are currently using because we may have done an RFI or benchmarking for other clients, and then there are a number of clients that we're already working with. So we already kind of have a familiarity with what a number of the cities and counties and schools are using. Is there a gold standard already in existence? So we're going to go out and do RFPs, but there are already gold standards already out there that we could just jump right to it? There are multiple systems out there. I would say just based on my knowledge of these systems and going through implementations, there's not one system that may meet everyone's needs. You may find that certain parts of one system may work well. For one, but not the other. So usually going through this RFP process will kind of help determine, okay, when we go and develop our requirements for what the county needs, the vendors will respond to that. We'll identify how they're able to meet that. But ultimately, there are multiple systems out there, but there's not one that fits all. And that's the other reason why we also are looking for multiple RFPs is because when we look for core, for financials, HR, some of these areas, there are vendors that provide that, and then community development, there are usually separate vendors that provide that. And trying to do one RFP for all those, you may not actually see and have the vendors that are available out there respond. I was wondering if that's more of a norm practice here. Now, the only thing I'm going to ask is, are these systems, are they going to be able to be integrated? Yeah. The integration of these systems is, you know, for modern applications, you'll hear a term of like API, so an application programming interface, right, which makes it much more intuitive for these systems. You know, the technology behind them allows them to interface. Doesn't always necessarily need an API, right? You can do automated imports, exports, but getting data between these systems is much easier than it used to be. And there have been times when we've released one RFP. I don't know if you've heard of it. I don't know if you've heard of it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We do have RFP for all of these. And we've allowed point solutions, you know, or some of these stand-alone systems to propose. And what we find is, you know, if you have an RFP for all of these in there, you may actually not have, you know, some of these, you know, stand-alone systems to propose. Down at the bottom of the page, you have a checkpoint, administration, treasury and tax assessment, which will remain included with the option to exit process at their discretion. Can somebody give me some background on that? Just to why that's there? Yep. So go ahead. All right. I'll take it, guys. So when we were working with the project management team on what the actual recommendation would be, it initially started that we were going to do a targeted replacement, meaning the treasurer had indicated they may not be interested, and the commissioner of revenue had hesitation last time, but reservations maybe, as to whether or not it made sense for them to participate at this time. Once we got to that point, the treasurer and commissioner of revenue representative said, we at least want to participate in the RFI and the RFP process if we can back out at any time, to which we said, okay, well, if that's the case, this is actually a full replacement, because that means everybody's on board. So let's represent it as such and bid it as such or procure it as such. And so we kept in that note there that those folks feel comfortable with their existence, but they do want to see what's out there in the marketplace and figure out if they want to go on or not. Is that a fair representation, Derek and Lauren? Okay. For informational purposes only. So basically, if this is adopted, we would have one system in the county and another system for the tax and treasurer. As this is proposed, it could be just one system, meaning it would replace the treasurer and commissioner's office, but they're going to retain, as they get to the end of the process, whether they want to join on to that. That's a fair representation of the system that we're going to work to try to bring to fruition. But it's looking likely, based on their opinions of their existing system, that there will still be the BAI bright system that we have currently, and everybody else will be bringing on a secondary system that will have to interface with their system. We bring up finance when we bring up the budget. That's a large portion of the budget. So if we have a different system behind me over here and another system in front of me over here, it doesn't seem very compatible to me. Maybe I'm wrong on that. Yeah. I mean, I think that's what this process is going to investigate further. I know, for example, the city of Winchester has an accounting system and then a budget system, and the budget system is more outward facing and user friendly for board members and citizens to view what the budget programming looks like. And then they have a back end system that I think their staff uses for accounting purposes and otherwise, which isn't. On commons. Yeah, as I state, we've looked throughout the state, and this has happened in many jurisdictions and frequently in the communities. When you have constitutional officers and counties and cities, they will end up having different systems and integrate at different times. So it's very commonplace to have that. And that's why it's important and important aspect of all this is to make sure all the systems talk together. And we could see as part of these RFPs, you know, the same vendor responding to each of these. I think when we sit here today, right, we don't know, obviously, what those systems are going to be. The other thing I always like to think about here, too, is when we're looking at all of these different modules and systems, that's also a lot to implement, right? It's a lot of work to get all these systems implemented. And when we go and do the separate RFPs, you know, they're probably going to be a little bit staggered, right? And so it's one of the things that we don't typically see is everyone implementing all these things at once. And so just the way that we've kind of designed this to have the separate RFPs and to have the, do these at a little bit different time should also help in the end as part of the implementation. Because it is, it's a lot of work to go through the implementation. You don't want to do all of these, you know, at once. I was going to ask about the staff training. I'm probably jumping way ahead. Is that something that your firm does or is that an individual company vendor thing that they would do? It would. It would be from the vendors that are responding. Now, depending on if it's the vendor that's, you know, selling the software and doing the training, it's training that they provide. Some vendors, you know, without getting too much detail, but there could be a vendor that produces the software and they know that it trains. But ultimately, it would be, you know, whoever's responding to the RFP. Now, as part of the implementation, right, you know, we can and have been involved in those from, with a number of our clients. It's mostly from our clients. It's mostly from the project management, but we can assist, you know, more from like the logistics of making sure that training is scheduled, helping to develop any of the training documents. But the training itself usually comes from the vendors. Thank you. Yep. Any other questions? Well, it's not a question more than a statement because I'm going to look over to Laura and Derek because your, both of your departments are extremely, extremely important, you know, especially when it's budget season. We need numbers and we need them right. So I just, as we go down this path, I don't want to see us come up with two systems that can't talk to each other. That's my biggest concern here. Yep. So. Can I jump in real quick? And one of the biggest things that we're looking at is as far as functionality. You know, we're talking about the integrations and those type of things. So we want to definitely see if these software programs, these systems in place, are working. Yeah. Are going to increase our functionality than what we currently have. Sure. I mean, we see these vendors at different places and we get previews of their software systems, but we don't actually get this type of information coming back to us going, this is what we can do. This is how much it's going to cost. This is what we're looking at. So we want, our software right now is adequate. We've used it for years all across the county. It functions. It works. But now we're at the point of, we definitely want to see the information that's coming in. And we want to see those RFPs. And we want to have the understanding of, is that functionality going to increase, you know, what's it going to take those staff? You know, all that stuff comes into play. But the functionality of it, we want to see if it's better. That's the hope. That's correct. With today's platforms, the automation piece is critical. So, and for us to make a conscious decision on what we're doing, especially during budget season, we really need the information. Yep. Quickly. And, you know, getting away from having someone running spreadsheets in the middle of the night. So. Yep. Next slide. All right. So we've outlined where we're headed. The work that, the decision that we made to head into phase two. So phase two. As we enter this, this is where the county moves from understanding, right, current needs to, you know, evaluating the marketplace and making procurement and selection type decisions. Okay. So really just a, from a high level here. Okay. Phase two is really kind of designed to conduct a disciplined and transparent and defensible selection. So we're going to be looking at the process, right? Each step is well thought out and well documented along the way. It's not just to choose a software, right? But we want to choose a solution. We want to choose a vendor that best aligns with county goals, right? County values, operational needs. And that truly does understand your technical environment, takes into consideration any change management or implementation. Even though schools do not have, let's say for functions or regulations, they are being away for almost half a decade because there's a lot of change there, right? So these are, the other things that we want to ensure are that, not only would they and not necessarily the schools help include or us and that for the future, but that everything, for us, that has to be supported by a peer<|pl|> Depending on customs form. They've decided that income, trust andNo Preferred hours. that's best for you all. We don't, like John mentioned, we're impartial. We don't push software on folks, but we do try to provide the training and the awareness and the education for you all to make the decision that's best for you. And that's highlighted through some of these deliverables, right? The RFI document, we're asking for the information and we'll receive the information. As part of the RFI task, right, and deliverable six, there's vendor outreach sessions. These are very high-level vendor demonstrations, probably about like two to three hours apiece, right? But it's at least going to give county staff a flavor of what some of this software actually looks like. We'll be working with staff to develop and then finalize requirements along with a request for a proposal document. Getting into 11, deliverable 11 vendor demonstration agenda and evaluation templates, that's when we'll be working with staff to not only like facilitate and schedule probably on-site vendor demonstrations, but also working with staff to say, hey, this is your chance to ask vendors to show you this certain thing, right? Like what does your, what's most important for your department? What do you need? What's the most important thing? What's the most important thing? What do you guys need to see? Like what do you guys need to see in AP, right? Well, we need to see how to cut a check. Well, we're going to make a vendor show us how to cut a check, right? And we'll go through that process with every single functional area that is involved in the RFP. And then, again, we're the county's trusted advisor along the way to facilitate scoring, reaching out to vendors on behalf of the county so you all don't have to do that. And then, we're going to be able to negotiate contracts and terms, right, with the county's assistance, but us trying to do some of the heavy lifting for you all throughout that process because they can get involved. So from a high level, that's really what we're looking at. In phase two, it essentially switches from we've done the evaluation, now we're really truly getting into selection and researching the vendor marketplace. Any questions about phase two, this is what we are about to enter. All right. And then some immediate next steps and a roadmap here. So we're here with our green flag, September 26th, or 2026, excuse me, with the Board of Supervisors. So from here, you know, with... Board approval. Our team is going to get to work right away on the request for information and developing system requirements. We'll work with the county team to work through all the RFI, you know, task items, right, and the requirements finalization along with developing a RFP package and approved scoring criteria. We would hope to get everything published and out. We're going to have a lot of things on the street in early December. And then from there, just going through the selection process, we likely will have at least one to two rounds of scoring. And then contract negotiation assistance and approval should wrap up in July 2027. Questions about, you know, immediately... I have a question over here, Ross. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. How many vendors are in the marketplace? Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, gosh. That is... So one of the things that we've actually seen over the past couple of years, probably even going back a handful of years, we've seen the number of vendors increase. So when we look at, you know, different ERP vendors, you could have responses, you know, upwards of, you know, 10 proposals from 10 different vendors. Each of these vendors could be, you know, different for... You could have vendors for ERP. You could have vendors for community. You could have vendors for community development. Some of that also just depends on where we're at in the country. We've actually had some clients where they've received, you know, upwards of 20 proposals. So that is one of the things and the trends that we are seeing are more vendors and more competition in the marketplace. I'm asking that because this seems like a really long timeline to me. Yeah. So between now and the end of the year, we move at a fairly quick pace once the RFP is released. We're finding that because they're pretty fast. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, they could have a few thousand requirements. The RFP itself is usually out, you know, a month and a half for vendors to put together their proposals and then we go through the evaluation process. So it's almost like, you know, we're doing a step about once a month, right. So we review proposals, score them. We give vendors time to get ready for demonstrations. So where a lot of that time, you know, is extended, is once the RFP is released. So that creates even more time for vendors to get ready for a demonstration. you know, is extended is once the RFP is released. There are still some things that we're going to be doing with the group to get ready for some of these next phases, right? So we're going to be doing some things concurrently. But I agree that it's, you know, once the RFP is out, it is a little bit time consuming. And if I may go on to that is some of these things, when you start reviewing them, they're a nightmare. And you have staff involved and different people. It takes a long time on each and every RFP. I've gone through several of these, and that's where it really starts to slow down. But I also want to leave out there is one major step in there just not included, just in case after you see the contract negotiations and approval for assistance, this does come back to the board for final approval for the appropriation. So this is not once this goes through the contract negotiations, you hire them. It has to be brought back to the board of supervisors for final approval. It's at the very last stage. I would add to that. Our hope is to have a checkpoint. We've got a checkpoint with the board in December where we've got a better idea of overall cost. And then try to incorporate that into your budget proposal as we get the initial responses back in February or so. And then come back for the final approval and the appropriation once we've got contracts. That's a great point. That is one of the things that we will see from the RFIs or the request for information or some of those budget estimates. How long is the RFI going to be out for? That one we can actually keep out. That's pretty quick. We usually two or three weeks because it's not a big lift. But we're going to have to wait until the RFI is out. And then we'll see. We're going to have to wait until the RFI is out. And then we'll see. I'm excited at the opportunity. My only concern is I want to see let's get a platform that's going to work and we're not going to see somebody, a vendor come in here and sell us something. And then, oh, you need this module and you need this module. I'm in this world. I deal with this. It really drives me nuts. So that's the only thing I'm asking. Yep. And, you know, developing the requirements, right, will be part of that to make sure that we've identified the modules, identified the functionality. But the other part of that is when we get to the contract negotiations, that's the other piece where we're making sure. And actually even before that, when we get into vendor demonstrations, we're going to want them to show us what they said they could do in the proposals. But when we get to the contract negotiations, that's where we get down to those details of making sure that we do have all the modules identified, making sure we do have the timelines of the implementation. One thing that some vendors typically don't like. But we push them for this anyways is in that contract negotiations, we also want to have a statement of work developed, right? Some vendors want to wait until the contract's negotiated and then do the statement of work. We want that done at the same time. You know, there's still things that come up during the implementation, but all of this is to help reduce, you know, the overall risk to the county. Yeah, that's actually annoying to my world. So good. Yeah. The whole team is going to be involved with this, right? Right. Demonstrations and everything. Yeah, absolutely. For as long as the Constitution offers, we want to continue to participate in the process. And even if they choose not to move forward with actually getting their own modules, the integration piece of theirs and their knowledge on that side is key. So they'll be involved throughout. Yeah. Yeah. Even if they don't participate, we still have to have that system talk to whatever new system we're going to have. Wyatt, or whoever. So if this is going to get this part of it's getting done in 27. Yeah. What this whole entire project. How long is this going to take till 2930. But by the time you train, implement. That's a long time. I mean, you're probably looking at probably, you know, a year for, you know, that that core implementation, if not longer. I always say for any of these like major systems, minimum of a year, right, for the implementation. And then you stagger that. So, yeah, you could be looking at, you know, 24 months in total. From end to end. One of the other items I did want to bring up when we talk about vendor demonstrations and participation, those 30 different departments or functional folks that we have participate, we'll bring them back in and have them participate as part of developing the requirements. But also when we get to demonstrations, not necessarily like scoring members will have an evaluation team for that, but we'll have the opportunity for them to participate in and see those demonstrations and do a rating where they say, okay, I, you know, one to four. I feel like. Yeah. I feel like this vendor's a two or three. That information is provided to the evaluation committee. So throughout this entire process, it really is about, you know, getting more folks to the table to participate. And that's a big part of the overall change management. So as we go through this, like Supervisor Grumont said, let's say it's 29 or 30, whatever, when we're ready to fire up and move forward. At what point down the road? Are we looking at software updating? Are there packages where you say, okay, this is where we're starting and this is included for the next 10 years? These updates or so forth are already in this package? Or are we going to be hit year after year after year? These vendors are moving to, you know, getting everything you'll hear going to the cloud, right? And so a lot of these systems are moving to a software as a service. It's cloud-based where you actually don't have a server here, right? You know, the vendor's maintaining it. As part of that, they do, you know, whether it's quarterly, yearly, they'll do updates. That is one of the things that, you know, when you go into that environment, you'll still have the opportunity to test. But you have to go to those, you know, you don't have a choice there. Just that's part of the upgrade process. And so you will be on kind of like the latest and greatest of these systems. You know, so for the maintenance, the patches, those are all part of it. Now, as these vendors, you know, do more development, add more functionality, you know, there may be a function that, you know, a vendor doesn't have today. It doesn't mean a year or two from now or three years from now they develop that. But from the maintenance perspective and making sure that it's up to date, that's usually, you know, it's part of that SaaS agreement or software as a service agreement. So that you're, you know, so that you're kind of not on an older legacy system over a certain amount of time. And it also takes some of the, you know, that legacy. So that liability puts it on the vendor too. So we're not buying software, we're buying a subscription. You're buying a subscription. Yep. Part of the, one of the things that we look at the contract negotiations is part of that subscription. How do you get your data, right? If something happens in, you know, 10 years, 15 years down the road, you want to, you know, look at another system. That's one of the things that we look at in the contracts is the overall data ownership and how to get that data as part of the process. So even when we get to the negotiations, I mean, that can take. A little bit of time just because of, you know, the complexity of these systems and how they're maintained and operated now. I think that may have been the last slide. Thank you. Any additional questions? Yes, sir. I should ask this back in phase one. Phase one, yeah. I'm just curious whether there was a need to or whether you did, since there is some information sharing and information reporting requirements, was there any conversations with the school system? I have actually talked to the school system and we talked and it is important that we can share information. The truth of the matter is there's not a lot of financial data. Right. Right. There's not a lot of financial data that is shared between the two. I did talk to their finance director and of course they'd love us to look at Tyler because that's what they use. But the amount of information we share electronically is very minimal. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Patrick, this is for backup. We are going to have more than one copy, right? Yes. Yeah. And part of what I believe we'll be negotiating with the vendors on these contracts would be disaster recovery as well. Okay. Be in SAS or cloud software. Most of these vendors will have data centers in different parts of the country even. So if there is a major disruption in one area, we should still have access to it. Yeah. That's got to be written in the contract. Yes. I mean, because the county's got to function no matter what. So. Up times and tiers, right? Right. Tiers to resolve problems. Right. All written in the contract. Okay. And points that can be negotiated along the way as well. All right. Yep. Absolutely. Okay. All right. Good? Good. Good. Really appreciate all the work you've done. Thank you, guys. It sounds like a long time. It goes fast. It goes quick. Yeah. I mean, once we, you know, where there tends to be a little slow down rate is when the RFP hits the street. But even then, we're going to use that time, work with the county folks to, you know, make sure that when the responses come back, we're ready to go and score and move into demonstration. So, you know, all these projects, it kind of ebbs and flows. But, you know, I know we're excited to continue forward. Yeah. Thank you, everybody, for participating in this. We really appreciate it. We really do. Thank you. I guess. Just one final question. So, as we go through this process, you're reporting to the committee, to IT? So, if there's a slowdown, the RFPs aren't going out as fast as you'd like for them to? You're the guy putting the pressure on over here? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. Keep us in the loop. Put it on the pedal. Thank you. Really appreciate it. Thanks, everyone. Thank you. Okay. That'll end the work session. All right. Thank you. Yes, I know it's a joke. I'm sorry. I had no way of 위 ng king t. Well done, Y Liberals! Nice play! obsessive of rest. REMEMBER, DOWNLOAD Hoy ou's no arre Joyce ins brain himself oh yeah THE WAYS WE업U�� TO OTHER WORDS I HOPE THAT FORTUNE IS AT LEAST ALL THAT EL quarto auissement GETS A WORKSHOP I'M DOING 그래 I点 comprend do yu fuy me last robbery
