Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Community Information Exchange: Data Centers
Date:    2026-05-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=349
========================================================================

Thank you all for being here. My name is Wyatt Pearson. I'm the planning director with Frederick County. We're going to try to stick to an 8.30 end time for this, so we'll get started right now, and I'll turn it over to Chairman John Jewell to welcome you all. Good evening, everybody. Thank you for coming out. This whole process has been about educating the community on the process, what we are allowed to do, what we're not allowed to do. We actually have a lot of information up on Frederick County's website. I hope you'll take a chance to go up there and look. Our county attorney did a great job of the guiding we have to follow regarding anything like this. Tonight, we're hoping that you'll just learn, ask questions. All I ask is the same thing I did when I promised I'd run, civility. That's all. So enjoy the evening, and we thank you for coming out and being a part of this. Thank you, John. And real quickly, as you all know, John's the chairman of the Board of Supervisors. If the other Board of Supervisor members that are here could stand up to be recognized, we appreciate you being in attendance as well. Thank you all. And I'll get Al off starting about the format of tonight. We're going to do this primarily as a question and answer, give you all as much time to ask questions of our panelists, and I'll introduce them in a minute. But I'll begin with an introduction about myself and some key things that I wanted to emphasize before we get started. So as I mentioned, I'm the county's planning director. If you haven't interfaced with land use or planning, what that means is when people are in the area, they're going to be able to get in and do their work. And I'm going to give you a little bit of an introduction about what that means. I'm the county's planning director. If you haven't interfaced with land use or planning, what that means is when people are in the area, they're going to be able to get in and do their work. And I'm going to give you a little bit of an introduction about what that means is when people want to develop properties in the county, be them private developers, or if you're trying to build a house on some land you bought out in the rural areas as well, there are certain processes that you have to go through to get approval to do that. The one that I'm going to describe first is what's called buy-right development. And that means that there's codes on the book that says, all right, for these areas of the county, if people are doing these uses, all they need to do is prepare plans and submit them, and they can go ahead and move dirt and get it done. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. the comp plan to do something different with their property come out to a public hearing tell us what you think about what they want to do with their property since april of 2025 after a frederick county code change all data center applications have to go through that legislative process the board made a conscious decision to make sure there was not a buy right allowance for data center development in frederick county and that every project would have to go before a public hearing where citizens would have a voice in the process and be offered an opportunity to speak so um and as part of those legislative processes there's the opportunity for the board to work on proffers and conditions and those are those legally binding requirements that can be added to an application to mitigate potential impacts and that's why it's really important in addition to having that ability to make these kind of implementations easier to implement and help us get those applications going uh the first part of this i'm going to talk about the capacity having a voice in the process. They're tailor-made cases that the board is considering. It's not as simple as meet the code and you go forward. There's a substantial evaluation that goes into considering these projects. Some of you may know there's two applications in our project pipeline right now that are being forwarded by private developers to build data centers in Frederick County. I'll refer to them as Winchester Gateway, which is in the Apple Valley Middle Road area. If you've heard of that one, they're doing some public meetings themselves early next week on Monday and Tuesday. And then we had a work session with the Planning Commission on the other application that's known as Virginia Technology Park, and that's in the Clearbrook area just off of exit 323 just west of the Flying J. So for those of you that were in attendance on Tuesday, you saw the beginning of that process. The Planning Commission was asking the developers a lot of questions about what they want to do and how they're going to develop their project if they are. So I'll refer to that one. And then we had a work session with the Planning Commission on Monday and Tuesday. And then we had a work session with the Planning Commission on Monday and Tuesday. So my role in that is to manage the department and work with a talented staff that participates in reviewing the developers' applications and preparing staff reports to inform our elected officials before they make a decision. So I can tell you as a key staffer in that process, my department is committed to making sure that the facts associated with these applications and what the developers are trying to do with them are readily available to the public and to our decision makers so that they can make the right decisions. And so I'll refer to that one. So my role in that is to manage the department and work with a talented staffer in that process, that they know what they're considering and they can make an informed decision on it. And if you're here because you're concerned about data centers, I just want to assure you, I share your concern. It is a unique industrial use. It's not similar to other industrial development. It has a lot of key considerations to it that create impacts that some of which can be mitigated by local land use control. And there are some that cannot and require state and federal legislation, namely power pricing and issues like that, that local government just doesn't have the ability to deal with. So I'm going to turn it over to the Director of the Department of Energy. Thank you, Dr. Steele. Thank you, Dr. Steele. So I'm going to try to wrap up my comments and then introduce my colleagues. But some of the things that I had noted on here that I wanted to say beyond who I am and what I do is to correct some of the misinformation that I've heard kind of swirling around both the Facebook sphere and when I talk to people in the public about data centers. And first I'd like to say what the county's record is right now on data centers. I mentioned we adopted a code in April of 2025, and that's what we're going to do. So I'm going to try to wrap up my comments and then introduce some of the misinformation that I had noted on here that I wanted to say beyond who I do is to correct some of the misinformation that I had noted on here that I've noted on here that I'm going to try to correct some of the misinformation that I've noted on here that I'm going to try to fix. And that regulates data centers specifically and eliminated that buy right allowance. It also added additional regulations that are more stringent than any industrial use in Frederick County from a code perspective right now. Since then, we've considered two applications to amend our comprehensive plan from private development to allow data centers on specific locations in the county, and the Board chose to deny both of them. We have two more that they're considering now, and I know people have been screaming, why doesn't the Board just say no? Well, they have not really had the opportunity to say yes or no on any of these two yet. And if the folks out there who think, why don't we just make it impossible for people to do that here? People have a right to petition their government and ask for the ability to use land in the way that they want to use it. I know it's easier to think of developers as different than an individual, but you have a right to build a house on your property. They have a right to ask to build a data center on property they have either contractually purchased or actually bought. And those considerations in this process that we've constructed is to try to put guardrails on that, make it a public process and put those facts out there. So tonight's event, I mentioned, it's not going to be project specific questions. I'm going to be done talking too. I'm going to let our panelists introduce themselves in a minute, but we want to commit as much of our time to you all coming up and asking questions from the individuals that we have here tonight. And with that, I guess, I'll just begin with introducing Alexis Kurtz. She's an INTS board certified acoustical consultant who works for Frederick County on a third party contract to review data center applications. They bring their own noise consultants on. We've hired our own to verify the information that's prepared by them. And I'll let Alexis say anything she wants to about her role in data centers. Hi, good evening. You're going to have to get closer probably. Good evening. So my name is Alexis Kurtz. I'm the director of the data center at the University of California. I'm the director of the data center at the University of California. I've been in the acoustic realm for about 27 years. I mostly work in the built environment, but that does include environmental noise as it is affected by buildings. I started my career by joining the U.S. Green Building Council, which is a sustainability, I guess, group that's concerned about the environment. And I've been in the acoustic realm for about 27 years. I've been in the building realm for about 27 years. I'm concerned about how the built environment affects our lives. I immediately jumped on that because I knew that acoustics was a big and yet overlooked part of sustainable design. If you can't learn in a school, if you can't work in an office, if you can't sleep at home, it's not sustainable. And so that's kind of where I've come from. I joined Wyatt about a year ago. And they actually came to a consulting firm that knows what they're talking about and said, hey, we want to amend, I guess it was, was it a proffer technically? It was a county ordinance. A county ordinance. Which is only dealt with data centers. And they said, we need to make sure that our people are protected. And how do we do that? And so I worked with them in trying to at least get a good start on being able to limit development. And I think that's a really good start. And I think that's a really good start. And I think that's a really good start. And make sure that it is not overly affecting the neighbors. And I'm happy to answer your questions. Thank you for being here, Alexis. Next is Julie Boldhouse. She's a certified planner through the American Institute of Certified Planners and the director of land use with Piedmont Environmental Council. We're glad to have Julie here. If you're in the planning realm, Julie's like the expert on webinars for a lot of different topics that are environmentally related. But much to her chagrin, has been probably focusing on data centers more than she cares to in the recent years as well. So, Julie, why don't you tell us a little bit about your work? Thanks. So I'm the director of land use with Piedmont Environmental Council. That group is a 501 nonprofit. So we are funded by people like you, donors throughout our region. Our region covers Loudoun County, Clark County, down to Albemarle County. I live in Loudoun County myself in Leesburg. And I've worked for the mountain valley for many many many years so I'm definitely a R pulled in expert here. But you may remember Paul and Pat being here with the land usersоло Fly fishermen account make sure to have that a pain. Soってる Fisher you're with the recognition and stay there. So it's a fun thing to do. And I just want to thank Paul for having me here. Thank you, Ellen. And we also have funding for land coordination and transportation and things that require a minor change for, forziej before it's too much of a threat. Okay. In the beginning, we looked into<|ne|> Which unique knowledge you had at rest theCUBE's the impact you had over the campaign that was when people were asking about the impact it was so is because we have the largest data center market on the planet in our region, in Loudoun County. And in about 2020, that data center market really started to explode, and it started to threaten every one of the conservation priorities that we work on as an organization, everything from water supply planning to the renewable energy transition to air quality in our communities to even just the part of our mission. Let me just tell you what our mission is. Our mission is to protect the lands and waters of the Virginia Piedmont and build high-quality communities. So one of the other things that we saw threatened was the quality of those communities, and that's from the industrialization effect of the massive build-out of data centers that's happened in Loudoun County. We have over 140, I think, something like that, data centers in Loudoun County. If you've never driven down Waxpool Road, Loudoun County Parkway, go on down there, you know, stop by Shellhorn, maybe drive down to our Loudoun Gateway Metro, and you'll get a real look at what, how many data centers that we've brought into the county and how much of a burden that that's put on the resources of our community. And so that's where a lot of the stories that you're hearing about the noise impacts from, you know, that there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a, you know, there's a community in Sterling that's being heavily impacted by a data center that is running off of gas turbines. It's the only data center in the state that's running off of gas turbines, and it is extremely loud and causing significant impact on that community. So that's where you're hearing a lot of these stories is from that community and from our work. So also wanted to just highlight, I'm the co-chair of the Virginia Data Center Reform Coalition. So as a part of our effort on the data center campaign, we're trying to seek, state-level reform, because as Wyatt mentioned, a lot of these issues just simply can't be dealt with by the localities. We can encourage them to adopt ordinances that help to protect communities the way that, you know, noise, you know, studies can be done proactively. You know, there's a lot of things they can do to control lighting and, I don't know, different aspects of the development, but the parts that they cannot really effectively control is the impact on the energy. So, if they are demanding a lot of energy, that is going to necessitate potentially substations, transmission lines, and new generation. And potentially what we're seeing right now, if they can't get it from the grid on site generation, not just backup generators, but actually running off of gas turbines on their site, because they can't get power from the grid. Those sort of things, they really, they can prohibit gas turbines as primary power, or they can actually, I guess, require a separate special power supply. But that's just the way it is. So, I think that's a really important part of the project. And I think that's one of the things that the state is really working on. I think the state is really working on that, you know, I mean, they can't control a special use permit for that and deny it, but they can't control the air permit. They can't control the regional air quality standards for the state. They can't control the state policies. They can't control where the transmission lines go. They don't have authority over siting the transmission lines. They do have some authority over the substations, but there's just a lot of things that are outside of their control. And that's why we're working on the Status Center reform campaign at the state level, is to get energy, our regional air quality impacts, and our regional water supply impacts under better oversight and have more transparency as a state so that we can manage the impacts of this industry better. Thank you. Thank you, Julie. And our final panelist is Mr. Eric Lawrence, who is the executive director with Frederick Water and also a former planning director with Frederick County, so he brings a unique perspective. Thank you, Eric. Thanks, Wyatt. Cezanne? Yeah. No? Good evening, everyone. As Wyatt said, I'm with Frederick Water. I've been there about 11 years now, and prior to that, I was with county planning. I was planning director for 14 years. So I've been in this community for over 30 years now and watching the growth. What we do at Frederick Water is less about data centers. We're not doing things to prepare. We're not doing things to prepare for a data center. We're doing things to prepare for the county's growth. Our task is to provide public water and sewer in the areas so designated by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors. We follow what's called a sewer and water service area, and if you're in the sewer and water service area and you do development, you become our customer. The key link there is for a data center, the county is only going to designate land within the sewer and water service area, so if the county chooses to have a data center, it'll be our customer. So that's the connection between Frederick Water and any potential development. Now, what we are doing is not looking to prepare ourselves for data centers. We're looking to manage growth. We look at the past 40 years of growth in the community. We look at the water and sewer demands, and we project 20-plus years in the future, understand where we need to go. We understand the growth trends. We understand the housing market. We understand the commercial industrial development demands. We're not specifically going to be doing that. We're not going out to provide water and sewer for data centers, and I point that out because there's a lot of discussion about data centers all over the world, all over Loudoun County, using a lot of water. I can tell you from Frederick Water's perspective, we've told them, don't ask us for a million gallons of water. We've told them, we can give you 35,000 gallons a day for 800,000 square feet of a data center, and we've said that repeatedly over the past year with anybody that has talked to us, and the reason we provide that number is because that doesn't impact what we do, that it doesn't impact our business. We're not going to provide water and sewer for data centers, and we're not going to sell it all to one customer. So that 35,000 gallons a day is a threshold, and give you a comparison, that's about 200 new houses. So it's a very limited amount of water and sewer that we would make available, and we say our studies show that 800,000 square feet data center, that's about 200 new houses. So that's a very limited amount of water and sewer that we do a closed loop, do creative solutions. That's all the water you really need. That's all we're going to make available to you. So as we go through the discussions tonight, I just want you to keep that in mind. We've already implemented a process that we're not giving millions of gallons away for a data center. We're treating them just like any other business. Most of the 200 house subdivision, 35,000 gallons a day. That's what we're looking at. You'll hear about it because we're doing a lot of stuff outside of the data center realm, and we're doing a lot of work on that. So over the past 10 years, we've been securing water supplies, we've been securing water plants, and we continue to do that mission. And in a couple years, we'll start shifting and we'll start emphasizing the wastewater side of things. That's just what we do. That's how we follow the county's comprehensive plan, sewer and water service area, and make sure we have services available for the future. So it's not because of data centers, because we've already told the data center community we're not providing a significant amount of water and sewer to their services. So I just want to point that out. And the last thing, for our customers, Frederick Water operates essentially as a nonprofit. We're not part of the county government. We don't get tax dollar contributions. It's our rates and our fee structure that funds our operations. So if you're a customer of Frederick Water, you're paying for Frederick Water. If you're a developer, I don't care if it's a new home developer, a data center, commercial, whatever, you have to pay availability fees to get into the system. So essentially, you make a capital contribution to the treatment side, and then you'll pay your monthly fees going forward. So that's what we're doing. And I think that's a really important thing to look forward to. And that's an important structure, because that means our existing customers are not going to be impacted by what future growth we incur within Frederick County. We have to maintain plants. We have to upgrade plants. But any expansions necessary for future growth is not paid by our existing customer base. So just a little structure there I just wanted to share with everybody. And I look forward to hearing your questions. Thank you. Thank you, Eric. And thank you all for being here. We really appreciate it. We hope to have some more panelists for you all tonight. We had some more at Sharando. Unfortunately, the electrical providers and the State Economic Development Authority declined to continue to participate in this process. But now that we're through the introductions, we'll move on straight to the Q&A. Our hope is to give you all as much time as we have tonight to ask us questions and try to answer as many of them as we can. We've got two mics here that you all can line up behind, and then we'll alternate between each one for questions. Please try to keep them short. Please try to make them questions and not policy statements. We know there's some opinions about data centers that want to be expressed. There's a better time for that during our public hearings when our elected officials are on the dais making decisions for them to hear how you feel about data centers. We're here for Q&A. If we run out of people wanting to ask questions, which I doubt will be the case, I've got some questions to just prompt further conversation from our panelists that you could listen to and learn more about. So, Mr. Krieger, good to see you. Good to see you, sir. Please take us away. Thank you for being here this evening, and thanks to the elected and appointed officials for being here this evening. I think this question is for Julie Bolthouse. The sales and use tax exemption is something that the Commonwealth is offering until 2035, which I believe is scheduled to expire by 2035. Why it is that we're offering it is standing for something that we already have the world's greatest supply of data. We're offering it for the world's greatest supply of data. We're offering it for the world's greatest supply of satire and data andètorea and that you can put last-minute money into to cover and solved it. We only need to put some of these increases into achieving the quality of those increases.את.лом. Thank you. Any other questions? We are going to ask that motion on 1-800-645-38�� to turn this session and I review this. And that is the figure that I've heard I've never done. PEC has not done a direct analysis of it. But one of the anecdotal kind of examples I like to give communities, having lived in Loudoun County most of my life, we had the AOL headquarters in Data Center Alley back in early, actually it was the 90s, I think is when they moved in, early 90s. And I will tell you from PEC's standpoint and from my standpoint as a community member, that was a wonderful addition to the community. It brought a ton of jobs. At its peak, it had 5,300 jobs at the AOL headquarters. And that was a business park. It had a data center component to it, but it had office space. And it was connected to the community. There were pedestrian bridges over the roads going over to Raytheon. And it was like a little mini Google of the world. East, you know, in our community. And we liked it because people didn't have to drive in the D.C. They had jobs and they could live and work and play in that area. And it supported secondary economic development as well. You had daycare centers and restaurants and hotels and, you know, just recreational activities. It has now been demolished because AOL is basically obsolete. So it's now been demolished and it's being replaced by three data centers, powerhouse data centers. And those three data centers. Are probably going to employ about 50 people. On a site that once employed 5,300 and was connected to everything. And now it's just going to be completely fenced off. So my answer to your question is the sales tax exemption right now. There is a proposal to eliminate it altogether. If we eliminated the sales tax exemption in Virginia, it is my belief that the data centers would not go anywhere. They would not leave the state. We have the most robust fiber network on the planet. They could not leave the state. They want to be here. And that additional capital expenditure of just paying taxes like everybody else. I don't know about you guys, but I pay taxes. You know, just having to pay taxes is not. That's just going to be an additional capital expenditure. And the risk of locating in a place that is not as well connected in a, you know, digital way. It far outweighs the additional cost of just paying that sales tax exemption. So. We would still get data center development. Some of the most speculative players might leave. But that sales tax exemption is not necessary. Good evening. I'm really excited to hear somebody here who specializes in acoustics. So given that there is lots of data saying there's a constant hum below 120 megahertz and even something called infrasound, which for the audience, infrasound is like infrared. It's there. You know it's there. You just can't hear it. And in eighth grade, our students learn about long wavelengths and how it's very difficult to stop them because they're so long and typical buffers don't stop them and they can travel very far. So what kind of mitigation is typically used to protect residents, not just right there, but in the general vicinity from those low tones? All right. So typical noise code is DBA. Noise is noise. Right. When we talk about DBA weighting, what we're doing is we're quantifying that noise as it relates to human hearing. DBC is not new, but it's new in noise codes because it deals more with low frequency. Now, humans are really good at hearing high frequency noise. Babies cry at high frequency. We know where they are. We can hear them over just about any noise. Low frequency because of the long wavelengths. So you can't actually figure out where that noise is coming from. All right. So I will say in cities, they use a lot of DBC to limit dance hall noise. Right. Anything with a low thump. Recently, they've been looking at adding DBC. Again, same noise, but we're quantifying it in a different way, where it actually takes more emphasis on the low frequency noise than DBA. So we're putting it into noise code. Now, you're right in that these 60, 50 hertz, these are 20 foot waves. Right. So unless you have something that's extremely large, it's not going to stop it. A lot of the noise that we deal with from data centers is the rooftop equipment. It's not the machines inside. So rooftop equipment is on top of the school, is probably next to your house. Is next. Yeah. This is stuff that we're used to. It's not that low frequency. It's not a huge aspect of the overall noise. And again, we're not that sensitive to it. As the distance doubles, so your distance from the data center doubles, it's going to get quieter and quieter because the energy within that wave dissipates over space. It is something, it is not currently in the Frederick noise code at all. Right. It is not in the data center noise code. No. And it's something that has started popping up in other localities. I guess given the vast amount of research and data out there, I would just ask that the committee and board of supervisors consider doing baseline data for not just what noise is observed, especially on Clearbrook where you're much more rural, but also things that can affect you such as nervous system headaches and that kind of thing and take baseline data. Thank you. Thank you. I had two questions, but now I have three. Are you familiar with how the glycol systems work? Is it glycol cooling? Glycol cooling. Closed-loop cooling. It's more for heating than it is for cooling. Yes. Yes. Are you aware that the fact they have to chemically treat this water on a regular basis, it has to be done. There's no ands, its, and buts about it unless they're going to compress the water so much to get the air that's in the water out. It's going to have to be chemically treated. My question to Frederick Water, when this gets returned, do you have the capabilities to clean that out of the water before you put it back? Okay. It's because it's multiply about six different chemicals that you're going to have to get rid of. Yeah. What the county has in it, when I say county, I'm asking what you have. No, no. On the way the wastewater system works in Frederick County is the Frederick Winchester Service Authority owns the treatment plants. The city operates one, Frederick Water operates one. So we work as a unit. And through those regulations, we have what's called a significant industrial user program. Most communities are required to have them. And what that says is when the user shows up, and typically you're doing the site plan stage, you understand more about what their discharge is going to be, their wastewater discharge is going to be. You analyze it. You determine whether or not your wastewater treatment plants can accommodate it, and if not, you can either tell them, no, we're not going to do it. We're going to do it. You can either tell them, sorry, you can't discharge, or you can give them the option of building on-site treatment, pretreatment programs. So what you're saying is that there would be no guarantee, or there would be a guarantee that if they needed to discharge the water from these systems, it would not go to your system? Correct. Before they can discharge anything to our system, we're going to want to understand what their wastewater streams will be. And before they get a water tap, I mean, the beauty of being both water and wastewater, I'm not going to give them water if I can't accept the wastewater. Right. So we're going to understand the wastewater streams. We're going to enter agreements. Do you understand the chemicals and what those chemicals are that would have to be? In other words, do you have the capabilities of learning that before it happens? If you let me finish, sir, that's what the significant industrial user program is. It's before you do anything, you have to share with us what your wastewater stream is. Your engineers, our engineers, everybody looks at it, understands what the discharge stream is. We look at it. What can our treatment plant accommodate? What it cannot? And what cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? What it cannot? You either have to build on-site pretreatment, the developer does, it's his responsibility, or you don't discharge to our system. It becomes an option to the developer, becomes an option in this application to the data center. Do they choose to have a separate stream so it'll go to a truck and they can haul it to a facility that can treat it? Or do they choose to build the pretreatment facility? It's not, if there's a connection from their system to our system, so if their sewer, internal sewer line is going to discharge to our sewer system, they have to do this evaluation. We don't want to do this evaluation. We don't wait until they decide to do it. We want to know up front what's going to happen at their plant, what are the chemicals, and what's the appropriate treatment process. Okay. For you, there's two questions I have. Hey, Tim, let's make sure that everybody gets a chance to at least ask one. Yeah, I'm going to make it very quick. Okay. I can answer this question about the discharge. Well, appreciate that, but the, yeah, let's let everybody else get a question, and then we can come back around to individuals rather than have multiple questions asked by the same person. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Hey. Yeah, I can answer your question about that discharge. That would be a federal permit, an NPDES permit regulated by the EPA, so that would constitute an SPCC plan, a stormwater protection plan, and they would have to regularly test the water. Hi. My name is Eric Gamble. I'm a licensed professional geologist and a local business owner. I had a question about cumulative impacts concerning air and water. So I guess my first portion would go to you, Eric. You allocate water resources based on low flow conditions, and we here in the Potomac River Valley use these water budget analyses to sort of make budgets. And you say 800,000 square feet in their allocation. And they're allocated 30,000 gallons per day. That's fine. A typical data center is a million square feet, so that 800,000 is right within that. But a lot of these water budgets are not constructed under systems at stress. And I'm concerned about the aggregated, accumulated effect of multiple data centers when the analysis of their water usage is not as good as it is today. So I'll ask if conferences and banks have come up with other ways to analyze these data centers. I'm sure we've received lots from... I think you have some. Somebody. The top last one. I don't know who has started this and you've got folks asking. Do you resonate with the And this is what folks in living in the state need to know. We weren'tèresing an answer, but this is what did you need? emissions permitting and stuff like that. But this aggregated effect of these accumulated data centers, they're not able to be in compliance with the Clean Air Act. They're not able to be in compliance with systems of water under stress. What is Frederick Water prepared to do with a seven-year drought condition at a system where low flow measurements sort of dictate water resources and how are you modeling this system under stress? To, I guess, respond, I don't deal with the air quality. I deal with the water side of things. Right, right, right. So you're intertwining things. I can speak to air quality. Yeah, but on the water side of things, that's one of the reasons when I was doing the introduction and saying 35,000 gallons a day could be allocated, and I was telling you the correlation is 200 houses. I mean, that's less than at Gulf Course. I agree that is not very much. Like, a Gulf Course would be like 1.2 million gallons a day. So what we look at is we say, okay, let's look at our growth trends. Look at our housing trends. Let's look at the pipeline that the planning department keeps to understand how many houses are by right. And we constantly manage that stuff. And Wyatt and I just talked about that a couple weeks ago. We have adequate water and sewer supplies to meet stuff that's in the pipeline. Well, I guess more generally, I guess, like, are these facilities being analyzed? Are they being analyzed by an isolated analysis or a cumulative analysis by their aggregated effect on water resources? That's, I guess, what I meant to say by under stress. From a water and sewer perspective, we look at the applications when they get submitted to the county. So I'm not, because I don't study, and I'm not anticipating millions of gallons going to data centers. I said, you know, we have two applications that have come before us, so we look at each application on its own merits, and that's where I use that 35,000 is, okay, I'm comfortable allocating. Are those isolated data centers? Are those isolated data centers or co-located data centers that might be, you know, considered as an aggregate effect with other data centers that are already co-located at that location? You see what I'm saying? Eric, I might be able to assist with this, but because of the way that Frederick County has the ability to review them individually on a case-by-case basis, the likelihood of the sprawling aggregate circumstance that you're describing isn't going to happen unless they come and submit an application. So what Eric's seeing as far as the application they submitted and the usage, that they have is all that they're going to be permitted to use for that individual case. If somebody wants to expand that in the future, they have to come back through the public hearing process, submit a new application with new usage statistics and everything in order to be reviewed again, and then Eric will review that on top of the existing approvals. But there are no approvals right now. Can I also just add in there, I think you're raising a very valid point, and it's the cumulative impact question. It is, truthfully, that is the state reform question. That is the question we're raising to DEQ about our water supply planning. When you've got counties across the river, so Potomac River is the one that I'm mostly in thinking about, but you've got Loudoun County, you've got Maryland, you've got West Virginia, and they're all building data centers, and they're all pulling water from those data centers. And I actually just pulled up Google's numbers to just give the audience an idea that 35,000, you know, that they're limiting any data center project to. The Leesburg Google data center that operates, because to give Google credit, they're the only data center company that is transparent about their water usage, so don't burn them too badly here when I tell you this, but 246 million gallons withdrawn in 2024, so I mean, we're talking millions of gallons here for these uses. And on top of that, their consumption level is 60 to 80 percent, which means 60 to 80 percent of the water doesn't go back into the wastewater treatment facility, which that concentrates the pollution that you were talking about, which leads to the pretreatment issues, but it also leads to the potential need to dilute it, which means more water usage, to dilute the concentrated pollutants that you just created. So I think it's a very valid question, but you're not going to be able to get an answer from a utility that only is looking at one possible data center and doesn't even have any other ones yet. It's a good question. I'm going to potentially be asking Loudon Water, though, and Fairfax Water, which have hundreds of data centers, and to be asking our state regulator, which is DEQ, about their water supply planning on a regional basis for everybody. I'm more concerned with golf courses and graveyards than 30,000 gallons a day. Yeah. As you should be. Thank you for your question, sir. Let's move on to another individual. So real quick, this is a follow-up to Eric from the previous about the pretreat. What I don't know the rules and regulations, but I think it's important to note that the rules and regulations are based on the frequency of audits and the penalties from those audits, especially if they're doing pretreat. So could you educate us on what those penalties are? And ultimately, if three strikes you're out, can you shut them down? The beauty of controlling the water in the sewer is that if you have a violation, we can cut off your water. So it's less about a financial penalty. It's if you've got to, if you've got to, if you've created a problem, we can hold you accountable to it. We can terminate your water, in which case, they're going to fix the problem. But part of the significant industrial user process is they have to provide statements. They have to tell us what the quality of the water is. And the unique aspect, if they're only going to discharge in a large quantity, I mean, the closed loop could never discharge or it could discharge when they have a problem. They've got to flush it out, whatever the case is. But they've got to provide a water sample quality analysis to tell us what they're doing. To confirm they're in compliance. Now, I could say, everybody, you should follow, everybody has to follow the rules. The downside is if they discharge something, which we will know because we'll see it, we'll see it showing up. If they did something improper, we'll turn off the water. And as everybody hears, data centers need water. Well, if we cut your water off, that's the first step. And there's a little more enforcement. But the significant industrial user program is the most powerful tool to deal with the pretreatment, make sure that any discharge is coming out of the facility, meets our requirements, meets our treatment ability at the wastewater side. Sorry, I just, I want to add in here, though, that there is a level of corporate responsibility that's necessary as well, which makes this very complicated. And I'm just throwing it in there. I think everything you said is correct. I'm not disagreeing with you or arguing. But I am saying, if the company is not transparent about what they're actually putting into the water or exactly, you know, they're going to be using biocides or molybites or whatever. You know, thing they're going to be putting into their water system. And they're not telling you ahead of time. That can potentially cause problems. And the other thing is to be doing this more proactively ahead of site, because site planning happens after the rezoning already happened. And so you really don't want to have a user coming in that is, you know, maybe selling glossy brochures but not really being fully transparent about what they're going to be discharging. It'd be much better to have a user that's coming in saying, okay, here's what our data center, here's what our water treatment facility is going to be. This is how we're going to run it. These are the things the wastewater treatment facility can expect. Is your wastewater treatment facility prepared for that? Does that work? Okay, we can do pretreatment on site. We agree to that. We'll put it in the proffer. You know, all of that is worked out ahead of time. That is a much better way to be doing this. Rather than approve the project and then find out all this in the hindsight, now you've got trucks bringing things in. Which we have had to deal with that a little bit in Loudoun County where we've got trucks, you know, having to take waste off. Or bring waste on because things weren't really done proactively. So I'm actually, I brought this up so you can just kind of see. It may be hard to be able to see, but this is the data center that we're talking about in Clearbrook. And this right here is our house. It's less than a football field. Okay. So I believe they, they said 250 diesel generators. That one was 288, yeah. 288 diesel generators for 10 to 11 data centers. And all of these people live on well. Okay. So we're not quite sure how the water is going to work. And if you don't let them discharge, there's a lot of this back and forth. And my concern is, is that we also have a substation sitting in front of us. So we have three substations behind. One now being built in the front and 10 to 11 data centers with the potential for a treatment plant if they don't meet your requirements while we're on well. So my concern is, is what are these homeowners supposed to do if our groundwater becomes contaminated? If they have blasting in this area? If the diesel generators are running and we're supposed to live with that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. When we're in those places you're gonna want to make sure that you fix a final wall. today because I'm sure people don't really go out to visit these locations. So what are we supposed to do living there if this gets approved? How are we protected health-wise if our water gets contaminated and all that you can do once you've approved this is to fine them? What are we supposed to do but pay to get hooked up to the county lines and now have to pay for water, have higher medical bills? How are we being protected? How does this benefit us? I think those are all very valid concerns. And as an AICP certified planner, I would urge you to bring those to the public hearings as they're being heard because we're not the decision makers, although they are sitting very close to you. And so they hear what you're saying. But it is good for you to bring those up in the public hearing as this is being discussed. So we can't really answer those questions. What I can tell you is 288 generators, that's a lot. And if I were an asthmatic and I were living next to that, I would absolutely be concerned about what's going to happen. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. And I think that's a very valid concern. When they have to cut on. During winter storm fern, there was an executive order sent down from the Secretary of Energy, Chris Wright, at the federal level. And that was in order to have the data centers cut on their generators to back up the grid. And what we're going to see is more and more of that as the grid becomes more and more stressed. And so it's not just simply, they're run for maintenance purposes. Those generators are run once a month for maintenance purposes. And they're run once a month for maintenance purposes. And they're run once a time. So it's not usually a ton of pollution that's being produced during the maintenance process. But during outage events or during something like Secretary Chris Wright was advocating for, which was turn them on to back up the grid, it's going to be our new power plant, that is huge air quality implications when you have 288 of them right next to a neighborhood. So I think your concerns are very valid and you should raise them, continue to raise them. I'll add one thing on the generators from the Frederick County planning perspective, and then ask Eric to talk to. The groundwater concerns and how it would be served. From a Frederick County planning perspective for the applications being considered right now, our statements back to the applicants have been to set the expectation that all generators be tier four standard generators, which have the highest level of pollution controls that DEQ has rated, and that they be permitted as emergency only. And the concern there is once you get a tier four generator, you can typically get it permitted to be run during non-emergency circumstances, but we've spoken with DEQ and they would allow for a tier four generator to be permitted for emergency only, which means we would have the best pollution control on it and it would only be operated during emergencies. Agree with Julie, very valid concern. Eric, can you speak to the groundwater question part of that? I can try to touch on the groundwater because we're public water and sewer. So the public water we're providing is not coming out of your neighborhood. It's a couple of miles away. Right. So I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. Really, the groundwater concern is if there's a spill or something at the site, because on the wastewater stream side of things, we're going to resolve and determine whether or not we can accommodate the wastewater streams or if they have to have pretreatment or if they have to chip it off the site. If they do pretreatment, for the most part, if they do pretreatment, they're pretreating everything and then it's discharging into our system. So that shouldn't contribute to groundwater contamination, which was one of your questions. If there's not a treatment, then it's not a treatment. If there's not a treatment, then it's not a treatment. If there's not a pretreatment solution and we're not accepting it, then they have to build holding tanks, things of that nature. If it's done properly, it's just like a couple million gallon water tank and it's holding waste until the truck shows up to pump it out. So if you do things properly, there shouldn't be contamination. I can't say that there never is not going to be contamination because things happen. But structurally, there should be enough things in place to look out for that. I'm not the expert on the groundwater contamination. I'm just explaining the process. If everything's working as it should, there shouldn't be any spills on the property. It should be going water line into the building, sewer line out of their building, and just like your house for most people. You turn on the tap and it works. You turn it off and you don't ask a question. That's how it should be set up properly. Right. And I definitely understand that. My concern is, I think, is that if you guys approve this, there's really no going back. You know, industrial business, they're just fine. There's no liability. And Amazon was just sued for a multi-million dollar in Oregon for groundwater contamination. So I think the concern is, is that when you guys factor all this stuff in, that, you know, you think about some of the stuff that has already happened or the suits have already come about and the things that they say that they don't fall through in. But I appreciate you answering questions. Thank you for being here. Hi. I have a question. Right now it's 200 feet. That is the easement. Right now it's a 200 foot easement. Knowing what you do about the health concerns, whether it be emissions, whether it be released heat, whether it be sound, based on the fact that there's children, and in my case there's bees and organic farming, what do you believe that the setback should be if one has to have these things next to their home. And just for the panelist's clarification, she is referring to the county ordinance setback of 200 feet for many residential parks. 200 feet and then they put bushes up. That's the answer. What would you recommend based on you know about what you know about health and safety? Based on everything I've seen from data centers, what I have continued to recommend is that they shouldn't be next to homes at all. I agree. Sorry. I agree. Yeah, I agree. And I'd like to know that everyone, this is a general feeling. I mean, this is literally in my backyard, in back of my $600,000 house, in my organic growing, which is my business. And there are people there with kids. And I have asthma. We can do a whole list of things. And I have asthma. And I have asthma. And I have asthma. And I have asthma. But it's not a good idea. And if anyone here disagrees, let me know. I just said not next to homes. So I didn't have a distance. I didn't have a distance. All right. So my question is, will the developer pay for the deconstruction of these sites once data centers have changed or become obsolete? Who would clear up the space? Who would clear up the space? Who would cleanly decommission the site for us? Would that be a taxpayer thing? Or would that be something that would be put back on the businesses? Sure. So under state code right now, the only land use that has the ability for local government to require decommissioning bonds is utility scale solar. And we do have decommissioning bonds for all the utility scale solar sites that are being either built or operated in Frederick County. So if a data center were to go vacant or stop being utilized, the owner of the property would have to pursue some form of adaptive reuse or some other use for the property. If the property is not being used, then the owner of the property would have to resist. So we do have types of bonds that have been abandoned and decrease the quality of the bond, even if the property has been lost for social security reasons, the land use that we use today, goes against federal law. We have настоящely changed thatBook 11A, federal law standing on heat. So if you have a state dog of theBen simplesmente lost due to the construction, we are going to play بنsbeban yang the state dog that grid and that grid areurer the same on heat because one of the electricfuels each uses Ray demand from the dollar. Life is ridiculous and read Rick bringen has off Pentagon this and any tourist places are suspecting He's through offshore has exercise leスト realizing that there's going to be monorangable earthning but the유� Gothenheim rapidlanced in in total inflation over the entry that the has also你 no matter itselfthe kilo perfects courthouse expires in October. The one thing I would say about these structures is some of the challenges and adaptive reuse is like the coolest planning work, right? Because you get an opportunity to do something with something that isn't in use and you really you have a wide range of options to you. But in most cases, one of the limiting factors for adaptive reuse is utilities. And in this case, they will have substantial utilities on site that might even be somewhat of a limiting factor because of how substantial the utilities are and the cost for those. But yeah, that's that is not an issue that local governments can technically address right now, except for utility scale solar. Has that been something that you have seen anywhere in Loudoun County or Fairfax? No. You mean a data center that that has basically been abandoned? No. At this point, they're all heavily under use. You got to remember that right now we're we're in an AI boom. And so we're building a ton of data centers to accommodate the future growth of AI. One thing to keep in mind about that is data center does not equal AI data. AI happens inside of a data center. We are building a whole lot of data center space for potential AI. And so there's a big question of did did the AI need that much room? And, you know, we might get to a point where we realize that we have significantly overbuilt. And then you get. Into that situation where we could be in a concrete belt situation where we have overbuilt. But these data centers are also used for cloud storage. And there's a lot of cloud storage out there. And we are constantly creating more and more data. Now, the thing is, though, is there's a cost associated with storing that data. I mean, if you go and buy a terawatt of data storage from like AWS costs like $14 a month or something. So there's a cost associated with that to those. So at a certain point, the economics of it start to fall apart because they're not just going to endlessly build data center to put data in if no one's going to pay for it. So at a certain point, the consumer can only pay so much. So it is a good question into the future is what I'm getting at. Thank you for that. I just wanted to kind of like ask a general question, but my question actually does have to pertain to AI. So while I share a lot of the concerns that the people have brought forward, I am concerned about mass. You know, we do. Do you think there's a chance we could identify fuck, look like a product that we have purposely built inENE already or spent a lot of time, and make it a product that we are wanna make it highly they want out and online, and they will catalyze it. So, yeah. We'll see what happens on Tuesday. Yeah. Like Willam said, you know, data centers, there are companies that they've built for faculty activities where they're working for the first year and some are not doing the same. And that means that this will kind of be like a blank check situation for them. Will there be any binding restrictions on the type of data or workloads hosted, not just the physical activity on the property? And who enforces that once a tenant moves in? Who prevents a state or federal agency or a defense contractor from leasing these facilities after approval? Is there any visibility that the county has in that? And what mechanisms exist for a county to have ongoing visibility into what is actually running in the facilities? So, honestly, none. I was going to say the same. And the same applies for most other land use categories. The use is the use. Who is conducting the use is generally something that is not touchable from a legal perspective. And actually, can I add one thing to that? Because it's relevant to the water question as well. And this comes up a lot. In conversation, I have not been able to get a great answer yet on it. Is what happens if you have a violation like you're talking about? You know, you were talking about cutting them off. Can we actually cut them off? And also, in a drought situation, very often, like bottling plants, we might ask them, okay, you've got to stop because we've got, you know, same thing with like golf courses or car washes. We might be like, we're in a drought situation. You guys got to stop. We need to have enough for the, you know, residential or whatever. With a data center, we have no idea what's happening inside of it. It could be anything from TikTok videos to running our hospitals. And so, if you don't know what's happening inside of it, you really don't have the ability to have very good control over stopping them from doing that use. And I think it's a really big question when it comes to water. So, I think it's a very good concern. Can that be addressed in the process? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. No, we've evaluated in the context of, because there's a similar concern regarding if the user's a bank and then the equipment goes under bank franchise tax instead of the taxation that we would normally get for it. And from a land use law perspective, it is a challenge to try to pick and choose users because you need to be evaluating it from the user's impact, not the user that's using it. So, from that sense, no, I don't believe there's a local land use control that helps. But the proffer is legally binding, no? They are, but you can have illegal proffers and they will be disqualified if they are offered in a manner that is not appropriate. Okay, great. Thank you. Hey, y'all. Thank you so much for this experience. We've come so far as a county and I just couldn't be more proud to be in community with all y'all, especially with all of the things that we're about to face nationwide. It feels really good to be with such strong, stoic folk, and I'm really grateful. I was born and raised in rural Loudoun County and my family was driven out of their property that was there for 40 years because of environmental, developmental, and water distress. And my concern is the pollinators. We've talked about sound. It's always in relationship to human, but it doesn't affect the animals, the dogs, the cats, the pollinators. And these long wavelengths, it's not just about what we hear, but it's about what we feel. That resonates in our body and our nervous system, and it really disrupts our way of life in an agricultural environment. So, I think, you know, I think that's a big part of the challenge is that we're in an environmentally focused county. How do we resolve that? Is there studies on it? And what do we know? So, unfortunately, my expertise ends in the built environment and humans. I cannot speak to animals and how they react. There are people who can and they study them, but I don't want to say anything wrong. As part of the data center code that was released in April of last year, I think that we're going to have to make sure that we have the right data center code. In order to even put forth your application, you have to go onto the site and you have to measure what's there right now, because what's on your property and what's on your property could be totally different. And the effect of adding anything to that could be completely different. I give the example of if you're sitting in a nice quiet auditorium and you feel that tickle coming on and you know you have to cough, you know you have to cough, off, right? You're going to open up your bag and you're going to pull out a candy and everybody in this room knows that you're doing it because it's so quiet. You take that same situation, but now you're on public transportation. That noise level is higher already. You open up that candy, nobody has any idea what you're doing. You could drop stuff on the floor, nobody has any clue. So as part of the proffer, what we're doing, well not proffer, excuse me, code, is what we said was you have to measure what's there right now and then you have to prove through analysis if and how that is going to change. So measuring for this particular project is only looking at the land that's there right now and what it is and then by taking information from the developer saying this is what's going to be on our roof, this is, you know, the setback, this is how high our roof level is, that can all be put into an acoustic analysis and compared to what's there now. And our, and personally, it shouldn't change at all. Like that would be the... So my question too, I guess, is not just as much as how we hear it, but how do we feel the reverberations of it? This machinery you stated, so we have the generators on top that will likely be diesel, but the machinery inside the facility, I mean, that's putting off a lot of energy and the amount of electricity that's coming through, a lot of this hasn't been measured before. This is brand new in human history. Do we know what long form waves do to pollinators? Do we know how it affects our bees and our butterflies, our birds that are flying above these generators, our air quality? How does that affect our ecosystems? Have we measured that and is there... I think there's some, there has been some small studies on, not specifically data centers, but like, okay, there is the heat island study that just came out on data centers. So that's a little bit helpful. But in terms of the ecological impacts that you're talking about, I think that is understudied across the board, not just with data centers, but with all of our human uses. Because I think you're right, it absolutely does have an impact. I know I've definitely read studies about how birds are much louder in suburban and urban environments than they are in rural environments because they have to, you know, basically chirp over the noisy humans. So yeah, there's probably a huge dearth of information that should be researched. All right. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Supervisors and panelists, thank you for being here and doing this. She actually took one of my questions. My other question would be for Mr. Eric. As far as Frederick Water, providing water and taking wastewater, is the system already there or do you have to place the system for the data center specifically for the one in Clearbrook? Do you have to come across 81? Is there any planning for that to get the water to and from the area? Yeah. You're speaking of the lines. And currently in that application, you know, we have water and sewer lines across the interstate. Okay. Because Flying J, Caterpillar, they're all on water and sewer. So then would that be the same for the other lines? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So then what's the connection? Is that really what you're coming from that pool connection? No. And where are the works? Are they moving... Well, I mean, first the district district is medo.... the audience that Frederick County had promised them 125,000 gallons of water a day, not 35. So why is there a discrepancy? Yeah. What we've been telling people is on the data center side is don't ask for millions of gallons. We did an analysis based on the two data centers that have been applied for the application process here and deemed that 35,000 gallons is adequate for 800,000 square feet. Okay. The one, there's an Apple Valley Road has one. That's where we started the discussion. And we just carried that same discussion to the one that you're speaking of. Based on their size, they could go, what's that, two times, three times, because it's, I guess it's 2,400 square feet, or 2.4 million square feet. So that's how you get to bet that 100,000 gallon. Okay. And how many households is that 125,000 gallons of water? Well, these are ballparks, but 35,000 gallons in our community can serve about 200 houses. All right. So three times, 600 houses is an estimate. Okay. All right. Thank you. How you doing? Appreciate this. Full disclosure, I've worked in the data center industry reviewing site plans and designs. Does the planning commission have a final design for the data center? How many megawatts is the data center going to be? Yeah. There is not a final engineered design at the rezoning stage for the data centers. There is information provided or required to be provided now by state code and by local code that they provide an estimation of the substations and the transmission voltage to serve them at the time of what they know. And the local utility assists with that. So here is having looked at actual designs, cooling systems, the machinery that's in them, everything else. Until you know how many megawatts that site's going to be, everything we're talking here, water use, it's all vaporware. Okay. You need to know those things. And to give some credit to the data center industry is who here knows what PUE and WUE are? Okay. A couple of people. All right. That is one of their bottom line metrics. Okay. That the hyperscalers use to track power usage and water usage because that's their bottom line in addition to users. Okay. But until you know how many megawatts they plan on using and what type of cooling system, okay, everything else that goes into the data center, we're talking about vaporware stuff. Yeah. The planning commission needs, before anything is approved, you need an actual design. Okay. Or you need a design. Okay. Or you need a design. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I research for fun. So according to the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission for here in Virginia, from their report in 2024, a lot of what they report for the average data center in Virginia is not jiving with what was shared with us, both in the water usage, and I'm still wondering how we've been on water restriction most of five years and there's enough for a data center, but that's not my question. And thank you. But what we learned in the meeting on Tuesday and what's in this report, it just isn't adding up. And so my question is rather reflective because I think we'd all really genuinely like to hear these answers later. On Tuesday, they said that there were 400 permanent jobs, but that doesn't align. So what data has the county, you all, collected, not from the developer, to confirm that this is reasonable and feasible? And what is the average of permanent jobs for a data center of this size? And what types of education and training? And do they hire out or do they hire local? And any kinds of jobs are great, but what about the hundreds or thousands, or even thousands of residents who will be negatively impacted by the data centers? They work hard. They have jobs here. They pay taxes here. Some are working two and three jobs to achieve their dreams of living where they are. And they selected Frederick County for themselves, but they will lose significant real estate value, health, and peace. What research have you done about the W-E, W-U-E, so thank you. And what kind of research have you done about the W-E, W-U-E, which is the water usage effectiveness and the power usage effectiveness? And if we're going to have a data center, why aren't we taking a step back and finding the most economical and ecological ways to do it and be at the head of what the rest of the country is doing instead of listening to these things and looking at them along the highway? Thank you. I'll try to answer the jobs question from our perspective. As a land use planner for the county, we don't focus on the job creation as any sort of material benefit to the application. We concern ourselves with how many jobs are going to be on the site relative to how much traffic it generates. And to that end, data centers aren't terribly problematic in that respect. Now, the Economic Development Authority has had a focus on attracting data centers to Frederick County for some time, and it is very fair to say that as far as job creation, they are poor performers in that respect. And so I don't have an answer for you on the average for that is created for any particular data center. As you heard on Tuesday night, your planning commission doesn't believe their metrics relative to that individual project and was asking that same question you were. And I apologize if I didn't answer any of the questions that were in the rest of the statement. So I don't have an answer for you on that. Thank you. Sir, come on up. I think we briefly touched on this, but it would be helpful if you could go and expand on it and also then clarify the options at the end of it. Extreme weather events are occurring more often and more intensely. This manifests physically in the real world in many ways. Extreme temperature fluctuations that destroyed the blossoms of our valley's fruit trees, like what our local farms experienced this year. Extreme flooding, like we experienced last July during a storm. Extreme drought, like we have experienced for the last five years and been under water conservation advisories. Extreme cold, like this January. And extreme heat, like during El Nino events, which we are about to experience this year, where temperatures increased dramatically. During recent heat waves, thousands of people have died across America when temperatures were too high and they could not get air conditioning. During these events, we in the valley, we have been experiencing extreme heat waves. We in the valley have historically pushed the limits of our local energy grid to the point of potential blackouts. I think everyone in this room is familiar with those messages that we received. What assurances are there that the massive consumers of power and water, such as data centers, will be turned off in order to preserve human lives during extreme weather events? Could you expand on if certain proffers could be added to require data centers to be turned off during those emergencies? I can answer the tail end of that and then see if Julie has anything to add to the broader pieces of it. It would not be considered a legal proffer to obligate the electric utility to shut them off for any reason. We've explored that in detail. And then beyond that, the local land use authority ends to turn anybody off from an electric provider perspective. As Eric mentioned, there's a water authority. There's a consideration to be had there. Front Royal has their own electric utility. There might be something there. But from a Frederick County perspective, no local land use authority will govern turning people off from a power perspective. And then, Julie, I don't know if you want to add to that. No. I think you want to speak to the climate consideration. Well, not necessarily climate considerations, but I will speak to the grid aspect, which, you know, there has been discussions in the nation, not locally, but in the nation with certain states. I think Texas was one of them, considering curtailment during severe grid stress, basically, so that they don't risk taking down the grid. The challenge with that is curtailment. If the data centers, a lot of them cannot either flex their land. They can't either flex their load, which means they move it to a different region where maybe they have power. Some can do that. I've heard like Google, for example, can. But a lot of the other players cannot. They also cannot just shut down their load. Unless they're cryptocurrency or an AI training data center, they can't just shut the load down because they might be running hospitals. They might be running airlines. You know, we don't know. A lot of them are actually just leasing space to clients. And they... I don't think they actually know who the clients are necessarily or what the clients are doing. Maybe they know who they are because they know who they're billing. But, you know, they don't know necessarily what those clients are doing. So to your question, I don't think anyone has really been able to figure out how to do that effectively. Because curtailment basically means they're going to keep it online. So even if Texas does do that and they say, okay, we're going to cut them off when the grid is stressed, now they're going to run on their generators. And that's terrible for, as we talked about, air quality situations. So I think it's a very valid concern. I don't know what the answer is. It doesn't seem like we have a great one right now. Thank you. So with the water crisis right now in the country, especially in Utah, where they get fines if they use too much water. Like they can't water their garden. They can't water, like, goats. Like they had to... Everything's got to die right now. And they're building... The 44... Like 40,000 square foot data center there was approved against the people. And that uses a lot of water. The gas power plants use a ton of water. And of course they're going to be against it. But when they come in, they're going to get priority water, priority power. And so those people who are already suffering now, they're going to suffer a lot more. So it's not just them. It's going to come back to us. We're already in a severe drought. And I know they can't do it. And I know they said 35,000 or 100,000. And they also talked about the closed loop. And they also talked about how they don't really need to refill it. You fill it once and it's good to go. And they don't need to drain it. And so they were pushed on that. And so they did talk a little about, like, what if it goes down the drain? What are you going to do? Well, we're going to put it in the drain. Like, no, you're not going to put it in the drain. You're going to have to treat it. Well, it's a forever chemical. So you can never put that back into our system. Ever. And so that has to be paid attention to. Because they're taking it lightly. And they're doing what they're used to doing. They're used to not having to get permits. They're not used to having to, like, haul it off. It's a cost. But it needs to happen. Because that would affect the wells for sure. Because it goes into the Opec and the Opec feeds the wells. But they also get discounts. They also get discounted rates for electric, in case anybody didn't know that. They get discounted bulk rates. All these things are factors that we need to take into consideration. We're welcoming them in to do this to us. Even though they provide a service, what are they going to do to us once they're in? But there's 4,000 more data centers proposed to be built in the country. And in Texas, they have to shorten their shower. But they're still building hundreds in Texas now. And they're building in Florida. And they're on restrictions. And so these are all things, within three years, we will be maybe on drink only water. Because the power plants are coming up. And those use a ton of water. Which isn't talked about. But these are all factors. I know I'm done. I'm sorry. I might have missed it. Is there a question? Yes, ma'am. The question is, all these things I'm talking about, is there any way you could address those? Because I think it's really important to make us feel better about this proffer that says 100 and some thousand gallons. And then you say 35,000. And they think they're going to put it in the drain. And then. Yeah, Eric, I know we spoke about that after the meeting. Yes. And I guess the reason I keep talking about that 35,000 per 800. Because that's the guidance we're giving anybody that asks us if they want to do a data center. And there's a couple key components of that. We're not talking millions of gallons. So if the one down on Apple Valley Road, that's the equivalent of 200 houses. The one that's being talked about, I guess, north of here is 600 houses. They're just ballparking numbers of people. So there's not a significant impact on the water and sewer side of things from that demand level. We had Frederick Water only added 450 new houses to our services this past year. There was more throughout the county that weren't part of our system. So the drought concern is always out there. But this particular use, because of our limitation as to how much water we're going to provide to them, they're not going to be a significant contributor to causing problems for existing customers. We're also building. And I didn't go into it because that's not the intent of tonight's meeting. But our water service, the way we operate, we don't just have one source. We own nine quarries. We have five wells. So we're constantly and we buy from the city of Winchester, too, if we need. So we're constantly moving around to make sure we have water available. In the next two years. In the next two years, because we started another project, we're going to have 1.7 billion gallon reservoir available to us. I'm not encouraging, you know, let's have more development. But I'm pointing that out because our goal is to make sure that we don't have million gallon users. But as a community, as we grow, like we always have, we always have water available to us. When there's whole states in a drought, we should be more responsible about what we're doing because we don't want to have to cut people off. But you're going to be taking 10% of the Opecan to the state? Yes. You're going to be taking 13%. We've had4 million risk that we've lost petrol twice in the last 12 years in our electrical engineering building. And then we must actually letLet's put it this way. If some surface station is already we don't have our masks, we just have to get a lot of silence to make sure that's there. It's so fundamental. What do you mean you left 10%? Counting the million nan 네가 ash touchdowns collected in the most prawdy area has a little over an bond. Is this a sacrifice to your home? We might call it an exercise. and the creek is too low we're not going to touch it if we if we just had a big storm around here it's very turbid we're not going to touch the creek so we're only going to touch it when it's good water we're going to throw in a quarry and we're going to use the quarry water to service our customers from people that have wells that say i don't have water what are you going to do about it well i can't help you if you don't have water i can't help you but strategically if you think about a quarry structure the way frederick water operates we want the quarries to be full of water yeah so if the quarry has water the wells around us are going to have water also because that's the groundwater table we're all looking in general if the wells go dry and you're doing all you can do how do they get their water back because somewhere along the line they were shorted there's not a direct correlation that's what as i use the core example is a great one because if the quarry's full that's an indication what the groundwater level is so and we have quarries that are we have quarries that are 200 yards apart and they have different levels just because they're on different seams of groundwater i know you sound really confident but i'm not really confident just because of what's going on across the country and just you seem like a very competent person and i'd love to believe everything you say and i believe you're believing what you say but i just think what we're up against is a beast and you're not going to know what kind of beast until they actually build it because the equipment they didn't even want to name certain things because they say the it could change by the time they get around to building it so we don't even know exactly what they're going to build so these are all factors that we're up against and i don't even know exactly what they're going to build so we don't even know exactly what they're going to build and so i think it's important to think about those people thank you teresa and thank you for coming to the meeting on tuesday please stay engaged and we appreciate you being here thank you and just a comment i really appreciate this atmosphere since the sarando uh gathering so i'm going to make a point it's not really a question but from your website it states that failure to maintain the vegetative buffer is a violation of the county's zoning ordinance and can be enforced by the county by the county criminally that's what it states but it has been observed at looking at the solar farms the upper yards that are in place are now failing the trees are dying they're not maintained and they're we're coming up short they're doing 20 30 40 replantings and we're never going to see a mature buffer for these so when we're talking about 200 it's been mentioned here time and time again we're talking about 200 feet of separation going to be vegetated but if it's not maintained it's for nothing and we're going to come out as the losers on the end of this so i would stress with this audience if you're concerned about the water if you're concerned about air pollution and noise the pollinators you're going to have to get on board with some type of regulations that are going to emphasize trees in this county and until that happens you're going to be on the losing end of any battle not just data centers but every development that comes to this county thank you thank you sarah and i and sir i hope you've seen some activity on the solar farm recently with the failing buffer we have been working with them and and we're going to continue to force them to replant all the dead stock and take better care of it they did a terrible job the first time around you're not incorrect about that sir thank you hi i have three quick questions they'll be quick um one of them thank you alexis for bringing up the tonal noise concerns i don't know if anybody's aware of tammy clark who's dedicated her entire career 25 years she's an industrial hygienist working in oklahoma she is working with animals and she has seen hens lay 50 percent fewer eggs livestock losing 10 to 20 percent of their weight so tonal noise is very is very important. My concern is also what other people have mentioned. You have children at home, their brains are developing, tonal noise affects their cortical development, you know, and we don't know what it's going to do to a developing fetus. And I really think the counting, this 200 feet easement, it's a joke. I mean, I would move. I absolutely would move. My next question, and then I'll let Alexis add into that, was did I read properly that our business computer tax is $1.25 per hundred? That's right. So there, thank goodness, I don't remember what year it was, but a number of years ago, the Economic Development Authority sponsored an initiative to have the board assume that the business computer tax would be $1.25 per hundred. The supervisors adopted data center tax rate that was set at $1.25. It has been unmodified since then and still exists in the county code. It's not currently utilized. And there's certainly conversations amongst the elect officials currently whether or not that rate's appropriate. It's a half or a third of other communities that have data centers. When it was adopted, it was a different time regarding data centers and the public awareness and the EDA was really committed to attracting them here. Certainly a changing landscape of the data center. It's a different landscape than it is now. Thanks, Leslie. Leslie's our local historian and a generally involved individual. Thanks for being here. And just for comparison for everybody who does have a business in Frederick County, we are paying $4.86 on our business equipment. I personally had over a million dollars in equipment that I was paying on. Single proprietor, two employees. That's a lot of money I spent. And these data centers are going to come in and pay $1.25. I ask all of you to really think through this. This is insanity. Shame. Absolute insanity. And I promise this is my last one. This is towards Eric. I love that you say you're going to cut off the water, but I really do fear that they're going to come in and say, oh, my gosh, Winchester Medical Center is running on our AI. We can't shut them off. I love this. You are very passionate about this. I'm very passionate about turning off the water, but I just don't think you will be able to. That's also an extreme response on our behalf. Our goal is to make sure everybody's doing things properly, that we've got the proper treatment in place, and we understand what they want to discharge, and we're prepared for it. Thank you. Yes. First, I want to thank the panel here and also the Board of Supervisors. I'm a resident of... I've been in Frederick County for 25 years. I'm a landowner, and I'm on a well. I have a tactical question. I have a strategic question. My tactical questions are for the panel, and I'd like to hear from the Board of Supervisors, not now maybe, but maybe they can print an article in the paper. But I want to start with some facts and some numbers that everybody here can understand. In the United States, there's 5,000 data centers plus... Okay. In the United States, there's over 5,000 data centers. There's over 5,000 data centers that are in the United States. 655 of them are in Virginia. 199 of those data centers are in Loudoun County. Okay. So basically, there are more data centers in Virginia than there is in China, Netherlands, Germany. Okay. And what I'm worried about, okay, strategically, is the Trojan horse that's coming to Frederick County and allowing these data centers in. So can we afford, constraint-wise, 200 data centers in Frederick County? Okay. You talk about 35,000 gallons of water being used for a data center. If you go on and Google the average data center, they use 300,000 gallons of water. A super data center uses 5 million gallons of water. So 35,000 is a drop in a bucket compared to the average averages. Something doesn't jive here with the numbers. So how many data centers, this is the question I have strategically for the Board of Supervisors. How many data centers can Frederick County support? Can we support 200 data centers like Loudoun County? What are our resources? Okay. All I know is when we had zero degree temperatures in January during the cold spell, we were asked to cut our power to support things. What would happen if we have zero degree temperatures? Okay. What would happen if we have zero degree temperatures and we have data centers? Who cuts power? The data centers or the public here? So my question is, this number you're talking about, 35,000, seems to be awfully low compared to the average data center. Can you explain that? It's real simple. It's up to the data center. If they want to locate here, that's the amount of water we'll make available for them. Isn't there supposed to be 11 there? I'm sorry? Isn't there supposed to be 11? There's supposed to be 11 data centers in that Clearbrook area? The data center rezoning for the Clearbrook area has 10 to 11 buildings listed on their concept. Okay. So what's the total? The 35,000 I talk about is 35,000 gallons a day per 800,000 square feet of data center. So the Clearbrook one is 2.4 million square feet, what they're proposing, and that's about that 100,000 gallons a day. Based on our resources, and this is a strategic one. So how much water can data centers use for the county on a daily basis? Has that question been answered by the Board of Supervisors? Thank you, sir. Okay. The format for the meeting wasn't set up to do a Q&A with the Board of Supervisors. I know. And I'm not trying to cut you off, but this applies to the other folks as well. Remember, we wanted to slot this time for question and answers. The policy statements are wonderful, and we appreciate them, but they're better directed to your decision makers at those public hearings. Sir, do you have any questions? Do you want to have? Okay. Yeah, thank you. All right. Yep. Thank you, sir. I wish we could get some better answers, though. Thank you, sir. Yeah. Hi. Good evening, and I want to thank all the panel members and the Board of Supervisors for being here tonight. I think this question might be for Alexis. Could you please clarify at that 200-foot easement level, what level of DBAs would we expect to hear from a data center? All right. So that's akin to how long? As long as a piece of string. All right. Right. So the way that the data center code is written is it is a, it's based on what's there right now. All right. So we, we in the Acousta community, not me, we go and measure what the noise level is there. The data center developer then says, based on our design and how much is going to be on the roof, maybe if there's any walls on the roof to stop any of that sound coming over, if there's any vegetation, if there's any berms, what will that noise level be once this data center is built? It then goes to Wyatt's team. So is there a cap? So right now the code limits the noise to be produced across industrial property lines to 70 DBA. 70 DBA. That is loud. That is loud. That is loud. That is loud. That is loud. That is loud. That is loud. Now what elects the process that Alexis is referring to though, is because these are all legislative considerations, we're not evaluating them on if they're only going to produce 70 DBA. We're saying, what is the ambient noise level at the property line right now? And after you build it, what will it be? And then we convey that to the board of supervisors before they make their decision. Because in the case of the, one of the ones that's been through the work session process, the ambient noise levels were around 45 DBA after construction. And so that is provided under construction and their initial materials, they were going to raise it to 65 DBA. It's a massive change in the experience of noise by those residents at that property line. They've realized that they need to work on that. They've provided a new analysis and changed their equipment. We've sent that to Alexis. She hasn't had a chance to review it cause we only send it to her last week. But that's the process that we're going through. Well there's a hard cap at 70 DBA, our philosophy on approaching these applications is to review the ambient noise level. level against what the end is going to be so that the board knows what the impact is going to be on individuals. Okay, I really appreciate that detailed answer, and I don't want to feel like I set you up for a gotcha, but I would like to point out that research has demonstrated that at 38 dBA, birds like our eastern bluebird go through behavioral changes that lead to a loss of success in reproduction rates. So we are thinking here about taking one of the greatest conservation stories in bird world in the last few decades, the restoration of the eastern bluebird to our fields and farmlands, and subjecting these animals to sounds that will disrupt their ability to reproduce. I just, I know that wasn't a question, but I would like everyone to consider what that means not to establish a law that would restrict the reproduction of birds. So I would like everyone to consider what that means not to establish a cath in areas such as Frederick County with its gorgeous fields and farmlands. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my question is mainly for Julie, but I'm hoping Alexis might have something to add as well. You mentioned earlier that you would not support a data center being next to any habitat. How would you support a data center being next to any habitat? I think that's a great question. You mentioned earlier that you would not support a data center being next to any habitat. How would you support a data center being next to any habitat? I think that's a great question. What kind of distance would you recommend where it's no longer next to the home? How far away do you think it should be? I thought I avoided that by answering the way I did. So I, here's the thing. Seeing what's happening in Loudoun County and Prince William County, this is something I tell the industry, because I sometimes give presentations to the industry if they're willing to listen. So I go to green data center conferences and try to basically convince them to, you know, take a real look at the scale and the scope of what they're doing and to actually recognize the real concerns of communities on water, air, and all these cumulative impacts that are piling up. And basically tell them they're participating in a tragedy of the commons and they've got to stop before they completely destroy themselves. So, because I like the internet. I do actually like what data centers do. I would like for them not to destroy themselves. That being said, what is too close to residential? I think it really comes down to what density of residential are we talking about? Where is this exactly located? What does the comprehensive plan say about this area? You know, basically a data center is like a dead space in the planned environment. It's completely fenced off. It hinders any kind of connectivity. It makes the area not walkable. It hurts the environment. It's not sustainable. It's not sustainable. It's not sustainable. It's not sustainable. And so, I think that's really the area that I would recommend. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, you have to put it in a place that's planned for industrial or planned for some sort of flex industrial. Is that your answer? Are you happy? Do you have any thoughts on that? So, if you want me to weigh in, it costs the data center developers a lot more money to put it closer to the property line. property line, it's going to be a lot easier to do that if there's a setback because there's loss of energy due to distance. So it behooves them to not put it near the property line because it's going to cost a lot of money to mitigate. Thank you both. So I have a question, obviously, you living in Northern Virginia. It's kind of obviously listening to people. We don't really know what we're getting in this data center. So you could agree to it and it could become our worst nightmare. And how do you say no at that point once you agree to it? And so my concern is that initially the original proposal was to have like a hotel, a warehouse and other stuff and the concern for traffic. But then come to find out, depending because we don't know what they're going to use, if they can discharge the water, they may have to either build a facility on site or truck it out. So that causes traffic and more noise. And my concern is that, you know, maybe the county wants to, maybe they can't completely say no, but there has to be a way, I'm assuming because you've probably seen experience, like once you say yes, that's it. There's really no way to turn back restrictions on stuff. If you don't know what you're agreeing to, you can't say, okay, now we're not going to do that because you've agreed basically to allow them to go ahead. And I'm sure you've seen that. out in county, they say one thing, it turns around to be another, which is, I'm assuming, the experience for Northern Virginia. So what I would say is that, I mean, in terms of like zoning violations, like they didn't meet the setback they were supposed to, that's enforced, you know, and they do go in and they say, you know, they make sure that their landscaping is replanted if it's dying, and they do actually enforce that kind of stuff. Where you really run into a problem, though, is enforcement on noise. Once it's done, this is why the proactive noise studies are so critically important, because this has happened in Prince William, it's happened in Loudoun. Once they're up and operating and you've got a noise violation, it's a tedious process to get them to actually fix it, even if it is a blatant violation. I mean, look at, I think it's called, is it Great Oak? I think it was Great Oak and Prince William and Amazon Data Center. They went back and forth for years. It cost the county tons of money, Prince William County. It cost them tons of money in the legal fees, in the analysis and everything to sit here and get them to just abide by the noise ordinance, because you're dealing with a mega corporation. You can't just go knock on their door with the sheriff telling them, turn down your fans, you know, turn down your noise. It's a much harder issue to enforce. So I guess my concern would be, because they could haul trucks, they could add added noise, traffic. Clearbrook is already stressed with traffic. I think they're going to have to do something about it. I think they're going to have to create anél, traffic and stuff like that within the comprehensive plan and the requirements of what you guys are bound to do or what you can do, because you can't tell people you can't apply for this. But even if we went in that direction with data centers to scale it down, I mean, you know, we have like an airport, we have a racetrack and those create noise. And if data centers are creating, why can't you combine that stuff into one area where the noise already exists? You know, that area wasn't maybe natural. I don't think we should be using that anymore. I think we should be using that anyway. I think we should be using that anyway. I don't think we should be using that anyway. I don't think we should be using that anymore. um the good thing is having um those things as well as you notes that the device as well as now it's known for industrial, but that was farmland. We had Texas longhorn cattle behind us. So it wasn't originally intended, maybe a later on date, but there were farmers. So it was always agricultural and residential up until recently. And so I think that, you know, 11 to 10 to 11 data centers is unreasonable without the idea of understanding what we're agreeing to, if it's going to be trucked out, if there's going to be more traffic added to our roads and what that looks like for us. And that's added noise above what you've planned for, or they're even testing for, because they don't even know if you will allow them to discharge the water. So, I mean, those are some things I think should be taken into consideration, scaling it down and not agreeing to 11 and looking at other options to make it more viable because noise is on Flying J side. There's access to the roads, but not buffering it up or putting it right next to a residential area. Thank you. And I just had one comment to your, your statement. There as to why they are trying to locate where they are, because folks, we don't go and pick these sites for these private developers, right? By the time we even know that they're trying to do it, they probably have a property under contract and they have, you know, agreements in place and they've started their studies. And then they come and tell us they want to get an entitlement to build something. But one of the biggest challenges we've had with dealing with data center development is their desire to be as close as possible to major electrical infrastructure. And Frederick, the majority of our electrical infrastructure is in rural areas. So it's a perfectly legitimate concern. What you're saying there, would it be ideal? Put it next to Gunther's track, put it next to the airport. And then some of them may be willing to do that, but then we have to deal with how they haul power across the rest of the county to get there. And if there was one lesson learned in Loudon, it's you can't control the transmission at all, and it'll carve up those rural areas in ways that you're not going to love. And that's, how they're by right. Well, we've got to be very careful about that. And we're going to be careful about that. I mean, I think the way that the bill that was passed in the Senate billed out went that way. And I'm not saying it means that we should only approve them at the major electrical infrastructures, but that's the battle that's fought there is, you know, them wanting to be near it from a cost perspective. We generally agree it'd be better for them to be near major electrical infrastructure because it won't result in them hauling the lines across the county. But thank you. Thank you for your comments. Yeah. Spam. As someone going through cancer right now, I live a middle road. I live a spit away from where they want to be. So I'm not going to be the only one who gets to the hospital. But I'm not going to be the only one who gets to the hospital. I'm not going to be the only one who gets to the hospital. I'm not going to be the only one who gets to the hospital. I'm not going to be the only one who gets to the hospital. I can tell you, it's not a good idea. I can tell you, it's not a good idea. It's really not. It's bad for everything. There is no good reason to put the data centers near houses. People are going to suffer greatly. And it will hit a lot of young people, our children and everyone. So if we can say no, it's best to say no. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for this and for answering so many questions out here. Wyatt, this may be something you can probably speak to. We all got our property tax bills in the mail. And we saw those numbers that we were talking about. We're all paying more than we were paying last year. 4.8 plus percent. If you're a small business owner, you're paying on your equipment there. We see the data center line come in replacing whatever military industrial at a lower rate than what that was rated as. And we're all paying more than we were paying last year. 4.8 plus percent. We're all paying what that was rated as. So they're at 1.25. You're saying that those numbers were old. What are you negotiating the data centers with? What numbers are you bringing them? What do they think they're going to be paying? Because if we're all seeing that 1.25 or 1.5% on our tax bills, how are you negotiating with the data centers when you guys don't even know what you're going to be taxing them at? Or are you taxing them at that lower rate? And if I could ask one more. Yeah. Yeah. I think one of the things we've seen in our data centers is when equipment values go down in those buildings, one of the major things we've heard is we need the data centers to pay for high schools and to pay for all these things. When their equipment values go down and they're now paying less for their equipment, are we just going to have to get more data centers to fill that void? Where's the end cap? Yep. I'll cover a couple of those topics. And if any of the panelists want to jump in as well. To be clear. with data centers on what they pay. They're like any other business and they pay the rate that's assigned to them. And right now that would be the data center tax rate at $1.25. That was adopted in 2020, as Leslie reminded us, and hasn't been touched since. There's not, Middletown Data Center might actually be paying that rate on their computers. They're really small. They're not an industrial scale. That's what these ones that are trying to locate here are anticipating that they will pay as well. And we're not working behind the scenes or anything to agree to any other rates. Now you brought up another topic about equipment refresh and depreciation. So I've heard a couple of different number of years that the servers last in these, but more often I hear somewhere between three to seven years that they do their refreshes. Sometimes it's three to five, sometimes it's five to seven. They completely replace the computer equipment on schedules and then the taxable value goes back. Back up because it's new. Frederick County does have an updated depreciation schedule that is competitive with other counties like Prince William and others so that they do depreciate over the first five years down to a minimum rate that I think is maybe like 15 or 25%, which is actually higher than most other depreciation schedules. But that's how that works. Now, communities that have these have seen fluctuations and challenges with that, with Loudon experiencing Prince William during the pandemic, and the COVID pandemic and the chip shortage, they had budgeted for them to go ahead and replace those equipments because they had been for years, replacing on a refresh cycle. And then the chip shortage occurred and they literally couldn't get new computers. So they extended those out. So it's certainly something you have to be careful about. Julie was talking earlier about the sales tax. I feel like if Virginia makes them pay sales tax on the equipment again, those refresh cycles are gonna change to their benefit and they're gonna string those computers out even longer than they can. But do any of the panelists have any additional thoughts on those topics? I'll just add one little thing. The rate currently in Loudon County and I think in Prince William is 415. So that is significantly lower than, Ural's rate is significantly lower than. It was adopted at a time where- I'm just saying. No, no, it's fair. It was adopted at a time where the Economic Development Authority was trying to attract these things and they didn't wanna be anywhere near us, right? It was before, before CHAT GPT was replaced and the demand spilled out of Northern Virginia as it has over the past five years. And it's certainly a topic that I'm sure is fresh on the board members' minds before this meeting and even more so after hearing it again tonight. Can I ask a quick follow up on that? Yeah, of course. Are there, what are the plans for the board and the development community or the development group to, what are your plans to raise those rates? To look at those rates, is there a timeline? Do you guys have any plans to raise those rates on the data centers? Yeah, I can't speak for our elected officials on whether they're gonna raise or change the tax rates on any given basis, but yeah, I apologize. I can't speak for that. Thank you. Yes. So I guess, sorry. I guess I have a lot of thoughts, but I guess one thing I'm trying to figure out, so we got the sheet and I feel like I've been hearing a lot about limitations and hands tied with jurisdiction, regulation being not a county issue, but a state issue. You know, we couldn't shut off the electricity if the grid was really taxed, but we could shut off the water. And it just seems like we're left throwing our hands up and putting the responsibility someplace else. And it feels a little bit like we're tying our own hands here. So I guess my question is, why are we waiting to have somebody else have to take up the mantle on some of these issues as opposed to handling ourselves before some of these issues come up? And lastly, the only thing I wanna note as well is that a lot of these valid concerns are being raised. There's really only been one person on stage who I haven't seen rolling their eyes at concerns, and it's very appreciative. So thank you. Oh man. So on that last bit there, I apologize if any facial expressions have been misinterpreted. I really appreciate everybody being here and sharing your concerns, and I think they're all valid. Now, regarding the first comment. There's a reality of local state and federal abilities. Local government is bound by this. And then we all remember from our civics class and the overview, but it's a reality local governments live with every day. So we haven't thought about it. tied our own hands, the structure of our country has. That's the reality of what we deal with. And there was a second question in there that I might have missed, but do any of the panelists want to add anything for that? I just want to put in a plug that there is the Virginia Data Center Reform Coalition, and we are trying to get state-level reform because we're really, I mean, truthfully, you're exactly right. Everybody is pointing the finger at everybody else, and that is what's been happening for the last four years. And so we need our legislators to stand up. We need our governor to stand up. We need DEQ to stand up. We need all of these entities to stop pointing at each other and each one of them to actually take action. Yeah, it is. And I'll go to the next speaker in a second, but it was incredibly disheartening because there was multiple state-level data center reform bills that simply failed, and they're still debating the sales tax initiative. So I say this a lot when we're talking about the data center reform, but I think it's a really important thing to do. The impact of power. And as I speak to this community right now who's very concerned about data centers, I generally divide power into a couple of different categories, but there's a transmission and generation issue that is somewhat out of our hands. And then there's a distribution issue that our local electric cooperatives can help with and set rates and balance. But I want people to understand out of that is whether there's data centers in Frederick County or not, your power bills are going to be affected by, you know, the regional changes. So if you come here tonight and you think, you know, and then Frederick County chooses not to allow any data centers in, don't think that the advocacy regarding that issue is one just because we don't have them. You need to speak to your state legislators regarding that matter. And that's the different feelings. I apologize. Go ahead. I feel like I already know the answer, but who fixes what the data center breaks? So if there's health concerns or health problems, is that just on us? If there's, if there's infrastructure issues with bad or empty wells, higher energy costs, increased use of water or electricity with our bills, and what about us being a target for international communities that might want to bring us harm? Yeah. I can say from my perspective, the goal of my department's work is to do the best we can to ensure that those impacts don't occur. Beyond that, we're not involved in necessarily fixing all of them. We have worked in grants before when there's issues in the community and would like to see that fixed. But I think that's a good question. I think that's the way to go. And I think we need to do whatever we can to assist. Go ahead, Julie. Yeah. I was just going to also add in there, DEQ is responsible for some of this as well. And so pushing on them to have more robust consideration of cumulative impacts. Because right now, the minor permits, the synthetic miners that they're approving for all these generators, and now they're starting to actually approve gas turbines under, they are taking a very lax approach to it, and are actually applying a lot of the monitoring in our, you know, they don't have access toanci filters water. They have to follow guidance in this defense bill, to leave their الط queats on the Osman take care of that, or singe przedstaw begin getting involved with it than we need to. And so the DEQ, and these are price decirers they are characteristics of us asная!", our D-1s CB 28666 00 Mandarin border只是 D-1 E plus h Interim atéh Giuliano Es siis ICÉs que308 tan achievement ​​p raiseem tadam att milestone P terminal bills, that's the SCC. That's part of their consideration of all these different rate cases. And that's who pays for the transmission lines, who pays for the incremental increase in generation that's needed for all this load, and who pays for the capacity cost increases as the supply of power gets more and more constrained and the price of it goes higher and higher, especially during those winter weather and heat wave events. So there's a lot of different entities that have responsibility in this. And I would urge you to, again, look us up, PEC, Piedmont Environmental Council. We're doing a lot of research in a lot of these spaces. And we're trying to equip people with the tools of who to contact. But being here is a great first step. So I'm glad everybody's here. Sorry. I'll just add from the noise perspective, written into the data center code says that, so after you do your ambient noise measurement, and then you go ahead and you do the modeling to say, this is what our noise level will be, within 12 months of being built, you actually have to confirm that that's what happened. And if it doesn't, there's repercussions. And that actually needs to be done every five years. That takes account for the aging of equipment on the roof. It tends to get louder if it's not maintained. And so it's every five years after they're allowed to start operating. So there's a check. Okay. And are there any, like, as far as the safety concerns with us, being part of the data grid, is there anything that the... I think that is a question that's been raised in Congress. If you look up Subra, Suhas Subramaniam, Senator, he's actually raised that question before Congress. And I mean, I don't think we have a great answer for it. I mean, who knows what the future holds, but it is concerning. All right. Thank you. Hi, thank you all for being here and putting yourselves back into the fire line of public opinion. I appreciate it. My question, as we're all trying to decide what's best for our community, particularly our board of supervisors, have any of you, particularly you, Julie, who live in Loudoun County and have seen it all, have you seen any positive impacts on communities from these big data centers and not the little ones we've had for forever? Are there any? Yes, I think that is the key qualifier at the end there, because the smaller data centers that we had, I like to refer to them fondly as the QQA. And I think that's a key qualifier at the end there, is that we're not creating that big of a burden in Loudoun County. They were not necessitating massive new transmission lines. They were not requiring hundreds of diesel generators. They weren't doing all of these things that are now occurring. So I think that what we get in terms of benefit is the revenue. I'm going to be honest. I mean, I'm going to be honest here. We get a lot of revenue from these data centers, but, you know, we also are charging for $4.15. We also have the most robust fiber network on the planet. And we also have 199. What was it? What was the number that someone gave? 199 of them? You know, so. 655. Well, in Virginia, but in Loudoun County, we have like 190. So, I mean, do you want 190 of them so you can have the budget we have? Like, I don't think it was worth it. I don't think it was worth it. I don't think it was worth it. So, I think that's my point. So, I would say no. There's really no benefit other than we wouldn't want to lose the revenue that we currently have because it would completely devastate our budget. Thank you. Hi. I love in Attorney Fox's suggestion option number two, which is to take them out of our county zoning ordinances as a use. And I also would love to take them out of the comprehensive plan. I would also love to take them out of our EVA strategy and our comprehensive plan. So, thank you very much, Attorney Fox. And I wonder, is that, I mean, that is a legal way to keep them out of our county. I have another question. Okay. Do you want me to answer the first one? Yes. Okay. So, the legal memorandum was handed out, and I am not an attorney. She's referring to Andy Fox, who's the county attorney, and the memorandum he wrote on that. And the second option in there for the board to consider was, moving the use as an allowed use anywhere in the county. And you might not, when I finish, you might not clap because the rest of that, you know, suggestion he had is that there's a major legal liability to banning them entirely in the county. Land use law generally contemplates these concerns of being arbitrary and capricious. And if you take uses out entirely, there's the question of whether or not you're in a county that's allowed to use them. And I think the legal memorandum was handed out, and I think that's what's so important in a county like this, is that we're acting appropriately under that legal landscape. And the example I'll give is, and it's across the country, is many communities still have a use called adult retail in a lot of their ordinances, which is the dirty bookstores and everything like that. And you'd think, why would they even have that? We don't want that anywhere in the county. And there was a landmark case for somebody who entirely took that out as a use, and then lost on a challenge to that, and had an adult retail establishment. establishment put into their community in a place that they didn't want it. So it's generally good legal and land use planning practice to not entirely remove uses as there's a potential that you're going to be challenged and get it somewhere that you won't. And the last analogy I use for that is just something I apply to growth in generally, which it's a lot like water. It's very difficult to stop entirely. And if you try to, it will go to places that you don't want it to go to typically. But you had a second question, Leslie. Well, that made me ask another question. Can we give them a 15,000 square foot, 15,000 square or 15,000 foot setback then? Or a mile setback on the property line? Yeah. So what Leslie's talking about is another approach communities have, which is to put restrictions on them that are so prohibitive that they can't locate anywhere. And that's a sliding scale consideration, right? So if it's a mile setback and there's a lot of water, then it's a mile setback. And if it's a mile setback and there's not a parcel in the county that's a mile wide, you're going to face the same potential for a legal challenge for being arbitrary in there. But you can put substantial standards on them that mean that they can only be in really certain places and they have to look a really certain way. That is certainly within the prerogative of land use. Yeah. Sorry, I'll just throw in there. One of the other things that we've been encouraging are especially the town. So this is different because this is a county, but at the town level, we've been encouraging them to not allow any data centers over 40,000 square feet. And the reason we picked that number, because that's the size of, I think, a small grocery store. And so we were trying to pick a number that was basically like you could have a small enterprise data center associated with an educational institution or something like that, but it wouldn't be a hyperscale data center. You wouldn't be able to have a hyperscale data center. Just throwing it out there for thought. Square footage limitations are generally very defensible as long as they give them a reasonable economic chunk, right? You can't say only 1,000 square feet, right? Or something really small. But yeah, that's a good point. Well, that makes me question my idea of having an ordinance that includes heat transfer and gray water use and making it the most sustainable that this country has ever seen, right? Like if you ask for that and a limitation on size or having a limitation on how big it could be, even maybe less than 10 acres, or even having, a zoning that's so small in our comp plan, could that work? You mean like an area in the comp plan that is, you know, Very small. Yeah, that's certainly something. But remember, comp plan is policy in that respect. So you would still be reliant upon the board complying with their comp plan for requests that come before them. But yeah, I mean, all those are tools in the toolbox for controlling kind of where these things are. Okay. Mr. Pearson, there has been a 73% loss in the biodiversity, population numbers in the last 50 years. I would love to know when we see all the agenda items and projects coming forward at the request of these developers, how we can ask the planning department, the county to include more of the impacts that they have on our environmental health and natural resources for specific areas that these projects are impacting. So you have a list of pros and concerns, you know, when you give your presentations. And I would like to know how we can speak up for the loss of creation, not like a snail, but like the impact in more maps of our watershed and the percentage of our tree canopy that would be lost per district. Is that possible? So I guess what you're asking is during or in the evaluation of applications for development, that there's additional review prepared by staff to document the potential impact and loss of habitat, wildlife. Is that something you could build a risk oggi at your website or service, and how can I see decisions being made regarding how we kind of make cuts if we get anymore government votes talked about through all of this, over to Mr. Beam,ניםобраз haciendo mo church and coit cart info. Sure. Thank you all for your nice, funny, absolutely stiffness. You know, there's every and ever was writing back there was more so about thinking towards the future there's a lot that the planning community uh the planning committee thinks about locally and where they position these things but have they thought nationally towards that like threat of war if they're hitting infrastructure then that kind of paints a target on like our valley like our area um just yeah no it's an interesting concept and planning is somewhat of an evolving field i can remember a time where like climate resilience and things like that weren't necessarily part of local planning programs when they've made their way in to plan for changing existential threats to humanity terrorism i know in communities that have those existing threats or have experienced them have been worked into local comprehensive plans i can say from the frederick county perspective the threat of terrorist attacks is not something that is part of the adopted comprehensive plan and it's not necessarily something that we're thinking is going to be part of the plan that we're working on right now but it is a logical planning consideration if if the community feels like it's something that needs to be taken into account in the planning process yeah okay yeah and my my second one would be um you have a lot of these checks in place legally for um for um if they if they go against some of the ordinances what if they just decide to pay it like what what happens if they do they go to court it takes a long time to hit and then they just decide to pay it is there anything like check checks that occur after yeah payment like um those gaps there maybe and a couple of right project guys that we'll look at that right but one is exactly as this is to end the process and i'm assuming it's right it's still probably that times under a certain level that cases like this would actually be law enforcement if i just and that's an tape tomorrow become routines if they want to come to court apparently it would supposed to be the um understanding part of uh of the unit planning plan for example inorgium for things like sarong pятся uh i'd to place an injunction on the individual who's violating the ordinance to stop doing what they're doing to violate the ordinance and remediate the issue that they've created. So it would be directed by the courts for them to do something in the same way that they do in other instances. Now, I want to recognize the reality of what we've dealt with over the years with national home builders and other companies with lots of resources, be them legal or otherwise. They have the capability of drawing out legal proceedings over multiple years, and that's a reality that we would face likely in a data center application that went sideways. Julie mentioned that I think one of the other communities dealt with that on noise ordinance violations. It can be a challenge to enforce. I know that Frederick County is a sophisticated organization, and we try to use all the levers possible to compel compliance. And one of the ones we've been contemplating, if we have to use it, that we've considered in the past for other uses is the DEQ air quality permits that are issued for the generators come up for renewal, and they have to be signed by the local zoning ordinance or zoning administrator for compliance. And we thought if we ever got into a prolonged issue, that would be one of the ways we'd hit them is to try to make sure that we could pull the DEQ air permit and not sign that, which puts them in a really tenuous position. But that's how communities think about this. We've got a legal mind on our in-house council, and we bring in outside council, and we need it to fight those legal battles. I hope that kind of answers your question. So, yes, ma'am. Yes. Excuse me. Thank you. I'm not sure if this point has come up this evening, so I wanted to bring it up. Both of the data centers, hope you can hear me. I'm sorry, short. There we go. Both of the data centers that are being proposed for Frederick County currently, the Clearbrook and the Kernstown centers, are proposed to be built by, they focus an additional episode on the farm service program. And they're being happy enough to do it, a little later this year. So, today is a過來 for the seç�+. But I will mention. A couple of things. The first of thesecommany steps are actually not I know that because I have been to a meeting that the Winchester Gateway planned for boards of HOAs near their proposed facility. But what is to say that the new owners will follow the promises that the current investors are making so freely and so easily? Thank you. Yeah, absolutely. And thank you for being here. By the way, we ran over a little bit. It's 837 or so. Nobody else line up. We'll work through everybody else that's left in line, and then we're going to head towards a conclusion tonight. But to answer your question, proffers run with the land. They're attached to the property in question. In Frederick County, we require them to be recorded on the deed documents so it's a buyer beware to anybody purchasing it that they're going to be bound by those proffers the same way they're bound by covenants or other deed restrictions. But you said two things. You said proffers and you said promises. And I work in land use a lot and people who come in and participate in these public hearings. We get to hear developers talk about things that sound great but don't get written into the proffers, and promises are worth nothing after the decision is made. So we always encourage and you'll hear my staff clarifying when the developer is sometimes saying something. Yeah, that's not a proffer currently for your always consideration. Just be aware. It might sound good. But if it's not written into that or some other agreement, it's not enforceable. And it becomes particularly pertinent for us when projects get approved a while back, 20 years go by. Different developers agree. associated with it. And those promises may be remembered by the community members who came out to the public hearing, but we're unable to enforce them. And even the elected officials are different. So it's a concern. It's something we think about daily when we're dealing with these things. Hope that helps. Yeah. Hello. I just wanted to come up here and say that I moved here last year from Hagerstown, Maryland. I grew up there most of my life. So I saw it go from a rural area to a literal Amazon warehouse hellhole. So I came here looking for nature and peace and quiet and a better job. But unfortunately, I've come here and I've just come to another concrete hellhole. I've come to a drought. I was not expecting to come up to these issues and come to these city council meetings and have to fight for a community I just came into. I want to note that there is very little representation here tonight for the groundwater impact, for animal life and environmental impact, on health impacts, on legal limitations of these centers, what we can and cannot do. There's so little information provided. And you keep saying that you don't know and you don't know this and you don't know that. You need studies. I want to know what you do know. Because all I have heard here tonight is how little you know. So looking at this room, even before people left, I was like, oh, my God, this is a real egocentrism. We severe government hakanyes we follow such a POBOD와 3224 4T A 539 STEWART 0ye body statement suggested media wine lamp carrings not for the future generations to try to fix themselves when it's completely impossible to fix. So my question tonight, from someone who is a recent Virginian, why are we allowing outside billionaire companies to change our state slogan from Virginia is for lovers and nature to Virginia is for company and corporate profit? Thank you for being here and thank you for your comments. I just would clarify one point from the beginning, which is that people, developers, corporations, individuals have a right to petition their government. Frederick County's record on data center remains as passing an ordinance to regulate them and denying two applications, and we have two more that were being considered right now. Yes, ma'am, please go ahead. I would like to truly thank the the Planning and Zoning Commission from the other night. They did an awesome job. They They took the developer and his blue suits to the proverbial woodshed the other night, and we need more of that. They did a great job. I'd like to remind everybody of some old sign language. When you point at someone, you've got to remember you've got three fingers pointing back at yourself, right? Okay, so when we point to these guys over here to make sure that they make the correct vote no on all of this, we've got to realize that they may not do that unless this room is full and brimming over. We've got to let them know, overwhelmingly, we're against this as a county and we're not doing that. So, bring your friends, folks. Bring friends. Rent some friends if you need to. Okay, for my question. Mine is about security risk, and somebody did finally ask that, but I stood up in this line long enough that I was going to continue. I'd like to tell you we were downtown one night for some music, and my son's a pretty great-looking guy, and another great-looking guy saw him, and they both had the military. They had the military bearing. They started talking. This guy was a retired Navy SEAL. What's his job now? He tries to breach data centers. That's his job, because they're very much concerned with security. Now, I happen to believe that we already have surveillance airplanes that fly over us every night, and I've same thing for three years now, every night. What about the security from above and these data centers? It puts us at a lot of risk in addition to everything else. And I heard your answer, Wyatt, and I understand that. Who do we go to to start developing a security plan? Yeah, that's a good question. I hate to say that I don't know, but right now from a land-use planning perspective, I'm not in a position to plan for defensive capabilities. I guess the federal government would be the best people to direct your comments to. The federal government. Oh, golly, golly. Well, I can assure you Frederick County government is not any more capable than they are in what you're asking me, so that's all I can assure you. They're probably in charge of the surveillance planes. The sheriff's deputy offered his services right there. He looks like a... I don't know. He might be the guy you ran into. He might be the guy you ran into on the walking mall, though. I'm not sure. My husband's a pilot. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Thank you so much for being here tonight. I have a question for Alexis. From what I understand, and correct me if I'm wrong, Wyatt, I think the noise, the ambient noise test said it was about 45 around that Clearbrook property. Yeah, I don't remember the total number of receivers they had, but I think it was more around 12. Yeah, I don't remember the total number of receivers they had, but I think it was more around 12. Yeah, I don't remember the total number of receivers they had, but I think it was more around 12. Yeah, I don't remember the total number of receivers they had, but I think it was more around 12. The ambient noise level was 45. Okay. In those areas. In those areas. In those areas. Because what I was wondering is they said that was over two days, right? My mom's property backs up to that, and her bedroom will be right there. So how does that take into account that nighttime is usually quieter? Yeah, they did nighttime noise. Go ahead, Alexis. This is easy. Okay. Okay. So when I do an ambient noise survey, I usually do it over 48 hours. So when I do an ambient noise survey, I usually do it over 48 hours. Okay. Okay. Okay. So you get the highs, the lows, you understand how sound changes over time. And then personally, I take the lowest nighttime hour. And that's my basis. Because we don't want, again, my goal is to maintain what we have, right? And if I know what the lowest nighttime hour is, data centers operating 24-7, that's my baseline. Okay, because that was my concern. Right. And at the moment, I don't know that particular report offhand. Yeah, and we sent Alexis the updated report they have. And we've asked her to attend the public hearing on that application, to participate in those conversations. So we'll have to delve into the Clearbrook application. And that's fine. I just was using that example because we have the numbers and it's an example. The other one we've considered has, we've had indications from them they would like to be regulated. They're regulated on a daytime average and a nighttime average because they can achieve a lower noise. So it's certainly a consideration that we're taking into account and looking at these. Okay. And then on that note, one other question. And it is about the Clearbrook. Did I understand that the chillers make a certain amount of noise and then the generators are separate? So when the generators are running, you have both levels? Yes. And they model both scenarios. They model a grid down. And then you have a grid down scenario. And the Frederick County noise ordinance needs to be complied with even during emergency operations. Okay. But the noise ordinance is not for a steady. 70. And it's not for a constant. Correct. Okay. So yeah, it's a challenge. And the other source of noise, and I wasn't aware going into this. And I would like to say, before I met Alexis and started working on this, the limits of my knowledge on noise were to a magic school bus episode from as a kid. And it was actually really accurate. It was very accurate. But in the case that we've been looking at recently, they also have UPS battery backup units and they have fans and they're on the roof as well. So there's a lot of equipment that, but the major sources are the HVAC for the constant noise and then the generators during cycling and the generators during emergency operations. Okay. Thank you very much. Yep. So your noise ordinance actually applies during emergency operations? Yeah. It's legal? Don't tell anybody. I was going to say, I don't think that. Okay. Okay. It is an issue. If they get approved. Yeah. If they get approved and they're modeled in order to comply with it, we won't have to fight them on it. Right? So. That is very interesting. Yeah. We're actually seeing it. Leveraging that. Yeah. We're actually seeing it more and more. Oh, coming into noise code. I'm learning something. Yeah. Still 70 DBA though. Right. It's a whole. Yeah. Sorry. Thanks, Alice. The county is currently updating its comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance. Our existing comp plan and zoning ordinance never contemplated the scale and impact of hyperscale data centers. Since the board has already acknowledged the need for a data center fact sheet and expert consultation to address these gaps, how can the county justify approving major rezonings under what can be considered an out dating plan rather than deferring these decisions until we have established a rigorous framework to ensure we aren't setting a permanent irreversible precedent? I understand the county cannot enforce a blanket moratorium. Yeah. Yeah. I understand the county cannot enforce a blanket moratorium due to state code. But Virginia state code also requires counties to have a harmonious comprehensive plan and a zoning policy that reasonably aligns with a county's comprehensive plan. And if our current plan doesn't account for these facilities, we cannot expect our planning commission and board to be able to assess these applications in a manner that is knowledgeable. So in an article on NACO, National Association, I think this, anyway, one of the supervisors for Loudoun County stated that a plan ordinance misalignment could not have occurred at a worse time and seriously limited the board's ability to manage data center growth as envisioned in their comprehensive plan. The question that I have is have Virginia courts upheld local government decisions to deny or deny the plan? I don't think so. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. So, I'm going to ask you this. Is it legally defensible to deny or defer rezonings when a comprehensive plan update or zoning ordinance is pending? Is it legally defensible for a locality to continually defer applications on the basis that they don't have an appropriate framework to assess and evaluate these applications? So that might be more for you, Mr. Goldhouse. Or you. No. I'll speak to it from my perspective. It's a great question, Alex. It is certainly legally defensible to deny an application because it does not match your comprehensive plan. It's one of the better reasons to deny a rezoning application. But the question you asked, I think, was essentially to operate a time-restricted moratorium until such a time as a comprehensive plan is updated. Is that right? Not a moratorium. You know, case by case, obviously. Just deny it all, but don't call it a moratorium. You know, defer. And I think that's a reasonable basis for saying, like, we don't have the expertise to really examine it. And our planning commission, I hear a lot of questions from the people on our board and in our planning committee that they should really have the answers to. And if you're going to be evaluating applications, I feel like maybe we should be taking the time to really assess what the impacts of these data centers are. Yeah. And my question is more on, you know, the legality. The legality of certain ways that one can do it and what applications for that. Yeah. You know, that makes sense. And the time when you transcend into challenge is when you don't let people apply. Right? So denying them for any reason, there's plenty of good reasons and there's plenty of legal reasons to deny an application. And they're not always the same. Sometimes there's good concerns, but you can't deny them. You have to deny them for a legal reason. Comprehensive planning is a good and legal reason, in my opinion. I would, I'm not an attorney, but I would advise the board speak with an attorney before saying that they are not going to accept applications or stating that they're going to deny them all until the comprehensive plan is updated, because I think that is ripe for a potential challenge. But it doesn't mean that they can't, in their considerations of them, mention that at a time when they're not going to accept applications. They can mention that as something that they're concerned about and a denial for other good legal reasons. Yeah. I hope that helps. Yeah. Thank you. Hard question. I was just saying that, you know, in my advocacy work, what I've been doing, I've been learning a lot about the nuances of like land use policy and the legality. Anyway, so, and also, Ms. Bolthouse, I subscribe to the newsletter and it's been very, very impactful. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it. And I'm just saying, the federal government is Frederick County. We have several people who are involved in federal affairs. Yeah. All right. Thanks, sir. Juan, I thank you for making sure that they are Tier 4 generators. That's a great call. And now, a question to you. Is that a promise or a proffer? So far, we're still in the deliberations of it. But I would suggest the board, if they agree that it's a necessity, it needs to be a proffer. It needs to be a proffer. Promise is what it is. It needs to be a proffer. Okay. The other thing is, is there any regulation or restriction on, you were right, it's a, typically they run the generators for 30 minutes. I've built the maintenance plans. 30 minutes a month to make sure that they work. Is there a restriction on when they can be operated? Yeah. When they can schedule that maintenance? Yes. The county code currently contemplates, I think, Monday through Friday, 9 to 6 of Texas year. Okay. So, that's a good question. Okay. Other question. Has anybody on the board or the planning commission visited any place outside of Loudoun County to see any other data centers? Like Henrico, where Meta has a huge facility that's 100% solar powered, is 80% reusing water and has achieved LEED certification? I can't speak for others. Other individuals and which ones they visited. I know that our board and some of our planning commissioners have visited them. I think they're all in the NOVA area though. Okay. That they've been to. Because there are other areas that are putting restrictions and working with the, Meta is a large hyper. And that's the other thing is, do we know, is this going to be a hyperscaler operator like Amazon or Facebook? Or is it, Meta, excuse me. Or is it going to be a. It's going to be a colo unit. Yeah. For both the projects right now, they haven't identified any end users, which has been a limitation for what they can convey with accuracy. Yeah. All right. Yeah. And one final question before I go. Are there any other industrial revenue generating businesses that are looking to locate in Frederick County that would offset the revenue that a data center would generate? Not at an equivalent level, no, because they produce so much. But there are certainly ones that are looking that would provide supplemental revenue. Okay. So there are some other alternatives to assist us taxpayers with not having an increased tax rate to pay for high schools and other things. There were alternatives for 40 years prior to us considering these for balancing that. And there certainly are. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Hello. Hi. So my question's got a couple. It's got two prongs right here. So with the building and then actual running of the data centers, there's transmission lines, increases in rates for water, electricity, all that stuff hits on the infrastructure and air quality. My question starts with who actually pays the costs for all that, be it the construction and then the actual environmental and health costs. Okay. And further, who benefits from all that damage? Where does this money specifically flow? So I'll go ahead and answer the question. I mean, obviously they're paying for their own construction and they're paying for a lot of the electrical infrastructure. That's the distribution line infrastructure. It's basically the lines from the substation to their facility they have to pay for. But all the other electrical infrastructure, that's the distribution line infrastructure. So the other electrical infrastructure from that substation going onto the transmission lines and the generation is a shared cost among all rate payers. And as we add more load onto the grid, that cost is going up, up, up, and up. And I like to be really truthful here because I want people to understand what they're seeing in the news and understand the conflict and the two kind of studies or information that's put out there. When a data center comes into an area that has mostly residential, they're a large load user, they're using power 24-7, and they can actually offset the capital expenditures for gas plants and transmission lines in that community if there is excess capacity. And they're utilizing the excess capacity of an existing facility. And so you'll see the data center industry come out, like the Data Center Coalition and some of the data center companies. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they're using the data center industry to help them. And they will come out and they'll say, hey, we bring down electric prices. That is true when they're the first data center to come in. It's not true when they're the, like, 30th or 40th. And that's what's happened in our area. Even though you guys don't have any here in Frederick County, there is an onslaught of data centers on our grid, on PJM, and in Dominion Territory, which I believe, I'm pretty sure you guys are still under. I know you have a co-op, but I think you're transitioning. I know you have a co-op, but I think you're transitioning. I know you have a co-op, but I think you're transitioning. I know you have a co-op, but I think you're transitioning. The transmission provider is still Dominion at that level. And they've got a pipeline of 70 gigawatts of load requests from data centers. 70 gigawatts, our entire peak load for all of Dominion Energy in basically the eastern side of the state is 24 gigawatts. So they're talking about tripling the grid to provide power for one industry. That means each gigawatt is basically a gas plant or it's like a nuclear reactor. That is billions, hundreds of billions of dollars worth of infrastructure. So they're absolutely going to be increasing our rate significantly. But you were also asking about the health costs. And I think those are the kind of costs that are harder to quantify and we're not truly considering. And that's the pollution that we're putting out there from the generators. That's the water supply issues, not your utility and reservoirs. You're going to get them to pay for their new pipelines and everything. But it's the cost that falls onto society and the drought. And that's the current situation as all those resources get pulled from more and more. So anyways, I think those are harder to quantify, but they are real. And we should be thinking about them a lot more. Hey, so I just had a follow-up question back to that electricity cost and everything. Do the current data centers, are the current data centers going to require the construction of new gas pipelines? Are there any pipelines in the county? And then I suppose the answer might be not yet. But are we, how are we going to, I mean, cope with all of it the same way that Loudoun is doing with the construction of new gas pipelines? A single... For both the projects that we're considering, there's no reason to believe that they're going to do on-site generation using natural gas and need to start new gas pipelines for them. But go ahead. And that's kind of what I was going to say. I was going to say a single project. I mean, unless they've told you they're going to be building a compressor station on-site and they're going to be using gas turbines, they're likely not going to be necessitating a pipeline. But what is happening with that 70 gigawatts I just described, we're talking about gas plants. I mean, Dominion has already said they're going to build eight gas plants. But the auction that they just did at the PJM level, we're talking about an onslaught of new gas plants. I mean, we've got the Cumberland plant that was just announced. And we've got the... The Gluvana one that was just approved to NASCA. And then we got Chesterfield that was just approved. So they are going to try to provide that 70 gigawatts onto the grid. And that means a whole lot more gas plants. That also means a whole lot more gas pipeline infrastructure to deliver that gas. That means more fracking. That means more environmental impact overall if you're worried about climate change. So yes. All right, folks. I really appreciate everybody coming out tonight and for being patient with us and for not yelling at us like Sharando did. Irood, thanks again for being here. We hope to see you again at future meetings. Remember, the other applications will have public hearings in the boardroom. Stay in tuned. And I'm happy to answer any questions afterwards. Thanks again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good job. Y'all did a great job. What? Hey, we have time.
