Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-04-02
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=278
========================================================================

you Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I call the April 2nd meeting, 2025 Frederick County Planning Commission, to order. Please join us as Mr. Thomas leads us in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. That leads us to Item 3 on our agenda, Adoption of the Agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption? So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor of adoption of the agenda, please indicate by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And we have an agenda. Item 4 is our committee reports. Are there any committee reports? Yes, sir. I have one. Yes, sir. The DRRC met on Thursday, March 27th. We reviewed a zoning ordinance amendment to allow backyard chickens in the RP, R4, and R5 zoning districts. This will be coming forward before the Planning Commission for public hearing on April 16th. Very good. Thank you, Mr. Kearns. Any other reports? Any other reports? Ms. Mayfield, welcome. Am I on? Yes. I'm here from the City of Winchester. Yesterday we had a work session, and so while we didn't make any decisions, what was presented to us to review were multiple CUPs. One was for the Fremont Street Day Nursery for an expansion of their daycare facility. Another was a request on behalf of the Youth Development Center for conditional use permit to operate at 302 South Loudoun Street. They're moving away from Bastille or Bat-teel Drive, more into the center of downtown. A request from the owner of the Studio Lounge and Karaoke for a conditional use permit to operate an entertainment establishment at 1161 and 1169 Berryville Avenue. We had another request from Key Construction for a conditional use permit to construct an attached dwellings at 10 East Southwork Street. Another request from Key Construction for a conditional use permit for a ground floor conversion of non-residential use to residential use at 104 South Indian Alley. And that was all. It was a very productive meeting. Thank you. Thank you. Any other committee reports? Mr. Lee? Mr. Lee? Yes. Mr. Lee? Yes. Mr. Lee? Mr. Lee? Mr. Lee? Good evening, sir. Welcome. Thank you, sir. This is a report from the Board of Supervisors meeting last Wednesday, the 26th. We took up three Planning Commission pieces of business. First one was comprehensive plan, Amendment 01-24, Apple Land Properties in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. Motion to approve that failed on a vote of 4-3. Second one was rezoning Number 11-24 of Route 36. of Route 7 self-storage in the Redbud Magisterial District. Action was postponed on that until the April 23rd meeting. That was a vote of five to two to postpone. The last thing we talked about last week was the ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code additions and revisions to define and provide specific regulations related to data centers and power generating facilities. There will be a public hearing set for April 9th on that topic. And that is all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, sir. Last call, any more committee reports? Seeing none, that completes our committee reports. We'll move on to item five, which is citizen comments. This is a time for citizens to address the Planning Commission on any topic that is not on our agenda tonight. If you wish to address the Planning Commission, I ask you to come to the microphone, state your name, your Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes in duration. Would anybody like to address the Planning Commission? Seeing none, we'll close the citizen comments. And we will move into our public hearings. We have three public hearings this evening. We'll begin with item 6A, rezoning 02-25, Stevenson Depot Commercial, Crowden and Capital. And Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is rezoning 02-25 for the Stevenson Depot commercial rezoning request. And this is seeking to rezone 5.3% of the area, 0.78 acres from the existing B2 and M1 zoning districts to the B2 zoning district with proffers. This property is located at the intersection of Martinsburg Pike Route 11 and Old Charlestown Road in the Stonewall Magisterial District. There are two previous approvals from 1998 and 2009 as well on the property. This is your countywide locator map showing the general location of the property north of the city of Winchester. And this is your zoning and location map showing the subject parcels outlined in purple. And they are again in that northeast quadrant of the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road, immediately west of the Snowden Bridge subdivision. Your comprehensive plan and your northeast land use plan, which was adopted in 2023, speaks to the future use of these subject parcels. They are identified with a business land use designation and within the limits of the urban development area or UDA. And SWAS are the sewer and water service area. The plan includes specific policies for commercial development along Old Charlestown Road and along Martinsburg Pike. It specifies that properties west of the rail corridor are maybe well suited to meet community needs for anchor retail. Staff would clarify that in the staff report, we talked about neighborhood retail, but that policy actually in fact does not apply to these properties. It only applies to properties east of the rail corridor. So the proposed rezoning only partially implements plan policy specific to your future use plan. And that's what we're looking at right now. The proposed rezoning only applies to your future land use designation. The B2 zoning is typically associated with our business land use designation. So that part of the proposal is correct. However, the use list that was included in the proffer statement may not fully implement plan policies envisioned for anchor retail opportunities in this part of the county. This is your future long range land use plan. Again, showing the designation of the subject parcels in that orange color, which is business. And you can see that the properties northwest and east of the subject parcels are identified for business as well. So this section of the county has future business opportunity. In regards to transportation site access, your comprehensive plan also identifies improvements along the subject properties. That includes improved collector roadways along Old Charlestown Road and Martinsburg Pike and a future roundabout intersection at the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Old Charlestown Road. In regard to plan policy, the proposal does fully implement the transportation policies contained in your comprehensive plan. The applicant provides a plan for transportation, proposes a number of improvements, which I'll get to later in the presentation, and they have limited site access to one full movement intersection from Charlestown Road and a right in, right out commercial entrance from Route 11, maintaining that north-south flow of traffic along Route 11. In regard to the voluntary proffers offered with this application, you received a proffer statement dated March 26th, and staff will highlight the key elements of the proffer statement. Proffer A deals with the generalized development plan, and specifies that the proposal and the development of the site will conform to the generalized development plan, or GDP. Proffer B contains land use restrictions. They have proffered to limit weekday traffic to 4,798 trips. They've included a prohibited use list, which includes uses such as amusement, gambling, recreation, adult retail, wholesalers, technical and trade schools, truck stops, and fast fuel diesel fueling, and wireless and wire telecommunications, which would be like monopoles. They've also agreed to limit development of self-storage on the property to where it is expressly delineated on the generalized development plan, which I'll highlight later in the presentation. Effectively, they have ensured that self-storage would not be the prominent use on the site, and kind of right on Martinsburg Pike, it's kind of the back of the site of old Charlestown Road. In regard to transportation enhancements, they've agreed to limit access to the site to two points. They have provided, they will provide the required turn lanes in and out of the subject properties, both the east, sorry, both the left turns and right turns. They've agreed to provide a multi-use trail along Martinsburg Pike, consistent with plan policy, and sidewalks along old Charlestown Road. They've provided a $50,000 monetary contribution for Martinsburg Pike transportation improvements in the vicinity of the Bruce Town Road intersection, or other improvements along the corridor as the county sees fit. And they've included a right-of-way reservation area for that future roundabout project that is currently under development by VDOT at the intersection of Route 11 and Old Charlestown Road. They've also proffered a number of site design control measures, including providing a historic interpretation plaza and a historic information kiosk. They've agreed to limit the building height to 30 feet. That is below the 35-foot maximum enabled by the B2 zoning district. They've made a commitment to high-quality construction materials, including stone, brick, and glass. They've agreed to screen rooftop mechanical equipment from adjoining properties and roadways. They have agreed to limit their signage to two signs, one on each road, at a maximum square footage of 75 square feet and a maximum height of 12 square feet, which is less than what otherwise would be allowed on those roadways. And they've agreed to enhance buffer and screening requirements from public roadways, including providing the three plantings per 10 linear feet, which would include a deciduous tree, an evergreen tree, and a shrub. And finally, in proffer E, they've agreed to a $0.10 per day, $0.10 per month, and $0.10 per month. And they've agreed to a $0.10 per month, and $0.10 per month, per developed square foot for county fire and rescue services, which we typically see with commercial rezonings. So again, for your consideration this evening, this is a rezoning request for 5.78 acres. Apologies, I jumped ahead on the slide. This is your generalized development plan, which shows the subject parcels for orientation, because it is turned sideways. This is Route 11, and this is Old Charlestown Road. Again, they're showing the limits of development, or the commercial development in orange, and here is the delineated area where they agreed to limit to self-storage if that use were to develop on the site. And you can see they're showing on the GDP that multi-use trail, the buffers and screening along the roadways and the sidewalk improvement. So again, this is a request to rezone 5.78 acres from the B2 and M1 zoning districts to the B2 zoning district with proffers to enable commercial development, as is customary with our, and this is a request to rezone 5.78 acres from the B2 and M1 zoning districts to the B2 zoning district with proffers to enable commercial development, as is customary with our, and this is a request to rezone 5.78 acres from the B2 and M1 zoning district with proffers to enable commercial development, as is customary with our, staff reports have included positives and concerns for the application. In regards to positives, the proposal fully implements planned policies specific to future planned transportation improvements in the vicinity of the subject parcels. They've included pedestrian access, and they've agreed to limits on site access to maintain that north-south flow on Route 11. They've proffered a number of site controls, including restricting where self-storage facilities could be located on the site, and they've made that monetary contribution to fire and rescue services. As far as concerns, staff noted this earlier in the presentation, the proffer statement excludes a number of uses, that's outlined in proffer B2. However, this may not fully provide for those uses that are envisioned in this area of the county, and identified in the comprehensive plan to meet community needs for anchor retail. So for your consideration this evening, this item is presented as a public hearing item, and following that public hearing, staff would be seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors, should this item go forward, it would go to the Board for public hearing on April 23rd. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm happy to answer any questions, and Chris Moan is here this evening. He's representing Croatan Capital, and I believe he has a few remarks for you all as well. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Just one general question. Are there proffers on the property now? There are existing proffers on the property that apply to the existing B2 portion and the existing M1 portion. Those proffers are, really just limit what uses can occur on the property more than anything, and what transportation improvements would be required if the site were to develop. Okay. Is this an improvement over what those proffers offered? Certainly, it allows for a greater assemblage of B2 land, as opposed to B2 and M1, and Mr. Moan can speak to the developer's intentions with the property in seeking the rezoning. Okay. Are there other questions for Mr. Klein? To my right. No questions? To my left? Left. Right, sir. Mr. Moan, good evening. The GDP's next. Yes. Perfect, thanks. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. My name is Chris Moan. I'm with Greenway Engineering, representing the applicant, in this case, Crowett and Capital. And I'm going to avoid restating what Mr. Klein has already provided to you as a very thorough review of our application. Fundamentally, we're going to be looking at a new design standard that will be applied to the B2 property as identified, and as Mr. Klein pointed out. This is a rezoning to essentially bring these two pieces that are currently zoned B2 and M1 into the B2 district for under a common proffer statement for unified development. So what that ends up doing is applying the design standards that some of which did apply to the B2 property as it exists today, but it applies it to the entirety of the site, and also enhances some of those other requirements. So that's a little bit of a summary of those elements, too, in terms of the landscaping commitments that have been made along both roadways. And then kind of the next step, obviously, is that with the emergence of the funded roundabout installation by VDOT, this update also ensures that our access arrangement is consistent with and aligned with that planned improvement, which at least according to the current VDOT data, is targeted to be constructed in 2027 thereabouts. So I think that's a good start. So one of the other pieces with this, of course, is the concern that Mr. Klein mentioned, which is the prohibited use list and aligning this better with the comp plan vision for this area. And we certainly understand that, that doing prohibited uses when you have an extensive B2 list in many cases leaves a lot of kind of unintended uses potentially in play as you move forward that don't necessarily align. So one of the things we've done in coordinating with staff and also in discussions with the district planning commissioners is we've revamped or would like to revamp what we are proposing in terms of proposed uses and go from a prohibited use list to an expressly outlined permitted use list. So that would more contain the opportunities for the site and certainly put more certainty in play for the use moving forward. And just to share this with you, I think, as we move forward, I'm going to read this with you and I'll read it into the record. And this information has been provided to staff as well. But the B2 uses that we would propose to be allowed on the site and would be updating the proffer statement to permit would include adult and childcare facilities, food and beverage retailers, gas station with convenience store but excluding truck stops and fast fuel diesel fueling as previously prohibited, offices of real estate finance and insurance, personal care services. And of course, excluding escort services, Turkish baths and steam baths. I think that's an important clarification. There's also we would permit pet care, retail trade, excluding adult retail, manufactured home dealers and tire dealers, restaurants and other food service operations, self-storage as currently limited on the GDP, and veterinary services. So this is a fairly significant change in that it boils down a permitted use list consisting of about 39 use cases. And then there's a fairly significant change in that it boils down to about 39 use categories to 10. So it's a fairly substantial limitation, particularly when you couple it with the limitation on total daily trips. There's definitely, I think, some protection for the community there to ensure that what happens here both can be accommodated by the community and also will be contextually appropriate for the community, especially when you consider the site design standards that are also applicable. And I would also submit that with that change, proposed change, that this rezoning application does indeed implement the comprehensive plan vision for this site and that the provisions of the proper statement ensure that the impacts attributable to this rezoning would be mitigated. And so I would respectfully request that the Planning Commission recommend a favorable decision to the Board of Supervisors, and I'd certainly be happy to answer any questions you have. I'd also note that the three principles with accrued and capital, Steve Joseph, Kevin Greengrove, and Wyatt Wachtell, are all here as well if you have questions for them. But I appreciate your time and look forward to your questions. Thank you, Mr. Moon. Okay, to my left. Any questions? Yes. Ms. Brannon. I like the list because we just did the know-up and it took a long time, and they want to anchor stores. They particularly want a grocery store. Right. Will you try to go? I know you can't make a grocery store come, but is that on your priority list? I think it very much is. It's certainly been a kind of driving factor in kind of this whole process. I do think that as the site is currently configured, in truth it would be very difficult to accommodate, you know, a typical prototype for a grocery store. But it does set, you know, a good starting point by bringing these pieces together and potentially then bringing in other properties over time that could help build it out and make a larger retail center with anchor stores more feasible. Any other questions? To my left. To my right. Any questions? I do. Excellent. What provisions are being made to do what you just described, and that is I'm assuming you're going to build something that's nice and other folks will want to join in and maybe expand and perhaps even your principals will buy more land and build more of it. Are you making provisions for this to grow into a bigger project than what you're currently looking at? Certainly. I think the physical aspect that allows for or contributes to that would be the inter parcel connections that would be created as you saw in the planned land use map. The entire area there is designated for business. So, you know, there's going to be a need for these pieces to interconnect and actually be coordinated in some way from an access perspective. I think in the short term, you know, there's going to be a good bit of work taking place to work out the details of extending sewer to the site. And so during that process, you know, there's going to be the ability for ongoing engagement, you know, to try to bring additional acreage in and to encourage those property owners to do so. That's about the most that can be done. I can tell you that this was first kind of put together two years ago, and there have been changes since then. And in large part, it's been done. And in large part, it's been the process of the applicant trying to bring other properties in and simply not being able to align interests at this time. That may change. Okay. I hope so. Thank you for working with the county staff and the commissioners from Stonewall on what you've done to update the property. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Okay. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak for or against this resuming request, this would be the time to do so. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any other questions from this office, this would be the time to do so. I ask that you state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less here at the microphone. So, anybody would like to speak to this, now is your time. Yes, sir, good evening. Good evening. I thought you were waiting to go behind you. Hey, good evening. Nice to meet everybody. Lance Allen, Stonewall Magisterial District. I think tonight, to be honest with you, I came to speak against it, and I can't say that I speak for it. I liked a lot of what I saw as a resident. I really liked the updated proffers. I really liked the room for the roundabout. I think what I would say is there were things that I didn't hear, and I would ask that those things go into consideration as you make your decision tonight. So there were things that I didn't hear. Being in that community, I would want to make sure things like vape shops. I didn't hear that. So are things on this express use list, are those the things that if it's not that, it doesn't go in? And so very clear on what the express use list is before you move forward with something like this I think is really important. The other thing that I would say. Again, as a resident, is my wife would love a shopping center there. I would probably not because it's hell on that road already in terms of traffic. Sorry, pardon the language. And so the other thing that I would ask is consideration into, you know, Molly, you asked the question, Ms. Brannon, sorry. You asked the question about a grocery store there. You know, how much extra traffic are you bringing to that area? So VDOT proposes a roundabout now, but putting a grocery store there, to the gentleman's point, takes a lot more property than what you have that exists today. It also adds up. It adds up. It adds up. It adds up. And so it's going to take a ton more traffic to that area. So maybe a roundabout doesn't work anymore. And so those are the three things I would ask in consideration as you look forward to this, right, which is what's on that express use list before, you know, it gets approved? The second thing is, is what's on that express use list going to increase the amount of traffic and congestion in that area so much that a 50,000 proffer is a drop in the bucket compared to what's actually needed there and negates the improvements that are happening there? So that's it. Sure. I think that's a lot more question than it was answers. But as a resident, right, I heard a lot of really, really good stuff, but I also heard a lot of stuff that left me asking a lot more questions of, like, this could get worse before it gets better. So thank you. Appreciate it. And thank you for your time as well. Thank you. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Anybody else? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Moon, do you care to address the comments? Just a couple points to the extent that it might help clarify things a little bit. I think vape shops, if I'm not mistaken, could kind of fly in under a retail establishment, and we'd certainly be willing to prohibit vape shops as well from that location. So I think that's something that can be done without concern. The other thing, just in terms of the roundabout. You know, if this or if there's a problem, you know, there's a lot of folks out there that are not going to be able to get their money back. So I think that's something that can be done without concern. So I think that's something that can be done without concern. We're assuming we do have expansion of the B2 area. Obviously, we've capped the trips that can be accommodated on this site pursuant to these proffers. If something comes in that's going to elevate those trips, which, you know, a larger center would do, a new traffic study would be required. And frankly, if, you know, additional updates to the roundabout were required, that would be something that would have to be addressed through that application. And so I think our team certainly is well aware that, you know, next steps in terms of increasing the potential uses or the floor area could result in some additional improvements to that area beyond what VDOT is going to do. Very good. Thank you, sir. Mr. Klein, do you care to summarize for us? Yes, sir. So for your consideration, this evening is a rezoning. I think your mic's off, sir. I think it's off. Is that better? Yeah. So this before this evening is a rezoning of five. So this before this evening is a rezoning of five. So this before this evening is a rezoning of five. So just to clarify, I just would let thoseご Kanu speak first about the So just to clarify, I just would let those go first about the about the about the about the about the about the about the along the along the along the forage, where it is limited on the GDP, and veterinary services. And you held your public hearing and staff would be seeking a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors at this time. Thank you, sir. This is time for commissioners to discuss. Yes, sir. Yes, thank you. This is actually for staff. I'm looking at the map. We're talking a lot. We've heard a lot about additional parcels of land potentially in the future. I'm looking at the current zoning map, and I see that the two parcels, I see them zoned as, you know, B2 and M1 that we're talking about right now. But there's four parcels just kind of to the northeast of that. What are those zoned right now? Those are zoned RA. And early on in the project, they were seeking to include some of those parcels in their rezoning request. And they had, as Mr. Mohn stated, they had difficulty with the assemblage. So those are RA properties. And in the future, they could seek out a rezoning should they want to be part of this assemblage. Okay. I was just... asking if those would require rezoning or if they were already B2. So those would require. Thank you. Okay. Comments? Mr. Thomas? I think this is a significant improvement over what we currently have there as far as the proffers. I like the concept of going to an accepted use and not what's not acceptable. I think that makes it a lot easier for the neighbors to comprehend what's going to go there and to give us a better understanding of what's going to go there. And use. they need to do in order to get there but fully and last that but give us a better idea of what's not going to go there. So I think that's that's a great idea. And I I don't see any reason not to support this at this point. Question? Gentlemen? Mr. Chairman, I think this is a good project. I think it adds some additional proffers to some areas. I think it's consistent with the comprehensive plan looking to add retail and business to that area of the county. increase the tax base and provide services and Retail opportunities to the citizens in that area and I would make a recommendation that the Planning Commission move to move this rezoning number zero two to one Stevenson Depot to the Board of Supervisors with our recommendation for approval including the updated list of permitted uses with the amendment to exclude the tobacco electronic cigarette and other smoking supplies retailer in an ICS code Okay, we have a motion is there a second I'll second and we have a second is there any further discussion to my right Any further discussion to my left? With that miss Brandon, can you begin our motion our voting please? Brandon yes Brumback. Yes Yes, yes Yes Marker yes Yes, current Jess to Haven. Yes, Akins. Yes Chairman yes and the motion carries this will go to the Board of Supervisors on April the 23rd. Thank you This leads to our next public hearing Item 6 B conditional use permit for Ishan you safe you sefi if I'm happy if I've missed up your name I apologize this is for finale Ventures LLC for slaughterhouse farm market and an event center on forty five point nine six acres at six eighty six Shady Elm Road and Miss Felton or good evening. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission this is a conditional use permit for a special event facility a slaughterhouse and an off-premise farm market the 45 acre property is Owned RA and is located in the back Creek Magisterial District the property currently has a conditional use permit for a bed-and-breakfast a Conditional use permit for a telecommunication tower and a short-term lodging approval The property is marked in red it is located south of Winchester south of the route 37 and on Shady Elm Road The property is outlined in purple it is located directly west of the Valley Innovation Park it borders the Hedgebrook Hills residential community to the south a small residential community to the northwest of soldiers rest Lane and Life that life gate Baptist Church on the corner of soldiers rest Lane and Shady Elm Road This is the applicants proposal and these are not recommendation conditions recommended conditions for the special event facility the applicant proposes to operate it year-round Sergey sorry From 7 A.M. Until 10 p.m. With a maximum of 150 guests guests can provide catered food and amplified music Portable restrooms will be provided and there are no proposed employees For the farm market the applicant proposes Tuesday through Sunday from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. with a maximum of 40 to 60 guests daily. The market will sell fresh meats, wholesale items, and locally handcrafted crafts and jewelry and is proposing one employee. For the slaughterhouse or the butcher shop, it would not be open to the public, but it would be opened year-round on Wednesdays through Sunday from 10 a.m. until 6 p.m. with one employee. The public picnic area that's proposed would provide six to eight picnic tables and stationary grills for the patrons, a maximum of 30 grills or picnic tables total over time, and the picnic area would be open daily, but it would be seasonal. The applicant has provided a sketch of the proposed operations, and the public picnic area is open to the public. The special events facility is located at the top area of the screen. The two triangular boxes there to the right of special events facility label. The market, which is connected to the slaughterhouse, is shown there in the middle area of the screen, to the right and to the north, I guess, of the farm market. And the picnic area is positioned between the two. The special event facility is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. You are familiar with the additional regulations for the special event facility shown here on the screen. A slaughterhouse is also permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. There are additional regulations pertaining to the slaughterhouse or the butcher shop, which includes addressing sanitary conditions, screened doors and windows, and the location of the facility 100 feet away. The property line is also permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. The specific regulations also require that all operations be under roof and screened from view. The zoning administrator may require additional buffering and or screening if deemed necessary. The farm market, as defined in the ordinance, is for retail sale of fresh fruits and vegetables or other food-related items on a daily basis. The proposed off-premise farm market is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. The proposed off-premise farm market is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. The proposed off-premise farm market is permitted in the RA with an approved conditional use permit. The ordinance would address the parking regulations. The ordinance would address the parking regulations. The ordinance would address the parking regulations. Should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. A site plan shall be approved by Frederick County prior to the operation and establishment of the use. The slaughterhouse and the farm market is limited to two employees, not residing on the farm. The slaughterhouse and the farm market is limited to two employees, not residing on the farm. The hours of operation of its location, for the slaughterhouse is 10AM until 5 radio, Wednesday through Sunday Sunday through Saturday. The hours of operation for the farm market, 10AM 10 elle until 6 received, Tuesday through Sunday 10 enrouter 10 all. The hours of operation for the farm market, 10AM 10 elle full day, Tuesday through Sunday 10 el agua liberal through Friday 12 el le эти 60ende 20 par 10, The hours of operation for the slaughterhouse is 10 AM until 5 radio 22 l photoc Dr Ane forming the lots that meet dateяни 10 a 10 until 6 grade The prosperity ratios that meet date 0 hours d produce Friday 8 hours. The hours of operation for the slaughterhouse is 10 AM 10 el radio 25 elders age 30 per9 the perlu음 6 days 30 hours. The hours of operation for the farm market, 10 AM 10 L radio 30 am 4 o 6 RT 12 o 8 2andol只有 8 horas. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday with a maximum of 40 to 60 customers daily. The hours of operation for the special events facility is 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily with a maximum of 150 attendees. Portable restrooms shall be provided for guests during the special events and removed thereafter. The public picnic area is seasonal from May 1st to October 31st. Annually, temporary portable restrooms shall be provided for use for the customers and removed after each season. The location of the restroom facility shall be located on the site plan. The slaughterhouse and associated processing operations shall be approved by the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, specifically the Meat and Poultry Division. The approval letter shall be provided prior to the approval of the site plan. Amplified music must continue to be played. The public access to the conditional use permit is restricted to the Shady Elm Road only. Use of Soldiers Rest Lane is prohibited. Any change or expansion of the conditional use permit would require a new CUP. This item is presented for public hearing. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors. And their Board of Supervisors meeting is adjourned. The Planning Commission will move to April 5, April 23rd. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm happy to answer any questions. And the applicant, Mr. Yosafi, is here as well. Thank you very much. Any questions? To my left. Yes, Miss Brannon. Who lives on the farm? It is my understanding the applicants live on the farm. The record showed the owner's Frederick, marijuana. I believe I would have let the applicant address that to more fully. Any other questions for Ms. Felt? Ms. Brands? No, Ms. Bruback. It's okay. It's a B, right? I just have one question. In looking at the forms that were submitted, like, for example, to the public works, these forms, is this, and I should have probably asked you this before, does the staff send this or is this from the applicant? So that sheet is a comment sheet that is part of our packet, and there's one for every agency. Okay. So on it, it says that there's a CUP for a butcher shop and on-site market, but it doesn't even mention the event center. So my question was, does the? Did the, for example, this is public works. Did public works know there was an event center going there? So the entire packet was delivered to them, including the sketch that was shown on the plan and the write-up from the applicant. I can check into that. I was not aware that they would have missed it. Right. Well, they did have some comments to the effect. It just, since it didn't say on this one sheet, I was just curious. If that, if that is anything legal that we need to worry about, that they didn't have application of that. I can look into that. Usually they don't, they look at the dirt movement. Okay. Okay. Any other questions for Ms. Feltman? To my left? None to my right. Any questions? Mr. Akins, good evening, sir. Hey, I've got a few. Is there a limit? Does the county limit how many CUPs can be on a parcel? Because this one currently has three. Sounds like the proposed would take it to seven. There's nothing. There's no codified limit for how many conditional use permits can be issued on a property right now. Okay. Thank you. Is there, I'd be interested in learning on how the county would govern making sure that no one was in the short-term lodging. Because the, the, certain CUPs contradict and have rules on other CUPs. So like I was reading the packet that the, the CUP for a short-term lodging doesn't allow, or maybe I've got this mixed up that the, that the event center can't have something going on with the short-term lodging or short-term lodging can't have something going on when this is happening. How is that going to be managed? Amy, I can, I can address that one as well. It's a good question. And just to clarify the short-term lodging. Permits are issued administratively. They're not conditional uses. I think you might've read about the bed and breakfast. Okay. Conditional use in there. Stay corrected. Yeah. The short-term lodging ordinance does prevent you doing special events as part of getting a short-term lodging permit. So you can't just come and start an Airbnb and then start hosting weddings at your property. You have to come and get a separate special event, a conditional use permit, like what they're applying for before you can do special events. So in this case, they will be allowed to continue to have their short-term lodging. Permits. If this is approved, they can also start conducting special events at the property. Um, but if it's not, they have to default back to just having the short-term lodging and they cannot conduct events at the property. Does that make sense? I believe you. Okay. Um, okay. Next question. Sorry. I've got a bunch. Um, how would the county manage the number of guests, uh, or excuse me, not guests, but patrons to the market if it's limited to a maximum of 40 to 60 per day? Yeah. So we enforce on a complaint driven basis right now. Um, so if we were advised that there might be in violation of that in the past, our zoning inspector has done spot visits to determine if they're over capacity at any given time for those. And the same goes with the event attendance. Um, otherwise any other investigative means that we can use at our disposal that we, we think will kind of hold the test if we were to put them in a court of law. Okay. And last question I've got is that the, um, while reading this and talking to some other friends of mine, uh, that, that, um, live actually about a mile and a half from another event center. That's pretty popular in the area, um, that they can hear the, the, the sound of the music a mile and a half away. Is there, is there any restrictions on decimal level? Is there any restrictions on decimal levels by the property line of said event centers that maybe the County has, or, or maybe we don't have it and maybe we should look into it that maybe that's a another whole conversation. Uh, but is there any restrictions on decimal levels at this point in time? Not in the residential or I'm sorry, not in the Royal area, not in the RA district. Okay. All right. That concludes. Thanks. Any other questions to my right? Mr. Kearns. Uh, yes. Thank you. Uh, could I have some clarification on the butcher? Should we, should we, should we, should we, should we, should we, should we have a butcher shop? Is that code? Why technically the same thing as a slaughterhouse butcher shops, slaughterhouse, or those the same interchangeable? Yes. So our ordinance stipulates it as a slaughterhouse. It's one doesn't say butcher shop, and the applicant has requested a butcher shop, but the operations are the same. Is that, would that allow outside, let's say I had a cow on my property and I needed to get it butchered. Would that allow outside people to come in and, and, and, and basically pay for them to butcher their animals, or would they just be butchering their own animals from their own farm? I'm going to defer that to the applicant. It was my understanding it's for their own butcher shop, not outside. But would the CUP allow them to, if they wanted to expand past that, would they be allowed to under the current verbiage? Under the ordinance and under the CUP, I believe so. Okay. There are regulations with the Agricultural Department that would kind of, they would need to know that, and that would have to be addressed at that stage with that governing agency. Okay. I'm just trying to get a feel for the volume of use at the slaughterhouse. Okay. Thank you. I can certainly let the applicant speak to that. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? I have one. If I understood correctly, the event center can have up to 150 attendees at an event. And the butcher shop can have 40 to 60 per day. How much parking is on this site? Because the event center is open the same time as the butcher shop. And there's a potential for 210 people to be there if those two hit their maximum. So the total number was, they had 30 parking areas for the proposed market and the petting area. And then on the event center side was a total of, I didn't note that, did I? It's 85. I'm sorry? 52. It's 85, the long, that long one. Yeah, so there are 30 in this general area to serve the market. And then there's something that we didn't talk about. There is a $10,000 rent for the event center. So if I go to the event center, I can go to the event center, and I can go to the event center, and I can go to the event center, and I can go to the event center, and I can go to the event center, and then these over here are for the event center. And the bed and breakfast share those couple here. I'm sorry. It says 52 in the write-up. Okay. Thank you. I couldn't find that. And how close is the event center to the nearest existing residence? The closest is 188 Hockman Court at 430. hundred feet to the property line for the slaughterhouse and then there is a 360 foot from the event center to the property line for 225 soldiers wrestling. Those are estimated of course. Understood. Thank you. Thank you Miss Feltner. Mr. Chairman I have one more question. Yes. Thank you. With the picnic areas is there I didn't see any restrictions because from six picnic tables to possibly 30 I'm assuming there's not overnight camping or any sort of campgrounds gonna be in this? Campgrounds and overnight camping were not in the proposal. It is from my understanding and the applicant can speak more to it it's for the convenience of people to come and kind of have a day in the park. Okay thank you. Thank you very much. Okay this is a public hearing if you would like to speak for or against this request for conditional use. We want to talk to the applicant. Oh I am I apologize I was getting ahead of myself. I apologize Mr. is it you? Good evening. Okay good evening sir. I'm at your service. Any question? Okay to my left any questions? Where do you live? I live in Frederick Maryland. So who lives on the farm and operates the farm? At this point we have back and forth with it but we intend to live in the farm eventually when it's up and running. My son comes and goes every day sometimes he stays in houses and help the farm. And I have another question. No employees for the event center, one for the farm market, one for the slaughterhouse. Is that in addition to your son? Like this seems like a very complicated thing and there's no one working. Well at this point we have no no butcher shop, no event center. At this point we have no event center. At this point we have no contractors come and go and we build a place but right now we have no employee just one person to keep the animals right now. I believe if though if you open this and change the number of employees when you have a condition just one-and-one you can have this time we don't have employee we will have employee as we open. Okay Thank you Mr Mayor. Does the motion go against Greatside enlightenment on a property to music leaving well. Do I get could you please to put your I think what she's alluding to this if if you are not Ms. Brandon's just an expression of concern for you as a business owner that that might not work long-term for you and just making sure that you understand that. Did I capture that right, Molly? Okay. It might not work long-term, but for short-term, I have to go back and forth because my life is set up somewhere else. Yeah, I understand that, but if this were to be adopted as conditions, you'd have to come back through this whole process to get it changed again, which is why she's asking. To live on the farm? To change the number of employees. You could move there and supplement that by you being an employee living there, but if you ever wanted to hire more than two people who weren't living there, you'd have to come back and join this nice group of people again. I have no intention to add an employee. Just checking. Yep. Okay. Ms. Bruback? Yes. As far as the question about the haul-in of livestock, would there be livestock being able to hauled in, or are you slaughtering only on your property, your animals? Only our own animals. Okay. And at this point, are your intentions all specie? Everything. Everything. Okay. Any other questions to my left? To my right. Any questions? Yes, sir. Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, sir. The presentation indicated the butcher shop would not be open to the public. It is open to the public. Did I misread that? I think it might be a confusion between where the meat is sold versus where the animals are slaughtered from a terminology perspective. Correct. The location the animals are being slaughtered in is not going to be open to the public. Exactly. But people can come and purchase meat through the farmer's market portion of the... That was my understanding. Is that right, sir? Yeah. It's not going to be open to the public. They can't really go in the butcher's room, but the public can come and purchase the animals or meat. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? Mr. Thomas. The slaughterhouse. The slaughterhouse. What type of slaughtering are you going to do there? I guess, specifically, are you going to have challah slaughtering there, or is it going to be just typical slaughterhouse slaughtering? It's just a typical slaughterhouse. We're not going to separate anything. Just something that we get approval for it, we do it for public. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes, sir. Mr. Kearns. Thank you. Thank you for coming out tonight. Thank you for your time. There are a lot of... I've seen a lot of questions and concerns about the Amplified Music and the Events Center repeatedly mentioned. Correct. Is that a critical piece of... a critical component of your plan? Is that something that you would consider striking out of your plan? Would you only be willing to go for it if this had that event center, or is that something you would consider not having? I like to have the events center. Okay. Any other questions to my right? I will say, I'm curious to know how you're going to prevent sound from affecting your neighbors who are three and four hundred feet away. When you have an events center that's going to have amplified music that could potentially go on until 10 o'clock at night. For sure, as somebody who has a family myself, I don't want to have... create a chaos for other neighbors. We can control it by bringing in limited sound and cut it off by 10 o'clock at night. And when we say we open from 7 to 10, we're not going to have 7 o'clock in the morning events over there, for sure. A number of events is not going to be every day, every day, every day. That's not our intention. But sir, the application we have says you're going to operate every day. I understand. The application says every day. Seven days a week. But no event center will have seven days a week booking. So we're going to have limited events. And cut off time is perhaps 10 o'clock. And we will monitor the sound. We will go around and ask neighbors if it's bothering them. We'll affect it to our business. Okay. I understand. But I also understand if you've got 150 people, you've got to amplify. You've got to amplify music for folks to be able to hear it. And it's hard to stop that sound at the property line. And if you have small children in your home across the property line, they aren't going to be up until 10 o'clock at night. They're going to want to go to bed early. So I'm concerned about how that would be managed. I understand your concern. Okay. Well, thank you very much, sir. Okay. Okay. Now this is a public hearing. And this will be the time for you to speak for or against this. This is a conditional use permit request. If you'd like to speak, please come to the microphone, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. Would anybody like to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening. Excuse me. My name is James Fredman, Back Creek District. I live in one of those homes at Hockman Court. I have teenage sons. The 10 o'clock limit, as I'm not young, someone said young children and 10 o'clock is too late. 10 o'clock is too late for me. I go to bed early. I have many concerns about this very poorly designed project. I think all your guts are telling you the same thing. I have environmental impact concerns, including waste, fecal wastewater, odor quality. Odors are going to travel not just to our neighborhood, to surrounding neighborhoods and surrounding businesses. I've heard slaughterhouse mentioned a lot. My hearing is terrible. I don't know what specifically that is. I don't know whether they are going to be able to get their food to the neighborhood. They're going to be able to get their food to the neighborhood. I don't know whether that's been defined yet. I'd like that to be answered, please. And I'm very concerned about our ecosystem. We have some beautiful streams around that property that feed far below the downstream of us. And I'm concerned about the water tables and the water usage. So I'm against this project. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Hi. My name is Daniel Scarberry. I'm a resident of Bat Creek District. I live on Soldier's Rest Lane, adjacent to the farm or almost adjacent. We are fine with the farm market and picnic area. That sounds like a great idea. But we are opposed to a slaughterhouse because of the smell. You can't be slaughtering animals and there won't be some kind of smell. We are concerned about over fails, such as fires, Theень me s We strongly don't want… hate which r' Hotelztown is out of fact is the리 Now that's equivalent of about 28 football fields. Now we're asking, being asked to go through the same kind of music that we can hear very clear in our backyards. Almost you can hear the music and you can understand the words. Now instead of being 28 football fields away, it's anywhere from one to three football fields away. That's a lot of loud music imposed on us up to 10 o'clock at night. And as Mr. Aikens pointed out, there is no restriction on volume or the decibel level. So there is no recourse if you are disturbed by the loud music. Mr. Youssef said he does not live on this farm. So he lives another state away. I don't think it's fair that we should be imposed with loud music that we did not ask for when this man does not even live on the property. This is a business. This is not a farm. The Hoffman farm was a family farm for over 100 years. Now this is a business venture. We can appreciate any business wanting to make money. But I don't think it should be done at the expense of the people who live in this area, have purchased in this area for over 20 years to enjoy the quiet countryside and the rural area that we live in. So thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Kevin DeChristopher. I live at 225 Soldiers Rest Lane. I am the house that's 360 feet approximately from the proposed event center. It's literally in my front yard. Well, not on my property, but my house faces this area. I'm totally against what's the proposal. Amplified music until 10 o'clock. I've got children in middle school and one in high school. They go to bed before 10 o'clock, as do I. The amount of traffic that we already have on Shady Elm Road, the new businesses that are coming in across Shady Elm Road, the chocolate factory, we've got FedEx, we've got Ford Distribution, we've got American Woodmark. We're getting kind of surrounded by industry. And we have a nice little enclave back there. I always think of my little piece of paradise. And I think this is going to take a lot away from it. The amount of trash that we find on Shady Elm Road is disgusting. I've been myself. My children have gone out there and picked it up all the way down to Route 11. I don't like the idea. I think it's very vague, a lot of the answers that we've heard tonight on what the proposal really is. And I hope that you do the right thing. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. I am the son of the gentleman who spoke. My father wanted to answer some questions. We've been working on the property for about two years now. Can you tell us your name, please, sir? My name is Esan Yousefi. Okay. Yes, sir. And I just wanted to address some concerns. Obviously, we're... A little concerned. So, to answer... First, to start with your concern was the employees. Me, personally, I have been staying on the farm as long as I could in between reservations and cleaning up the farm, working on rebuilding and the plants. The decimal noise can be negotiated on whatever decimal noise that is. Appropriate for the area. The operation that will be taking place during the same times in regards to the short-term rentals and the bed and breakfast will be closed off at the same time that the event would have taken place. So, it would not overlap. We're in control of being able to block updates well in advance, not take anything last minute so that we can provide the best possible service. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm late, so I can't come in here. This is bask. So the Sakura Valley residents are due on December 19th, 2021. Next month, the records will be back on November 25th, 2021. So it will not overlap in the sort of smart markets and internet. And it may not overlap in our local craft stores. For what it is gone fro, as you already know, the resources are also tempting. Are we in trouble with the shopping tickets this weekend? Sorry, or the idea is I could broadcast our city Connect to September 17th in particular. Are we in trouble with the pictures that were up on Sunday? No. processing. Waste will be collected in a proper and legal manner where Protein Valley will be pumping everything out of whatever components that will need to be removed from the property. So these are my replies from some of the concerns that I've been hearing. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes sir, good evening. Good evening. All right, I'll try to make this quick. My name is Warren Bricker. I live at 166 Hockman Court, which is the Back Creek District. And I live there along with my wife and four, soon to be five children, ages 7, 5, 3, 1, and almost here. My wife and I strongly oppose this CUP and every aspect of it, from the event center to slaughterhouse, for a multitude of reasons. And these reasons go beyond being a nuisance and and widely unwanted within our community. But I'll get to those in a second. This CUP for Shady Elm Farm is owned by somebody that doesn't even live in the state. And that's already been brought up. And it would cause substantial impact on the health, safety, and welfare of the surrounding area. Why is that important? So I bring that up because VA Agritourism Law 15.2-2288.6 reads, quote, no locality shall regulate the carrying out of any of the following activities, and they lay them out, at an agricultural operation as defined in 3.2-200, unless there is a substantial impact on the health, safety, or general welfare of the public, end quote. So I'll briefly touch real quick on each one of those, because I know my neighbors have plenty to say as well, so I don't want to take up too much of your time. So I'll just say, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to speak? yes, ma'am, good evening. Good evening. My name is Kristen Patton. I also live in the Hockman court area. My family has spent a life building has spent years building a live hero and I did left tuo right incze . So to be honest with you I've come here since I was about sons of a gun that we're playing press with you now. I got dysfunctional eye cup. I'm sick of inflammation. here enjoying the peaceful beauty that surrounds our home. This proposal threatens to take that away. The proposed event center and slaughterhouse conflict with the intent of Frederick County zoning ordinances which exist to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of residents. This project directly contradicts multiple county regulations designed to protect our community from incompatible land use, excessive noise, and traffic hazards. Frederick County's comprehensive plan and zoning ordinances are clear in their purpose to ensure land uses are compatible with their surroundings. The proposed development site is within an area that is primarily residential and its intended use does not align with our surrounding neighborhoods. Frederick County code 165-202.02 states that zoning regulations aim to protect public health, safety, and general welfare by ensuring land use are appropriate for their designated areas. A slaughterhouse and an event venue are high impact commercial and industrial operations that are inconsistent with the surrounding residential zones. A slaughterhouse near residential areas raises serious concerns regarding waste disposal, air quality, and pest control. Frederick County code 165-401.10 mandates that industrial operations take necessary precautions to prevent public nuisances such as fire, firebombs, and other hazardous resources. The proposed development site is a large area of residential areas and is a good place to build a community. The project is designed to protect residents from the effects of environmental pollution, such as odors, waste runoff, and pest infestations. Without strict environmental safeguards, family in this community will be exposed to conditions that degrade our quality of life. The roads leading to this property were built for residential traffic, not for the volume of vehicles this project would now introduce. Frederick County requires a traffic impact analysis for developments that significantly alter traffic patterns. To date, no such study has been made. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. The project is currently under development. Governor 한데 Esperanz have provided Workforce necessarily necessary improvements. Board members had made several suggestions in the past pregnancy record application. First of all, there has been no plan just to improve available roads or along the route road infrastructure to accommodate the increased load. This is not just an inconvenience to these neighborhoods, it's a safety risk become trucks or vehicles for our health ecosystem, especially for motorists and and public safety efforts.市 . Increase commercial traffic will lead to congestion, longer emergency response times conditions for pedestrians, school bus and cyclists. 베드我们 가 cementing truce. pretty bador of the moray cuid This cho слож第一 of the year That makes it hard to get nasty Hmm. Preields, forests, parks, and schools have been the progressive project of attempting thezz Мы to ensure smart, responsible growth, growth that respects the families and businesses that we already have here. This proposal disregards those protections, placing industrial and commercial operations in an area that they do not belong. Our homes, our families, and our community deserves better. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir, good evening. Good evening. My name is John Kabeca, Back Creek District. I'm at 130 Hawkman Court. You can see where my property line backs up just near that slaughterhouse. And for all the reasons that were presented today, from Mr. Bricker to the other neighbors along Hawkman Court, I strongly oppose, my family strongly opposes this proposal. If you look at the details or the lack of planning and understanding of how this business would be operated, I have zero confidence in their ability to navigate the significant health, safety, and well-being of all of the residents in this area. I have a 14-year-old daughter, a 12-year-old son, and a 10-year-old daughter. That house that lives right along there, we have a swimming pool. This is our serenity. This is our place to live, to grow my family. I'm not from this area, but we've been here for 10 years. We moved there because of the location, because of the area, because of the space that it provided for our family to grow, to have a place to call our own, to be home. And this proposal completely takes all of that away. I have no confidence that the safety of my children will be permitted, given the 150 people in an event center up to 10 p.m. My 14-year-old daughter that's going to be in our swimming pool while these events are going on is not going to feel safe and protected, given this, obviously, that is going to be in our swimming pool while these events are going on, is not going to feel safe and protected, given this, obviously, if people are going to come along. So I've been very respectful here about this proposal. I've been very respectful here about this proposal. The people, because it's a place whereし are here, all the people who live here, and we're a family here, opportunity in the proposal. I don't want to belabor the point. We've all heard the complaints, the issues that we see with this proposal, and I hope that those are taken into consideration. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Beth O'Donnell. I live at 113 Hockman Court. I'm a lifelong resident of Winchester. My home is near this proposed site. This proposal is fundamentally incompatible with our existing character of our area. Our neighborhood consists of family homes, quiet roads, and open spaces where children can safely play outside. I have seven-year-old twins. The safety and the quiet are two of the main reasons we purchased our home five years ago. If this permit's approved, it'll send a message that our community's well-being is not important. There's no buffer between our street and the farm. The farm's located directly next to our homes, our children, and our community. The environmental health concerns are serious and unavoidable. Slaughterhouses generate significant waste, animal byproducts, and they can seep into the wastewater. We all have wells. The impact will be seen in our water. Traffic congestion and safety hazards will increase. The combination of customers going to the farmer's market and large gatherings at the event center will bring unpredictable flow of vehicles. Our roads aren't built for this level of commercial traffic. We have children and cyclists and pedestrians daily. As a parent, I'm deeply concerned about the increased danger this poses for my own children. The event center will bring excessive noise and activity well into the evening, further disrupting our community. Events running from 7 to 10 with our community and many young children will be subjected to loud music, crowds, and additional traffic late at night. This is going to directly impact our ability to enjoy our peaceful evenings in our home. Families need rest for work and school and will be forced to deal with late-night disturbances, making our neighborhood feel less like a place to stay. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make our neighborhood feel less like a place for families and more like a commercial district. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. We have to make sure that we're safe and safe. For those of us who've invested our time, money, and love into our homes, this is about protecting the safe, quiet quality of life that drew us to our community in the first place. I urge the Planning Department to consider the long-term consequences of allowing this permit to move forward. The families who live here, including my own, will bear the burden of these negative impacts every single day. There are more appropriate locations for this type of place. This is not one of them. Thank you. Thank you. Would anyone else like to speak? Good evening, sir. Good evening. My name is Glenn Moore. I live at 191 Hockman Court. I'm, I guess, the Back Creek District. I strongly oppose all three things in this CUP. I feel it's going to significantly affect my family's life, my neighbor's family's lives as well. I feel it's going to significantly affect my family's life, my neighbor's family's lives as well. I starting to see some concerns about unemployment rates being go up. I'm thinking, I think衆€€€ I start to see concerns about more of an shower. I'm wondering, the немного is going to be a red light. If it gets approved, it still will allow them to run this thing seven days a week. So I feel that it is just not a good fit for this particular parcel. For the slaughterhouse, there's odor concerns. There's also environmental concerns. Opec and Creek runs behind their property, and Opec and Creek heads off to Stephen City. Has any studies been done to look at what the effects could be to this proposition? And then, of course, the traffic. It's a big unknown how many people are going to come and go. They're not going to limit their customers. They're not going to limit their customers to 40 or 60 if there's 100 people at their door wanting to buy products. So it just seems like a poorly conceived idea, poorly conceived plan as well, and I recommend to just oppose the whole three actions in the CUP. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, ma'am. Hi, how are you? I'm Heather Rudolph. I reside at 750 Shady Elm Road. So my property would be next to the slaughterhouse. I have four children. My husband and I work full-time jobs. We go to bed early, 10 o'clock, with amplified music. To me, as a homeowner, as a parent, is unacceptable. I'm concerned with waste and runoff. As it has been mentioned, we are all on wells. We bought this property because it was rural. We enjoy the quiet. We like to have our children outside playing. I fear for the traffic with children outside, bringing people that aren't residents of the area, drawing them to our residential area. I think it puts the safety of our children in question. I do not feel that the road system can support such traffic. I do have serious concerns if we are planning for porta-potties when you're running a seven-day-a-week business from 7 in the morning, until 10 at night. Where's the sanitation there? Does this diminish our home value, as we have porta-potties sitting around us? I think there are serious concerns here. And when you have this many neighbors residing around this proposal, opposing it, I hope that these are all taken into consideration. So to end, I strongly oppose this proposal. And I thank you for your time tonight. Thank you, ma'am. Would anybody else like to speak? Mr. Rudolph, good evening, sir. Good evening. Thank you for your time. My name is Jay Rudolph. I'm a resident of 750 Shady Elm Road in Back Creek District. We bought this property in the early 2000s. We have a lot of residents who are in the area, and we have a lot of residents who are in the area, and we have a lot of residents who are in the area, and we have a lot of residents who are in the area, and we have a lot of residents who are in the area, and we have a lot of residents who are in the area, and they can't rent the m advisor's house because they have to deal with the 에 we have a lot of residents who are in the area, so I wanted to just reiterate some of my concerns similar to other homeowners in the area. We have been with this property for ten and a half years. this with grave concerns after hearing the business plan or perhaps lack thereof that we've heard this evening. There have been some parallels drawn to another property out at West Oaks. I can say with confidence, having known that family most of my life, they are a fantastic family. They're a well-run family, a well-run business, and even with the best of intentions, it was very, very, I think it's been very difficult for them to manage the type of growth and unforeseen attendance that they've had out there. And those are Frederick County residents that are good people in this area that came in with a good business sense. I have no confidence in the business plan and the subsequent compliance as much as I am a proponent of entrepreneurialism and seeing someone pursue their dream. I have real grave concerns about a petting zoo, slaughterhouse, event center, picnic area. I have no confidence in the business plan and the subsequent compliance as much as I am a proponent of entrepreneurialism and seeing someone pursue their dream. I have real grave concerns about a petting zoo, slaughterhouse, event center, picnic area, and how all that comes together in the middle of a residential community. We've talked about water. Our well is located no more than about 12 to 15 feet from the border of this property. I do have concerns about runoff. I have concerns about smells. I have concerns about their ability to manage carcasses and the decaying, especially during the summer months of running a slaughterhouse. I'm concerned about the fact they aren't residents. They don't live there. They're not fully committed to that area. They're commuting in to try to run this. The infrastructure we've talked about was built for residential, is already under stress with some of the economic growth around that. I think the county is doing a nice job of addressing that, but this is unforeseen and it's not prepared for this. And certainly the noise from the event center for families. This is a family community. All of us have younger children there and we are concerned about the scope of control of having an event center. We're concerned about the scope of control of having an event center. We're concerned about the scope of control of having an event center. We're concerned about the scope of control of having a event center that's prepared to operate seven days a week. So I want to thank you for your time and consideration and I just want to voice my concerns and disapproval of the plan that I've heard here this evening. So thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, sir. Good evening. I'm Darrell Haber in Back Creek District. My wife and I are the homeowners and residents of 188 Hockman Court on the southern side. We would be the closest home to the event center and the slaughterhouse. I don't wish to rehash a lot of what went on. I will say, though, that just to reiterate for us, every home in Hockman Court and every home at Soldier's Rest is located in a proximity closer than the Selznick's. We're located across Middle Road from West Oaks. And we're talking about a tent and open air and amplified music till 10 p.m. My neighbor who is not here, who's the elder statesman in Hockman Court, Shirley Dick, who is her husband, her came from West Virginia from a farm to retire with their daughter, Sandy, and their granddaughter. She's older and frail and in her 80s. And the back of her house has clean line of sight also to where the event center would be. And I know her goal is just to be able to have peace, peace with her Lord and peace with her neighbors and peace in general to be able to enjoy life. I have grave concerns about that proposal for the slaughterhouse. There's been very little context provided regarding cleanup, storage and disposal of inedible animal byproducts and offal. In fact, I think there was an additional letter that for some reason did not appear until the agenda packet tonight where they clarified the name of who would be picking that up from Valley Proteins to, and that is the only detail that was in there. I took it upon myself. I happen to know some individuals who are, A, getting into the business and also in the business and discussed with them some of the things. And first of all, the system specifications of the current septic system provided by... I'm sorry, the system specifications of the current septic system provided by... Licensed engineer to the Department of Health in this application clearly states on page 170 of the agenda packet that any wash water associated with cleaning, butchering or processing of animals are not to be added to the existing drain field. Yet the Frederick Winchester Health Department states that it has no objection and simply states that the Virginia Department of Agriculture Consumer Services... may need to be contacted for the market, but nobody addresses the drain field. The individuals that I spoke... Sure. The individual I spoke with said that Darling Ingredients no longer picks up hides. They only pick up carcasses. They would have to be stored. They are talking about being open Wednesday to Sunday. So that means that the animal byproduct would be sitting for several days before the... I'm sorry, the... Yes, yes. That's right. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's a good point. It's a good point. It's a good point. It's a good point. It's a good point. It's a good point. And I've also been told as well that Darling Ingredients isn't always reliable since the switchover from Valley Proteins. I also would like to at some point talk about the process. I don't want to disparage anybody, but it's an awful lot to ask residents to, A, encapsulate their life in three minutes and, you know, what are the things that they're going to do? You know, and I don't want to... number one. And number two, it's hard to gain an understanding of what the facts really are, such as where screening is. Is it on the applicant or is it on the homeowner? And if it's on the homeowner and something happens, then we have clear line of sight. So I would eagerly like to speak with every individual at some point about the actual process of this. We're all opposed to this. We are unanimously and solidly opposed to all of this on Soldier's Rest, Hockman Court, and even Skyjust. About 50% of the folks responded to a petition that they were also opposed. And I appreciate the time tonight to be able to to come before you and express my concerns. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Anybody else? Good evening. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesboro District. I just wanted to support my neighbors that oppose this farm project as it's presented. I think these event centers are great for agritourism, but they're not supposed to be everywhere, not where they don't fit. I also think that unregulated is, I mean, maybe down the road, I just, I see so many creative opportunities. Like if there's sheep, there could be fiber arts. We could cheer the sheep. You don't have to slaughter them. People could enjoy the sheep. There could be a flower farm. There could be a flower farm. There could be a flower farm. There could be a flower farm. And there could be weddings during the day amongst the flowers. There could be lots of screening. And that could be agroforestry. You could put lots of products right in between all the neighbors. Just to say yes to agreed to all of these projects. I know it helps the farmland, but we do need to keep peace. It's going to be the best for everybody. It's going to work out the best. Dark skies, buffering for sound. So just having, I just, I don't want to, I don't want to encourage all these big projects to come forward all the time. I think that small scale would be great. Limiting days, limiting hours, no amplified music. All these things are critical to get right, especially for the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else like to speak? Anybody else? Then I will close the public hearing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Steffi would you like to respond to anything that you've heard, sir? Yes. Good evening. Thank you for all of the comments and respond from neighbors. We are going to live in the farm eventually. It's not that we don't want to live in the farm. But right now, our situation is not somehow that we can move immediately and move into the community. We are going to live in the community. moving. As far as concern for all the neighbors, we're going to be one of your neighbors. I don't want to create extra noise for neighbors or a smell. Everything we do in this farm, if we get approval, it will be by the book. It will be by Virginia laws and Winchester County's law. And we're not going to have animal waste everywhere. We make sure every waste daily moved out of the farm. And we make sure our neighbors are comfortable. So that's been said. I understand all the concern that they have. Everything we propose is in the law of the farm in Virginia. So we're not asking for anything extra. We're asking for a right to live. To practice it properly. Have you operated a slaughterhouse anyplace else before? No. Have you operated an event center anyplace before? No. Okay. All right. Well, thank you very much, sir. Okay. Could I ask you a question? Any questions? Can I ask you a question? Would you please come back up? Yes. You... Yes. You have a large number of facilities and a large number of various activities you plan on adding on this farm and conducting on a farm. Correct. Have you had a professional planner or anyone look at this and help you lay it out and come up with, is it large enough? Do you have enough acreage to do all this on it? Is there a lot of conflicts between the different activities you plan on proposing? No. Well, the activities at the time that we have an event center, there is no butchering room open. It's not going to be open. The rental houses, they're not going to be booked when the event center is going on. So we're not going to complex all this business altogether. Have you done all this yourself or have you had a professional come in and look at it? I've been in business over 30 years and me and my family, we plan this. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Can I ask you a question? Yes. Your business, have you been in farming? No, but me and my wife, we had a lot of study about farm, how to run it and how to be a successful farmer. But you haven't... Most of these plans are attached to farming. We're not doing anything that is not in the... We're not doing anything that is not in the law of the farming. We like to create a family atmosphere that people come and enjoy it. We're not after big profit. We're after opening the place for some people who can come over there and enjoy the environment and try to help our poor people around Winchester. We would like to send some donation to the homeless shelters. We would like to... We would like to do all this with our profits. So... I understand. Okay. Thank you, sir. All right. Ms. Feltner, would you care to summarize for us? Please. Please. Mr. Chair, before you is a conditional use permit for a slaughterhouse, a special events facility, a public picnic area. And an off-premise farm market. They have conditions that have not been changed. Very well. Thank you very much, ma'am. This is the time for planning commissioners to speak to this item among ourselves. I'll start to my right. Mr. Kearns? Yes. I actually have a quick question for staff. To clarify with the... Slaughtering keeps coming up. And I... And I'm struggling a little bit to understand what is allowed by right in a rural... Say you have a farm and you... Can farmers right now not slaughter animals on their own farm if it's for their own use? Or what's that differentiator where if they're slaughtering animals on their own farm that are raised on their farm, what's that line where they need a CUP? Yeah. Anybody can slaughter animals on their own property for consumption within their own family. However, when it's packaged for sale... Commercially is when you trigger the rules for our slaughterhouse conditional use permit. And you also implicate the state having oversight in the operation itself. That there's varying degrees of how that continues to evolve. I know people were asking about if it's only animals that you've raised on site versus animals that you've brought in. And that continues to get complex beyond the Frederick County rules. But that's our threshold is once you're selling it to outside entities, you need a conditional use permit for a slaughterhouse. And that's for any animal, including chickens or anything like that? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions, comments? Mr. Akins. Yes. I want to commend the applicant for putting together a plan that obviously you're passionate and your family's passionate about. But I can't get my head wrapped around this thing, Nan. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's not the right spot for it. It seems like it's almost a full rezoning, not a conditional use permit. I mean, we've got so many different things here that are in play. And it's like we're putting a completely, we're starting a B2 in the middle of a residential area. And it just doesn't make sense. But I wish you the best of luck. Thank you. Mr. Kearns. Thank you. Right. Right. Right. I mean, I do have a comment, I guess, amongst ourselves. I struggle with this because this was, I know that this was farmland for, you know, decades before they built any of those homes around it. This has been farmland. And we have this discussion, it feels like almost every time we meet, of we need to preserve farmland. And this has been just that. I think the slaughterhouse is kind of walking, kind of edging that. And I think that's a big part of the reason why we're doing this. I think it's important to talk about that line. If they're slaughtering only animals that they raise on the farm, you can only raise so many animals on 46 acres. No, you can only slaughter so much if you're doing it internally. The deal breaker for me is that event center. I do not feel at all that this is the right place for an event center. I don't think there's any way to make that work correctly. I can't get behind it if that event center is in there. But the slaughterhouse, I mean, it's a dirty part of farming that nobody likes to talk about, but it happens in farming. And again, I struggle with this because this isn't like it wasn't farmland and somebody wants to come in there and put a farm there. This has been a farm for over a century, I believe. So I do struggle with that a little bit. But the event center is a deal breaker for me. Thank you. Mr. Thomas. Yes, I commend the owner of the properties trying to preserve this as farm, farming area, and open area. My concerns relate to... We have seven dissimilar activities occurring, proposed to occur there. And I'm not trying to disparage your expertise, but I don't know how one family can have that much expertise that they can handle seven dissimilar types of functions without having somebody that's managing it, that has done that type of activity in the past, manage that many different activities. The slaughterhouse, that can be... It's only going to be a thousand square foot building, so you're not going to be able to do that much in it. And I question whether you could do really what you want to do in that thousand square foot slaughterhouse area. But that's totally up to you. But looking at the proposal you've put together, there seems to be a lot of questions in the proposal. I assume you put this proposal together yourself. My only suggestion would be... Maybe you... If you really want to pursue this further, I would consider tabling it, asking for it to be tabled, and have a professional look at this, and really put together a business plan for you to do this, all of these dissimilar types of activities in a manner that would be less offensive and intrusive to your neighbors and the surrounding community. From your proposal, I understand why the neighbors are very concerned. I understand why the neighbors are very concerned, because it doesn't look like it was... And I don't mean to insult you or anything. It doesn't look like it was very well thought out or put together. And I really can't support something that has been put together like this. I mean, I like the concepts of everything you're doing, but it's not put together well enough to actually even bring before the planning commission for a vote. I have to say that. Proposing an event center for 150 people, seven days a week, just... I mean, you know that has to disturb the neighbors. Maybe on a Friday night and a Saturday night and a Sunday afternoon, but not on a Monday evening until 10 o'clock or Tuesday evening school nights. So I'm concerned about the whole thinking, your thought process, and how this was put together, and I don't think it's appropriate. I don't think it's appropriate to even have a vote on it tonight, but that's, you know, it's up to you. Thank you, sir. To my left. Ms. Brannan? I'm usually the person that likes these CUPs to protect the farmland, but this farm has already broken off into a development of two-acre lots, and that's the preserved land that they have to, so it can't be developed anymore. But this... Like a slaughterhouse next to neighborhoods like that. I live rural. I buy my meat from farmers that are slaughtered. I agree with Roger. I really suggest you table this and don't take it to the Board of Supervisors and maybe move on to the farm, and we have slaughterhouses. There's one in Sartanary. There's one out in Gore. You can talk to people. And... Yeah. I mean, I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. They're so well-planned, and this just sounds... I commend you. I like people that shoot for the stars, but this is the wrong place for all of that, and we're not preserving a farm. Nobody lives here. It's not being farmed. To want amplified music, a lot of times we'll say, move it inside, but it's a tent. It's a tent. This... I suggest you table this and move in, talk to some people. The people that have slaughterhouses, they're very nice. I've toured them. I've talked to them. Ms. Brand, at this point, the ball's in our court. It's up to us to act on it, not him. Yeah, I mean to the Board of Supervisors, rather than turn it down and then he's shot for years. Thank you. Ms. Springback? Yes, I agree. I have more questions than I have answers, I'm afraid. The plan, there's good parts to the plan. I can see it as a farm. I can see the petting area. I can see a pick-your-own area, but how you coordinate that with an event center. Are you going to tell people they can't pick their cherries when there's an event going on, when the cherries are ready to be picked? There's just too many balls going up in the air. If people are there to buy from the butcher shop or from the farm market and the event center's going on, you're going to have to close down the farm market because they can't come because the event center's taking up all the parking space. I just don't think this has been well thought out and planned, but I do agree to give you some credit for trying to preserve this area. It is considered a rural preservation lot. and you are trying to preserve it in some sort of fashion of farming. And hopefully you can figure that out. Okay. Any other comments? This is Bat Creek. Yes. At this time, I believe with the information we have, that I would move to deny the conditional use permit 0325 for Familia Ventures LLC. Okay. We have a motion. Is there a second? I'll second. And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? Okay. I'll start on this end. Mr. Whitaker, can you start our voting, please? The motion is to recommend denial to the Board of Supervisors. Akins, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Sneddon, yes. Boddorf, yes. Brodbeck, yes. Pratt, yes. Chair votes yes. And the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on April the 23rd with a recommendation for denial. Thank you to everybody who came out tonight. We did get your petition. We did get your online submittals. And those all go into our consideration as we consider these. So I would just encourage you to reconvene on April the 23rd. And if you don't know Mr. Jewell, he's right over there. And I'm sure he'd be glad to talk to you. He's your supervisor. That will move us to Item 6C, Conditional Use Permit 01-25, Volcluse Holdings. And Ms. Pellequin. This is a hearty perennial, right? Keeps coming back. I don't know why they did. We can only polish it to where it's so far. All right. Should I wait a second? Please. They held the meeting open. I see he's back. I don't understand. I don't get it. There was something that must have come out. I'm going to talk to Wyatt about it. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Pellequin. Good evening. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Conditional Use Permit application for Volcluse Holdings is for a 44-acre property zoned RA rural areas for a special event facility, two public restaurants, and a campground slash resort in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. And this application seeks to expand the scope of a CUP that was approved in early 2024. The county-wide map shows the properties. The property outlined by the red box. It's located south of the town of Stephen City and roughly three-quarters of a mile west off of Route 11 along Volcluse Road. That's right. Zooming in, this property is outlined in purple. The entrance is south off of Volcluse Road onto Volcluse Spring Lane. The applicant proposes a special event facility with up to 40 special events per year with a maximum of 160 guests per year. An amplified outdoor music to conclude by 11 p.m. They propose two restaurants open to the public, utilizing the existing historic structures on the property. They propose the campground resort would include 12 new cabins, and they would also be utilizing existing structures as guest rooms. The proposal includes approximately 124 new parking spaces to accommodate guests, and they anticipate needing five. All right. around 45 employees that would be working on rotating shifts. Other uses such as the spa and the art gallery are just considered accessory uses. So this is a schematic design for the project. For your orientation, Valclus Road is on the left side of the map where you can see the main entrance. The applicant plans to keep all of the historic structures that are on the property, add additions onto four of those structures, and then add parking and the new cabins kind of spread out amongst the property. I would note that there are additional regulations for special event facilities and campgrounds resorts that would have to be followed, but those would be addressed at site plan stage. So this table compares what was approved under their previous conditional use permit with what's being proposed now in terms of number of events per year. Previously, they proposed... 12 to 15 events per year. However, that was not added as a condition of that conditional use permit that was approved. This CUP, they are proposing 40 events per year, and that is added as a condition. Number of guests per event previously was approved for 130 maximum, and the new proposal is for 160 people maximum, and those were both conditions. The number of rooms. There were 15 existing rooms on the property that would be used for lodging. The new proposal has those 15 rooms plus 12 new cabins on the property. In terms of the seats in the restaurant, the previous CUP was for one public restaurant in the Manor House, and it had 64 seats, but that was at maximum occupant load, maximum capacity, and they would not necessarily be open at that level for all meals. The new conditional use permit was for 10,000 people, but that was a condition that was not added as a condition for the rest of the year. So this is a condition that was not added as a condition for the rest of the year. The new conditional use permit includes an additional public restaurant that includes 44 seats, also maximum occupant load. The cutoff time for the amplified outdoor music was at 9 p.m. In the conditions of the previous CUP, this CUP proposes it at 11 p.m. In terms of comprehensive plan, the comp plan designates this property to remain rural, and the proposed use is generally in conformance with the plan. In the rural areas chapter, the plan includes a goal to promote the county's preferred uses for rural areas, including supportive uses for agriculture, historic preservation, tourism, and strengthening land conservation initiatives. And another chapter includes a goal to ensure that business owners are supported in their efforts to bring tourism activities to the local consumer market. Should the Planning Commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. Number one, all review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. Number two, an engineered site plan meeting all requirements of the zoning ordinance and the additional regulations must be approved prior to establishment of the uses. Number three, tractor-truck-trailer deliveries to the property are prohibited, and I added in red, except during construction and renovations. The intent of that condition was just to prevent daily deliveries for food or food products, or other goods to restaurants once they were operational. Number four, special events may not exceed 160 guests. A maximum of 40 special events may be held per year. Both restaurants may be open to the public on the same day for a maximum of four days per week. Both restaurants may be open to guests that are staying on the property seven days a week. Amplified outdoor music shall conclude by 11 p.m. and end at 11 p.m. on the 11th. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Approval of this CUP would void and replace the previously approved CUP 11-23. And finally, any expansions or changes of use would require a new CUP. This item is presented for public hearing. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 19th and tabled the application and left the public hearing open to continue this evening. Tonight, staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Trustees. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. of supervisors. That concludes my presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions. And the property owner and their representative, Marissa Whitaker with Greenway Engineering, are present and available to answer questions as well. One quick question. Did you say earlier in the presentation that music would end by 9 p.m.? That was the previous proposal from the conditional use permit that was approved last year. They were conditioned, they had a condition in there that amplified music would conclude by 9. With this application, they're proposing 11 p.m. Okay. Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Pelikman? To my right. No questions. To my left. Yes. I wasn't here at the last planning commission meeting, so I missed your original proposal. So I had a couple questions, and I probably can answer them myself, but I'm going to ask anyway. The number of septic systems and wells and all of that kind of thing that will... Occur because of this is... That's all the health department to decide how many... Yeah. The health department in their comment simply was just cautionary that that is something that the applicant and owner would have to meet their standards in order to operate, and I believe they've already been working with soil engineers to get an estimate on how to proceed with that. And also, and this may be a question for the applicant, the tractor truck delivery... The tractor truck delivery... The tractor truck delivery... Prohibiting that during... Once they get open, that is possible? I mean, with their deliveries for their food and so forth? Yeah. That is something that they had actually suggested, and then just to clarify, we added that text in red about... Because it wasn't meant to preclude it during construction. Any other questions? To my left. So, I have one. I think we tabled this last time because VDOT had concern. Were those... Did I miss... Were those comments addressed with the trips per day? VDOT did take a look at these conditions because at the time, they didn't have draft conditions to look at. So, keeping these conditions in mind, they said that it does limit some of the potential for the increased traffic and some of their concerns. However, their position overall remains unchanged. So, I think that the proposed commercial development will negatively impact the conditions on Valclus Road. Thank you. Ms. Pellekman, what are the conditions on Valclus Road they're concerned about? Potholes, I guess. I'm... Okay. Wear and tear on the road. Okay. So, are they saying they have a maintenance schedule and that schedule's not going to change with the addition of... Yes. So, they... Is that a question of this traffic? Is that... Right. I believe... Is that how they interpret that? VDOT currently grades that road four times a year. I don't know if that would change based on this proposal. That would be up to them, I guess. Okay. Thank you very much. I believe when we took this up last time, and I know Mr. McKay's not here, but I believe we left the public hearing open in case anybody else wished to speak. So... Okay. Thank you. With that said, if anybody would like to speak to this project, this would be the time for you to do so. The applicant. Ah. Would the applicant like to speak? I'm sorry. I'm just getting ahead of myself on all of these tonight. Good evening. That is quite all right. Good evening. I'm Marissa Whitaker with Greenway Engineering. And the property owner, Jan, spoke to you all last time. I just want to answer your question regarding VDOT's plan on grading the road. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a property owner. I'm a estate owner. I families all over the place, right? I just want to say to the zaczywars, communication that was AFL-WTSY for the last couple of years, and thank you for all of that. Uh, so, HILCROY seems pretty accomplished by us not leaving under this circumstance for no reason, and that, uh, but I'd like to have that talk soon. And we have a proposed proposal, and I'd like to have what does the HILCROY plan look like from here on out and round. So this is being taken in a simple fashion and really tangible, frankly. THANK YOU SO MUCH. THANKS. Dr. 있는데. Sure, I just wanted to look at that. I mean uh, just being clear, We are not, uh, looking at any future contracts for buildings in this area as far as the only solid structures are at this area. was we're not quite sure there was a couple mentions about doing road improvements um i discussed this with with kayla and john bishop and we all agreed that this was not exactly something that was appropriate for this use because the road is the way that it is because of the existing uses and one of the big things that vdot did mention to me was that they did not understand the development of a solar facility when that happened which was kind of one of the things that took that road downhill um so we've we've worked with them we've done everything that they've asked us to do and we're still i don't think that there's anything further that we can do for them okay um but we have tried our hardest to please them okay thank you do you welcome is there anything else that you yeah i have some questions yeah so does the solar farm still put a lot of traffic now that it's no no now that it's constructed there's no more traffic i mean they have their their yearly maintenance yeah it's not it's not like it was because i i'm going to be honest i'm a visual person and i kind of felt like maybe i was hard on v dot so i've driven the full length of our clues like six times since we tabled. I don't ever see traffic on the road. So, Kip, your list of things, can you tell me what's operational now and what kind of customers do you have? Well, now we're closed. We purchased a property when it, we haven't opened. So you don't have any traffic. That's why I'm seeing nothing. And all the neighbors know that too. There was a 15 room in with a restaurant as well. And they did weddings even if it wasn't approved. That's why we ended up doing a COP. So there was more traffic. It's been a two year. I remember the first call with you, you know, because we were put into surprise when we purchased a property too. But yeah. But yeah, I, all the neighbors are really, you know, they were in the first meeting and everything as well. They are supportive. They know the roads. One is a big farmer. He has big tractors, you know, like, and then the other people are just the regular one car family. So, yeah. All right. Thank you. Any other questions? Mala? Mr. Staten? So, I know previously the noise was limited. 9 p.m. and now we go to 11. It seems like to me that's a little late. I mean, because it is RA surrounding you, all the other properties, correct? Well, we are surrounded with cows, a power plant on one side, a solar power plant on the other side, and a few neighbors. But it's still zoned RA, correct? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I think 10 p.m. is plenty late enough for RA personally, especially if we're going to, you know, approve some. And to my understanding, it's not. Yeah. To my opinion, I can work with that. Like, I'm in this, you know, I worked in wedding venues and I think 11. It's more 9 p.m. was a little early to me for if you have a wedding couple that say you have to stop everything by 9. But I think 10. Yeah. Would be fine for me to change. Any other questions? Tom, do you have a question? I just guess I had a little concern about the tractor trailer. You don't think food or truck deliveries are going to come in with. So we are like more fine dining property. So the only, I've run restaurants and properties like this before. They're a tractor trailer is really both together. It's like Cisco drive those U.S. foods and we're, we don't, we, I work with a property that we forbid them to come with those and they came with smaller vehicles. And then my butcher too comes from Vienna. He has an air conditioned van. So it's more like these things that, you know, I personally don't like any vehicles on my property either. We had that for that. We have an area on the property that they just drop off and stuff. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. One more. And the event center itself, is it enclosed? We have, I mean, the area, what is your plan for the event center? And then we have on the plans a barn in the future. But in the beginning of my be tense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And our neighbor was here last week, too. He is our closest neighbor. And he's so happy that somebody takes on this property that he owns when they renovated it at the same time. So it's kind of extending the legacy of what he was doing. I. Okay. Any other questions to my left? To my right. Any questions? Mr. Just one real quick question. I guess more to you. In your conversations with VDOT, had they recommended making improvements to the road like a rural rustic or something like that? And did they discuss cost or did your discussion not get there? No, they don't have any future plans at this point for improvements to the road. Okay, that's all. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, for what it's worth, staff was participating in most of those conversations. And MRSA and Yon have done practically everything they could do in those conversations to try to push the ball forward with VDOT and either get direction on how to fix it or what they can do in the set of conditions they proposed we think is a happy medium, certainly. Very good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay, we did keep the public hearing open. If anybody would like to speak to this topic, to this conditional use permit. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Vaughn. I went right by you, sir. Can you turn your microphone on, sir? Does the state do anything? Anything about dust control during the dry season on that road? I think they spray. My neighbor mentioned that last week that they do a spray of some kind of chemical that keeps the dust down. I feel like that's a standard for state-maintained roads is that they do spray in the summer. Like they have, they probably do it, they probably have a schedule the same way they do when they grade it out. So I'm not sure what their schedule would be. But we could find out. As long as they keep up with it. Some roads, I know, they usually do it only when they get a complaint. Mr. Whitaker, they typically use calcium chloride in the summer, which is the same thing they use in the winter. Right. But not on dirt roads. You don't put calcium chloride on a dirt road in the winter. The bottom would drop out of it. Okay, thank you. All right, thank you. Okay, the public hearing is still open. If anybody would like to speak to this conditional use permit, now would be the time to do so. Please state your name. My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm from Gainesboro. I'm really excited about this farm project, The Inn. I follow him. And I love how sensitive they are to the environment. I love all the native plants, the gardens. I think it's going to be a tremendous success and inspiration to others in our area. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anybody else like to speak? Seeing none, I will close the public hearing. Okay, this is the second time we've heard this one. Is there anything further to discuss? Mr. Chairman? Yes, ma'am. I move that we approve Conditional Use Permit 0125 for Valcluse Holdings Incorporated. Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any additional discussion? Ms. Brannon, can you begin the voting, please? Brannon, yes. Brombeck, yes. Botthorpe, yes. Sneddon, yes. Margaret, yes. Thomas, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Haynes, yes. Whitley, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go forward to the Board of Supervisors on April the 23rd with a recommendation for approval. And we look forward to dining in your facility, sir. Thank you. Thank you. I'm being chipping loose. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the prompting is starting. That takes us to Item 7 on our agenda, Current Planning Applications. Mr. Pearson? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, just one update for those of you who were tracking the Lake Frederick Interparcel Connection Waiver that got postponed. They requested further postponement to May 7th. We've since met with the applicant and talked through some of the details of it, and their engineers are still working on a pre-gate solution for making that connection, but they're going to hold their application. They're going to hold their application until they get us to agree on how that's going to work. So that's all I have, Mr. Chairman. Happy to answer any questions. Can you update the Planning Commission on the, just at a high level, the plan for the update of the Comprehensive Plan? Because I know several of us have talked about that. Yeah, absolutely. So we're in the process of conducting a fair amount of study work in advance of it to serve as background analysis and data and research. For updating both Appendix 2 of your Comprehensive Plan, but also laying a foundation for our conversations going into next year. Mr. Klein in my office has been working on our Public Participation Plan, and we'll be talking through that with the Chairman and Vice Chairman soon to make sure we're not missing anything from your all's perspective. And then as part of that, we're going to go into establishing a schedule for the update, for the five-year update. So we are targeting far into the future, end of California. We're going to be targeting the end of calendar year 2026 for a final adoption. Not going to miss that date if we can do anything to avoid it. But we're going to take our time with it and try to do the best job we can at what we think of as kind of a full update rather than just coming back and touching things like we have last five years. I just got my own self at the time. So your three minutes are up. That's hilarious. I have a problem with paying attention to the timer, and that's awesome that it happened to me. But I hope that's what you're looking for, Mr. Chairman. That's where we're at with that. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you very much. That concludes our agenda. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. Mr. Chairman, can I ask one question? Mr. Akins. Would it be possible for staff to review what other localities do in RA for sound mitigation? Because it's constantly coming up. We've got a lot of these CUPs. At least it seems like almost, I would go to say, every other or every third meeting we're talking about them. And it would, similar, I think it was last year, maybe it was the year before last, it was dog kennels was the problem then, or maybe not a problem, but opportunity. And it would be nice to maybe dial this in a little bit and have some restrictions put on what could and couldn't happen. So for the use of everybody's time and the community. To answer your question, it's certainly something we can look at. It's been a conversation topic before noise ordinance and the RA. It can be a divisive discussion and it has been in the past. We would need board direction to start an ordinance amendment on it. So I'll mention it to some board members and see if there's some support there. But generally it has not gone well the past times that they have discussed it, whether it be barking dogs or just a general noise limitation. Right now there is one, as you all may know, for our suburban residential districts. And there's also one for our industrial districts. But there has been, we have been reticent to regulate noise on the RA for a number of years. Most of what's been referenced is concerns regarding the impacts on agriculture, but you can certainly write exemptions for agricultural noise and kind of work your way through some of those concerns. So we'd be happy to go down that road with direction from the board. Is it possible, if I can add to that, just maybe not RA in general, but just specific to city and county. Yes. Is there a way to limit the use of permits to CUPs with special events? Yeah. So what you can do is you, because the conditional use permits for special events are oftentimes intricately related to an agritourism activity, which has specific state code language for it as to what you can and cannot regulate. Okay. But one of the exemptions that you are allowed to stipulate when you're exempting agricultural noise is that you don't have to exempt ample amount of noise. Okay. So you can just write amplified music as part of that. So we could write, it would still probably need to be an RA noise ordinance and not a special event noise ordinance because anybody who got approved prior would be grandfathered if we made it a special event noise ordinance. But if you applied it to the RA for amplified music, that would not grandfather anybody in that context. If I may. If we start trying to regulate the sound with, and I'm not saying that we're going to do that. Okay. But if we start trying to regulate the sound with, in terms of decibels, we then have to have an equation that also takes into account how far residential is from the source. Because if you have a set decibel level at the event and you're a block away, like tonight, or if you're a mile and a half away, that would have a definite bearing on whether or not that's a problem. Yeah. So I think that's a really good point. Yeah. And we're in the process of finishing our data center ordinance. It has become painfully aware to us that our noise ordinance is generally inadequate as well as it relates to some of the details Mr. Markert was referring to. So we've already told the board, like we know we need to come back and work on that part of it to make it align better with the data center ordinance, which is really focused on noise and measuring that using type one, type two decibel reading, calibrated meters to figure all that out at the property level. And I think that's a really good point. Yeah. So I think that's a really good point. Yeah. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. Yeah. And I think that's a really good point. Yeah. And I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. I think that's a really good point. Interesting. Great. Thank you. об payload slide. Thanks for doing your homework for us. Thanks for bringing us here. You've been a great guest this morning as obviously someone I know, as the leader of the big tech team in thequetos team and I have been aoku about the five questions for you tonight. I know transparency and engagement is key to prerequisiteさ. but it's actually a model念d budget that number one, new. It's good information. previously but with board direction we're we're happy to walk down that if we feel like there's support there from our decision makers okay with that I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment so moved again we have a motion is there a second okay all in favor say aye aye we are adjourned have a good evening thank you very much
