Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-04-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=340
========================================================================

in the student division. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Tim. It is a privilege for the area clergy to come and serve you in this way, so thank you for the invitation. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day as we enter into the spring season, the new life that is coming forth. God just warms our heart. God, we come together tonight for the purpose of planning. It reminds me of Proverbs 16.9. It says that we make the plans, but you determine our steps. And I pray, Father, that as this commission has been called together by our community to make plans, I pray that we recognize that we are caretakers of this earth, not only to bless this generation, but generations to come. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Mr. Thomas, can you lead us? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States. And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. That brings us to item four, adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion for adoption of the agenda? So moved. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And we have an agenda. Meeting minutes were sent out. February 4th meeting minutes. Any comments, corrections, or additions? I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And the same for February 18 meeting. Those were also sent out. Any comments, corrections, or additions? I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adoption as presented. So moved. Second. Second. All those in favor? Say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise? And that brings us to committee reports. Let's see. Ms. Cazale? Yes, sir. You were elected chairman of the DRC for another year. Congratulations. Appreciate that. Yeah, we met on March the 26th, and we discussed three topics. Two of them are on the agenda for tonight, so we'll go into those in more detail later. But the first item was the zoning. We talked about the zoning ordinance updates and subdivision ordinance updates, and both of those at Chapter 165 and 144. This effort did not change any codes or anything of that sort. It was just really to reorganize, make it more user-friendly, clean up, add more tables and graphics, and just remove redundant information. And then the last item, which we need to reconvene on this subject, but we talked about residential separation buffers. So, we talked about the zoning. We talked about the zoning. We talked about the zoning. We talked about the zoning. We talked about the zoning. And I think we touched upon this functionality here. So, I would definitely encourage theody I appreciate the discussion. Okay. That's the way the month falls. We're meeting after this. Okay. Mr. Markert. Sure. The Conservation Easement Authority met on March 26th, and they're continuing to push and educate the public on the policies, the procedures of what it's all about and their purpose. And as part of that, they're going to have a presence in June at the Bell Grove event. And I believe they're going to get a banner and all that good stuff to get people curious and more supportive about that. They're working on their website. And they had a question, sort of a challenge amongst themselves, that how do you define rural preservation? There doesn't seem to be any one simple thing. So that's one of their challenges they put to themselves. So that's it. Okay. Thank you, sir. The Transportation Committee did meet on March 23rd. Mostly updates, but here's a couple things I want to bring, I'll mention. Gainesboro 522, Gainesboro Road 522 intersection is moving forward. The surveying has begun up there. So that's a welcome improvement that a lot of people are looking forward to who have to. And I think that's a great way to access the school up there. The other thing that is important for all drivers in Frederick County is the automated enforcement. That's the speed zone cameras in school areas has been a success. I guess it's a success if you're in the enforcement part of business. If you're a driver, maybe you don't see it that way. But so there's advocacy for that to expand into other areas as well to help people slow down in school zones. We are in the middle of a pandemic. We are glad to have with us this evening Mr. Bo Carell, Chairman of the Winchester Planning Commission. Good evening, sir. The last meeting of the Winchester Planning Commission we discussed. Can you turn your mic on, sir? I'm sorry. There you go. The last meeting of the Winchester Planning Commission, we had a work session where we just discussed two main items. One is the Berryville Neighborhood Design District. That will modernize the Berryville entryway gateway into the city, and it will also emphasize walkability. While there's no known developers that caused it to be triggered, hopefully it will bring new additional development in modernizing standards in the gateway into the city. Also we had our first commissioner instituted action where we modified our bylaws to allow commissioners to bring items before the body with consideration with staff as well. So I was excited that we had that. We have some input from the commissioners to institute change. That particular one was in allowing conversion of first floor commercial to residential. So we were by right. So we were excited to see that, and hopefully it will come to fruition. But that's what we discussed in our last meeting. Okay. Very good. Thank you, sir. As always, we're delighted to have the dynamic duo with us, Dr. Orndorff and Mr. Gubermont. Thank you. Representative of the Board of Supervisors. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, commissioners. The Board of Supervisors met on April 8th. There were two items before the board from the Planning Commission. One, the rezoning of Placid HVAC on Commonwealth Court, and then also the revocation of Conditional Use Permit 172 Firehouse Lane in Barber-Singhass. I won't comment at this point. I'm sorry. Thank you. I'll comment at this point, since they are covered in your packet, under item 9 on your agenda, and the action that the Board took there. So with that, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my comments. Thank you very much, sir. Okay. That takes us to the citizen comments. Are there any more committee reports? I didn't mean to skip over. Nope? We good? All right. That takes us to the citizen comments. for citizens to address the Planning Commission on any topic that is not a public hearing item this evening. So if anybody would like to address the Planning Commission, this would be the time to do so. Please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anybody like to speak? Then I will close the citizen comment period and we will move right into public hearings. Item 8A, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code. This should not be new news for us. We've seen this in a work session. I know the DRC got to see this, and we're all pretty excited about what we see. So we're glad to be here and looking at this again this evening to move it forward formally. Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. I'm glad you reminded everyone that we have seen this before. You all held a work session on February 18th where this information was presented to you by our consultants with the Berkley and the Berkley-Hill Commission. I'm glad you reminded everyone that we have seen this before. We are here this evening to present this item for you all as a public hearing item. So again, we're looking for your recommendation to the board on this item. And in the subsequent time since your work session, we've continued to clean up the text, complete the legal review, and we also presented this to our Development Review and Regulations Committee at their March meeting, as Ms. Cozell mentioned in her report as the DRRC chair, and we received positive feedback from that committee. Before I hand it over to Carolyn Vanter, the Director of the Planning Commission, and Ms. Cozell, I'd like to thank the staff that were involved in this project. It's been an extensive effort over a multi-year period going back to the zoning diagnostic. Amy Feltner, Mark Cherin, the zoning administrator, John Bishop, Wyatt Pearson, the director, and Andy Fox, our county attorney, have been instrumental in getting us to this point where you all have a clean, legally reviewed draft that's ready for adoption. Also, I'd be remiss with not recognizing our review committee. Some of them are planning commissioners. Thank you. Mr. DeHaven, Mr. Botorf, and then Supervisor Liero, and then also Christopher Moan with Greenway Engineering was part, and they did equal amount of work as staff, becoming prepared to our committee meetings and informing, coming with informed questions about the process and what changes were being made. I know Caroline will hit this in her presentation, but again, there are no policy changes being made with the zoning ordinance and subdivision ordinance update. This is strictly a reorganization of the ordinance, consolidation where appropriate, removing duplicative items, and then we're going to be working with the zoning ordinance to make sure that we're getting the right items and most importantly, coming into compliance with all of those Code of Virginia requirements that our ordinance was in some cases lacking. We did a good job of implementing a bit of that code, but codifying it in our ordinance with the appropriate references and text was important. Part of the zoning diagnostic, and I'm happy to report that all that has been incorporated into this ordinance update. So I will turn it over to Caroline from the Berkeley group. They are our consultants. They've been involved with us going back to 2024 in the zoning ordinance update, and she will talk a little bit more about that. We'll talk about the zoning ordinance update first, do the public hearing on that item, seek your recommendation, and we'll proceed with the subdivision ordinance, but they're very in tandem, as you all will remember from the work session. So thank you. Hi, good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the commission. As staff just mentioned, my name is Caroline VanTerve, and I'm here on behalf of Berkeley group to present the phase one zoning ordinance update for your consideration through the public hearing. Okay. Thank you for doing this for me. Okay. block out. Okay. Yeah, thanks, Karen. That's a flip. This is where the rest of the loan contact paper came from. Yes. It does. It will come to me after the sistemaplan update on the October 3th update. Thanks, Caroline and all of the viewers. Thank you so much Clarissa and I appreciate, you as well, I appreciate everyone doing The declavated sign as you just said today, but we actually just wanted to carry through those internally conflicting, and needs to be addressed. Additionally, as you all are aware, state law changes periodically over time, and local codes must be regularly reviewed and updated to remain compliant. And because the ordinance has gone so long without a thorough review, and because these text amendments have been kind of piecemealed together over time, the current ordinance structure makes it very difficult for users to navigate and interpret requirements. This also leads to provisions that may be redundant or conflicting. And so there are four main goals of this phase one update process. The first goal being to improve organization by grouping related topics, procedures, and standards into logical articles and sections of the ordinance. The second goal, of course, it's been mentioned already, ensuring compliance with the Code of Virginia, updating references and provisions to align with Virginia law where they're only currently partially codified. And the second goal, of course, is to improve organization by grouping related topics, procedures, and standards into logical articles and sections of the ordinance. This also leads to provisions that may be redundant or conflicting, and because the ordinance structure may not be fully codified or not codified at all. That's not to say that county staff is not complying in practice, but these items that state code requires do need to be clearly spelled out in your zoning ordinance to protect the county and to be able to defend the decisions that you make as a planning commission and the interpretations that staff is making on a daily basis. And so that was a major goal of this update. The third goal, increasing clarity and transparency by simplifying language, removing any of that language that was redundant or conflicting, and converting text into tables where appropriate. Again, introducing those state code amendments where needed also is important for improving transparency for the community by making it very clear which zoning items are required by the Code of Virginia, as opposed to being required just by Frederick County. And then all of that works together to achieve the fourth goal, having a user-friendly ordinance, having an ordinance that is easier for staff to use, and having a user-friendly ordinance that is easier for staff to use. Having an ordinance that makes more sense for you as a planning commission to review and understand, certainly that goes for the Board of Supervisors and the Board of Zoning Appeals as well. And then, of course, wanting to make it a clear document for the community to understand and use. So the project process was mentioned a little bit briefly. This process was formally initiated in 2025, but certainly there was a lot of zoning work being done to make it easier for the community to use. And then, of course, wanting to make it a clear document for the community to understand and use. So the project process was mainly designed to make it easier for the community to use. And then, of course, many of you will recall that Berkeley Group completed a full diagnostic report of the county zoning ordinance in 2024. This report assessed the current ordinance's compliance with the mandatory and optional provisions of state code. It also made several recommendations just for best practices, modernizing uses, et cetera. So both phase one updates and then what would be considered, you know, those policy updates and are likely to be addressed by the county. So, again, we're looking at the zoning ordinance update process. And then we had a series of three review committee meetings from July to December of last year. Again, I would like to thank those of you who volunteered your time to be a part of those steering committee meetings, as well as the representatives from the Board of Zoning Appeals. So, thank you all for joining us. And I hope that you all have a great day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. the county, the powers and duties of the planning commission, board, BZA, and key county staff as related to ordinance administration and enforcement, the powers that state code gives Frederick County to have and enforce a zoning ordinance, and then all of your procedures for your permit and application processes. TDR non-conformities and definitions also all fall into administrative articles. So as you can see, the structure for some of those zoning ordinance articles did not change. Your non-conformities article and your TDR article are pretty much unchanged. They are remaining as those standalone articles. But as you can see, for the current zoning ordinance articles, there were quite a few that we broke up, that we consolidated, that we moved around. Again, to achieve the goal of having a user-friendly ordinance, making sure that all like preventative articles are not changed. So as you can see, the structure for some of those divisions are easily findable in the same spot and intuitive for everyone to use. You will also see that the administrative articles have the largest set of state code changes. A lot of these state code changes that were made as part of this process relate to ordinance enforcement and administration. There's really not a lot of wiggle room on those. And so this set of articles is where you will see the bulk of the state code changes. Then you've got your development and design articles. And you can see that the state code changes are made in a way that is very much the same as the state code changes that we've done in the past. So this is where a lot of those policy changes would happen at a later date. There isn't as much state code that is related to these articles. So you won't see as many state code changes in here. However, what you will see is where we've done a lot to these articles to address that organizational piece. You'll see new tables and charts to replace text, where you have big lengthy paragraphs now. You'll see the addition of new graphics. You will see the addition of a use matrix that replaces the very long and duplicative lists of permitted uses that you have in your zoning district standards currently. Again, you can see the current zoning ordinance articles on the left-hand side of your screen and where they landed, so to speak, in the updated ordinance. Again, you'll see we split articles up, consolidated them, move them around as appropriate to make the structure intuitive and easier to understand. So this is where you'll see the addition of new graphics. You will see the addition of new graphics. You will see the addition of new graphics. You will see the addition of new graphics. So on your screen, there are four examples of what we implemented to achieve the phase one goals. I know it is a little bit hard to read from this distance, but I will walk you through each of the images. The top left image is an example of state code compliance and achieving compliance through simply citing the pertinent section rather than reiterating. And in most cases, this helps the county remain compliant over time, even if there are amendments to that associated section because you didn't copy and paste in that lengthy text from the Code of Virginia. You have the section, you say you'll be compliant, and that checks the box both now and in the future. On the right hand, that top right corner, you can see a graphic. This is a recreation of a graphic that was included in the 1991 zoning ordinance to illustrate parking requirements. So huge improvement here, and you'll find several of these recreated graphics throughout the ordinance, along with the setback pattern book graphics. So right now, there is a setback pattern book that is living outside of the zoning ordinance as a separate document. That setback pattern book really just reiterates the zoning requirements for residential use types. So instead of having the zoning ordinance and then a separate document that is really just repeating the zoning ordinance, staff is proposing to do away with that pattern book to have all of the pattern book illustrations right there. So that's a really big step forward for us to be able to do away with the zoning ordinance regulations. So should the zoning ordinance be adopted, that pattern book will go away. All of the pattern book graphics are now in the updated zoning ordinance. The bottom right hand corner of your screen is the new use matrix. We talked a little bit about this during the February work session, but again, instead of having those really long lists of permitted and conditionally permitted uses in your individual zoning districts, they've been reorganized into a table. All of those developer did must follow a怎樣 and ents product rule. So with this table apparently has a little bit more ofakkable in it than the original tool. Right now this is the default standard of the Pokemon control system. So what the developer is saying that they can do would be laundry and cleaning blenders, laundry units and dirt 99滯ower and then an thus block according to the T build or elemento code of the page rules and then there's a new maintain version of the query by adding new point. is for the variance process. And you will find several of these in the Permits and Applications article to explain some of the application processes. So a rezoning, conditional use permit, site plan, variance, appeal, master development plan, processes, all of those now have flowcharts associated with them as visual aids. So we've talked about the purpose of phase one. We have talked about the goals of phase one. Now time to talk about the impacts. So should the phase one zoning ordinance update be adopted? We anticipate it going a long way to ease staff time that is spent on ordinance interpretation and administration, improving clarity and transparency for property owners and the public, strengthening legal protections for the county, preparing the county to efficiently address policy changes as part of a phase two update or any future text amendments that happen between now and then, and then supporting a business friendly and predictable ordinance framework. And certainly a big part of having a business friendly ordinance is those policy changes. However, the efforts that we've made as part of phase one to streamline the ordinance, remove redundant content, make it easier to understand and follow, that is a very big first step in having an ordinance that is truly business friendly moving forward. That essentially concludes my remarks on the phase one zoning ordinance update. Again, would like to commend you all for all of the time and energy you put into this effort. This is no small feat, even though there are no policy changes, and really appreciate all of your work and collaboration throughout the process. Planning Commission, following the public hearing, you all can recommend approval, approval with amendments or denial of the updated zoning ordinance. And again, this public hearing is just for zoning. So chapter 165 of the code, the public here, is the public hearing for the subdivision ordinance will immediately follow. The Board of Supervisors will be holding their public hearing to consider the phase one zoning ordinance update on Wednesday, May 13. And should the zoning ordinance be adopted at that point in time, it will be effective immediately, and it will repeal and replace the existing ordinance in its entirety. So I am more than happy to answer any questions that the commission may have this evening. But otherwise, that is all I have for you regarding the zoning ordinance. Thank you. Any questions to my left? Any questions to my right? OK, can you confirm, even though we've updated to align with state code, that did not result in any changes to the essence of the ordinance? No policy changes, no material changes. Berkeley Group, county staff, the steering committee, we all spent a lot of time going through with a fine tooth comb and comparing the old and the new. So to speak, nothing was changed. There was a legal review that was a significant part of this process, both a third party attorney that was hired prior to the county attorney's hiring. And then once the county attorney got acclimated and on board, he also reviewed the ordinance. So this ordinance has undergone quite a bit of internal and external review, again, to make sure there is state code compliance, and also to make sure that, indeed, no policy changes have been made. Well, thank you very much. Thank you all. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to address the Planning Commission on this matter, this would be the time to do so. Please come forward, state your name, Magisterial District, and limit your comments to three minutes or less. Would anyone like to speak? Seeing no one, I will close the public hearing. Planning Commissioners, any discussion? Mr. Thomas? I think this is an excellent amount of effort. And I think the final product is going to be much more usable than our committee. Thank you. Thank you. I think this is a great start. I think the Berkeley group did a fantastic job on this. Agreed. Any other comments? Ms. Cosell? Go ahead and make that. No. Yeah, if no one has any other comments, I can... Okay. Any comments, discussion? Okay. Let me make one point real quick, one comment. Because I've heard it said, and someone came to me, and asked me if I could make a comment on this. I thought it was a good idea. I'm not sure if it's really a good idea. I don't know. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. I think it's a good idea. So for those that have been here for a little while, you'll recall we used to have a OM zoning for our districts, for our boards, for our faculty, for our students, for our students. So this ordinance changed. It did not create the TM zoning. So for those who have been here for a little while, you'll recall we used to have a OM zoning. Right. Right. Right. zoning, office manufacturing zoning. There's only one property in the whole county that had that designation, and that is the McCann office park up between Stevenson and Clearbrook. When we created the TM zoning, it replaced OM zoning. That was in 2023. Uh, so that OM became TM for that particular piece of property. That piece of property is owned by Shenandoah Valley Battlefields, and it has a permanent preservation easement on it. So the chances of a data center being built on that by right are probably, um, pretty low. And I just wanted to make that clear because I've gotten that question, and, uh, I wanted to make sure commissioners were clear on that, and, and anyone that sees this meeting would also be clear on that. Okay, with that said, um, did you want to make a motion? Sure, yeah. I would like to make a motion to move forward public hearing item 8a, ordinance amendment to the Frederick County Code modifications to chapter 165, the zoning ordinance. Okay, and that's a motion to recommend. Motion, recommend approval. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion? Okay. Um, Dr. LaManna, will you start the voting, please, sir? Yes. Brumbach, yes. McKay, yes. Botthorpe, yes. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozell, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes, and the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on May the 13th, as was mentioned previously. That leads us to item 8b, which is a similar and akin, which is the update to our subdivision ordinance. We'll keep it brief. The reason for the update to the subdivision ordinance is there's an intrinsic link between the zoning and subdivision ordinance, and it quickly became evident when we got into the work of the phase one rewrite for the zoning ordinance that there were a number of provisions contained in the zoning ordinance that actually belonged in our subdivision ordinance, provisions relating to motor vehicle access and inter-parcel connectivity, and so on. So, I'm going to ask the Board of Supervisors to comment on that. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so this is part of the work, or we can finish it off. Okay, so we're talking about inter-parcel connectivity, which were contained in our parking standards, and the zoning ordinance made more sense and subdivision ordinance. So we immediately kind of amended our work contract with Berkeley group and had them do the similar process of doing a subdivision ordinance diagnostic to clarify where our code was in relation to the code of Virginia, found that like the zoning ordinance there were quite a bit of nonconformity, and we proceeded with a concurrent review of the subdivision ordinance in addition to the zoning ordinance. So that's Chapter 1-2. 144, and that deals with a number of issues. Again, no policy changes. Again, that kind of reorganization, clarity, streamlining, matching the kind of organization of the zoning ordinance. For those who operate using both ordinances, I think the change will be dramatic in helping them with the kind of readability and just the general use of the ordinances. And we appreciate Berkeley Group bringing that to our attention early and getting the review committee to kind of reinforce that it was necessary to go through that process so we could proceed concurrently with this. And I'll turn it over to Caroline. Most largely the same presentation because of the elements, but I'll let her highlight some of the key differences. So the second public hearing you have on your agenda this evening is for consideration of the phase one subdivision ordinance update. I will keep this brief. As staff just mentioned, there is a lot of overlap. So the purpose and the process for the subdivision ordinance update, again, are essentially the same as the zoning ordinance update. After beginning our zoning work last summer, it became pretty evident to us pretty quickly that the phase one process would also need to be initiated for the subdivision ordinance. County staff agreed, and so we folded the subdivision ordinance into this overarching phase one update. So again, the subdivision ordinance is the chapter of the county code that addresses how property can be split up or consolidated, whereas the zoning ordinance addresses how those properties can be used. So there are a lot of places where the subdivision ordinance and the zoning ordinance are talking to each other, but they are still two distinct and separate ordinances, both of which have sets of state code regulations that are mandatory for inclusion. So again, a big part of this phase one update for the subdivision ordinance was to achieve full compliance with the zoning ordinance. So we have a lot of compliance with the mandatory provisions with state code. State and several instances of case law in Virginia as well require certain standards to be included in subdivision regulations. Some of those are currently contained in the county's zoning ordinance, and so we wanted to make sure that everything is right where it belongs moving forward. Similar to the zoning ordinance, the subdivision ordinance has not undergone a thorough review and set of updates in quite some time. Again, this has been a very important part of the zoning ordinance, and so we have a lot of compliance with the zoning ordinance. So again, a big part of this phase one update for the subdivision ordinance has made the document difficult to use and interpret, and has also led to redundant and conflicting provisions, both internally within the subdivision ordinance, but also with the zoning ordinance as well. As you can imagine, that can become a problem when the two ordinances are working together to address development in the county. So again, the same goals for phase one of the zoning update apply to subdivision as well. Improving organization. You'll see where we have the And then again, all of that works together to achieve usability for you all, for staff, for the board of supervisors, for developers, and for the community. So the process for the subdivision ordinance update, again, occurred at the same time as phase one of the zoning ordinance update. There is a typo on that slide. I do apologize. As staff mentioned previously, the diagnostic that was completed in fall of 2024 was just for zoning. We completed the subdivision diagnostic last summer when we folded the subdivision ordinance into the phase one process. Again, we went line by line through the process, and we've been working with our team to try and address the problems that we saw in the zoning ordinance. So if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to us. We'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. Thank you. Ms. It may feel different. You may have to go to a different section to find what you're looking for But it is really the same as what you have now So what phase one of the subdivision ordinance update does include is a centralization of all administrative responsibilities and tools Relocating those zoning standards as necessary over to the zoning ordinance or the subdivision ordinance Excuse me provisions related to the particular access pedestrian standards And we just pick them up move them over into subdivision where they belong edits for compliance with the Code of Virginia Removing redundant or conflicting language and then again making edits where we could for clarity and brevity Without adding anything new or changing the material meaning of that provision or that text So when we say policy changes in the context of a subdivision ordinance That does look a little bit different because subdivision is addressing The way property can be divided or consolidated So in this case policy changes would include changes to plat submittal requirements those specific standards for vehicular and pedestrian access as well as utility standards Again, none of those were touched as part of phase one. There were no policy changes No edits to any of the items I just mentioned or that you see on your screen That can also be said of any major process changes So if there is a Board of Supervisors Waiver process in place now we did not touch that that would be considered a policy change again Those review processes waiver processes. They are all staying the same is what you have now again Any changes were made for state code compliance removing redundant provisions or to achieve that goal of reorganization? But even then we did not materially change the ordinance provisions So in that blue column on the right hand side of your screen You can see the structure of the updated subdivision ordinance and you can see that the article structure parallels that of the zoning ordinance That was intentional. We wanted to make sure that moving forward these ordinances are in sync with each other a little bit more and So again, there are six subdivision ordinance articles You can see the current subdivision articles on the left hand side of the screen and where they can be found in the updated ordinance Again, you'll see that we split up some articles move them around Consolidated them again to achieve the goal of having a user-friendly ordinance with an intuitive structure Where like provisions are being addressed in logical articles? So again the anticipated impacts for phase one subdivision ordinance update are the same easing staff time spent on ordinance interpretation and administration and proving clarity and transparency for property owners Strengthening legal protections and ordinance defense ability for the county Preparing the county to efficiently address these policy changes and items at a later date and again supporting a business friendly and predictable ordinance framework So again No policy changes to the subdivision ordinance as mentioned previously Berkeley group County staff The Review Committee DRR see you we all spent quite a lot of time working with each other to identify candidates around what we're looking for and then now we're talking about a as long term expansion of the ordinance block, we've gone into citizens or something from the best state but adults will definitely place a Friendland communicator. Again Johnson DRRC, we all spent quite a bit of time looking at the ordinance, going through with a fine-tooth comb, making sure that as we reorganized and made it look brand new, that we were not losing or adding content inadvertently. So following the public hearing this evening, Planning Commission can recommend approval, approval with amendments or denial of the subdivision ordinance to the Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors will also be holding their public hearing for the Phase 1 subdivision ordinance update during their regular meeting on Wednesday, May 13th. And just like the zoning ordinance, should the subdivision ordinance be adopted at that point in time, it will go into effect immediately and it will repeal and replace the existing ordinance in entirety. So again, we'd like to thank you all again for all of the hard work and collaboration throughout the Phase 1 update process. Thank you. I am happy to introduce you to the Board of Supervisors. I will answer any questions you have, but otherwise, that is all I have for you regarding subdivision. I would just like to thank you again for your time. Berkeley Group also expresses our appreciation for the county's continued partnership. Thank you all. Any questions to my right? Any questions to my left? I will say on behalf of the Planning Commission and staff, we appreciate what Berkeley Group has done to make this so much more user friendly. And I use the ordinances on a regular basis, and I've been able to do that. So thank you for your time. Thank you, everybody, for your time and for your time. I appreciate the opportunity to come to this meeting and to have the opportunity to speak to you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I hope you enjoyed this meeting. I am very happy to be here today. I'm very pleased to be here, and I'm so glad that you were able to go back and forth between them and explore the differences. And it's amazing. I don't know why we didn't do this 10 years ago. Well, I do know why. But we're glad you did it. And I'm glad you did it instead of me, because I would have never been able to go through all that stuff and made order out of the chaos that it was. So thank you very much. Thank you. This is a public hearing. If anybody would like to speak to this item, this would be the time to do podium state your name Magisterial District and limit your comments to three minutes or less would anybody like to speak to this update seeing none I will close the public hearing plan a commission any discussion if not I'll be glad to entertain an ordinance on a min I have a motion to adopt this and send it forward to the board with a recommendation for approval I'll take this one too if you don't mind I'd like make a motion of a recommended approval a public hearing item 8 B ordinance amendment to Frederick County code modifications to chapter 144 subdivision ordinance second we have a motion in a second is there any discussion seeing none mr. Whitaker can you start our voting for us please sir Whitaker yes de haven yes Kern Jess Kozel yes Thomas yes marker yes I'll turf yes McKay yes Brumbach yes Lamont a yes chair votes yes and motion carries this will go to the board of Supervisors on May the 13th and again Carolyn thank you very much mr. Klein I was just going to conclude by saying I know there we've talked to a number of you over the last several months and there are a number of changes you all want to see to the zoning ordinance subdivision ordinance if there are particular things email it to us we'll add it to our list of policy changes we're the Berkeley group is kind enough to make some policy recommendations as part of their notes along with our third party legal review so staff will start once this is adopted starting to work through those policy changes I know mr. Pearson if you were here he's he's working on some companion amendments that kind of quickly address some of the kind of glaring concerns and then there are bigger pieces buffers landscaping housing types that will start working on as we get into the policy of the comp plan and thinking about how we'll implement that in the ordinance so as you all think about this over the next several months please feel free to email us at any time and we'll add that to our list of kind of running zoning ordinance amendment that we'll be doing one other thing on the state code state code changes typically take effect July 1 so annually we'll start getting into a regular practice of reviewing those state code changes and then bringing ordinance amendments through the process that address any state code changes in a timely manner so we keep the ordinance kind of up-to-date and fresh with any of those current state code changes that require amendments to the ordinance again as Caroline noted a number of those are just referenced in the state code section so if there's changes were covered by the code but in other instances where we needed to include the text we may have to make several changes to the ordinance over time just want to add those kind of notes for you all to can think about as well very good thank you okay that leads us to item number nine other let me mention in front of each of your chairs this evening you had a very bright colorful printout that mr. Klein was kind enough to provide to you tomorrow night is our next outreach meeting for the comprehensive plan update for those that were not able to join us at the last one we focused on rural preservation and there were a lot of people there there were a lot of people there that was that was good to see that much interest in that particular item tomorrow night's another one that everybody has interest in transportation so if you have a driver's license you really should be there will be at Robert E Ehler middle school starts at 630 and then a week from tomorrow April 23rd economic development out of Stonewall elementary school up in up in your district mr. dehaven yeah mr. Kearns so we will be talking about economic development we hear a lot of talk about economic development there's changes going on counties economic development plan so this would be an opportunity for citizens to voice and share with us and staff what their vision is for economic development I also want to point out while we're talking about schedules beginning in May we will only be meeting once a month and that's the reason why we have to do this. we will only be meeting once a month and that's the reason why we have to do this. planning commission will only be meeting once a month until fall so keep that in mind and if you show up here on a Wednesday night when we're not meeting the door will be locked and the cat will be outside so you will you will be by yourself I will also say that you've gotten an email of that on Tuesday May the 5th I've called a special meeting we'll meet here from 6 to 8 mr. Bishop is that correct yes okay thank you. so we'll be in this room Tuesday May the 5th and that is to have a work session with the applicant for the Virginia technology technology Park which is the data center project in the Stonewall district up by the flying J truck stop so that's what that's all about okay with those scheduling items mr. Bishop do you have anything else under item 9 for current planning application yes sir and I think you've covered most of it if you'll allow me for a moment I'll make a quick note about the items you completed this this evening and there's there's a song which I'm not going to sing to you from Johnny Cash in which it's called one piece at a time in which he built a Cadillac over the course of 20 years by taking a piece at a time out of the factory and that's a bit what our ordinance was before Tyler and Berkeley group dug into it and they've really done a great job. and we really appreciate their efforts I'd like to give them one more prop up before I move on as you've noted the Virginia technology Park you may be more familiar with the property is the fruit hill property off of exit 323 next to the flying J on the west side of interstate 81 that that did come in this past Friday so that is now an active application and you do it looks like have all the numbers for a work session on May 5th starting at 6 o'clock so we are proceeding with that. I believe you're aware the board did go ahead and revoke the Firehouse LLC conditional use permit in keeping with your recommendation at their last meeting tentative may we have attended of May 7th date for the Data Center Information Exchange at James Wood High School we expect to be making a more formal announcement about that fairly soon as as as soon as Wyatt's done getting all the deep the rest of the days and I'm068 further Sang beyond Bear to the Brennan point over that. all the rest of the details in place, but I do happen to know we have the room reserved and we're just finalizing available staffing and that sort of thing. Like I said, you've already covered the comp plan meetings. You'll note that we have a couple QR codes on these boards to your right for some of our big board surveys from some of our previous small meetings, subject matter meetings, that is. We'd encourage you to fill them out as you leave tonight. As you noted, Mr. Stowe, we'd encourage you to come to these next couple on transportation and economic development. And from there, it's really just the beginning. There's more work sessions and onward because we're working toward a fall-winter 27 adoption, so there's a lot more work to come on the comp plan. We do currently, if you've already done the big survey, if you will, the one that you keep seeing on the screen at the beginning of your meetings, we're up to 1,251 respondents on that. We've had a great response. We're going to keep pushing for more. Anything you can do to help us to keep getting that out in front of the public and gather their opinions so that we can, in turn, share those opinions with you all and with the Board of Supervisors, we really appreciate any help on that. And I'll cut it off there. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr. Thomas asked me, and I should have said this, we will be meeting the first regular meeting of the month for the next four months. So the first meeting is when we will meet. The second meeting we will not. That's when the door will be locked. We'll be off. So that ensures that. With that, that completes our agenda. I'll be glad to entertain a motion for adjournment. So moved. Is there a second? Second. All in favor, aye. Aye. Please be careful going home. Thank you. Thank you. All in favor by saying, aye. All against. Aye. Aye. Ms. . Aye. . . .
