Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-07-09
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=289
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you If we could come out of closed session, please. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I move that the Board of Supervisors come out of closed session and reconvene in open session. Second. We have a motion and a second. will need to certify. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Board of Supervisors of Frederick County certifies to the best of each member's knowledge that only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law and only such business public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the board in the closed meeting to which the certification applies. Do we need a second? Second. We have a certification and a second. We need a roll call to approve. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice-chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Chair votes aye. We are certified and then do we motion or just so we had business in close session. You your motion? Yes. session to perform it's now complete we'll be starting the regular meeting at seven o'clock you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you sir thank you I hereby call this meeting of July 8th the Frederick County Board of Supervisors to order. We are pleased to have Reverend Kevin Wilson of Saint Paul's AME Church in Winchester to deliver the invocation! welcome reverend thank you it's my privilege Let us pray. Father we thank you that you brought us to next moment and to this hour and we ask you to bring us to room for this at any time that we should be sitting here a little while in this room if we need anything we can come back to you feel free to come in however we're unscrew the door if we need anything. bless this meeting tonight. Give the leaders of our great county the wisdom that they need that comes from you. And God, help them to listen to each other with open hearts and open minds. Lord, give them great success tonight. And Father, we pray that you would bless our fellow citizens in Texas. They need you. Move in that state in a powerful way, dear God. Comfort hearts. Strengthen them, God. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Vice Chair. Let us please stand and join in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. Now we move to adoption of the agenda. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the agenda? All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? We have an agenda. Citizen comments. This is a time for citizens to speak. You have three minutes. Please start with me. Your name and magisterial district. At this time, it's only for items on the agenda that are not a public hearing, which I believe, do we have any public hearings tonight? I want to say we don't. So that makes it easier if there's anything on the agenda for tonight that you want to talk about, this is your chance. There won't be any public hearing periods later. If you want to be, talk about things not on the agenda that involve the county. That occurs at the end of the meeting. So, Ms. Phillips, do we have anyone signed up? Kim Watt. Do I hit? Okay, there we go. And you can move it if you need it. Okay. Mr. Chairman and Board, I'm Kim Watt, resident of Gainesboro, landowner in Bat Creek, and I do understand that there will be a public hearing, and I respect that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. the land is permanently protected from development, redirecting growth into the urban development areas where infrastructure already exists and housing is more appropriate. Consider the harsh reality many of us face. Imagine spending $800 an acre to grow corn, only to lose $200 on every acre. That is not a hypothetical, it's happening. Farmers can only sustain losses for so long. We are burdened with operating loans, equipment loans, land payments, yet are expected to continue farming so others can enjoy the scenic views and rural charm. TDRs offer farmers a financial lifeline. They provide a way to remain on our land without being forced to sell or develop. But without programs like these, rising debt, declining income and immense stress will continue to affect the development of our land. Thank you. The costs soar and income vanishes year after year. The numbers make the decisions for us and the consequences of that are devastating. Farmers have a suicide rate of three and a half times higher than the general population. My father is one of those tragic statistics. His life lost to the crushing financial and emotional weight of running a family farm. He loved the land and gave everything to protect it. My dad lives through me now and it is in my soul to protect what he worked for. We, the American farmer, are a dying reed. Without meaningful support, without tools like TDRs, our generational farms will disappear and with them a way of life that feeds our nation and sustains our rural communities. I have just two more sentences. Please. If we care about a safe, reliable food supply, land preservation, and the survival of generational family farms, we must support TDRs, support farmers. Because once these farms are gone, they will never come back. We are not quitters and I'm humbly asking this board, please don't quit on us. Brian Nury. Thank you. Thank you, members of the board, husband and the chairman. My name is Brian Nury, a resident of the Opecan District. I rise tonight to address agenda item 6A, the approval of the regular meetings minutes of June 14, 2025. During the little tiff between the supervisors, which was a fantastic use of this board's time, by the way, I heard the chairman state that he has receipts for everything that he said. Well, here's a receipt for something that I said at the end of that meeting, and you'll recognize this. Why is that, sir? I don't know. Do you think, to yourself, that if a... Sir, you're out of order. This is not an agenda item. No, this is not an agenda item. 6A is an agenda item, and you're interrupting my time. It is not on tonight's agenda, sir. Save that for the end of the meeting, please. What constitutes a part of the consent agenda? The approval of the minutes, and therefore that's what I'm speaking on. Now, that was an excerpt from a longer tirade from the chairman's wife, available on YouTube. At FCPS Media on August 20, 2025. She was ranting against the very school system she has tried so hard to ruin in her short tenure as kingmaker for the county. You see, evidence is no good when it can't be sourced. And as you heard last week against your friend, if evidence is modified, it's no good. Therefore, I am making a formal verbal FOIA request for the entire recording between Ronnie Ludwig and Joe Crane that was presented in part at the last meeting. Given the public apportion of this item. The final argument is deception by editing. The clock starts ticking tomorrow morning. That's the end of the list, sir. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak about items on the agenda? Seeing no one, I will close citizen comments. Item 6, consent agenda. How would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Very good. This consent agenda requires a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The Chair votes aye. The consent agenda is approved. I'll include 6A. Board of Super... Sir, please don't disrupt this meeting again. This is your last warning. This is your last warning. Item 7, Board of Supervisors comments. Do we have any? Seeing no one, I would just like to say we did have some tasks on pursuing a couple of funding items. I did perform mine, and I'll be bringing that up for one of the outside government agencies, and I'll be bringing that up later during Board liaison reports. on reports. And that is it for Board of Supervisor comments. County officials. Mr. Baalhofer. And Tammy. Yes, what you have before you is a request to create a new position for an assistant director for administrative services for the social services. And you'll also see there's two other positions. Tammy, she was the director, is going to go into the details on that. I just wanted to go over a couple items. First, you could ask why was this not done at the budget. What happened was, during the budget season, we were in the process of reviewing whether or not to go to a deviated type of human resource situation for social services. What that means is you would have to, a non-deviating social services is where they follow the state HR policy. A deviating one is where you either in part or whole follow the HR policy of the county, which would seem simple enough. However, that would require you to make several changes to your HR policy to match or come close to some of the benefits, rules, and regulations in the state HR policy. It's a very difficult thing to do, but it's been done. And Tammy will correct me if I'm wrong. The last time this was done, I believe, was 2013. And the one person with the state who does that now has left. So they don't have anyone in the state that's even looking at doing this. This is something that the Department of Social Services is going to come up with. And we'll continue to look at going forward in the future. I would expect it's a two-year process or maybe even longer to determine whether it's worth doing that. But that would be brought back at a later date. So that's why it was not done at budget. The two other positions weren't approved until very late in the state budget. So that's why they were not included in the budget. And as you'll see through her presentation, the Frederick County contribution for those positions is very small. It's primarily paid by the state. The next slide I just want to address is why we brought this to the board. Quickly, when we left the HR committee, the intention was to go to the finance board first. However, subsequent to that, our assistant director announced to us that she would be leaving this month, which would leave our DSS in pretty bad shape with Tammy having to handle a lot of different jobs. So it seemed appropriate to perhaps bring this to the board sooner because if the board were to approve this position, she would advertise both positions at the same time. So that's why we brought this to the board. And if you may want to ask any questions at that part, I can answer those and then hand it over. Any questions from the board? Thank you. So good evening. I'm going to put up a presentation just to kind of give you an overview of what we're asking for. And the first slide is just a proposed organizational chart. I know it's a little small. You can't see. But currently, the Department of Social Services, we have approximately 93 employees when all vacancies are filled. And as Mike mentioned, we're kind of a hybrid agency in the county. We do our own HR, which means handle all the onboarding, offboarding of our employees and any type of grievances or things like that that happen. We also do our own payroll and deal with all anything related to compensation for those employees. And so that's why we brought this to the board. And as we continue to grow, that has become just a primary function of our administrative service manager. And so you can see here, this is the proposed organizational change with this addition. And if you could go to the next slide. The governor did a, in the governor's budget, they did a review of all the departments of social services in Virginia, and they looked at caseload standards. Frederick County was under review. And due to the... Due to the high volume of cases that we have here, the average caseload for a CPS worker per month is between 10 and 12. Our workers are receiving anywhere between 17 and 22 per worker each month. As a result of that, it was determined that based on the high referral volume, performance, first contact with timely, we were identified as needing two additional CPS workers here in Frederick County. If you could go to the next slide. All right. With that, the state gave us a portion of money. It was about $200, and I have those figures for you, and $7,000. But we are required to have a 15.5% local match. And so you'll see on the next slide, if you could go, what the actual ask is. So for the assistant director, you can see there in what the local match would be, the contribution from the state and federal funds. For the two family service workers, which would be the frontline CPS. We were given the $207,000. Of that, we have to provide a 15.5% local match for those dollars. This is an ongoing. This will be added into our budget. So this is not a one-time allocation. This was something that will be ongoing in our budget. So for those two positions, the amount that we would be asking for would be the $32,0085. So for the two positions in total, it would be local dollars of $137,163. Any questions for me? I don't have any. I've seen this in the social services as well as in finance committee. I just want to say my experience with your board for a while, I've seen how hard you all work. I think the public might not appreciate it's one of the most difficult jobs in the county. And we're growing fast in terms of the people you need to serve. So the finance committee, I believe. Was it HR or finance that approved this and brought this forward? Yes, sir. Any questions? I do have a question, Ms. Chair. Ms. Green, how are you tonight? I'm well, thank you. I was just curious if you could just go in a little bit more detail. You talked about number of referrals per worker per month. What does one referral kind of entail in terms of man hours or does that vary from one referral to the next? So it varies from one referral to the next. When our agency receives a child protectors referral, we look at whether or not number one doesn't meet our criteria. If it does, there are two tracks that we look at. One is a family assessment and one is an investigative track for those more serious cases. We have 45 to 60 days to complete that investigation. It could be extended if it has criminal involvement, you know, with law enforcement or the Commonwealth attorney. In addition to those cases, we also have what are called out of family investigations, where it could be a case that involves. a person that's in a caretaking role, such as a school teacher or a residential counselor. And so we spend a lot of time, and those cases can be very involved. I just recently did an administrative appeal, and the case was 600 pages to review in terms of the amount of documentation that was involved. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any other questions? Supervisor Jewell? Not particularly a question, but Ms. Screen, thank you and your team. I know your caseload has been just progressively growing, growing, and you provide a tremendous service for Frederick County, so thank you. Thank you. Supervisor Dunn? Ms. Screen, as others have said, I think you've done a great job with a staff that is not fully funded. So for all of you in the public, they are down 12 to 13 people, and some of these people are carrying twice the caseload of what they're meant to do. So you're doing a tremendous job, and I think that we just need to continue to help you find the people you need to do to do the job you need to get done. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Ballhoffer, are we meant to vote on these positions tonight? Yes, if you choose to do this, and there's language written there on the agenda, that's the language that you need to use if you decide to approve these positions. Thank you very much. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of adding the positions and appropriation as follows. I requested appropriation in the amount of $300. $354,997, which includes total salaries and fringes. Of that amount, $137,163 is local dollars, and $217,834 is state and federal. Second. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing none, we'll go to a roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Well. Aye. Vice Chairman. Aye. Vice Chairman. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. The chair votes aye. And 8A is approved. 8B. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, if you remember last month, we made some comments about the Laurel Center. At the time, we had gone and put in, I think, $12,600, and I felt that there ought to be additional funding for that because of what they do. I sent you all a memo. Earlier this week or last week, asking for a request for $40,000 additional dollars. I want to lay out here my reasons why. Faith Powers, who is the executive director, is here in the audience. I'm also going to ask Deputy Werner to come up as well to put some thoughts onto this. Right now, we have a situation where the Laurel Center gets about 70% of their money from the federal government, 30% from state. As the federal government has done forager, it needs to be $20,000 per month for 14th and 9th erstatement and 20th interest groups, as it derives from the financial support that it serves on theimes and funds takes. However, the Ku زarda that weotros are tear 그렇 it and his to make sure that weそれでは boom do not be expensive. And the minimum is roughly $50,000. So in a way it does seemrak it does make sense that we're doing a namen term with it, but if we didn't get it, there's not that much Arrow deserves and if we could build a more comprehensive institution where we can Beijero? Vis processor Sanyor Ringshaw in the65th integer below here we got to Ж Chris De İnser ת. the Laurel Center on Monday. And a couple of things that really struck me were the following. One, you have people there that have no place else to go. They've had calls in which they've said, I'm at the Cracker Barrel. I've run out of gas. I'm scared. Can you help me? We've had other situations where a five-year-old started to kick his mom and staff asked, why are you doing that? The comment was, well, my dad does that. He beats her, and then he gets what he wants, and he puts his arms around her neck until she turns blue, and then we call 911. For a five-year-old to say that and think that's okay is totally unacceptable. Last year, for the first six months of the year, there were 116 calls for service. Now, those 116 calls were domestic violence and physical abuse. This year, for the same first six months of the year, it's 132. So they've actually had higher needs than they had last year. For all of last year, they had 217 domestic violence calls. They had 50 sexual violence calls. They had 29 other calls, for a total of 264 calls. People from social services and our deputies have said, go to the Laurel Center for help. We are a county government, and so then we are asking local people to say, go to a private organization, and that's the reason for funding them. Some of those deputies have taken money out of their own pocket to put people up for the night. Some people have gone and slept in cars. Some people have had no friends to go to. I'm going to ask two people to come up here in a moment. One is Deputy Werner, and the other is Faith Power. Just to make a couple comments to kind of put some faces to this. Deputy Werner, will you come up here, please, for a second? And Faith Power, if you're in the room, please come up here as well. So, Deputy Werner, we've chatted before. You're a police officer in Frederick County. Yes. And when we get a call, a 911 call, primarily from women, but sometimes from men, and they say, my husband's beating me. I need help. What do I do? What is your response? Our first response is to assess the situation and then make reference to the Laurel Center. So you're telling people that they should go to the Laurel Center, a private 501c3 organization, to get assistance. And what, in your opinion, does the Laurel Center do that they could not do if they were literally on the streets or someplace else? The Laurel Center provides a safe place for victims and families to... Go in an emergency situation, and then they provide counseling. They provide so many services that these families desperately need to break the cycle of domestic violence. And so why don't you explain to us what breaking the cycle means, because if it's not broken, then those same people are going to be using public funds, whether it's on other programs, welfare, et cetera. So can you just speak on breaking the silence for a moment, please? Or breaking the cycle, rather? Breaking the cycle. Breaking the cycle indicates that not only it's the parents, but it's the children who are learning this behavior, that continue this behavior. And it's a generational domestic violence versus, you know, breaking that and growing up in a healthy household and creating a healthy household for themselves. Okay. And last question. I made the comment about deputies who have taken money out of their own pocket to go and pay for rooms for people for themselves. How is that working? Thank you. Great question. For example, if you had 48 show nation? Well, five places. Wow. If you hadstar- No the 40. How is that how it works? This issue would have worked at 30% of the board and they put 30% in this. Ya got 17% of them though. That's from the ordinance. And that's just a way this district has managed these sorts of issues in total. They're doing quiteウ is the fact that they're saying, okay, go get 10 million dollars . Okay? It's fine. It's fairlyablo. It is the law center. Okay. Yeah. That's a great point though. from the federal government. So if you can just walk through with that, that would be helpful for a few minutes. Well, first of all, let me say thank you, Mr. Chairman and board members, for your time. I appreciate that. Here I am again asking for money. Challenging times. I'm asking, not you. Well. Go ahead. Challenging times right now. I wanted to address something, though, quickly about breaking the cycle of violence. It's true that children who witness domestic violence in their home, particularly boys, the research is pretty clear that they're at a heightened risk, about 50% greater risk of them becoming abusers themselves. We have a children's program where we serve children ages 5 to 17. The other thing that we provide, and it's one of the areas that I would prioritize any additional money that we might receive from the county would be for therapy services. We had at one time about six therapists on staff. We're down to two. We have one that provides licensed therapy services to children and another one that provides for adults. We currently have a waiting list of 60 individuals on our list for both advocacy and licensed therapy services. With some of the dynamics that are currently happening at the federal level, we're seeing a lot of people who are not able to get out of their homes. We're seeing a lot of people who are not able to get out of their homes. We know that those wait lists are going to increase. The Department of Justice have had programs actually put on hold and canceled that support domestic violence victims across the country. In fact, it's about a half a billion dollars worth of canceled programs. And when I say programs, it's money that flows from the federal government to individuals and individuals in individual states, specifically for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. I think we all know that last Friday was a pretty monumental day for the passing of the big beautiful bill. And there's going to be a lot of dynamics associated with that that are going to affect the victims that we serve. I think for a lot of people, they hear licensed therapy services and it's kind of foo-foo-y. It's about sitting down and talking. What I can tell you is that we're going to have a lot of people who are going to be in the public service. It's going to be a lot of talking. What I can tell you, and the research is really clear, therapy is really critical for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. We are talking about therapy services that are in a clinical environment, right? These aren't just counselors. These are licensed individuals. Why is that important? It helps people. It stabilizes them fairly quickly. Why is that important? They don't stop being parents they've been involved in domestic violence, right? It allows them to continue to be good parents. It allows them to either retain a current job or find one, quite frankly. And those things really add up to getting Frederick County residents back on their feet out there and really not on public assistance. So like your Department of Social Services, they're running a lot of caseloads, so are we. And with the things that are happening right now, that wait list is going to increase. And many of the people will never be seen. They're going to fall off the list. So that would be my number one priority. I will tell you that a secondary priority would be to provide food and shelter for our victims. I think it's important to understand that we're an emergency shelter, right? We're not permanent housing for any of our victims. We are servicing people that are fearful for their life, that have nowhere else to go. We're dealing with people that have multiple facial fractures, broken ribs, arms pulled out of sockets, right? If they had somewhere else to go, I think the last place that they would go would be a shelter. It's about protection, and it's about stabilizing people. We only give them 60 days in the shelter, so it's not like they're there for months and years. Hopefully that answers your question more than you wanted to know. And the total number was over 1,100 beds for the night that they were putting people in. I mean, a person was in a bed for a night. That runs over 1,100, so think about that. So that's the reason for all of you. If you have some questions for either one of them, I'll yield in a second. But I want to make one other comment. Deputy Werner made the comment that she knows officers who have gone and put money out of their own pocket. She happens to be one of them. There are other officers in the same place. And from my perspective on this budget, I think that someplace in the sheriff's budget, there needs to be a set-aside money so that no deputy has to take money out of his or her own pocket. That's a county responsibility. I highly respect that. And the other officers have done that. And Mrs. Powers, I think you said the same thing to me. But that shouldn't come out of their salary. That should come out of county budget. So next year when we do a budget or this year we amend things, I put that thought in mind. Having said that, if any of you have any other questions for either person, go ahead. Any question from the board? Mr. Chairman, I do. Ms. Powers, when you have folks come in, obviously it's a very trying time. They're with you. Where do they go from you? Do they go, do you work with social services? Do you work with the Northwest, you know, community services? Who do you, you know, where does it go from there? Yeah. So we actually have about 30 MOUs that we work with other allied partners. We provide a tremendous amount of wraparound services, but obviously we don't be able to furnish all services that are needed. So we do work. I will tell you that there is a pattern that exists in domestic violence. And the pattern goes like this. Not uncommon for a woman, many with children will flee. They don't want to come into shelter. It's the last place, quite frankly, they want to be. If they're lucky enough to have a car, they'll be in the car for weeks or months until their funds run out. If they're lucky to have a friend or a relative, they'll couch surf for a while. But the reality of that dynamic is that they wear out their welcome. And so they're asked to leave often. And again, if they're lucky enough to have a car, they'll be in the car. But at some point, it's just not a stable situation. And many of them, quite frankly, the number one reason that women become homeless is, they're not going to be able to go through domestic violence. They end up becoming chronically homeless. So they may, a lot of them will end up on the street or if they're lucky enough, there's the rescue mission. But quite frankly, we really use them as a partner as well. And they're full up and so often cannot take our victims. So there aren't a lot of, we are the only emergency shelter for domestic violence and sexual assault in this region. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? I do have a quick question. When we did the outside agencies in June, I believe the request was 12,600. Is that accurate? Correct. So is there a reason, and I can't think of the year prior, but is there a reason you had level of funding? So we approved the level of funding that you asked for again. So I just wanted to know. I think that's a fair question. And thank you for asking that. Yeah. And I think that the time when I filled it out, quite frankly, I had kind of given up. I mean, I've been here successive meetings. And the reception that I had gotten from the Board of Supervisors the last year that I was here was not a positive one. And I really felt from some of you all that my continued asking for resources was problematic and that we might be putting what we have currently from the county at risk. And I can't afford to lose any more resources. Thank you. Thank you. The other reason is, quite frankly, things have changed drastically at the federal level and it's going to trickle down to the state and it's going to trickle down to the local level. I'm telling you all that we are looking at a tsunami right now with individuals because of the cuts that are happening at the federal level. And so those are really the two reasons is the change of what's happening at the federal level and just really my fatigue of trying to ask for support, honestly. You got the feedback there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I can add to that as well. A couple of years ago the state of Virginia cut their budget by about $45,000. That's an approximation. It's $46,000 something. And so when they did that then they came to the board and we did not supplement that budget. And so the reason I was putting in the $40,000, the 40 plus the 12 is $52,600. Take the $45,000 and add in inflation factor plus their need and that's what I'm dealing with. And another conversation, I had with Mrs. Powers, their concerns are that with the federal funding potentially dropping significantly, what do we do? And so, you know, I'm gonna ask Deputy Warner in a second, or you can ask her. The question is, if the Laurel Center were not there and they get a call, what do we do? I mean, that's the issue. And this Laurel Center, for the record, you know, we're funding. Clark County is funding. And I'd say to the governments of Winchester City and Warren County, reconsider this organization because you have people from your counties and city that come to the Laurel Center and you're not putting any money in at all. So the city government of Winchester and for Warren County, I'd say to you, consider making the contribution. Deputy Warner, if there were no Laurel Center, what happens to you and your officers when you get a call? Our hands are tied. And we have to figure something out. And that's not easy to do under circumstances. Thank you. And that's exactly the reason I'm raising this issue. So we're all individuals, you know, do what you think is best, but that's the driver for this and the reason I put this up. So having said that, I think I'm finished unless either of you have anything else that you'd like to add. Just appreciate your time and consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna make a motion that we add an additional $40,000 for the Laurel Center for FY25. We have the money in our budget to do so and so I make such a motion. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Not seeing anyone, I guess I'd like to make a few comments. So we did fund the request in full. This request today is being made outside the normal process. In a normal process, we review things like how much we're using an outside organization as a county compared to the other counties or cities that's using them to make sure that our taxpayers are, you know, getting a proper return on their money in a shared investment. We have every year you don't see this, it's heartbreaking really, we have a large number of charities that have put in the money and it's been a great that come to us and ask for funding. Many of them appear to be great. We cannot possibly afford to fund all of them, even if we wanted to. I'm thinking of some new ones that came this year and the year before. They have great missions. But I have a couple problems with this motion. One is it's not appropriate to force citizens to fund charities at all. Now, philosophically, there are many people struggling in the county, and we're going to raise their taxes if we don't control our budget, and that would require them... People get their liens put on their houses if they can't pay their property taxes, for example. I really think that charities needed to be funded out of people's hearts. With that said, this also appears to be a fantastic charity, and I'm sorry you felt like the board didn't appreciate. I know our words. We have always been very positive, and all the reports we've gotten have been tremendous about what you do. I encourage the public to be charitable and to get involved and to contribute. I think that's the way it should be done. I know there are many individuals in churches who do contribute when they see it. In fact, I'm always amazed. I'll visit a different church and see the food pantries they run and the outreaches they individually do to the homeless. I had an individual contact me this year, and he had gone to a church and he had gone to a home and felt like a person, an elderly person came out and said they were being abused. He didn't know what to do, so he contacted me as the chairman. I stopped my day, and I made a lot of calls and tried to get that person placed. In the end, against my recommendation, the citizen took this person at his own cost, put them up overnight, fed them, and assisted them the next day until they found a relative. They were taken to a hospital. We were accessory to the night. As vast a Initiatives but a social worker his family is in need as difficult. He Death by a page did for these people. It is a struggle to stand by withём someone who Aggravated who. They sit there the whole day could stick with to them there. Tis just an in afternoon thing that somebody in our community did and I think were a great community that ... respect, so. I just can't see out of process. and projects. I guess the last thing I'd say is I really spoke highly of Department of Social Services. I was on that board for a while. Some of the things they see trying to go and answer reports of abused children, they have the same problem. They might not have funds or a place to put them and have to take their time and money out of their pockets to make sure the kid gets treated. You might not know but as far as the Department of Social Services go, their branch helping the elderly is as large if not larger than the child support division. We have a lot of retirees here who really get in a bad way or an an abusive situation and so I would you know want to make sure that that is fully funded as well. I'd never would want to take funds away from that mission that we do have to do. Would you like to make another comment? Continue to reference us as a charity I think maybe that's part of the misperception we're actually providing a service to the county right DSS calls us when they have a victim of domestic violence or sexual assault they contact us to provide services your law enforcement contact us it is not appropriate for individuals to put victims of domestic violence in their homes why because there's a safety issue they they often have perpetrators that are looking for them and to put someone in danger because their housing a domestic violence victim it just doesn't work and so we are special and unique in that we are trained and trauma and in providing professional services to victims of domestic violence we have a secure facility it's a lockdown facility it's the only one in the region so we're providing a service service, right? So I think that's an important distinction. Thank you for letting me make that call. Yes, thank you. And many of the outside agencies that we reviewed, some were charities and some were other forms of organization as well. Supervisor Dunn? The only comment that I want to make to this, and you can hold the applause too, I mean, I've made comments on that before. But the reason I was bringing this out is because we are a government, local government, we are asking a non-government agency to provide a service for us. And that was the reason for it, as Mrs. Powers said. And they do have a secure facility. Unfortunately, husbands, when wives disappear and go there, husbands want to beat them some more. And that's just unfortunate. I mean, it's a security. It's a security. It's a sad state of affairs. But that's the reason I'm saying that we as a local government, if you remove the Laurel Center and they don't exist, then what do we do as a county? Do we have to create something similar? And that's going to cost a whole lot of money. And you have the Department of Social Services, Tammy Green's here too, and they refer people. So we have two government agencies, entities, social services and the police, both of whom are saying to a battered woman or a battered man, go to this organization, which has to raise their own money through federal, state, private grants, individual contributions. And that was the reason for that. So having said that, I think I said what I was saying. And thank you. Any other comments? Yes, Mr. Chair. Just a couple comments. I was able to attend the, to visit the Laurel Center on Monday with Supervisor Dunn. And I appreciate Ms. Powers hosting us over there. We spent about an hour and a half over there. We got a tour of the building, which is an impressive facility. And it's obviously well run from just walking through. You can tell how well run the facility is. But I wanted to talk about the cycle of violence that they're working on breaking. And I think that's... That was an eye opener for me is, is I was just thinking it was, they were one dimensional, just providing emergency shelter for a night or two and stuff like that. And putting people back in the same boat that they, that they came in. And that's not the case. The majority of what they do over there is providing job training, coaching, mentoring, those type of things to get people self-sufficient so they have the wherewithal. And so I was hoping that they would be able to, you know, take a little bit more time off and get to that point where they could be able to make some decisions. I think that was a really good opportunity for them to move out and leave their abuser if they, that's a decision that they make. So that was an impressive part of what I, what I saw over there. We also saw redacted, we didn't violate anybody's confidentiality, but we saw some redacted emails that kind of back up what Supervisor Dunn was just saying. References from, referrals from DSS and the sheriff's department directly to, to let them know that they have a case. And so I think that, that's a really good opportunity for them to, to help them out. And I think that was an impressive part of what I, what I saw over there. I think that was an impressive part of what I, what I saw over there. redacted, we didn't violate anybody's confidentiality, but we saw some redacted emails that kind of back up what Supervisor Dunn was just saying of references from referrals from DSS and the Sheriff's Department directly to Laurel Center. So we have county entities that are, that's their first line of defense that they're going to the Laurel Center to refer. So thank you. Any other comments? Very good. We have a motion. Then we move to a roll call vote on Supervisor Dunn's motion. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The chair votes no. The motion passes. Item 9, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. First is the Conservation Easement Authority. Who would make a motion there? Vice Chair? Mr. Chairman, I would move for the appointment of Leslie Spencer to the unexpired three-year term expiring August 24th, 2027. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Then I'll move for the appointment of Leslie Spencer to the unexpired three-year term expiring August 24th, 2027. Second. We have a motion and a second. Anything discussion? Move to approve. Item 9, appointments to boards, committees, and commissions. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Chair votes aye. Item 9B, Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee, I believe that's yours. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make the motion to reappoint Gary Bailey, whose term expires August 9th, 2025, to the Shawnee Land Sanitary District Advisory Committee. Second. Second. I'll pass the motion. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Then we move to a roll call vote. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. The appointment is made. 9C, Board of Building Code Appeals. Whose is this? Anyone in particular? No, but Mr. Chairman, I know it, and I gladly make the motion to reappoint Witt, well, Witt Wagner, for Board of Building Code Appeals, five-year term. He's a good man. Second. We have a motion and multiple seconds. Any discussion? Hearing none, roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The Chair votes aye. The appointment is made. 9D, Information Item. Ms. Phillips, would you like to describe our vacancies? Certainly. We are still seeking applicants for the following vacancies. Extension Leadership Council from the Redbud District. There's an unexpired vacant four-year term ending in 2027. And the Social Services Board, also from the Redbud District, a vacant four-year term. Thank you. If anyone's interested in serving on one of these boards from the Redbud District, please go to check with one of us on where to find a description of the position, or you can go to FCVA, for Frederick, county of Virginia, dot US. Go to the Board of Supervisors page, and then look at Boards and Committees. We now move to Item 10, Committee of Business, 10A. This is a Deputy Building Official Code Administrator position. Mr. Balhofer, is there a presentation? There is not a presentation. This was presented to the HR Board. Joe Wilder, our Appellate Works Director, is here, if you have any questions. This is primarily to promote this person's work, and we're going to be doing this for a number of years. This is primarily to promote this person's work, and we're going to be doing this for a number of years. This is primarily to promote this person's work, and we're going to be doing this for a number of years. With the anticipation that sometime in the future this person may step into the building official position, this will not require any additional funds. Thank you. So Board, how would you like to handle this? Any of you who are not on the HR Committee, perhaps you'll have questions during discussion, but first we need a motion. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we make a motion, move that we meet the human resources, and the Human Resources Committee request and recommendation as so presented. Second. We have a motion and a second. Now, discussion. Anyone? Mr. Chairman, quick question. By law, do we have to read this language as well, Mr. Ballhopper, or is Mr. Wells' motion appropriate? His motion's appropriate, because you do not need appropriate information. Okay, thank you. Very good, any other questions? No question, but the comment is, I appreciate, I appreciate the idea of succession planning. And I think it's, looking ahead is being smart. We need it. Yeah, for the public, maybe you already made this clear, it moves someone into basically a deputy role so they can be ready to take over, if need be, and it doesn't add entirely a new position, although there is a new position created because the senior building inspector position will remain vacant. Did you give all that? I was... that but that is correct what you stated until we need it as a growing county we expect to need to fill that eventually and so it saves time and trouble to just leave that as an unfilled position now until the time where we we get behind backlogged and we need it um so that is my comment any other comments if not we have a motion we'll move to a roll call vote supervisor liero hi supervisor lockridge hi vice chair aye supervisor well aye supervisor dunn supervisor jewel hi the chair votes aye and the position is approved now we move to 13 other planning business this is an information discussion on an ordinance amendment i see mr pearson coming forward this has to do with tdrs while you're coming i'll just fill the time which we did have a speaker representing farms a citizen speak already on this topic thank you mr chairman members of the board and thank you you mr chairman members of the board and thank you mr chairman members of the board and thank you for the brief introduction mr chairman this is a proposal to amend chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to clarify some elements of the transfer development rights program namely the existing receiving property criteria criteria how the transfer is conducted as well as how the developments get approved in the receiving areas alongside of that we think it's also appropriate to update our traffic impact analysis standards and apply them to buy right developments as well as tdr projects specifically staff did initiate this amendment and we have a lot of evidence that this is a very important and very important step for the board to take into consideration this is that kind of pre-step for where the board reviews the proposal in a general sense authorizes it to go to committee and then go to a planning commission and board public hearing so you will see it again and it might even look different by the time it makes it all the way back through the committee and planning commission process um so it's a kind of a technical ordinance and i'm going to try to break it down but these slides are going to be very text-based so if you have any questions clarify any elements of the program right now the current standard for transfer development rights is that the receiving property has to meet a series of criteria one of those is that it needs to be identified as for residential land uses in the comprehensive plan also the ordinance does not allow for program applicants to have any real idea of how they could actually utilize the tdrs prior to transferring them onto the property so for those not familiar with the program tdrs are like a real estate transaction uh somebody using them in a receiving area has to go and buy them from somebody in the rural area and you know conduct that transaction to legally link them to the property in question before my staff will even look at a plan document that can be a challenge when you're going out and spending you know more than a million dollars sometimes many many millions of dollars to buy enough tdr rights to put a project together and you really don't have an idea of how many you actually need to buy because we want to be able to do that right now so we want to be able to do that right now so we want to be able to do that right now so we want to be able to do that right now the program doesn't allow us to review plans in advance of you conducting the real estate transaction and then right now there's not really a linkage in the ordinance to require the implementation of elements of our comprehensive plan when the development actually proceeds forward those are current standards as they exist or the ones that we're proposing to change so for the receiving property criteria element we would like to specifically reference the comprehensive planned land uses rather than the land uses that we're proposing to change then relying on the property being planned for residential so and we would also like to coordinate with the zoning district so those properties that already zone residential performance uh would meet that criteria any properties zoned in your planned community or residential planned community r4 district would need to be identified in your comprehensive plan as planned unit development and then those properties that are used the most in the tdr pregnant program those zoned rural areas ra that are within the urban development area could be planned for residential, urban center, or neighborhood village. This still prevents the use of TDRs in those areas of the urban development area that you've planned for industrial or commercial uses, but it clarifies whether or not mixed-use districts like urban centers and neighborhood villages, which do have residential components involved in them, would still qualify as a place where TDRs could be utilized. Now, to address that kind of inconsistency and that uncertainty that an applicant experiences when buying TDR rights and not knowing how they could be used, we'd recommend adding a section that allows them to submit and receive a contingent approval on our master development plan procedures prior to transferring the development rights. If they don't transfer the development rights, they can't actually use that master development plan, but it gives them an opportunity to work with an engineer to lay out the property, figure out how many rights they can fit on it, and get the county to sign off on a general concept. And gives them the confidence they need to then go and purchase the rights necessary to conduct that project. Lastly, on the TDR side of things, we think we have the opportunity to leverage a state code section that would require these TDR developments to comply with the standards contained in our adopted area plans. And that would include either the reservation of rights of way for comprehensive planned roads, or if a traffic impact analysis warrants the construction of those roads. Then to require the construction of those roads as part of the development. Shifting into the traffic impact analysis component of this, the board probably as seated today has not been exposed to the existing standards that were adopted back in 2009. But they did rely very heavily upon the Virginia Department of Transportation's Chapter 527 standard, which has since been modified since 2009. And, you know, VDOT is a statewide bureaucracy. And it's a state-wide bureaucracy. They increase the threshold for trips per day to 5,000 trips per day for when a TIA is required. And our policy matched that. And as you all can imagine, there are a lot of by-right developments that occur that are well below the 5,000 trips per day threshold and then are not subjected to a TIA. We would recommend the revisions that I'm going to talk about in a moment that would allow us to require a transportation impact analysis for those that are required to comply with the TIA standards. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So that's, again, a great matter of importance here. And we want to provide some advisable advice for what we call security procedures. But in those terms, I think we need to be flexible. For businesses, this, like TiA and other private companies, I want to say to put these авant Gardiner products in local and major tech stores and buyinch stores on our product line. So we want to show the people across the board and like TeaA and other private companies that this is not appropriate and also the part WEA. But, you know, we used all of our resources and the program. It was easier, it was freer. It's organized. It's simple. It's fully organized. And we want to be flexible. And we're going to keep that in mind. So we need to be flexible. if improvements were made in recent years in that specific area, or if we have no reason to believe that the use is actually going to generate significant impacts on the surrounding transportation system. On the TDR side of this, having a TIA really helps us in reviewing the development proposal. It's still not a legislative or rezoning application, so if there is a stoplight that's warranted to be installed by the TIA a mile down the road, we will not have the opportunity to require the developer to install that, because it is still a buy-right development. But if there is something within the vicinity of the project, or some improvements that can be made in the project to make the traffic work better, the TIA will help us to identify that and help us ensure that they get constructed as part of those projects. So again, this item is presented for information and discussion. This is kind of your preliminary step to decide whether or not you want to forward the general proposal to committee and then to, through a public hearing, process with the Planning Commission and to end at the Board. Mr. Chairman, I'm happy to answer any questions about these items. Yes, sir. Thank you. Any questions for Mr. Pearson? Anyone? I do have one question. Supervisor Wells? So we heard one speaker come up and talk about how important the TDRs are. This is still keeping the TDRs in place, just restructuring some of the ways to go about it. Yes, sir. Am I correct? Yes, sir. So what you're saying is that the Board can use TDRs in the receiving areas and allowing the county a little bit more leverage on the development side of it to ensure that these projects do honor elements of our comprehensive plan related to infrastructure? Sure. Yes. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, this doesn't change how much of receiving area there is, right, at this time? So that's an interesting question. Depending upon how you look at it, it does have an impact on that. So the Board may be familiar with the Board of Zoning. The Board has been familiar with the Board of Zoning. We've had a couple of discussions about the Board of Zoning, the Board of Zoning Appeals Action, where an interpretation of staff was challenged as it relates to those mixed-use districts, those urban centers, those neighborhood village that are contemplated to have both commercial and residential in there. Prior to that challenge, we had interpreted those as not being qualified areas for it. This change would allow them to be qualified areas for it, so it would, in a way, expand the place where people can land those rights in the receiving areas. But it also does take out the opportunity for them to be able to move those areas around. I'm not sure if that's a good answer. It's a good question. It is a good question. And the Board may have to take out elements of the planned unit development designation that otherwise would have been allowed. I'm not sure if that directly answered your question or might have confused the topic a little more. Sorry. No. It's a... I've been trying to absorb how the TDRs work. It's a complicated system. Yeah. It's a marketplace, so if you don't have an adequate receiving area... Then the farmers won't be able to... They won't be able to participate. Right. Mr. Pearson, was there a difference in the amount of acreage? that would be available. I think I recall you having some discussion maybe about this would actually increase. It would. Yeah, we evaluated. So the most predominant use of TDRs is used on properties that are zoned RA but are within your urban development area. We compared the RA zoning within the urban development area that is planned for residential land uses under the old interpretation. So it would have had to have just been purely residential, could not have been an urban center or neighborhood village. There was about 900 acres of receiving property. Now, great quantities of that are challenged in different ways, be that public water and sewer access. An example of one of them is the country club, right? So there's a golf course active on that property. It's still technically qualified, but we know right now it's not heading towards any sort of development pressures. Under the newer interpretation with this ordinance change, the receiving area expands to about a total of... 2,000 acres that technically qualify by adding in those urban centers and those neighborhood villages for consideration in the program. Thank you. And balance that against the sending area, which is your entire rest of your rural areas. You know, the receiving area was too small to begin with to have viable options for people to land rights in. We think this is a program improvement overall. Thank you. Any other questions? Supervisor Dunn. It's Mr. Pearson. This is not a question and also a comment to all of us on the board. Redbud is a primary receiving area, not a giving area. So I'll support this going forward because I think that as we go forward, we could have further discussions on how to improve the situation. But my concerns are that, for example, in Redbud, which has been the recipient of TDRs, you had the new houses have come in. Those that have sold the TDRs have been able to preserve their rural areas. But the county is now absorbing costs, reaching the new houses that's being built. So whether you take Sensody Road, Greenwood Road, et cetera, when you start to put houses in there, then how do we as a county pay for that? And for those of you familiar with Greenwood and Sensody, they are small country roads that 40 years ago, 50 years ago, there was nothing there. When you start to put in 1,000 houses or 1,500 houses, and I know that the land on Greenwood is not that, but among everything else that's occurring, that's what we're looking at. So as we go through this program, I think it's important to understand that in this TDR process, we as a board need to figure out how to go and pay for the transportation issues, how do we pay for the capital costs. There's going to be some balancing acts, some trade-offs. I've talked about how to raise revenue before. But my concern is that I just don't want to take a problem in a rural area, such as a farmer who says, I need to go and keep my land, and so this is the way to do it, which I appreciate, and then put it into an urban area. And now we have another problem. And so I think it's important to understand that in this TDR process, we need to address the problem for the county on, okay, roads that can't handle the traffic, houses that have been built that now need schools, need more emergency services, and that's the balancing act that I think collectively we need to address. So I'll support this going forward, because as this conversation goes forward, that's something I think that all the people that touch this need to address, so there's a solution for everybody. We're only one of three in the county, or sorry, only one of three counties in the state that are doing this. And so we can either have the best option or not to do it. So I think it's important to understand that in this TDR process, because other counties don't do this, and Stafford County, which is doing this, has grown significantly, and I'm not saying this is only for the better because of it. So there could be a warning. So if you want to make any comments on that, that's fine. No, I think you're right. Describing it as a balancing act is a perfect way to describe the program. We adopted it very early when it got enabled by the state, and we haven't made that many changes to it since we adopted it. This is, in my mind, kind of the first step. I do have in mind a phase two adjustment to the ordinance, but I think it's large enough changes that I would like to do a lot of involvement with the program applicants and rural landowners to see what they would want changed in it as well. These are minor fixes. I think don't warrant that right now. But you're right, and especially when you think about it from a magisterial district perspective, the suburban magisterial districts are taking the load when it's transferred into there. But remember, it's transferring that burden. Those projects could have been built on five-acre lots out in the rural areas, and it would have cost us more to serve them from a transportation perspective for busing kids as well as running fire and rescue calls out into the more spread out areas out there. But it's a fair comment and something I think we need to continue to keep in mind as we make changes to the program. I'll just say, I think we all need to work together to try to find what's best for this county to spread the cost, to preserve parts of this county which need to be preserved. But yeah, thank you. Thank you. Any last comments? I do have a question. I think you just answered it. I love the program because it preserves our rural Frederick County. That's what we want to do. So that then becomes the farmer gets the proceeds to keep his land open, and then it's being sent to a more urbanized district. So you're saying that was by right development, and therefore when it comes into the county and it gets developed, none of the impact, that developer doesn't pay any of the impact. Basically because the RA was by right, the five acre lot was as a by right development. That's right. So, does this modification with the traffic impact, the developer still doesn't have to pay the whole am Señor estamos en unaнова auntie, the developer so doesn't have to pay the whole impact. But they would still have to do their part. Because otherwise, when we have traffic issues, all taxpayers are essentially your concerts todo el trabajo, are essentially going to pay it, just like they would for the services for the five-acre, but this would help the county recoup some of that impact. retro aspect de fluida… procederás la demandada para que le pongan más el ciência con todo al mismo barra. commercialMoinella directнее, lo 색� из cinco barras de— that impact? That's our hope, yeah. Being able to delve a little bit more into the impacts via a traffic impact analysis we think will help us capture some of those costs and facilitate them through the way the development is constructed. But to be clear, you brought up impacts and we're not getting cash profits for schools or capital improvements on the fire and rescue with these projects. I think over time, and I was talking to a citizen about this who had asked me some questions before the meeting, in that phase two update I'm hopeful that we can look at things similar to adequate public facilities ordinances. And what I imagine for that is right now the receiving area is kind of static, but I'd hope to try to correlate it to the existing capacities in our school system. So a receiving area could be open while there is still capacity left in the school and then no longer be allowed to accept additional right transfers if the schools are overcrowded for the next phase. So I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. But that's a much more complex thing to figure out. That'll take a lot of time. And again, I think the next update for this really does require us to do some engagement with those program applicants on both sides of the sending and receiving to figure out what changes they want to see as well. Thank you. Any more discussion or questions, I guess? Thank you, sir. So, Mr. Bobloff, are you looking for a motion or just a consensus to whether we want to move this forward? It's a resolution. We need a motion. Very good. So how would the board like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, it appears that what we need to motion is that we send the policy amendment, the ordinance amendment, to Development Review and Regulations Committee first for further discussion and then the authorization to schedule public hearings for the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors. So that is the motion. Very good. Do we have a second? I'll second it. We have a motion and multiple seconds. Sounds like this will... We'll pass and move forward. Any discussion or should we go right to the vote? Very good. Roll call vote. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Chair votes aye. So this item moves forward for further work. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair. Planning Commission met last Wednesday, July 2nd. They took up the... 2025-2030 Agriculture and Forestal District update. That's a total of over 17,000 acres within the Agriculture and Forestal District program for the ensuing five-year period. Again, that's 2025-2030. Properties that are incorporated into the Agricultural and Forestal District are guaranteed certain protections as specified in Section 15.2-4300 of the Code of Virginia. That was approved unanimously. By the Planning Commission, that will come to the Board of Supervisors for our 8-13-25 meeting. Also, last week at the Planning Commission meeting, a motion was made for the Planning Department to put together an information sheet on data centers. I don't want to steal your thunder on this, Mr. Pearson, but Mr. Pearson did make reference to the fact that in the Commonwealth of Virginia, there is a fairly thorough report from JLARC summarizing data centers, pluses and minuses of data centers, characteristics of data centers, and so on, that the report would likely be kind of a summary of that JLARC report. I don't want to put words in your mouth, Mr. Pearson, but if you can speak to that. No, I think you've captured it well. The Planning Commission requested that the Board direct us to further study the data center topic and bring back, information. I spoke with Mr. Ballhoffer about this a little bit, and we'll be bringing it up with the Board at your August meeting to get further direction on exactly the task at hand and what the Board might request of us in addition to what the Planning Commission has already requested. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other Board liaison reports? Seeing none, I'll make one. It's tied to the Public Works Committee and the Lord Fairfax Soil and Water Conservation District at our meeting deciding on funding for outside government agencies. Few of them we weren't sure about, and people were given various tasks. I received one, and that was the Lord Fairfax Soil and Water Conservation District had asked for a 13 percent increase. We decided at the time just to fund them flat, in other words, the same level they received the year before, but to go investigate a couple of things. And I have done that since the last meeting, and I'm reporting to the Board what I found. First stop was to go to Public Works. I'm reporting to the Board on the potential for overlap in the two missions. I met with Joe Wilder. That was the very next week, I believe, after our meeting. And you can find what I'm about to read in the minutes from the Public Works meeting that you've got in your package today. But I'll summarize it here. Basically, there's no overlap in mission. The Soil and Water Conservation District's initiatives are primarily focused on managing runoff from farms and agricultural properties, whereas the Public Works Committee is focused on managing land use. The so-called Soil and Water Conservation District is focused on managing land use. The Public Works Committee is focused on managing land use. And it also is the county's stormwater program is focused on new development and construction related runoff. Frederick County does not regulate stormwater from most agricultural properties. The district's programs typically include efforts such as keeping livestock out of streams, funding fences and such to keep them out of streams, and administering cost share programs to help farmers reduce runoff. As such, there is currently no overlap between the county's stormwater program and the district's programs. programs. So that answers the first question we had at that meeting. I then spoke to Mr. Kermit Gaither. He is our County Senior Representative of two we have on the Lord Fairfax Soil and Water Conservation District and I asked him what the impact would be and what he recommended we do. He said that he believes their program is fine with the funds they've received and he doesn't request that we take any action at this time. They will return with a new request and more information for us so we understand exactly what they want us to fund next year. However I did let him know or I reminded him that one county had increased their support for his program, another county had decreased it and the City of Winchester had withdrawn entirely. So I encouraged him at their next board meeting to look at their next year's budget and that our door was open if there's an important program going to be lost that we would certainly be willing to hear from them before next year if they choose. So with that said that's my report. I don't believe we have an action from that. So citizen comments. On supervisor comments, can I just make a quick comment? Well we're on citizen comments now. Okay I'll do it then later. Anyone grateful in advance? Let me see, let me just start us off. Changes in flow is manufacturing all the revenue, it's connected to recall trucks and their economy. And as far asол Dam shock because in here they're not going to work all the revenue there. They're going to reshuffle the infrastructure. So intrusive отдель and the work of noise defense and I'm sure there will be those other comms like media to cover up therevolution, but the根 but I just have to say that we do miss this date very much. I do think we do miss the is that you would. Okay. But again, I'm able to see your videos. proposals or conditional use permits in rural areas for the purposes of data center or dense residential development. Instead, I would encourage us to pursue other creative solutions to generate tax revenue for the county that will not sacrifice the rural character of the county or impact local property values. Thank you very much. Thank you. Jennifer Adams. All right, good evening. My name is Jennifer Adams and I'm from the Shawnee District. I would like the board members to recognize all those standing behind me. We are just a few of the people that since Josh Ludwig has been a part of the community for a long time. I'm a member of the Shawnee District and I'm a member of the Shawnee District and I'm a member of the Shawnee County Board of Supervisors. I have been a target of some of the most vicious bullying I have ever seen out of people who claim to be advocates for a better tomorrow here in Frederick County. I invite the board members who have been attacked to stand with us. Since Josh Ludwig has stepped into the political arena in our county, it has been one attack after another and it has been going on for years. The citizens of this county come from many different backgrounds, political affiliations, careers, social status. Some were born here, others haven't been here very long. And while all these people are different in many ways, we all have one big thing in common. We've all been bullied, threatened, slandered, harassed, not only personally but also at work, including their co-workers, their employers, along with their families, and in some instances, sadly, even their children. Some of us have had to retain legal counsel to combat the blatantly false evidence that has been used to defend the state of the state. We've all brought to the table political allegations brought out by you, your wife, and your friends. All in the name of what exactly? Josh Ludwig has done nothing to make this county a better place for all of us. Every time one of the services provided to the citizens comes here for money to secure our schools, roads, community, it's an uphill battle. If anyone speaks out via social media, the local newspaper or here at the board meetings, that's followed up against a small business, someone's career, even a child. That is what we have all endured. We are tired, Josh Ludwig. We want to go back to board meetings with a purpose, not the Josh Ludwig show with PowerPoints, slideshows, recorded phone calls. We have no idea that if the person you claim it to be is or not. We have business to conduct in this county, not your personal drama shows to watch. In conclusion, we will continue to stand together as citizens in this county against the bullying, the harassment, the voter intimidation. The FOIA requests by your very close friend that have actually cost their county money and the blog posts that you and your wife, along with that remarkably close friend, continue to blast all over the county, attempting to ruin whomever the target of the day is. We will continue to retain legal counsel as necessary, and we will not be moved until you, Josh Ludwig, pack it up and get out. Next speaker, please. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors. My name is Kurt Krieger. I reside on rural land in the Back Creek District, and I wanted to speak to you about the fact that I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. I want to speak to the issue of the comprehensive plan, and since Supervisor Liero updated you on the comp plan, the Planning Commission conversation at their last meeting, and specifically mentioned the JLARC report, it's important to know that the current power utilities have a duty to serve. And the JLARC report, recommendation number two, states, that the Code of Virginia should clarify that electric utilities may delay but not deny service to customers when the addition of the customer load cannot be supported by the transmission system or by available generation capacity. Well, why is that germane to your comprehensive plan? What's the point? As you may well know, Rappahannock Electric Cooperative is the retail district, and they have a telephone town hall meeting. The last one was held June 25th. And at that meeting, they spent about half their time talking about data centers and the load demanded by data centers. And it was stated at that meeting that last winter, the peak energy demand for the entire REC system was 1,150 megawatts. And they also said that the peak energy demand for the entire REC system was 1,150 megawatts. And they also stated that with the data centers that are currently in their pipeline for approval, the projected demand is 20,000 megawatts. That's a 20-fold increase in power demand. They also went on to say that next summer, they expect there to be a retail shortage of electrical energy. So the JLARC report tries to manage that. By giving electric utilities a tool to feather in the demand so that you don't create a situation where a new energy user comes in and existing users, be they farmers, small businesses, or residential users, are subject to brownouts, which could happen under the current situation. So I highlight this fact as a consideration in your comprehensive plan. So you take it into consideration. And I also want to make sure that you take it into consideration. I also want to make sure that people in the audience know that August 20th, they have an annual meeting of the Rappahannock Electric Cooperative. We're all members if we pay our rates. And people should pay attention to this issue because it could be quite important to the future of Frederick County. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on a matter of importance to the county? Please come forward. A cue up. Hi. My name is Leslie Spencer, and I'm a resident of Gainesboro. I'm here to speak in support of stronger tools that protect farmland and plan wisely for growth. I believe this update to the Transferred Development Rights Program has real potential to preserve our agricultural lands while guiding better development into more appropriate areas. That said, I urge the county to make a decision. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to make a statement in support of the and parks in the urban areas. These are vital for our Eastside community in so many ways. The update to traffic impact analysis requirements is also a great step forward. I fully support requiring traffic studies for all major developments, including by right and TDR based projects so that infrastructure keeps pace with growth. Let's continue shaping policy that balances freedom, protection and rural preservation. We can grow smarter, not just faster, while preserving the unique beauty and productivity of our county generations to come. Thank you very much. If there's anyone else, please queue up at this time. My name is Joel Fowles. I'm from the Gainesville District. I just wanted to read something from a few years ago. At their December 9th, 2009 meeting, the Board of Supervisors adopted the following core values. A government that is accountable and dedicated to providing responsible stewardship for county funds and to ensure the citizens receive the best services possible for the funds expected. Expended, excuse me. A government concerned with long-range planning that protects our rural heritage and directs its future growth through planned infrastructure. A government concerned with expanding commercial and industrial tax base in order to ensure a viable and thriving economy. A government that looks to the future and implements plans to ensure that the quality of life for future generations is preserved. A government that emphasizes a quality education through a cooperative effort with the school board. A government that recognizes the importance of maintaining a highly trained public safety program to provide efficient services and protection to county citizens. A government that promotes the spirit of cooperation with its regional local government partners and, in particular, the City of Winchester. And last but not least, a government unit based on honesty, trust, integrity, and respect that understands the importance of the public safety program. A government that recognizes the importance of maintaining a highly trained public safety program to provide efficient services and protection to county citizens. A government that understands the importance of the public safety program to provide efficient services and protection to county citizens. And a government that understands the importance of clear communication and a willingness to listen. Just seemed worthwhile to review. Thank you. Very good, seeing no one else, I'll close citizen comments. Board of Supervisor comments. Do we have any? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Just a real quick comment. Our parks and recreation department put on a heck of a show on the 4th of July. I know some people were upset with the noises and so forth and so on, but it was the 4th of July. It's a large American holiday, and I certainly enjoyed it, and I think they did a great job. Thank you. Anyone else? Supervisor Jewell? Mr. Chairman, I'm going to piggyback on that. The town of Middletown had their annual parade and their event down in the park, and I don't know if you saw the pictures. There were a tremendous amount of turnout. Families had a wonderful time. My hat's off to Mayor Charles Harbaugh for what he did and his team and the kids. It was just so much fun watching those kids. So, you know, that's what it's all about. Supervisor Dunn? Mr. Chairman, so first of all, to all of you on the board, we were talking about outside agencies, and so I'm just going to suggest that perhaps next year when we go through a budget, we'll have a budget review process to do that much earlier. That way, the outside agencies would have an idea of how much they're going to get or not get, and it might make it simpler and easier than doing it at the end. The 10 years I've been on this board, we've always done it at the end, but having seen some other things, I'm going to suggest that you do it earlier next year. So I'll just put that as a thought. Next item I'd like to address is what occurred a couple weeks ago. The Planning Commission made a request. For data for this board to go and consider regarding data centers, the comp plan, et cetera. I'd like to have us consider that at our August meeting, and here are some comments on why. The meeting that we had there, I'd like the county to go through the thought process on data centers, on do we want them, why or why not, if we do want them, how do you want them? So let me just walk through. One would be site selection. The second would be the optimal size and location. Do you want a large campus or multiple campuses of 600, 700, 800 acres? Do you want to just have small ones of 10, 20, 30, 40 acres? Do you want to have a combination of both? Do you want to have none? Well, we ought to go through that with the pros and cons of each of those items, both smaller and larger. On the legal issues, some data centers do not pay government taxes. For example, governments don't pay government's taxes. So a data center that has a state or federal government data center, the county has no benefit for, and can we as a board address that issue? And that's something that I don't know, but that's something we ought to consider. Under electrical generation and transmission, how do you address electrical generation and transmission? There was a gentleman here earlier who talked about that. PJM is the regional transmitter of electricity. And not only Virginia, that organization deals with transmission of electricity in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, D.C., Delaware, Ohio, Kentucky, as well as Virginia. And so, for example, if you have a data center in Ohio, it still has an effect here. And we just ought to be aware of the pros and cons of that, how that issue is addressed, et cetera. On cooling, how are data centers cooled, whether it's water, power? Glycol, alternatives, but you ought to go through the process when looking at that and tradeoffs. On noise and frequencies, the same issue. How do you address those? There have been a number of changes on data centers in the last 20 years. I used to live in Fairfax County. Many of you have lived in Loudoun County or Prince William County. Data centers that existed 20 years ago and now are different. At least you should be aware of the differences on the items that we're talking about before we make a decision. Yay or nay? Many people here talked about saving the valley. And I just put out the thought, this valley has changed in the last 40 and 50 years. There are people on Marble Road and Heights Road that are there today, and 20 years ago, they were simply apple orchards, not houses. In my backyard was a farm. Now it's a bunch of houses. So we need to go through and take a look at the potential costs and ways to help farmers in this issue. And are there other ways to help farmers save the view of the valley? Because they are running a business. But how do we help them economically? What jobs are produced if data centers are done or if they aren't done? What taxes are generated if they are done, not done? And how is that tax money used? So I think we need to go through and put the data out there. And I hope that we would take up the planning commission's ask. So we can have a good impact. So we can have a good in-depth conversation on these technical details in detail before we make decisions, yay or nay, on how we go forward with data centers. EDA has, for the last five years, talked about this. And previous boards have said, yes, we should. So I'm just trying to address the issue that we as a county want to go through this issue first. And then having completed that, we can then go and say we want, we don't want, et cetera, on the process. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Supervisor Lockridge. I do have a couple things. To piggyback off of Supervisor Dunn, I went and visited, actually, Chairman Ludwig and I both visited the day after the joint session, the planning commission. We went to the McDonald farm. And very interesting enough, they talked about a lot of the losses of a farmer. And I firsthand know what that's like. But they used to or they said, no. They said, no. They used to or they still do sell their apples to Gerber Baby. And just last year, the cut was tremendous. And last year, because of the drought, they lost major crops. So many of the people in the audience that night were talking about preserving our rural farmland. The reality is you can't make a farmer make money. And so listening to their story, and I think I pointed it out the night of our joint session. But we can, it is, it's their farmland. And while we want to keep that farmland forever, the reality is we have watched Route 11, Snowden Bridge be a beautiful farm back in 2000, prior to 2000. And if the farmer no longer is making money, they have to pay their bills. I don't know of anybody who has knocked down my family's farm and said, hey, I'd like to pay your taxes. And I'm not asking them to. The reality. If we want to preserve rural farmland, we as a board need to come up with ways to do that. And we turned that down that night. But the more I've gotten to think about it, with, if you do something of that magnitude and you do lose that land, it would maybe give an opportunity to purchase development rights to preserve rural land and other areas. So I think it's something we as a county really need to do. And I think it's something we as a county really need to discuss. Because when we say no to something like that, and they're forced out of farming because maybe Gerber's not buying it, their corn crop got a drought, maybe it's getting too much rain this year, we can't just sit here as a county and say we want to preserve it and not offer a suggestion to our farmers. So we talked about the TDRs. Transfer development rights are fine. They do preserve land. But then they're putting development elsewhere. So I think that's something we as a county really need to discuss. Because when we say no to something like that, we do preserve land. But then they're putting development elsewhere. Purchasing development rights means that we as taxpayers have to actually purchase them. We don't have the funds to do that. However, I look at their land and say one day, if they don't want to farm it, is it going to be an industrial park? Well, in 2000, the people fought hard. They didn't want industry. They didn't want an industrial park. And we're getting, what is it, Mr. Pearson, 2000 homes? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? And how do we get that? Well, in 2000, the people fought hard. They didn't want industry. They didn't want an industrial park. And we're getting, what is it, Mr. Pearson, 2000 homes? And half of that development is done. We're overcrowded schools. The school was built in 2021, I think it opened, and it's already over capacity. So it just wasn't planned effectively. And we're going to run into that same problem if we don't plan appropriately. So I think it's something we absolutely need. need to consider. I'm hugely on not wanting any more development, but I don't think that's a possibility. We've watched this. I've been here my almost 40 years, and this county is not what I grew up in. So my point is that we can say no to data centers because we are passionately against them, but what could it become? And I don't think we want industrial parks. I don't want 2,000 homes over there, so we really need to think about it brings in some revenue. I think there's some bad things that are like Supervisor Dunn said, if it were to be a government agency, there isn't the tax revenue. But just to put that project in perspective, I think it was going to be 60 acres that were the buildings themselves. How it was described to me were going to look like barns. There's a huge horse barn currently there. And interestingly, there's a hugeuch Sangoma State somebody said or sortie the wrong language when it comes to that with him … they might have been covid so much progress is missing. So this is all folks that need to hear before we go into that this morning. we're� roll call you in first. We have Presenter sound record i leave call Let me first call say the stage is open to the umm OK. I'm so sorry that the I don't know that it was all going to be bad considering it could be an industrial park, it could be 2,000 homes, and that would put an immense pressure on not only our schools, our infrastructure. So that's a comment just to piggyback off of Supervisor Dunn. I think it's something that we as a county need to figure out where is the revenue. Tonight, item eight, we approved $137,163 to the Department of Social Services. We all say there's a need for that, so we approved it. We also approved $40,000 for the Laurel Center. I got the passion, and I understand that there are people that need help, and so we decided to go ahead and fund $177,163. That was not a part of our budget cycle. So we have to think about where our revenue is coming from. And we need to plan and look at the full, broader picture. Okay, on a second note, I just want to correct something that I said at the June meeting. I referenced a post made by Captain Gosnell, and I mistakenly connected it to one of the citizens' comments about a conflict of interest. He did not suggest that in his post on Facebook, and I wanted to publicly correct the record and stand by my word to do so. I have apologized to him via email after he reached out to me. But I just wanted to set that record straight. I think that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Any other supervisor comments? Mr. Chairman, I'm looking forward to the staff coming forward with facts, and I think it's going to help the public tremendously. I mean, right now, the big word is data center, but at the end of the day, you know, this county, are we open for business? Are we welcoming business or not? And, you know, I think it's going to help the public tremendously. I think we're trying to do the best we can with our schools, with our citizens, and I think that instead of misinformation being thrown out there and people not having the facts, I really appreciate the staff taking the time, which they're doing, to come back and be able to give those, that information, whether it's about the differences in the taxes, areas where we can have industry where we can't, possibilities for data centers or whatever. But it's, you know, it's time for, you know, the one thing, one issue that a lot of people have is they don't hear the facts, and we go and we make a decision. So I'm really looking forward to that coming out. Then we can make a sensible decision on where are we going as a county? What are we doing to help with this strategic plan that the gentleman talked about that was mentioned in 2009? So I just appreciate that. Okay. I don't want to. Create a discussion and a back and forth. Anyone with comments who hasn't spoken already? Seeing none, I have just two comments to make before we adjourn. There are people who spoke early today and who spoke at the end of the meeting about bullying, and I'd just like to point out who the bullies are. The real bullies are people who come to public meetings and make unsupported attacks against other citizens, including supervisors, spouses, and minor children. They are the true bullies. They are the true bullies. Some of those who stood today are those people. One who spoke tonight attacked my minor child and not for the first time. This behavior is shameful. I ask everyone to remain civil at all times. I know you can't help yourself online on occasion. However, this behavior is not appropriate for a public meeting. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those good citizens who have engaged both here and online to share the truth. I do, however, appreciate those of an appropriate manner. The second subject is data centers. I do share of an appropriate manner. The second subject is data centers. I do share many of the public's concerns long ago. I do share many of the public's concerns about risks to the county, including power of an appropriate manner. The second subject is data centers. I do share many of the public's concerns public's concern about risks to the county, including power demand that was mentioned today. There are many dimensions to any new large industry that would want to come to the county, and power is just one of them. There would be the risk of higher rates. One proposal that we looked at by itself, a single data center proposal, was estimated to double the power usage of the entire county. So we could have higher rates, power shortages, and we could inadvertently approve something that ends up requiring new power lines to be strung through the county, and that's something we absolutely do not want. And there are many other concerns as well. So I urge this board to move slowly and cautiously in importing any new industries, lest we lose the rural character we love. And with that said, Vice Chair? Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Second. We have a motion to second. All in favor say aye. Aye. We are adjourned. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
