Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2023-05-15
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=187
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Right here, there. How are we gonna... Are we good with positioning? Okay. Thank you for allowing us to present our project today. My name is Ian Flowers. I've been in the Frederick County school system for about 13 years and after graduating this summer, I'm gonna be attending Laurel Ridge and studying Recreation and Wellness. Hi, my name is Scott Montgomery. I've been in Frederick County Public Schools for about 12 years. years and I will be attending VCU to study biology. Hi my name is Tyler Lamb I've been in Frederick County for 12 years I'll be attending Westminster College next year where I'll be studying pre-physical therapy and playing college football. Hi my name is Kelly Mullen I've gone to Frederick County Public Schools from K through 12th grade and after high school I will be attending Virginia Tech to study meteorology. Hi my name is Ashley Roberts I've been a student in Frederick County for 13 years after high school I plan to attend LRCC and transfer to UVA to double major in criminal justice and psychology so I can pursue a career in the FBI. We chose this project because we believe that what that everyone should have the opportunity to learn the ins and outs of our county it's not work sorry of our county government we also wanted to make a lasting impact on our community so we can give back to a system that's been supporting us for so long. Hi my name is Kelly Mullen I'm a senior student in the department of public health and I'm a senior student in the department of public health and I'm a senior student in the department of public health and we wanted to solve a very important problem that often that you see often in many forms of government big or small helping educate the people on what the government must do to benefit them so we set out to create a learning program to teach them about the local government and how it benefits them. The Citizens Academy is a program meant to teach the citizens of an area how it works to the fullest extent possible this will be done by having people involved in the topics leading conversations and sharing their knowledge about what they do. We'll be making this class once a month so that it can be more accessible to people and so they have time to process the information that they are being given the hope in the long run is that we can encourage those that live here to be more involved in local government. Now I'll go over some of the steps we took over the course of this project. Right after our first meeting with mrs. Bakiyo she instructed us to do research on all the departments of Frederick County government and the actions of the public government. She her consultation with me brought me to the naming department of the government cured us of all the misconceptions that we could find throughout the United States and our transportation that we had to practice abroad first visit the order that we have similar in all the agencies directly to the F silence we mentioned to you all being all ones women farmers women sure start to manage businesses that included every single state some piece of work nochmal the their functions. Along with this, we researched other citizens' academies from Franklin County, Virginia, St. Mary's County, Maryland, and Winchester City's program, Insight. One aspect that I really liked and wanted to implement into our academy was the hands-on aspects. We also had the opportunity to speak from Mr. Steve Edwards from the Frederick County School Board Office. He told us about their program, FCPS 101, and gave us advice on how to start and run ours. Two important pieces of advice that he gave us were to keep going through challenges and to be creative. When coming up with a name, we started by putting words into a name generator, and it gave us a couple ideas to use. Using the ideas, we started coming up with our own that we thought would best fit our academy. And after that, we went to talk with our teachers to see which ones they thought would best fit. Then we met with Ms. Vacchio and came up with learning together, because citizens will learn from staff, and the staff will learn from the staff. The logo we have here today is just a rough draft. We chose this logo because we know Virginia is a very agricultural state, and Frederick County has a strong apple industry, and we know Frederick County is also a big, growing county, so we want to incorporate all that in the logo. Based on our research, we've been preparing a community survey that will hopefully come out sometime in 2024. Our survey has been under-created. We've seen that throughout the county, and that survey is better than we've seen it so far, ever since 2000. And the survey has been casts by the county industries, and that survey was made up for citizens and soon to be, and that survey will take reference to the survey's judging staff. The survey has year-round evidence, that depends on the county's public service law among them, and that pauses county Demands system. For the public health of the county, these survey observances were valid, and since 2010, FDA rights have been continuously established. The survey has taken its first steps in the development of an impartial animal back chicken prevention app for the normally- manipulative animal research mission in The Northiley. And, with that, we can see higher capacities for Ο carrier Township as Odegaway County. informationまで auch upsetting, as you can see above, to the county'sanor trunk, in regard to our to both the people and officials hence the name learning together having classes throughout the month about various aspects of the Frederick County every night will help teach the community more hopefully through this we can hopefully we can even entice some members of the community we hopefully we can entice the members through that to join our various communities our committees through our County it's a benefit our County and again thank you for allowing us within our project tonight thank you all well done appreciate your hard work you good evening my name is Thomas Ortega and I am part of the service-learning group attending Millbrook High School my plan for the future includes attending Laurel Ridge for two years to get my Associate's Degree in Engineering which will then be used in the Air Force for four years then I will attend a four-year University to get a Mechanical Electrical Engineering Degree my name is John Henry Ron et I plan on going to Laurel Ridge Community College to earn my Associate in Nursing and transfer to UVA to earn my Bachelor's in Nursing Hello my name is Kate Schwarzmiller I plan to attend Longwood University this fall as a chief Engineer in General Department over at Woodland Center and 26 years in my contract as that two of these Universityくm districts will be及 оноvoми and lots more going forward I do do know thatX. to ksi me saw his little saved here we'll show you we got a many two while majoring in history on a pre-law track. Hello, my name is Christina Lopez, and I plan to further my education in psychology at the University of Virginia. And my name's Landon Baker. I plan to attend Mary Bonwin next year. I'm gonna go into the Physician's Assistant Program. So we're obviously from the class from Millbrook that attended the service learning at the jail, and more specifically, we were in the work release building. Our main problem was recidivism. What is recidivism, may I ask? It's when an inmate gets released from the jail, goes out in the community, and unfortunately, recommits a crime and ends up back in the jail. But before we get into that, a little more background information. The Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center houses inmates from multiple localities around Frederick County, and houses inmates who have committed low-level, state-level offenses, and is composed of three groups. Our first group is composed of officers and office workers. They are responsible for keeping the jail running smooth and ensure policies and regulations are properly enforced. Our second group is our general population. It houses inmates that don't need any special disciplinary or protective measures. And our third group, which is on the right, is the community corrections. This is where we were. This group is focused on improving inmate mental health and helping with addiction through the ORTP program. They also provide educational opportunities for inmates that need it, as well as job opportunities in and outside the jail. I will specifically point our direction to the building we were concentrated in, which, was the community corrections building. This building hosts the corrections programs, such as the ORTP, which is a pod that instructs a 120-day class that rehabilitates inmates in want of guidance, life skills, and character building using positive reinforcement and encouragement among established familyhood throughout the pod. We have the community inmate workforce next, which, is the, the community inmate workforce, next, which, is the, community inmate workforce, next, which, is the, which, is made of inmates who work within the boundaries of the Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center, such as gardening. These people as well take classes and commune amongst each other in pods. The Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center also offers a work release opportunity to eligible inmates, where they physically leave the boundaries of Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center two to three times a week and work regular jobs returning after shifts. Our time at Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center was dedicated to solving a growing problem, recidivism within the community corrections programs. Trying to understand why these inmates who go through classes and have resources get released only to return shortly. The resources are there, the passion is there, so we wanted to crack down on specifics. To gain a better understanding of the life skills, the life of inmates and what they live, we conducted surveys of which we asked them about their feelings on the classes and resources, recording how they felt benefited or overseen. Results revealed that over 54% of a 131 survey from the Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center felt their mental or emotional needs are not being met, with another 40% stating that the financial resources made available are in the community, and that they are not being met. As a result, this is a huge improvement for the lives of the community as well as the lives of the students. In addition, we also found that the number of inmates who are in trouble for being in trouble are not being met, and that the numbers are inaccessible for many. If both parties are doing as much as they ethically can towards solving the problem, why are these numbers so high? There are many inmates in the corrections programs that are dedicated to change, yet still need more to get them to that chance. So through all of our research, we came up with three potential solutions. So our first solution was a partnership with local universities. This was seen with psychology students from Shepherd University who came to help grow the mental health department. We also hope to get Shenandoah students involved as well just because of how close the university is in our area. By having more workers in the jail, we will be able to spread around the mental health resources available. This way, people will be able to gain the access that they so desperately need. The workload can also be distributed, and more people will be able to get access to health once they are released from jail. This also will give the students professional experience as well as the jail will be able to receive extra help. Our second solution is to have a canine unit on site. This can help build confidence in officers and help facilitate inmate behavior. A canine unit can also help to lessen the amount of illegal contraband that could potentially make its way into the facility. By having this, we can continue to help the inmates on their recovery journey. This would be one of the more expensive services. The cost of this can be as high as $10,000 for a dog. The cost of this can be as high as $100,000. This can be as low as $100,000. The cost of this can be as low as $100,000. This can be as low as $100,000. Our last solution is to continue to increase resources that inmates have upon release. We believe that by holding donations and drives to receive goods and services that can then be put into care packages that the inmates receive would be beneficial. We have looked into eventually receiving donations for old bicycles and drivers licenses or access to motor vehicles. As we saw that a lack of transportation was a major reason that many inmates returned to the facility. By having this, it would allow them to hold themselves accountable to attend meetings that they so desperately need to attend. Such as probation meetings and as well as doctor or AA and drug recovery programs. By having drives, it would allow the community to step in and start to create a connection with all the inmates that then can benefit them once they are released. As we are a community and we do not want to see anyone leave. We want to see everyone fail. During the formulation of our solutions, we conducted several interviews with inmates and staff to get their perspectives on the topic of recidivism. Over the course of our project, there were many lessons that we learned from this experience. The first of which is that we cannot force change onto other people. People are raised in certain environments. And those environments build habits that can be hard to break. Rather than attack those habits, we need to understand their past and what they want. And use those motivations in order to create new habits and to remove the old ones. The second point is that the three sayings, you must look into yourself and work towards self improvement. Rather than let the world change you, you need to control the one thing that you can control. And that is yourself. And the best thing about the Northwestern Adult Detention Center is that it isn't just a jail. It isn't just a place for punishment. It's a rehabilitation center. And they help to instill the values of self improvement onto each and every prisoner. And we have found that the best way to successfully help inmates is to know the inmate. What they want and what they struggle with. Empathize with the inmate. Understand their situation and connect and empathize with them. And set goals and make a plan to encourage growth in a timely manner. So that when the inmate is free, they will be prepared to reintegrate into regular society. This slide is our perspectives and experiences continued. Which shows the perspective of inmates and staff. First off, from the perspective of inmates, the medical health side is lacking in emotional care. This is due to A, the inmates wanting to see the medical health department for supplements to help them alleviate their withdrawal effects. And B, the medical department only having one psychologist, meaning that it would be a difficult time to address all the inmates due to a long wait list. Moving on, character breakdown and building, opportunity to trust others and new friends and family all correlate with each other. This is because the inmates set up meetings with themselves and in these meetings they talk about themselves and open up. And for those who don't, eventually will come around and end up building that self-esteem allowing them to trust others and regard their fellow inmates as new friends and family. Moving on once more, we got guard treatment. Which from the inmates perspective, they feel that the guards are their lifeline and are there to help them improve. Now from the perspectives of staff, the staff from what we have seen want to help the inmates grow and become a better version of themselves. However, they also have to be on guard at all times, which can be stressful at times considering at any moment they can have something dangerous happen to fellow staff members or themselves. Firstly, thank you all for coming out and watching our presentation today. We greatly appreciate it. We would like to give special thanks to Lieutenant Schenk who helped us throughout our time at the NRAADC. He also had the balance of the job. He also had the balance of his daily activities while dealing with us. And for that, we are extremely grateful, sir. We would also like to thank all the staff members that helped us as well, especially Ms. Van Buren, who is the most lively person you will ever meet. I remember the first time we met, Ms. Van Buren kept on talking for 30 minutes straight. Halfway through, my brain got fried and due to all that information she was giving to us. But in the end, she gave us the information needed and we are extremely thankful. Moving on, we would like to give special thanks to Steven Grubbs who proceeded to give us the motivation to get through this and has to be one of the best teachers I ever met. Now, last but not least, Mr. Dominic Cavalier who had to manage all of us while providing the necessary support we needed. For that, you have our undying respect, sir. With that said, I thank you all again for coming out and watching our presentation on lower rain recidivism. I bid you all adieu. Thank you. Well done. Welcome. Hello. There we go. Ready? Good evening. We are Government Service Learning Class of 2023. My name is Miranda Manning. My name is Jayden Kessel. We have been working with the Commonwealth Attorney's Office. The role of the Commonwealth Attorney's Office in general is to prosecute all criminal cases, both misdemeanors and felonies within Frederick County. Prosecution works to ensure the safety of the citizens of Frederick County. Our project's objective, we are comparing and contrasting driving under the influence and driving under the influence of drugs, arrests one year prior to legalization of marijuana to date and one year after legalization of marijuana. Our goal was to uncover the impact of legalization of marijuana has had on DUIs and DUIDs, arrests and accident rates within Frederick County. Here on this slide is the list of the legalization of marijuana. Here on this slide is a few key points we wanted to point out from the Virginia marijuana law, a few things that pertain to our presentation. First things first, marijuana was recreationally legalized in July of 2021. An individual 21 years or older is permitted to possess, consume, and gift up to one ounce of marijuana legally. And the use of marijuana in a public setting is prohibited. And under no circumstances can you be under the influence of marijuana while operating a motor vehicle. Okay. DUI versus DUIDs. A DUI is driving under the influence. A driver impairment is caused by alcohol. One's presumed intoxication is at 0.08 grams per 210 liters of breath. The intoxilizer machine at the regional jail is used to measure a person's alcohol level by their breath. And then we also have DUIDs. A DUI is driving under the influence of drugs. This can be marijuana, other narcotics, or a combination of such. In order to determine intoxicity, a blood draw will be completed to determine the amount and type of narcotics in someone's blood. Detecting impairment driving. The preliminary breath test is a handheld breath alcohol monitoring tool used at roadsides, which cannot be used against a defendant in court. There are three standard field sobriety tests, which is the horizontal gaze nystagmus. This test identifies a nystagmus, which is the involuntary. jerking of the eye. And a one-leg stand and the walk and turn. Both the one-leg stand and walk and turn test is a person's balance, coordination, and mental focus. An unsatisfactory performance in the above test hold up to 88% accuracy in detecting impaired driving. Here we'd like to show you a couple of examples of what we're talking about. The first video on the left is an example of a horizontal nystagmus test. Or a failure of such. If you look closely you can see that the eye is kind of like involuntarily jerking. So because of that you can tell that this person is likely impaired. And then on the one on the right is the one-leg stand, which you can notice him swaying, putting his foot down, and he's also using his arms and grabbing his jeans to help him balance. All of which would not be occurring under normal circumstances. Unless somebody has a medical condition, but that would be discussed beforehand. What we discovered in overall arrests after legalization of marijuana within Frederick County, there has been a 2.7% rise in DUI's and DUID arrests involving marijuana after the legalization. It is important to note that overall arrests involving marijuana include marijuana was used with a combination of other substance. On this slide you can see the accident data we collected prior to the legalization of marijuana and after the legalization of marijuana. Prior being on the left, after being on the right. We found that there was a significant increase in the number of overall crashes both involving sober drivers and impaired drivers within Frederick County post-legalization. However, there was not a sizable increase in impaired driver crashes involving marijuana only or marijuana in combination with other substances. We assumed that the number of cases was not a significant increase. We assumed that the number of cases was not a significant increase in the number of cases involving marijuana. Therefore, as the 가장 decrease in crimes I Sch disappointed, the Crimsonlimit code office stated that there may be a size on CRTC for essentially Yueh Acces protect our intellectual property as we apply law to the dinner table. There was a 6.8% increase related to DUIDs after legalization, and daytime marijuana DUIDs increased by 11.1%, and marijuana and alcohol were the most common substance used at a DUID arrest. On the right side is the Virginia Marijuana Survey. 46% of Virginians have used marijuana. 30% of Virginians believe consuming marijuana is usually safe drivers. Only 26% view marijuana driving as extremely dangerous, and marijuana usage is fourth on the list of dangerous driving activities behind text and driving and other narcotics. Now, we'd like to discuss a few challenges we face when trying to perform our statistical analysis. First off, when alcohol is detected in addition to marijuana, a breath test will only be conducted first. If the breath test of the drug is detected first, then the drug is not detected. If the breath test of the drug is detected first, then the drug is not detected. If the breath test of the drug is detected first, then the drug is not detected. If there is no有點NIH down the rest of the drug mass, then it is considered AS a lethality sanctuary or substance infused drugs. If the breath test is detected in animal population, it is considered AS a lethality sanctuary or substance infused drugs. If the breath test is detected in animal population, it is considered AS a lethality sanctuary or substance infused drugs. It may be true since the expression is Ciao! And medicallicting a lethality sanctuary drug is joined with a breath test. impairment at the time they were operating the motor vehicle. There is no presumed intoxication level of marijuana impairment, which makes marijuana DUIDs more difficult for prosecutors to prove in court. So, for our conclusion, there has been no significant increase in the amount of impaired driver arrests contributed to marijuana only. Although the number of accidents continue to increase year to year within our case study, marijuana-related accidents did not rise at the same pace. A combination of alcohol and marijuana proved to be the most prevalent intoxicants found in DUID arrests within Frederick County. This is consistent with multiple national case studies of the same nature. And now we'd like to take this time to thank everyone that allowed us to actually partake in this. So, thank you, Mr. Reed, for giving us the opportunity to take this class and choose where we wanted to work. Thank you, Investigator Kreider, for putting up with us. And... Thank you to the Commonwealth Attorney's Office for letting us stay and house within their room without kicking us to the curb and allowing us to study on the streets. So, at this time, we'll be taking any questions that you may have about our presentation or what we've done in the past couple of months. Questions? Anyone? Thank you. Well done. Thank you both. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Reed. Thank you, Mr. Cliney, for your support and your fresh comment driving to the Xicorn Islands. Our advisors were Ms. Jamie McFadden and Ms. Christina Stitt. Frederick Water is responsible for treating both drinking water and wastewater. They control the distribution throughout the sewer and service water area, also known as swassa, while they work with the Frederick County Government, operate separately and is a nonprofit utility. Their mission statement is public about the high chloride levels in wastewater. Chlorides are a chemical component of sodium chloride, otherwise known as table salt. As our community grew, so did the chlorides. The leading contributor to the high chloride levels in our area is water softeners. Hard water is difficult to deal with, so more and more people are using water softeners. With that being said, hard water actually has no negative health impacts and can actually benefit your health, as it has many medically necessary minerals. When households flush their water from their water softeners, with their wastewater, there's a huge influx of chlorides that goes into the wastewater treatment facility. We are helping Frederick Water inform the public about their increase in the chloride levels and the negative effects it has on the environment. With too many chlorides, the water becomes saltier, which is unhealthy for aquatic vegetation and wildlife. There is no easy solution to remove these chlorides from the water, which is why they are such a big problem. Here is a video explaining the urban water cycle. So, this demonstration of the urban water cycle is intended to portray how chlorides are introduced to the water cycle from consumers' homes and why they are an issue. The first step of the water cycle is the actual extraction of the water from a natural source, which is being represented by the big bucket. In our area, this water source primarily consists of wells and quarries. Once the water has been taken from its source, it needs to be treated in order to ensure that it meets the health standards for the Virginia Department of Health. Here the coffee strainer represents the water Now we start soup cups. which lists the problems you will face with water that not only Granny and she have used, but also, what it'll look like If you want from the vinaigrette whether it is sealed or dried to fulfill and affected by a water level lifestyle. The two bottles of coffee are sent to a parachuting end deposit 35 degrees in one cup of water. You won't need to measure thejam at this point. We'll have to iron and rake the cups both increases and decreases your awareness and the depth of your Deborah. Kitchen depending on how much hot water you have spent же If you do not have a vinaigrette you do have to give back to your teacher. But not always as you need to reserve just one cup. It is better to reconstruct eachskin�. with your самое that you have mentioned in the description below and you can hear the coffee After the water gets treated, it is then sent out to the various consumer sites, those being homes, businesses, schools, and factories. The cocoa powder represents the wastewater that is produced after the water has been used. The cocoa powder is used to clean and sanitize the water. The cocoa powder is then used to clean and sanitize the water. The salt represents the chlorides that are being added to the water, primarily through water softeners. Here is where we see the issue of chlorides come in. Here we are mixing the waste within the water to represent the flushing. Once the water has been used, it goes to a wastewater treatment facility. It is important to note that once the water reaches this facility, there is no way to track it back to its original location. This is represented by the water being poured into all the same bucket. Here we are adding alum as a coagulant in order to filter out the solids, which is the cocoa powder, which demonstrates the physical filtration of the water. The cocoa powder is then added to the water to represent the flushing. The cocoa powder is then added to the water to represent the chlorides that are being money fed to the process of filtration. We had set coagulating into the каждый through an array of things in the hall. In the wasting process, we can see that once the water has matured, it goes back to thealtluded systems. Now we add the anaerobic commodities and were bad 확 rather than in a powder. This coffee filter is demonstrating how the cocoa powder is able to be separated from the water entirely, while the chlorides or salt are not being able to be separated. We can see that the water is a different color than it was at the beginning, showing that the chlorides are chemically bound to the water, therefore changing it from its original state. Music In order to understand our problem, we needed to understand the water treatment process better. We got to visit some water treatment facilities. The Slowinski Water Treatment Plant is the newest facility for Frederick County. It is not yet up and running, but when it is, it will have the highest capabilities of any other plant in our area. It will use hollow fiber, and fiber membranes to filter drinking water, and will have the capacity to push out 8 million gallons of water per day. The focal point of our project was the Crooked Run wastewater treatment plant. Here we saw the wastewater treatment process up close, and gained a better understanding of just how infeasible filtering all the chlorides out of water would be. Lastly, we visited the Deal Water Treatment Facility. While we were there, we were able to see a running treatment plant. They informed us more about the harms of water softeners, and the benefits hard water has. Water softeners are the main problem for the high chloride levels in our area. After doing some research in order to further understand this problem, we began to develop ways to inform the public about this issue. As a group, we discussed social media influence, as well as updating the Frederick Water website, and even including product recommendations. Both social media and a website were already up and running, and ultimately, we decided against product recommendation. We decided that in order to target the specific area we were working with, a mailed brochure would be our best option, because it would provide an easy way to ensure that the people would see the information that we were pushing out. This is the brochure. This is the front and the back of the brochure. It has contact information and gives an idea of what Frederick Water stands for with its mission statement and vision. Okay, so on the inside of the brochure, we have a section that explains what chlorides are, and why they're harmful to our environment. They're harmful to the environment, infrastructure, and they can also be harmful to your health. At the bottom, we explain the issue that we're facing specific to our area in Frederick County, although many other areas throughout the U.S. are experiencing similar issues. In the middle, we also have information and data to back up our evidence. In the last column of the brochure, there's a section to explain how the reader can help the situation. In addition, there is a QR code that can be scanned, that takes you to a page on the Frederick Water website that provides more information on chlorides, as well as other resources that they can look into. Lastly, there is a section on the website for people to pledge that they will try to help the problem. The brochure is complete and will soon be sent out to the Frederick Water customers. We hope that it will be able to be used as a template to be updated as needed in order to inform the public on issues that may happen in the future. Together, we were able to discover more about the risks that chlorides have on our community and environment. By touring water facilities in the area, we were informed about these issues and had the opportunity to meet many people who provided us with useful information about our project. Special thank you to our advisors, Mrs. Jamie McFadden, Ms. Christina Stipp, and our teacher, Mr. Reed. And thank you to the Board for your time. And remember, Don't be salty! At this time, we would be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Questions of the Board? No, but I think it's an outstanding project. Environmental impact, raising that question. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Well done. Thank you all. Thank you. Hi, thank you. I'm Mr. Cavalier from Frederick County Public Schools. And I help work with the students and the teachers. And a few thanks to the Board of Supervisors for coming tonight and your support of this every year. It's great. Maybe a first. An alumni of our service-earning program, Ms. Lockbridge, is on the board. I think it's a first, maybe. Mr. Tibbs, for all his assistance every year. We can't make it work without Mr. Tibbs. All the project supervisors who spend so much time and rearrange our schedules and do what we can and, you know, change schedules with snow days. And bomb threats and all kinds of stuff. So they've been great this year. Our school principals, Ms. Altendorf and Mr. Gross, who always support the program. Dr. Hummer, Dr. Angelo, Dr. Abbey, and Dr. Myers, who always support this program and give us whatever we need. Members of the school board who also support the program. Our department chairs who are here tonight, Mr. Hammer and Ms. Grove. Our service-earning teachers who work so hard with the kids and organize everything. Mr. Grubbs, the department chair, Mr. Grubbs, who did a great job this first year. And Mr. Reed, who can't be here tonight, but we hope he feels well soon. And most importantly to the students who once again did an outstanding job and best of luck in the future, guys. Thanks. Thank you. So it's just an outstanding program. We congratulate each and every one of you for doing an outstanding job. We very much appreciate all your hard work. And your contribution to your community. Well done all. Other comments, anyone? Yes, please. I just want to say how outstanding all of these projects were. The academy, you know, we know that the city has an academy that they allow people to come in to, and what a great idea for us to try to formulate something like this that could better educate our community. And I think that's a great opportunity to really talk to our community. I mean, we have many committees in Frederick County, and this is such a wonderful way to let people know how they can get involved and participate and be a part as citizen members to our community and very much needed. The recidivism with the jail, having served on the jail board, how important, and I see firsthand how passionate the employees are at the jail to try to work with the inmates. That was an outstanding project, and I know we've talked about the mental health issues and how we can have more psychologists available to assist in trying to help further the prisoners moving forward in their lives. The Commonwealth's Attorney's Office project, the smoking DUI, the surveys, very good job, and then the last question. The last question is about the environmental impact of the project. The next group of people coming up that are going to make a difference for their communities and be a part of it. So I just want to say thank you so much for your all's time and efforts and outstanding research. So thank you so much. Anyone else? I'll say a few things. As Mr. Cavalier said, we got to chat for a minute, and I graduated from James Wood High School in 2003. So I did my senior project with the economic development, excuse me, and I know it made, it was a really awesome project. And watching you guys, it brought back a lot of memories. And to watch you guys and be involved in your community and be passionate about giving back to your community, I enjoyed every single one of your presentations. So thank you for your time tonight. Josh. Sure. Yeah, you all did a great job. I wanted to comment on one of the studies. I'm not picking a favorite. Just a thought occurred to me, and that is with the recent legalization of marijuana, I think that's a timely project. I would love to see future students that follow you continue to follow that one and maybe refine it further. Seeing what data the County has on other drugs. You can get, they can get past the COVID period, so we can get some good answers. It really is a problem in our particular community. And I'm very happy to see you all taking that challenge. Well thank you all again. Well done. Very much appreciate all your hard work. Done a great job and we always look forward to hearing from you and from your team. Thank you, Mr. Cavalier. teachers, and obviously your parents, and from our committee folks. Thank you so much. Have a safe trip home. Thank you.
