Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors - School Board Joint Session
Date:    2024-02-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=209
========================================================================

You ready Dr. Hummer? Yes sir. Okay, I call to order. This is a joint meeting of the Frederick County Board of Supervisors and Frederick County Public Schools board members. We've also invited our citizen members of our finance committee. You might have other people supporting you as well. But this is a meeting between us, so they won't ask questions unless we have questions for them. This is a presentation of Dr. Hummer's superintendent's budget. It is not yet adopted by the school board. So it is a gracious act on his part to offer us an early briefing and early opportunity to ask questions of what he's proposed to his board. Again, greatly appreciated that communication. I would say to the supervisors, no questions are off the board. We can hit them with any question we want after he's finished presenting. However, if there's anything that's too challenging or uncertain today, we have other avenues. There's other future meetings I'm sure we can set up or through email. I might push some things off if we get stuck to resolve later. And then I'd like to welcome the school board, several members of which are new, and hand it over to Chairman Sertif. Thank you, Chairman Ludwig. It's a pleasure to be here today. Thank you so much for allowing us to come down and participate this evening. We need from the board, I have, need a motion for Diana Huber-Klein to join us remotely from Richmond. If someone on the board would like to make a motion. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion to allow Ms. Diana Huber-Klein to join electronically for this meeting. Second. Okay, we have a motion that's been properly seconded. For Ms. Diana Huber-Klein to join us remotely from Richmond. All those, any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries. Secondly, we have an agenda before us. Would someone like to make a motion on the agenda? Mr. Chairman. Mr. Radnitz. I'd like to adopt the agenda as presented. Second. Okay. The agenda is presented. The motion has been made to approve the agenda and has been properly seconded. Is there any discussion on this? Mr. Chairman? Yes. Is this meeting being video recorded? No. Is there a reason that it wasn't planned to be video recorded? So, we're in the process of obtaining the equipment to video. We're in the process of obtaining equipment to video record all our meetings, but generally we have not recorded, video recorded our work sessions. Okay. I just want to express my dissent on. The fact that there is no video recording. I think that this does nothing to aid in transparency to the public. Thank you. Any further discussion? I have the motion approved and duly seconded. All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Those opposed? Motion carries. And I will turn it back over to you. Thank you. In answer to that comment, I agree with you. I would like to video record more of our meetings. I've always held that to be the case. And we are currently looking at our options for doing that. I believe we streamed our regular meetings before you did, but then you jumped us, jumped past us, hopscotched us, and you record much more of your meetings than we do. So congratulations. I actually congratulate you on that. Dr. Hummer, you have a presentation to give. I'll give you the floor. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, I want to thank both of our boards for allowing us to do this. As Mr. Chair of the Board of Supervisors has mentioned, Mr. Hummer, I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. I'm a member of the Board of Supervisors. This was my proposed budget, which is called a needs-based budget, which I'm going to get into that and define that a little bit more clear for everybody. And our school board is going to be reviewing all of this information through some finance committee meetings. And then they will be approving this on February 20th. And they will be approving that after we have reviewed all of the information that we have presented as well as getting feedback from you as well. So I want to make sure that that is very clear. And this was intentional to set this up early. I just am very, very appreciative of that. Thank you. And I want to thank both of our boards for allowing us to do this. So looking forward to the conversation this evening. As Mr. Ludwig has mentioned, please hold your questions until the end. However, if there is a point of clarification on one of the slides, please stop me and just say, can you clarify that. Let's hold all the questions until the end. And then also to Mr. Ludwig's point, if there is a question that we're not able to answer, we'll take it down. And then we'll respond to you as we've been doing it. Please continue to send your questions along. And as you've seen, we've been responding in a timely fashion. We want to make sure that we're answering all the questions that you have so that we can move forward with being fully informed in regards to what we're trying to do for our students and our school division. So thanks again to both of our boards. So here's just a quick agenda for what we're going to be discussing today. We're going to provide a quick overview of our FCPS budget, what goes into that, all of the components of what's driving this, and just giving you all just a little bit more of a deeper dive into our budget, which is addressed, as you all know, every year. Then we're going to dive in. We're going to dive into our needs-based budget. We're going to talk about FY25 in regards to what our current needs are, in regards to what my proposal was for our school board to take into consideration. And we're going to review that a little bit more deeper and, of course, answer any questions you have. And then we're going to talk about timelines and next steps, which we kind of talked about here a little bit already, but we'll dive into that a little bit more as well. So if you are not aware, we are the largest employer in Frederick County. You're probably thinking, well, wait a minute. The hospital is the largest. The hospital probably is larger than us. Well, the hospital is technically in Winchester. So we are the largest employer in Frederick County. We have over 2,500 staff, and we are the 19th largest division in Virginia. Virginia has a lot of smaller divisions. So you think 19, wow, OK, that's 14,000 students, and there's some other divisions that are larger than us. But 19 out of 132, I think that puts things into perspective, and we need to keep that in mind moving forward. Just a little rough background. We oversee and manage 13 funds. We have a total of about $1,000. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of funds. That is about a third of a billion dollars. So this is a large business that we run and operate, and there's a lot of funds that we oversee. So we are going to be talking about three specific funds in regards to our budget proposal, but we want to make sure that we are very clear that there are numerous funds that we oversee and we keep track of on a regular basis. So there is an obligation. This is in the Virginia Constitution as well as in state code. That to fund a public school system, it's funded through three. And if you talk about the other, which I'll get to in a second, but there's three main revenue sources to fund a school division. It's the state, it's federal, and it's the locality. And then the other is going to be other grants or other opportunities for us to receive additional revenue. But as you can see, that number is not very large because there's not a lot of those opportunities, but we are always trying to find other ways to find additional dollars to fund things that are happening. On a regular basis in our school division. The federal dollars is definitely going to fluctuate because of the different dollars that come forward through different things that happen throughout our society, such as the ESSER dollars that came forward. So that number is probably going to fluctuate a little bit more, but the main dollars that we receive is going to be from the state and the locality, which again is required by the Virginia Constitution and the state code. So of our operating dollars, as you can see, 72% of that is through the state. And that is for instruction. That is where all of our, most of the majority of our dollars go. And then operations, maintenance, pupil, transportation, technology, and other is where the rest of our operating dollars are placed. And of that, 81% is for staff. 19% is everything else. Resources, materials, all of the things that go into our operating budget. So the majority of our budget is for our people and our staff. That instruction. That's where we put our money. And that's where we put our money. So we have a lot of money. We have a lot of resources. We have a lot of resources. And we have a lot of resources that we can use to support our students. Every year we always get a lot of questions about this and we appreciate these questions. We look at a 30 mile radius in regards to comparing ourselves to other school divisions because that's typically where we will lose teachers to. Now yes, there are other school divisions that are the same size as us throughout the commonwealth, which we look at and essentially assess to see how, where they're going. So that's a big difference. And the other thing that we do is we look at the school division. We look at the school division. We look at how they compare to us. But we have to remember there's different parts of the commonwealth where there's different funding streams that they might receive. So it's not that we don't look at those other school divisions, and if there are other school divisions you would like for us to take a look at, we're more than happy to do that. But these are the school divisions that we typically compete against. We also receive, if you recall, if you were at the meeting last year, we always received questions about West Virginia. What about West Virginia? Well, we don't compete with West Virginia because thankfully we actually pay more than West Virginia. we don't lose teachers very regularly to West Virginia unless there's some sort of family matter or if they're there from West Virginia what have you but we typically do not lose teachers to West Virginia and I also provided that that answer to that question we provided a chart and a breakdown in regards to what those neighboring divisions look like but if there's more questions about that more than happy to answer those so here is a current breakdown in regards to those seven divisions in regards to where we compare in regards to salaries I'm going to break this down a little bit more in regards to averages and one of the thing that the things that really is highlighted here and I want to draw everyone's attention to is we used to be a little bit more competitive when we compared ourselves to other divisions and these other divisions are catching up to us now we might be saying well then that that's them you know we need to focus on Frederick County well some reasons that our teachers are leaving is because of pay and we want to make sure that we are addressing the needs of our students and and we want to make sure that we are addressing the needs of our students and working towards the goals that we have so in order to do that we have to make sure that we have the right staff in front of our students and working on a day-to-day to make Frederick County the best place to be so that's one of the things that we have to keep an eye on because as I will share with you in a couple slides we are falling behind when it comes to salaries when we pay our staff now here is a telling slide so this is this is Loudoun County we do get questions in regards to looking at that those seven school division averages and how Loudoun County is going to be a lot further and potentially could skew that average so we like to break that out to have further conversations about that and typically Loudoun County has been our biggest competitor because a lot of our teachers do when they leave they go to Loudoun County and as you can see here if we do get the proposal that we are asking for a pay increases that we there still is a gap there now we will never catch Loudoun County but our goal is to to compress that scale the best that we can so that teachers are not leaving us to go to Loudoun County if you're not familiar with the BRS system which I know a lot of you are well it is the last three-year average when you retire so what happens is is teachers typically leave towards the end of their 30 years to go to Loudoun County to get that three-year average and we have had staff who reported that to us to get that three-year now again you can't compete with Loudoun County but we can we need to continue to do the things that we need to do to make Frederick County the best place to be so we can keep our staff and continue to attract staff here is just a better breakdown of the averages that I mentioned two slides previously and this just goes to show where we compare when it comes to that average and as you can see we are below that 30 mile average until you get up to that 30 35 year mark which we are trying to fix which I'll get to in a second so again I want to make sure that we are seeing that we are falling behind when it comes to comparing ourselves to that 30 mile average group so something we need to keep in mind as you can see last year one of our initiatives was we wanted to make sure we were increasing that starting salary because that is where we want to attract teachers bring those first-year teachers in and if you take a look at this year we are second to last in school 1 through 8 we were when we were firstствуing around competitor that's the only reason why we're showing this I know we cannot catch Loudoun County I'm not suggesting that we match their salaries that's not what I'm saying all we're saying is is that they are a competitor and we want to work we want to make sure that we are closing that gap and we want to work at making sure that we are increasing our pay scale so we can come as close as we can to their salaries because that is where we are losing our teachers and here's just the difference at each of those levels in regards to pay so at that's as you can see at that 20-year mark there's a $28,000 difference between our 20-year teachers and their 20-year teachers and that is where we are losing our teachers to them so now let's take a look at the state level and there has been a lot of talk in Richmond if you keep up with all the bills that are going through the General Assembly this is something that has come up over the last couple years I pay a lot of attention to what's happening in Richmond as I'm sure a lot of you do as well and we have a lot of work to do at the state level when it comes to how we are paying and funding our public school system and Virginia right now ranks 25th nationally but we are 12th when it comes to the richest state in the county there was a JLARC study that came out a couple months ago and I strongly recommend that you take a look at that it's on the BDOE website and it really breaks this down a little bit further in regards to how Virginia has been lacking funding public education specifically in regards to the state level and the state level and the state level in regards to what's called a Calc tool which I'm sure my finance department behind me is probably having some some funny faces back there because the Calc tool is is very complicated and essentially what this Calc tool does is it funds school systems based on the number of students you have which is very rare when you look at us compared to the rest of the nation but the rest of the nation does is is they fund your school system based on the needs of your students so you had 10,000 students and 10,000 of them are typical developing which is rare those are the funds you receive but if you have 10,000 students and 5000 are students or English language learners and 3,000 or students with disabilities and two thousand are typical developing students you still get the same amount of money so other states throughout the nation do not use that formula they use the formula of need space which is why we are taking a look at all of the needs that patients with people's disabilities who are enrolled on campus<|cs|> policy that we're taking needs of our students because that is what is impacting our schools and I know we've had a lot of conversations about all these classrooms are meant to have 25 students in them we cannot function that way with the needs of some of our students that they bring for students with disabilities for English language learners even for CTE programs we cannot have 25 students in those classes so that is something that we are encouraging the state to continue to look at because what that would do if they did fix that it means the state would be providing us more money which means we would be requesting less money from the locality and that is I know wishful thinking but it is something that we're hopeful that Richmond will do to hopefully get us what we need for our students I think this goes to show you as well in regards to falling behind the state average for how we pay our teachers it's 1.2 percent and that's that's not okay we need to do a better job as a state in regards to how we're funding public education our students not only in Frederick County but across the Commonwealth and quite honestly across the nation they're our future and we need to make sure that we are funding our future and that we are investing in them so that we are able to lead them to their goals so that they can continue to lead lead our communities and lead our nation because if you take a look at a first year teacher and we broke this down I know there was a question that was asked I think it was a question that we could have answered in the Q&A time but I think that was a question that was asked I think that was question in regards to where we receive these dollar figure and we put some links down there and references of where we've received some of these dollars and keep in mind these are just averages we wanted to get a good idea of what a teacher has to pay and as you can see if they have to pay all their bills they're they're in the negative and what happens is we have teachers that have second jobs we have teachers that have to take out loans that they don't have a hard time hard time paying off so there's definitely some impact here that we need to draw some additional attention to I was in a meeting at the state level and they said that there's been a lot of conversations about a lot of our teachers are actually below that Fair Labor Act requirement as well and this isn't just Frederick County this is across the Virginia that's a problem which means that our teachers are having a hard time making a living let alone our classified staff which I'm going to get to here in a second so we have some work to do so for our classified staff that is our bus drivers our instructional assistants our administrative assistants as you can see we are falling behind comparing ourselves to to other school divisions the other piece that we are recognizing which has been happening here recently is we are losing our classified staff to retail chick-fil-a target sheets so we when these staff leave us they're making more money at these retail stores yes yes what do you mean by classified please yes thank you so classified thank you is our bus drive it's just a category so we have licensed staff and we have classified staff classified staff are bus drivers nutritional staff custodians instructional aides thank you yes sir thank you anyway so so we are not only competing against other school divisions we are competing against retail and retail is great this is no knock on retail but we have to be able to you our staff in our school system because every representative in our school system all 2,500 staff members mean something to our school division and they are what make our school division function I know we spent a lot of time talking about teachers but we have other staff that we need to also put at the forefront of making sure we are compensating them and providing them incentives so they stay in Frederick County so as you can see our bus drivers we are below our nutritional managers nutritional staff we are below there as well our instructional assistants so those are our staff that help and support our classrooms in regards to supporting our younger grades as well as our classrooms of students with disabilities so we're faring in the minimum rate but as you move up the scale as you can see we're falling behind there so we also received a question about LCI that was a really good question because that is something that we also receive at the state level and what the LCI is that what that is what determines how much the locality is expected to pay and how that is calculated is they take a look at the true value of real property they take a look at that gross income that adjusted gross gross income and then taxable retail sale and again we have nothing to do with how that is calculated that is provided by the state and the state is not the state that is providing that and determines how we receive our funding from them as well as the locality so as you can see over the last 10 years in Frederick County the LCI number for Frederick County has gone up which means the state pay goes down and what that means is is that based on the calculations they've utilized and showing that as it says up there Frederick County is getting richer meaning that the state is going to be providing less dollars and again that is the formula they utilize and it is what they've determined in regards to what localities have to pay and every school division is different because every formula or the formula is the same but every division is different as you can imagine so here's just an example of breakdown so for a teacher who costs $50,000 the local share is 20,000 and then the state share is 29,000 so just want to show you that breakdown there all right you know I always like to start off and brag on our students right and I love this picture because this is this is one of our first grade classes and just our students do such an amazing job and that is why we do what we do and I never want to lose that focus and making sure that we get the right staff in front of our students every day and supporting them the best that we can and that's right there this picture right here yes there's a state code to need to be applied to the school district and that's right there this picture right here yes there's a state code to need to be applied to the school district space budget yes there's a process but this is what it needs space budget needs based budget is all about is about our kids and that number one so when needs based budget starts off with establishing School Board budget priorities and we established these in the first half of the year we had a meeting back in October and then our school board adopted these as their own in December and we take a look at where we currently are as a school division and determine what our needs need to be so we looked at instructional initiatives we looked at compensation packages and then we looked at our current assets for operational funding one of the other aspects of this is we want to do a better job of thinking down the road so there is going to be some aspects of this budget which I will break down for you that is going to come in phases because there's no way that we would be able to fund some of these initiatives in one year so we want to break these out and work towards these to a three to five year plan which I will show you here in a second as we go through that the other aspect that we utilize in most school divisions utilizes what's called a strategic plan our strategic plan expires in FY 25 so we're going to be working on developing a new one here here very shortly but this strategic plan focuses on these four areas student success culture strategic partnerships and high quality staff so we take a look at each of these components we make sure that we are working towards the goals that have been established and been approved by our school board and then we want to make sure that we are able to fund those initiatives because if we want to continue to promise for progress we have to invest in that as well as some of the key points that I'm also working on which is definitely student performance also taking a look at making sure we have some very good structured standard operating procedures in place for our students as well as looking at building that culture within our schools and our community and making sure that all of us are responsive and being customer service first and doing what's best for all of our students that's something that I take a lot of pride in and something that I'm working on regularly so with all of that this needs based budget is not completed in isolation there is a lot of work that goes into this we spent a lot of time with the principals we spent a lot of time with our parents we spent a lot of time taking a look at our data and our school budget to make sure that we are able to view all of that you know we used a common goal can the students get back to class for this whole school year we still got work that needs working on getting our data looking at our projections looking at our enrollments we meet with every single principal we work with our team here in Central Office to see what are our needs in regards to as I mention needs based budget to meet the needs of our students and here's just a little breakdown so so again it's not something that happens in a month it's not something that happens in two months this is a nine month process in order to determine what our needs are putting together a budget that is dependable to ours and to others so that we can continue to meet our goals and move our school division forward in an appropriate fashion there are also some state codes that drive our budget so there's a state code that drives my needs based budget it's defined in state code there's also a state code in regards to we have to submit a budget to the locality by April 1st and I'm sure you all are aware that you have some some state codes that you have to abide by as well so the reason I like to share this slide here is this isn't something that we've just made up this isn't something that we just randomly put together that we are required by law to put these items together and we are required by law to make sure that we abide by these timelines so now I'm going to brag on Frederick County Public Schools just a little bit if that's okay we have a lot of great things happening in Frederick County a lot of great things we have 21 school sites as you can see there we have numerous opportunities for students on both ends of the spectrum and on the other side of the spectrum we have a lot of great things happening in the other side of the spectrum in regards to providing students CTE opportunities advanced placement classes as well as partnering with local universities so students can actually graduate with an associate's degree as well as the other end of the spectrum for our students in need such as students that require additional support or students that require additional resources it covers both ends of the spectrum so that we are doing everything we can for all of our students I want to draw your attention to two things down there at the bottom I don't think you realize that we are doing everything we don't like and I absolutely agree with any of you and I hope that you do in the future to not be doing that in the future we have also figuring out how to report student start as many as you can because ouribrary5.org's going to have to make sure that we have the comments of folks you know who are on the phone I'm really grateful for that because happening in an efficient manner so that again we are transporting our students safely and we are also feeding our students to make sure that they're ready to learn we've also done a lot of different things in regards to addressing all the great things that are happening and making sure that we are recognizing those things we're also doing things differently in regards to how we're meeting the needs of our students and getting creative now in some aspects getting creative and innovative sometimes that costs money but we like to do the things that are free such as doing a transition day so we started the school year off for all of our kindergartners all of our sixth graders and all of our ninth graders and we got resounding positive feedback because it started the school year off for students that had no idea coming into a new building what it was like to walk through the halls as a middle schooler or a high schooler giving them the building for a day made a difference and it also made a difference for our parents as well so for a lot of our kindergarten parents they were able to walk their child to the door when you're there every day when there's a lot of traffic by the way you're not going to be able to walk your child to the door behind you you can't do that on a regular basis even though you want to because you got to keep that line moving so kindergarten they were able to do that so there was a lot of great things that we did there and it didn't cost us any additional dollars to do that so just making sure that we're recognizing all the great things that we're doing also one of the things that i want to highlight is there was one group that was that was missing in regards to seeking feedback and it was our students so we started a student advisory committee and i work with students on a regular basis to talk about what's happening in the schools what are the things you'd like to see different and a lot of the things are matching some of the things that we all say that we need to make some changes and there's some other things of i didn't think of that that's something we need to look into so we need to get feedback from our students from our elementary middle and our high school students so very very excited about that so with that being said i want to make sure that we are very clear that we also have some work to do there are great things happening in frederick county but there is also some things that we need to make sure that we work very very hard at improving and making sure that we are providing the best education for our students so each of these three categories that i'm going to be speaking to you about it's only three indicators of how we measure student success so there are other things that we are looking at of how we're measuring the success of our students but these are three really big things and these are some main things that we have to work on so if you take a look at one aspect which is our sol tests now this is just an overall total average for all of our students and i want to the reason i'm sharing that with you is because i yes we have work to do and yes we want these scores to be better and yes i'm not settling until we're first comparing ourselves to all these seven school divisions that is a promise but there are some successes when you break down our scores and when you break down individual students at our schools where they are making progress or they are seeing gains in certain subject areas and our principals are working very hard through their their continuous school improvement plans of highlighting those great things and highlighting the success that our student and our students and staff are making so i want to make sure that we're very clear on that that yes if you look at this it's very daunting but there are also some great things going on and some gains that are that our students are making so this was 2021 and i put the ranking compared to our seventh neighboring school divisions here's 21 22 and here is last year bless you and as you can see we are definitely falling behind in the area of math we are definitely falling behind in the area of reading and those are the two main areas that we really like to focus on and we definitely have some work to do next up is chronic absenteeism now i know we're first but again i don't want to celebrate because we're at 15 so chronic absenteeism is when you miss more than 10 days within a given school year and we track that on a regular basis throughout the year so these are our students that could be students that went to disneyland for 10 days or these are our students that could be chronically absent because they have anxiety or don't like to come to school so it covers the gambit there so we are first however we have work to do there so there is some additional things that we are doing in regards to getting our kids to school and because that is where they're going to learn best kobe didn't do us any favors here i know that's the the you know the taboo word we don't like to say but that that has impacted us and this is something that we are continuously i'm getting better at and improving it the other aspect is which i have i'm focusing on a little bit more here recently is discipline in our schools and as you can see we have seen an influx as compared to 21 22 22 23 in regards to the number of referrals i think there's probably a lot of variables to this um variables from overcrowding in our schools to getting the right staff in front of our students to making sure we're enforcing the code of conduct i think there's a lot of aspects here not pointing any fingers one of the things that we are doing and we're going to be presenting this to our school board and the next year we're going to be doing that as far as the ability to get students into the academy and we're going to be next month or so is we revamped our code of conduct to provide a more clear and concise code of conduct manual for our principals to follow so that they are able to be consistent I think our current code of conduct kind of lended to some of that that lack of enforcement so this is something that we want to help our principals and make sure that we stay consistent on so in order to address these things we have to come up with solutions so that there's gonna be a bunch of other things we're going to work on there as well so we broke this down for elementary middle and high and as you can see we are seeing it increasing those referrals so it is something that we are going to be addressing all right so with that being said we are now going to dive into my needs based budget and we're going to break this up into three categories operating debt service and capital projects so one of my promises when I came on board is I wanted to make sure that we were being good stewards of our dollar so I challenged my team to go through all of our line items and to determine if there was any line items that we could find some savings and we found four hundred and eighty five thousand dollars through line items that were either not being spent or not being used so that is going to be four hundred eighty five thousand dollars less that we will be requesting from the locality and this is something that we will continue to do and I want to make sure that we are showing that we are trying to be good stewards of our dollar and that we're using our money in an efficient manner so that was one of the first things that we did in regards to and to be better fiscal managers of our budget so before we jump into the operating as I mentioned I want to remind us that eighty one percent of this operating budget is our people and without our people we have no education for our students and as I mentioned there is no one person that is more important than the other all 2500 of our staff means something to us and are very important to us and are an integral part of our school division so they are going to be captured in all of these scales we're about to talk about because we need to keep staff and we need to attract staff so here is just a quick summary a breakdown of all of the average percent increases for our staff we have six point six for teachers and classified and I define classified for you earlier and I can redefine that if you need me to other professionals which is going to be our therapists diagnosticians psychologists and then administrators and supervisors at that three point two percent I want to make sure that we're very clear that no one of these people is more important than the other our administrators is just as important as our teachers which is just as important as our bus drivers but as I break this out you will see why there is a difference between these pay scales because we definitely have some priorities in regards to how we're fixing some of these scales so we started with a three point two percent pay increase with our what's called a COLA which is determined by the Social Security Administration. Social Security Administration. Social Security Administration. So that's not a number that we make up that comes out every year and that is the number that we started with and we broke that down for each category for a step increase and then enhancing the scale and that is where we came up with these dollar amounts for each of these categories. So we have teachers classified administrators supervisors as well as our other professionals as I mentioned. We also wanted to provide additional pay increase for our classified staff because as I mentioned to you earlier there are just as important as the majors and departments and staff is to make sure that we are making up a non over time this is a really important message for us. as all of our other positions and we are starting to lose these amazing people to retail in the area and other school divisions so we definitely want to make sure we stay competitive so we wanted to make sure that we also gave them an additional pay increase to get to that 6.6 percent as we did with our teachers here's going to be one aspect of the phasing as I mentioned to you earlier so when you take a look at some of our pay scales there's some clustering of those pay scales where if you are a seven-year teacher or a nine-year teacher you're getting paid the same amount we want to decluster that and in order to do that that's going to take about three to five years to do because if we were to uncluster our entire pay scale it would cost us about 15 million dollars and we know that we should not be making that large of a request in one budget cycle so we are going to break that out so that we can uncluster those pay scales we also want to start our teachers out at 52,000 as I mentioned we want to stay competitive you comparing ourselves to other school divisions around and we also want to attract new teachers the other thing that we want to do this was done for two reasons the first reason is is we want to again honor the teachers that are dedicating themselves to this profession so 25 this is going to be a phase we would like to get to that 15-year mark as remember when I showed you that that pay scale comparing us to loud in 15 years is where there's a significant pay increase we're not going to catch that but we want to do the best we can to catch that and we want to do that and we want to do that and we want to do that because it's a program that we're going to do and we want to do it on the budget so we're going to start with 25 and then we were going to as future years come about we're going to slowly get to that 15-year mark so 25 years or more will be a five thousand dollar increase we are also recognizing that we are finding that we have some positions that are hard to fill Special Ed specialized general ed teachers so we want to provide a two thousand dollar hard to fill position stipend now this is something that I've always wanted us to do here in Frederick County this other divisions are also doing this as well so i think this is something that we definitely want to get ahead of because again we're going to be competing with other divisions not only with salaries but with other incentives that they're coming up with we also wanted to increase the substitute rate because we have teachers that need to miss just like everybody else and we want to attract those substitutes for coming in and watching over that class we can't just leave a class uncovered so we want to be able to attract and then we also have a bus driver shortage so keeping the attendance bonus but also increasing that so that we can keep our drivers and provide that additional incentive part of the biennium which as i'm sure you all know the governor comes out with a biennium every two years and the first year of his new biennium there's a one percent bonus increase for all staff so we would like to do that for all of our staff that would be a one time check for our for our staff to receive we're thinking november and december if this gets approved but that's where that one percent bonus is coming from and also to keep in mind that that does remind me keep in mind the governor did present his budget back in december but the general assembly still has to approve that and there are rumors that typically i don't think this last year was approved july or august there are rumors that it will be done this april so fingers crossed that happens so there isn't any uh any guessing games there so hopefully that will be done so that we can move forward with with that so thank you so much for joining us today and we'll see you next week that in regards to that appropriation all right something else that we uh did new this year and again this was done for many different reasons the number one reason is is to put a structure in place in regards to how we were staffing our schools in an appropriate manner we wanted to make sure that we had a tool that we could utilize which is based on the enrollment of students in the school building and then the number of staff that needs to service those students and that could fluctuate every year but again we want to be good at that and we want to be good at that and we want to be good stewards of our of our money and good stewards of our positions and we also want to make sure that we are being transparent in regards to where those positions are being placed so we created these staffing standards we sat down we met with each of our principals and i want you to focus on this middle column here and again to show that we were trying we were trying to be good stewards of our position and our dollar so we met with each of our principals and it came out to 42 positions that were requested and these are positions in school in front of students and we were able to take a look at the positions based on these staffing standards to say you have some positions that you are below that staffing standard so we can move those positions around after you subtract those we only are requesting those 25 fte positions again these are positions in front of students so when you look at that 21 we found five positions elsewhere so they only need 16 additional positions through the budget process they're still getting 21 one positions but we are only requesting 16 through this upcoming budget process again be good stewards of our dollar this is also going to be phased in because this is going to take time for us to meet these local staffing standards and also too at the state level there's a lot of bills that are out there right now to fix this because the state only funds us based on a total soq not meeting the specific needs of our students as i mentioned to you earlier and there are some bills on the florida that are out there that are not going to be able to meet the needs of our students so we're hoping that we can fix that which as you know is going to cost money so we're hoping that that gets fixed so there's less dollars that we are requesting from the locality but in the meantime we still have needs of students that we need to meet so that's why we're where we're at today the other thing is is we're taking a look at how we're providing opportunities for our students and there's many things that keep me up at night you've probably already heard me say this before because it's very genuine and it's from the heart is we had 60 we need to do better uh and and some of those students probably could have graduated if we had an opportunity for them because some students work during the day to raise a family some of them are our young mothers some of them have other situations where they're just not able to come to school during the day and there are a couple credits away from graduating so what can we do to provide those opportunities for those students so mr thompson had a great idea of coming up with a night school he has some other great ideas as well that we're working with him on and he is doing a fantastic job for our students and we're hoping that will come true so we can continue to grow our students according to our plans. thank you you're welcome what's your question about theYou are a student who has a major choice? and providing them those pathways and opportunities. So this is going to be one step to that, getting closer to meeting the needs of all of our students. And this is a starting point because there's some other ideas and initiatives that we're going to be looking at, but this is going to be one way to do that, to meet those students, so that we can have zero students who weren't able to graduate. That is our goal. Next up, and this is another promise when I came on board, is that we will continue to focus on safety and security. And that is probably the number one thing that keeps me up at night because it just breaks my heart seeing some of the things that happen across our nation, and we do not want to be a part of that or other news if something like that happens. So we have hired a safety and security supervisor who is doing a fantastic job, works very closely with our amazing Franklin County Sheriff's Office and our SROs, and there are some things that he's identified that we need to work on. So these are some of them of taking a look at intruder locks on our interior doors because we're going to be working on that. We're going to be working on that because they are very antiquated, and we have some work to do there, as well as upgrading and installing cameras throughout our buildings. There's other things that we are also taking a look at, but these are just some highlights and, again, a starting point for some of the things that we need to do. If there is any sort of high-arching emergency things that we need to fix, of course we are going to do that. These are things that we want to get ahead because this is the last thing that we want is something happened because we had a door that wasn't able to be locked. We do not want that to happen, and we're going to prevent that from happening. We're going to do our best to do that. Next up is we're going to add two replacement buses to our operating budget. Currently we have six every year that we have built in, so this will increase us to two more. We do have a lot of buses that need to be replaced, and this is just a breakdown of all those buses. So we have some work to do there, so this would be adding two additional buses to that operating budget for transportation. Here is, I know this has been causing and stirring a lot of questions, and we appreciate all those questions. This is called the community eligibility provision. So let me back up really quick before I dive into CEP. So we have breakfast and lunch that is available to all students. And for students outside of the CEP that can't afford a lunch, they can apply through what's called free and reduced lunch, which they get paid for a breakfast or a lunch. If a student comes into school and for whatever reason they forgot their breakfast or their lunch, or the family is prideful and doesn't want to fill out the application, or whatever the reason is, if a student doesn't have a breakfast or a lunch, we provide it to them. Now it does build up a debt. That debt gets to about $100,000, $150,000 every year, but we do not have students that go hungry. We provide them a meal if we know that they do not have a meal. I want to make sure that we're very clear on that. This is no way, shape, or form if this doesn't get approved, or if we're not able to move forward with this because it is a hefty price tag. We acknowledge that. No way, shape, or form is anybody saying, both sides, we're a supervisor school, we're saying we don't want to feed students. I want to make sure that we're very clear on that. So with this CEP provision, there is a percentage that if a school division qualifies, they get reimbursement from the federal government. So right now we have nine schools that qualify. And those nine schools qualify based on a 40% number. So if your students meet what's called an ISB number of 40%, you qualify and you get reimbursement. That reimbursement does not fully fund our nutrition. As you saw those funds when I first presented to you all the interim of this conversation, we have a nutrition fund. Those reimbursement dollars do not fully fund that nutrition fund. And as we continue to feed students, we're going to continue to need to feed them. We're going to need to replenish that fund. I just want to make sure that we're very clear on that. So the nine schools that we currently have, their students, not all the students in that school, even though that every student can eat, not every student takes advantage of this because some families do still pay for their child to eat breakfast and lunch. So what this CEP does is regardless if you're free and reduced, and you go to one of those nine schools, you get a free breakfast and lunch. If you desire. And then we get reimbursement for that. But again, where we stand now, each of those schools isn't at 100% participation because not every family needs it. I want to be very clear. So if we do move forward with this, it's not going to be all 14,000 of our students would be eating breakfast and lunch. The federal government just reduced this percentage from 40% to 28%. So we're at 25%. So as a county, we are roughly 43% free and reduced across the county. For this ISP number, which is a subcategory of this free and reduced number, which is very specific circumstances such as homeless or other situations, that percentage as a county, we're at 37%. So we meet that cutoff number as a county now. So if all of our schools, all 21 of our sites, move forward with this, we would have to, again, replenish that fund $2.2 million. We would get reimbursement dollars back, but again, we would not be able to keep up with paying for the food and paying for the operating costs of keep moving forward with our nutritional department. And again, I know we received a lot of questions about this. We appreciate those questions. There are a lot of questions that we have to answer. We appreciate those questions. There are two bills right now, which I think one of them failed, if I'm not mistaken, but one of them is still alive, that they are looking at doing this statewide. But again, as we are having conversations, it is going to cost money. We do have students that, as I mentioned to you, that either don't fill out the application or have some other circumstance or situation that would benefit from this. And I think we are seeing that in our CEP schools because it's not at 100%. So this is a way for us to feed our students to make sure that they are ready to learn, breakfast and lunch. So with all that being said, as you can see, we received, or currently proposed, received additional $10 million from the state. Don't be alarmed by the reduction of the federal. That's because our ESSER dollars, we're hitting a cliff with some of those dollars. That's why there's a deduction there. Also the fees and other charges, we saw a slight reduction in those fees and other charges. And those fees and other charges could be, for example, when we rent our site out to a private person who wants to do wrestling or something of that nature, or if there's other dollars that we might receive through some sort of insurance claim. So as you can see, that's a very small dollar amount, but it is dollars that we receive. So we are essentially asking for the operating fund an additional $7.9 million from the locality. So a couple more slides really quickly. This is for our, our Indian Hollow and Jameswood High projects. As you can see, going from 24 to 25, there is an increase of 2.35 million. So that is an additional dollar amount that we will be requesting as well. And then our capital projects. So these are our assets that we currently have. As you can see, there are projects on here that have been on here for a couple years now. So that is why this dollar amount went up. As you remember, last year was around 9 million. Well, our needs don't go up. Our needs don't go away. I do want to take this time to thank the Board of Supervisors for allowing us to use those additional state dollars to chisel away some of these projects. And we greatly appreciate you allowing us to do that. But as you can see, there are still some other projects that we need to address. And our current assets definitely need some work. So lastly, the last portion of this presentation, we do have another school board budget work session on the 13th, where we are going to talk through all of these items in regards to what the school board would like to see added, taken away. And then we are going to be, they will be adopting the budget, the FY proposed, 25th proposed budget on February 20th at the school board meeting. And then I will be coming back here, which I'm looking forward to, presenting their proposed budget to you all again on the 21st. So I'm looking forward to that opportunity. And then there's going to be additional meetings in March with hopes that the budget gets approved in April, which we will be doing and we will then turn around and approve that in our April meeting as well. I also encourage you and the public and anyone who's here who's listening to, please come out to town halls that I've scheduled. I did these last year. They were very successful. So I highly encourage you to do that. I also want to do a little plug, if that's okay. We are going to try a virtual option for the second one. So we're going to do it live, but we're also going to live stream it as well. And people can type in their questions. So if a family has some things to take care of, like dinner and all the other great things we do, as moms and dads, they can just listen in if they choose to do that. So we're going to see how that goes. And if it goes well, we'll continue to do that. So we're trying to meet every aspect of our community and they're able to contribute and participate. I want to give you all again a big thank you. I really appreciate this opportunity and I'm looking forward to answering any and all questions that you have. So Mr. Chair, Mr. Ludwig. Thank you, Dr. Noemer. You and I and Chairman Sturdivant talked just before the meeting and we agreed, unless either board strongly objects, that we'll take questions from one side and then the other supervisors first. Since we're hearing this for the first time, if no one objects, we'll do it that way. But feel free to intersperse. If you think we've gotten off track or you have a question that jumps on top of our question, this isn't strict. We want a free and open discussion here. So I will start with supervisors. We'll start with the board. Would anyone like to begin with any questions? Supervisor Dunn. So first I just want to get some clarification on some questions I asked. And I appreciate the answers. One of my questions was the total school staff outside of Frederick County, which is 43%. And then I asked outside of Virginia, which was another 17%. My question is, does that 43% represent the 17% or not? If you're not clear, then we can move off to that. Let me make sure I'm answering your question correctly. When you sent the questions forward, you asked for total staff, and then you asked for teachers. So on total staff, I asked for the total... The percent that lived outside the county and the state. Outside the county and the state. Right. When you said outside the county, does that include outside the state as well? I'm just asking because I don't know. I... It does. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So therefore you have basically 43% of the people, 43% of your staff that live outside of Frederick County. And of that, 17% live outside the state. On teachers, you have 17% outside the county and 9% outside the state. So I appreciate your answers. Yes, sir. I looked through your budget, and I'd like to take and give you my perspective on some of those slides. So Mr. Bolhofer, can you pull up the... So, Mr. Hummer, Dr. Hummer, I had gone through that, and I had a different perspective on some of your numbers, so I just want to share those. Yes, sir. This will take, you know, seven minutes or so. Does somebody have a clicker or...? I don't mind you clicking if you want to... I trust you're clicking. I'm going to click the right button here, and it's how you go forward. Okay. Right button. So here are just observations. On one of your slides, you show that in 23, we were, you know, third from the top, and then you said we were second from the bottom. To me, that was... It's an accurate comment. It's also a salesmanship comment. We're also third from the bottom. Well, here, it's also 50,000. So you could have put us third from the bottom versus second, and it's just some small points that are irritants. That's comment number one. Teacher salary. Virginia likes 25th national pay, but our tax rate, I believe, is approximately the same, so to some degree, that matches. Teachers are paid 67 cents for each dollar. When people go to school, different professions pay more. So if I go to school to become an artist, I'm probably not going to be paid the same amount of money as an engineer. Or somebody else. So just recognize that for people that go into the teaching profession, they know there's a certain compensation. If they want to get lots of money, they should probably become a neurosurgeon and make a million dollars a year. So that's just a thought. Virginia ranks 12th as the richest state in the county. And... That's it. It's over. That was a quick shot. Try this again. The richest... I'll go back here. Virginia ranks 12th as the richest state in the county. In the country. A better way to present that data would be, how does Frederick County rank? Because we have some of the wealthiest counties in the country. Fairfax and Loudoun are next door to us. And so if you want to make a comparison on how Frederick County ranks, rather than do it on a statewide basis, we have 3,600 counties in the country. I'd say, how do we rank as a county? Just as a different perspective. Again, same comment on county versus state. This is the slide that you had that showed if you make $50,000 a year, you're about $200 a month short. I've gone through those numbers, and I'd like to make some revisions. The column on the left is the numbers that were on the previous slide showing the 197 negative. If you truly adjust that for both federal and state income tax, that adds another 20% to the total. So if you're a state income tax, you're about $283. And where does that number come from? It comes from here. Federal income tax of $50,000 minus the deduction of $14.6 gives taxable income of $35.4. The tax on that comes out to be $335 a month. Virginia income tax, same situation. Gross pay minus the single status. That's the assumption. Your tax per month is $213. When you throw in the FICA tax of $318, your total is $868. That's a difference of over $283 by just having a correct tax breakdown actually on what would have to run $50,000. The third column, other revised, highlighted in yellow, utilities and gas, cell phone, etc. Utilities and gas, that's a $400 figure. In our household, our utilities and gas for two people were $290 a month. On cell phone, you can go to T-Mobile today and get cell phone plans for $60. And they're good cell phone plans. And if you are a teacher or an administrator, I know for teachers, they get a discount as well. So that's a number that I would say take a look at. For car insurance and renter's insurance, you have both figures at $87. But for car insurance, I know you can get a $15,000, or a car insurance is about for $35,000. For renter's insurance, $15,000. So $15,000 liability is $35,000, and renter's insurance is a little bit less. So making those revisions adds another $250. And then under other housemates, if that person is living with somebody else, your rent numbers go down, your utilities go down, and the question then becomes with student loans. You're making the assumption that everybody has a student loan. But some people don't. And so that adds another $1,000. So my comment on this slide is, that for the same $50,000, in my opinion realistically, someplace between $336 in the positive to $1,400 is probably the range to pay for student loans, etc., but making those adjustments. So I'll show you those slides. You're welcome to tear them apart. But these are my read on your numbers. And I want to make some comment to you and your staff. This is not personal. And I said to a staff person, this is just looking at numbers, seeing different things. So please do not take this as personal. Nor anybody here on the school staff. These are the numbers for the seven entities besides us in Virginia. As you can see, where Frederick County ranks on year zero, we are seven, or year six. On year five, we're seven, four. And you can see how we go across. And the averages there say that for years zero and five out of seven, being six and seven. A couple years ago, we were in the three to four range. So it supports your comment that we've come down. By the same token, when you take a look at years 20, 25, 30, 35, we're in the three and four range. So we are offering, for those that stay, a much better salary than the average. But I just bring these numbers out to you. When you add in the West Virginia counties which you say you're not competing with, they are competing with us. I've heard people from Page County say, if you, Frederick County, would stop raising your salaries, we in Page County would not have to do the same. You also have people in West Virginia that are also looking to hire teachers. And if you're going to be hired in Berkeley or here, they're competing with us the same way we're competing for a loan. So when you take a look at those numbers there, you can see that the averages are lower. And in that sense, we are someplace in the middle. We are six out of 13, seven out of 13, four out of 13, where it says SC rank of 13 going across. And when you take it out loud, it's a little bit better. But it just gives you a different perspective. And before I move to the next slide, you've had a slide this year and previous years in which you say that Frederick County is less than the average. But outside of Loudoun, each one of the others, Clark, Warren, et cetera, other than Falkier on two points, data points, is also below the average. So when you say we're below the average, if I were in Clark County, Clark County is below the average, Page is below the average, Shenandoah, Warren is too. So I'm just putting that as a point. This is an item that you had on school budgets hard to fill. This is a lot of money for 25 years of experience and more. I recognize your ability to want to do that. So I applaud you in that. You also have here, this is a multi-year initiative. So I'm going to give you a different thought on a multi-year initiative. And that would be, one, to work with the General Assembly to say that if you go and work, instead of being paid for the highest three years, which is why people leave from here to Loudoun, make it for the total time you're here. So if you work for 30 years, it's the average of your 30,000. to your pay time, not just the top three. That's point number one. Point number two, if you also went and changed from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan, we essentially set up a 403B like private industry does and say, fine, if you want to go retire, put money into your 403B, and we, the schools, will match some percentage. That eliminates, then, the incentive to go and leave at the end of three years. I know that's not going to occur either, which I applaud. Instead, here's a multi-year thought process, and I'm going to give you another multi-year thought process that perhaps stems the tide of people moving to the richest county, or second richest now, Loudoun County in the country, to stay here. So it's just thoughts which we can discuss some more. School buses. For the last eight years, I've heard we can't have money for school buses, and in the last few years, we have gone and improved that, which I appreciate. So now we're going to be up to eight. One of the things I did not know is what other vehicles were bought by the schools for transportation purposes. And a constituent of mine said to me, Blaine, I was over at the school administration, and there's some 20 cars there, and they seem to be all school employee, or school for the schools. That generated the question to you on what occurred afterwards. That's why the question occurred. So when you look at that, here are some of them. So there's a Ford Explorer, and if you look on the right-hand side, staff travel facilities, et cetera. My question on the staff travel issue is, is it important to go and have a vehicle, or can you have an employee who has to go and on a legitimate staff travel be simply reimbursed for that travel? For example, if you, as the, as the superintendent have to go someplace, that's a legitimate travel. Do you need your own car to, you could have your own car, do it and be reimbursed, or you could have your county car to go, and there's a cost analysis on that, and I don't know what those numbers are, but that's an issue. By the same token, I know that the schools do expect teachers to use their own vehicles to go to, back and forth to school, and for those that are teaching at multiple schools, they're expected to have their own car to go to multiple schools. So for example, a woman who is going to go teach English as a second language in five schools is expected to use her own car to make those travels, and there's no compensation and reimbursement for that travel. So that's my point on that. Toward the bottom, there's a construction truck. I don't know what it's for. Go ahead. Mr. Ludwig, Mr. Chair, do you want me to wait for the presentation? I'm almost done. Okay. Let me just. Let me just finish. Absolutely. So there's this construction truck. There are some other items here on transportation, items here for facilities. On the second page, there was a tractor, John Deere tractor for Millbrook, third from the bottom, and then you have this. So over this timeframe, since 2017, it's about a $1.9 million total expense. $800,000 of that was for transportation related. Which still leaves you a million dollars. So my question is, was that the best use of those expenses, or could those dollars have been used for buses? I'm not saying right or wrong, but it's something that popped out at me when we were going through that. On school board budget initiative, the $2.10 million, this is a policy call. I'm not going to go through it. This is a policy call. I'm going to do a little bit of a summary. This is the policy call. This is the policy call. I don't think it's the responsibility of the taxpayer and the schools to feed children. We'll disagree on that. I think it's the responsibility of parents and families. If there are families that are truly destitute, there are other federal programs that can address that issue. But to provide free lunches for all students, I believe, is not the best use of tax dollars, and we will have a policy disagreement to agree to disagree, but it's not my job to do that as a taxpayer. If I have children, the job is to feed the children. If you, from your perspective, are saying, we have kids here that are coming hungry, let's work to find a federal program that's in existence already. The WIC program, SNAP program, et cetera, we'll try to address that, but I just don't think that on a policy issue we should do it. You, the school board, can make those calls on what you think is the best use of money. And finally, on the debt service, each of the times that I've attended the fall debt service, and the state debt service program, this is before your time as well, you have a chart that shows here's where we are today. Next year, we need more amount, and then the numbers come down. What is missing on this chart, in my opinion, is this is a chart for the current expenditures. But then if you have another chart that shows what the expected future expenditures are, and what that curve looks like, that curve, I suspect, is going to go and rise, not fall. So you have 19, 20 million dollars of more capital expenditures, but then, you have, you know, you have a lot of debt, and then you have a lot of debt. And then you have a lot of debt. And then a lot of debt has to go into to 你 Heute Italian So for the polymer fortes, you need to build here. now that has grown. There were two small studies that were done some time ago showing that there was a positive influence between kindergarten and the third or fourth grade, but after that dissipated. Both Georgia and Florida have required pre-K studies, but they show no difference at 12th grade between those that were in pre-K and not in pre-K. So my question is, is that the best expenditure of dollars? So that's one comment on that issue. School administration. I've heard from a number of people that, and this is again, Dr. Hummer, prior to your being here, so I know you're new and it's not affected you directly, that the school administration is top-heavy, both in your department and in the schools. So my comment to the school board members is, take a look at each high school. Take a look at each middle school. Do all the high schools have the same number of principals, vice principals, etc.? If they do, for the same number of students, that would make sense. If some have more, some have less, why do they or why do they not? But just take a look at the money that's going into administration, because that money could be used for teachers. And from Dr. Hummer's perspective, he's saying, this is what I even need, so I'm not saying that you don't, but it's something that I think you ought to have a good, hard look at going forward. So that's my comment on school administration. In the previous administration, you had two DEI instructors, two DEI administrators. I believe the total cost of those, the salaries were someplace in the neighborhood of $125, total cost was probably $150 or more. That's $300,000. From my perspective, I want kids to come out and learn, you know, math, science, etc., and I don't care if you're black or white, green or purple. The question I pose to you is, is a DEI person a good use of dollars versus putting the same dollars into teachers, which right now seems to have, you know, a request. So I would ask you to look at that and review that. I think the school should emphasize merit. And then finally, we have an overcrowding of Sharando. And that overcrowding of Sharando has been occurring since 1998. And I said publicly, and I'll say again, I'm all in favor of having a trailer and a trailer that's going to be used for the school. And I think it's a great idea. I think the other thing is, is the amount of money that you have invested in that system and the amount of money that you're going to be using to build a wing that's going to be used to build a wing that's going to be used to build a school. And by that, I'm talking about, you know, a lot of the systems that are going to be used for a school, at a high school, if you're trying to build a wing, and you do that for two or three or four years. But for 26 years? I wonder. So my comment to all of us here, is how do we solve that problem this year? And some options include building a addition at Millbrook, and you'd have to readjust, you know, high school lines. And does that solve the problem? adjust you know high school lines and does that solve the problem I know that you have dr. Hummer showing that in three four five years that doesn't solve the problem that's one option or do you make the assumption you have more people going to homeschooling which reduces the item or do you go and hold a dish at Millbrook where do you build a fourth high school but I think that this board and the school board and the administration need to come together and say let's solve a problem in a realistic way unless you think the policy position is just add more trailers and that's not blamed on this position so I think that collectively you know we need to address that I think I've covered the points if we go through and make an addition to address the Schrander problem there's going to be an additional cost that was not in dr. Hummer slides then the question is how do we pay for that so having said that dr. Hummer I appreciate your presentation please take my comments as look at the same numbers saying I'm looking from a different angle same way to Dr. Hummer just hang on for one second I would like to go and I'll support this is White's comment on videoing transparency I think that helps everybody here I think helps the public so I'll just throw my support to her on that anything we could do we'll do that have you said that dr. Hummer go ahead and if you can't answer everything that's okay I'm just gonna have thoughts so we can have a discussion that's the purpose of this exactly so first and foremost you made a comment earlier about taking questions personally please mr. Dunn as I mentioned to you all over the year I've been here I appreciate the questions I embrace the questions thank you for asking them I know other members will probably have questions as well if you have questions after today continue to email me more than happy to get you those responses okay so thank you mr. Dunn for those questions couple clarifying things first off in regards to the the staff and the first-year teacher yet please send that along please keep in mind though is you know even though you saw some adjustments on there the these these individuals still have a hard time making a living and some of them have to get roommates sometimes they have to get three roommates and even then they still have to work two or three jobs we know that because they anecdotally are sharing that with us and I'm sure principals back here can also share it as well so yes there might be some variations to that but I appreciate you sharing that because you're right there is going to be variations not every individual is going to have student loans some of them might have roommates where it takes care of that but the whole point of that slide is is to show that that we are teachers are in need they're not able to make a living and we want to be able to be able to support that so I appreciate that we'll take a look send that along so we can take a look at and break that down no intent of causing any sort of distraction or or adding additional fuel to our needs in regards to saying we're third from the bottom we were tied and sometimes when you're tied you're still third from the bottom second that wasn't the intent so I please I want to make sure that I'm very clear on that I want to be fully transparent with everything that we're presenting thank you for mentioning that and I'll be more cognizant of that moving forward so so I appreciate that and I appreciate that piece keep in mind when we showed that the state is I wanted to be able to paint a picture in regards to what we're dealing with as a Commonwealth because at the end of the day whatever the state isn't able to provide us it comes from the locality and I will sit here and agree that there is some work to do as well as my other superintendent colleagues there's a lot of work we need to do in Richmond in regards to how we're funding public schools so that that was the only reason I was showing that absolutely this is a great County absolutely there's a lot of great things going on I just wanted to be able to show that the state that there are some issues there 30 seconds but we're a county and we are funding County dollars so that was why I made the comment on counties is a county comparison versus the state but right but the the comparison is the LCI okay and and if and if and I'm more than happy to share all 132 school divisions to see how we fare because that is available on the state website as well so if there's additional information there more than happy to provide that so I want to make sure that it wasn't I wasn't sharing anything it was shared it was just in a different format so I want to I want to be very very careful with that in regards to to Loudon you know fair enough they are the room you know the second richest I thought they were the first but I could be wrong I know they're up there last year they were there now but but the point of us having the conversation there is regardless if they're more richer than us we're losing staff to them so that is the whole intention that we focus on I'm take them out leave them into that average that is where we lose a majority of our teachers to and we want to be able to show that and that's why I emphasize every time I present that not trying to catch them I'm not trying to say we need to get to those sellers I know that and I know that will be a hefty price tag I'm not recommending that what I'm recommending is that we try to close that the best we can but but I appreciate that because that's what we try to split that out but totally understand that piece there the VRS as you mentioned that that's not an us thing you know it's definitely something I can talk with our board if they want us to lobby on that and talk with our delegates we can talk through those pieces unfortunately we're not going to be able to do that right now unfortunately we have no control of that but that's something if our board wants to do we can definitely do that I want to clarify some things with the vehicles and the mileage and I really appreciate that you actually asked this last year as well keep in mind that preliminarily every staff member that travels not to and from home but that travels from site to site gets reimbursed mileage so if you have a teacher say is an ESOL teacher that goes from making this up goes from Millbrook to Jameswood to Redbud and then back to the school district they get compensated for that there are some staff for our policy that if they are an emergency personnel and they do have to take the vehicle home they get taxed on that okay so if we did have reimbursement for all of our central office staff who are in buildings and they go from building to building that is going to be more than what the cars that we have there we can definitely go back and take a look at that the other vehicles that are on there it'sictions on the 911 and I had ainta wala faire that we do see that now let me share what I'm certainly will come home mostly but narrowing the space more than anything because this is a模, this is a bus curvy another patrol anything on I think we're back to the ground floor so refrigerant pool ise what I mentioned to your раз 아빠 victory on brands insurance how great is I honestly we've been spending more on materialsобрations at serve сд dollars dollar yes there are cars there our staff go from building to building some go to 10 school buildings a day because there's a lot of work that they do central office this is designed to support our schools which which brings me to the next piece in regards to administrators as I mentioned to you all I just want to clarify a point some of those vehicles did you question the use of training on it if I remember correctly some of them using on training it said it says facilities it says staff travel you can go through it and all the reason I bring this up I work for the county for 26 years I retired in 2014 the jail provided vehicles for staff to do training I know personally I went to Ohio I went to Cincinnati Cincinnati and with Colorado so we were providing vehicles for staff for training at the jail and the Sheriff's Office doesn't I also know the county employees that didn't work for the jail and they were not trained for the jail and they were not trained for the jail utilized the jail vehicles to do training as well so if that is in fact what we do here I mean it's not that not like the rest of the county doesn't do that as well so and the only reason I made the comment is there's a cost there there's also a cost on what happens if you used the person's own car so if I'm a county employee I use my own car and be reimbursed for that then there's a math analysis to see which is more effective not this is all occurring before dr. Hummer come Rose here so it's not on his watch it's constituent brought the issue to base on that's why I'm raising the issue for discussion yes I just want to bring that point up Thank You mr. chair mr. and I appreciate that and again thank you for the questions and if there's room for a group in there we want to do that absolutely we want to do that so two things when it comes to to our building level administrators the first thing is is they are part of our staffing standard so we don't have one school that has more assistant principals than the other or they have two principals the other has one so our staffing standard standards guides that and quite honestly we have some schools one of them being sure and oh that has three to four hundred more students than the other high schools there might be an argument they might need another assistant principal because that that ratio is not supported at the state level so that that's the first thing there the second thing is our administrators are putting in 80 to 90 hours a week minimum they are on call in the weekends their buildings are being used all day long in the evenings when I go to basketball games on Fridays yes I'm able to leave when the games over at 930 but they're staying there until 12 o'clock at night making sure that everybody leaves on time counting money doing all the things that they need to do so our administrators work very very hard and they're just as important as everybody else so I want to make sure that we don't lose sight of that because yes they might make more money than the teacher does but they also and I don't want to ever bid snap against each other ever want to do that that's why we made these presentations I don't want to compare classified to teachers all of them are just as important but when we talk about our administrators and reducing them we're talking about the fact that we're not just talking about the students we're talking about the staff that is not only going to impact the functionality of that building it's going to impact what we keep emphasizing which is the overall performance of our students because they are the mayors of that school they are the mayors of that community I can only go do so much as a superintendent my job is to oversee them so I just I just want to be very very careful about that I appreciate the question and absolutely we'll look into those things but we are not over staffed when it comes to administrators in our school they need to be fully and fully st Idees Mr. Posgue Okay great so this was easy we get to the then yes everyone up to a staff like that he's study from Santown Santa忘s has 353 on campus right and and you see here the P einfach including the children determining who we're going to be what you can do and if your staff is the minimum staff right now to do the job if you cut a B and C here's the negative effects that I'm not looking for it for clear cut if you have excess there is so that's that's the purpose I'm not saying you should or should but I am saying take a good hard look at it and then make it the call thank you go ahead absolutely the other thing is we do not have DEI administrators so I don't know if that was before me but I want to make sure our school boards clear we do not have DEI two years ago the work okay what is the DEI administrator well look I know dr. Angela is shaking his head some so it's diversity equity inclusion so doctors we had two people whose role is their role and like all of us we are also put in charge of certain initiatives or put in charge of certain committees as an extra thing that we have to do okay mr. chairman just to be clear and loud there has never been a DEI coordinator ever in the history of Frederick County Public Schools I just want to make that loud and clear Thank You mr. Don yes and that so that was I think I addressed all your questions if there is anything additional that I missed you know how they're gonna hold me more than happy to answer those questions so thank you sir okay may I have 30 seconds may I ask a question yes yes you Dans advanced from 30 in that are within the realm of what their numbers should be are dealing with well over the numbers of what they should be dealing with. And I agree with Dr. Humber that perhaps those schools, until we can figure out how we're going to either expand in Millbrook, like you had mentioned, or build a fourth high school, whatever the decision finally becomes, that we don't talk about cutting administration or even teaching staff at this point. And if I can back up to a couple of your other slides, I agree with you. I think we should take a look and see how Frederick County rates in the country. I think that's a much better view of what we should all be looking at as opposed to having Loudoun and Fairfax skew those numbers. But I dare say that if you look at those numbers that you've listed for a new teacher and what the rent is, I think that's a much better view of what we should all be looking at. I think that's a much better view of what we should all be looking at as opposed to having a new teacher and how much the rent is, and how much the students are, the taxes and so forth. You're going to be hard pressed to find too many teachers not having student loans. And you're also going to have families that come here. A lot of our teachers that come, especially from Pennsylvania school, Pennsylvania universities, they're either doing their initial teaching in Pennsylvania and then moving, or there's a lot of families that would like to live in this area, especially from Loudoun. If we could get folks from Loudoun to come here, that would be even better. you also mentioned that we find it in my notes I apologize they take it take your time oh you had said something about how we are within the realm of most of the other schools that are below average as far as teacher pay is concerned below the state average or below the country average I I don't remember dr. Hummer of the seven counties in year zero I don't have this thing in front of me we might have been six out of the seven six out of the seven and then year five we were again five or six out of the seven you got up to years 20 25 30 we're in the three to four okay and I'll be glad to share those you know yes I appreciate that and I'm not trying to make it sound like I promise but the question I have for all of us to consider is do we want to be below average as a county do we do we want to rise up above or at least even out with and I'm not including loud in our Fairfax but at least in the 30 mile radius to ensure that we're being not only competitive but also providing the best possible quality teacher that we can make a quick comment to you when you take out loud a couple years ago we looked at 20 Close outside and I guess I raised that number in six what was the labor two the community labor that they're doing not starving are you cup of Sagefield Long Beach here to create capital specifically for Eastern Tennessee Des Moines New Jersey Tennessee Texas lettuce enjoy any of that awesome California take unemployment so rather's approach but much less of a situationрь put on blame or not brain corner too Matt clean behind againstиц you remove loudon and then two years ago when i was looking at this data we were basically three to four now you're basically five to six four zero through ten or twelve ten go ahead i understand what you're saying thank you um the only other thing that i would uh argue to look at is that with regards to teacher salaries at year 15 of a teacher there and i'm well beyond that but at year 15 that's about when their children are starting to they're starting to look at colleges and universities and the expenses that they're going to have are going to increase drastically depending on how many children they have and how many plan to go to college university or to a trade school because it's all expensive so i would argue that you know starting at year 15 especially we need to really be as competitive as we possibly can because when teachers are looking they're not looking the short term they're looking at the long term you know they want to come to a place and this is where they want to live and retire and you know hopefully not move to florida but um i'm just i just want that to be a consideration as well to look and not just see numbers but see what's happening in these teachers lives at these particular benchmarks um lastly if i'm not going too long go ahead this will work you're reading so much more than i can all right i'm going to filibuster all right here we go um this is something that's near and dear to my heart it is the uh it's the food program of breakfast and lunch for all of our students um i don't have exact data in front of me i know they did a 2011 study breaking out the counties and showing what the food insecurity rate was for people in frederick county um and we were at a sort of i think we were at a quarter of a million in the first quarter of five percent rate um out of all the counties and in 2017 another study was done where we were eight percent so it's increasing um i know i work in clark county as a teacher and i can just give you some information about what i see on a day-to-day basis as far as a child who you know is not eating properly at home not getting enough food to eat and then coming to school and becoming one of the largest food-free communities in the country and for the first time in my life i can tell you that i have a really good understanding of the food insecurity rate and the food insecurity rate and this is something that i've been doing for the last couple of years and it's really important to me to understand the food insecurity rate and the food insecurity rate and i think it's really important to me to understand the food insecurity rate and and i think it's really important to me to and have some knowledge when it comes to this class army exercise and its just really important to us to understand it's really important to us to understand that it really tensions those families and it's important to us to understand that in terms of the way in which the students have been treated and they've been treated and i think that it's really important to know that as soon as a teacher is allowed to do something i think that that can be incredibly rewarding to the students um i'll let you know that we want to be strong in mr s Cooper then the team in that small school was i'll make it a slide and roll in on our record that we really have been täticles our foods and whatever's been grown that i believe they're refrigerated and all of that prevalent and i think what we could be paper bags filled with food for a number of families but not everyone's Serviced by it as I'm sure it's the same here in Frederick But the bottom line is if a child isn't is going hungry day-to-day their behavior and their well-being is not going to be very positive in the school and It's going to cause a problem for the teachers in That moment but then further down is also going to cause problems Because they'll be in trouble with the law You know, they'll be not a productive citizen of our County and they'll end up costing more by being in the prison system And I don't have numbers and you know, this is this is just To me it's common sense and I'm not I Don't mean any disrespect to anyone up here I'm just saying this this as a teacher based on what I see and in 30 years of what I've seen this year And last year have been the worst That I've ever seen and put 30 second comment we can have another conversation offline in more depth Absolutely, but there are federal programs designed for that You're absolutely if you have a child that's not eating for the weekend. I Agree with you 100% and I know that there are churches to provide food under the federal programs And those people need to do that and if those federal programs do not meet the need Then I'm gonna say let's find a solution that works by the same token There are plenty of children to go to school We're so parents can easily afford to have give them breakfast and lunch and so to me. That's the way so I'm not gonna delay That you know other people know and I absolutely agree with you on everything. And we agree probably and let's feed those that are hungry I just don't think it's the school program to feed. I don't think it's the appropriate item I think there are other options you can disagree and that's for healthy debate So sure and I just want to add that there, you know, there are two things You've got those that don't qualify for those federal programs But are living paycheck to paycheck? And can't always afford the proper amount of food they go to food To the family dollar to the Dollar Tree and I guarantee you're not going to find fresh vegetables at the Dollar Tree And then there was one other point I was going to make but it's escaped me. So I've talked enough. I apologize Thank you for your comments. Appreciate it Thank you. So more supervisor with comments I guess I would say take advantage if you can with the fact that we can we can post these and Follow-up in future Meetings or by email on the other hand if there's something that really can be resolved best face-to-face today go right I think the time Who would start at the end supervisor we are? Go for it Once again, dr. Hammer, thanks for coming and giving her presentation today and taking our questions First question. I just have a couple of questions. Hopefully I'll be quick I'm trying to turn a narrow in on the student enrollment projections over the next couple of years And I know that's a moving target I I get I have very good flavor for that how division-wide that that can change 25 to 30 per week I've seen the data that you have this year where on Friday with the fifth I think January and Friday the 12th There was a difference of 27 students in one week's time. So I understand that however looking at page 36 of your current budget the 23 24 budget has Shows that our 23 24 enrollment at least that I guess at the start of the year was a projection was 14,000 24 It shows a slight increase For 20 as a projection for 24 25 and that it shows some slight decreases And again, this was a lot of the year-old document slight decreases for 25 26 26 27 27 28 down to about 13,000 to 8 79 and 27 28 and my question would be do we have updated that on that knowing that? I have a pretty good feel about there's three to 4,000 housing starts moving dirt and program county right now and there's there's more folks on the way so If you have a current projection on that, yeah, I'm not what document are you referencing there? referencing the the school budget for 23 24 so so there was a new Conversation that we had after I started that has new projections and I will make a note to send that to you It's this document that we've already shared with the board of supervisors. I'll give that to mr Bo offer to share with all of you Our numbers are going up and in 10 years spend there's a slight dip But then it goes back up and I will there's a whole presentation a document I'll share with you appreciate more than happy to do that to other quick question. Yes, sir I seem to remember a couple of years ago that there was some talk of and I'm on the topic of the track teachers That there was a scholarship opportunity for Students who are going to go away to college for four years to come back and and have some of their Tuition paid for can you I didn't see that much in the budget. Can you address that? Is that a program that we have? You're correct. Yes. So we do have that We're also looking at starting a lab school here in Frederick County in partnership with Laurel Ridge and Germanna as well some other local school divisions where we will actually the program Not us the program pays for students to get their two-year associate's degree junior and senior year It pays for them to go to James Madison University for two years. They graduate early and then we can hire them That's something that we're looking to start in FY 26 It's for in the preliminary stages of that but again a new way for us to attract new teachers We also have teachers for tomorrow program in our schools where we provide students with opportunities To get access to teaching while they're here with us that hopefully have aspirations of coming back And then we also have the program that you mentioned with James Madison as well. So that's still there. It's not being cut We're still moving forward with that One last question on me on the substitutes. I noticed that you're proposing a pay raise for the subs 70 unfilled positions per day. That's that's pretty huge. It's almost like a like a whole school per day. That's unfilled my question would be beyond the beyond the pay increase Unfortunately, there's only so many folks out in the community our size that are that are on the sub list that are going to sub daily the question I would have is Have Have you all looked at ways of reducing those number of absences? Well, there's one one suggestion I have to look at is I was I was also an educator for a long period time I think it took me about 15 years or so in my career to get to the point where I had so much excess leave that I was getting a check every summer for the excess leave. The question would be is there a way to do that yearly for staff? Because if you've got somebody that's teaching two or three years, they're looking down. I'm going to get to start getting paid ten years from now for my excess leave. That's not a very good incentive, but if they can get that check every year, if they choose to do so, if they can get that extra check so they're getting, what, ten or eleven sick days per year, and if they don't have any sick days, they get a pretty decent check, but they can get it that year. Just an opinion that that would be helpful if we could do that. I'm really glad you brought that up. I'm going to go back to when we were talking about the needs-based budget, how we were developing this, and we had conversations with our staff, and I was in numerous meetings to say, everything is on the table. Everything is on the table. Let's take a look at everything. There have been numerous concerns that have been brought forward by our principals because they are, as you mentioned, unable to fill, and it's not like we're changing oil in a car and just this car doesn't get its oil changed for today. You have to watch over that class. Somebody has to be in there. Sometimes it's our principals that have to watch over those classes. We have teachers that are missing out on their planning time. There's a lot, as you know, as a freeze administrator, there's a lot that happens there. So one of the items that was actually on up for consideration, was to come up with some attendance type bonus of exactly like you're talking about, of paying out leave. Unfortunately, it wasn't anything that made it to the top of our list because of all the other things you saw on here. However, it's not crossed off the list. It's something that we're hopeful to look forward to in the future years because you're exactly right. Because that was one of the conversations we had with our principals is, let's not focus so much on the subs, let's focus on our teachers. But we also want to make sure that our teachers, they have a right to miss. There's things that come up. They have doctor's appointments. They have families. They have things that happen. But if there is things that come up where they need to miss, maybe there's some incentives to say, you really have to do that on Thursday? Is that something you can do on Saturday? And by the way, we'll pay you out for that leave at the end. We're always thinking through those things. So I'm glad you mentioned that because we're actually talking about that as well. Thank you, sir. That's all, Chairman. Okay, thank you. Did you have questions also? I saw your hand. Mr. Chairman, the mic. Dr. Hummer, what I'd like to hear or see is the total number of trailers that are in the school system. I know I'm personally guilty of referencing Sharando constantly with the 16th, but I also know there are a lot more than that. So I think we need to point out because at the end of the day, and thank you for sharing this. This is early for us, but I'm the newbie on the block. So this is early for us and I really appreciate that. I know what I'm going to be doing now for the next six days or three morning, noon, and night. But the conversation, we have got to have this honest conversation between the Board of Supervisors and the school board about the growth and what we do to help. And that's got to be part of this. And it's going to cost money. So I think that's something we really need to know about. And I think it goes into the security aspect that you pointed out with your security officer. I mean, you're talking $100,000 for interior locked doors. Interior locked doors are great for in the building, but they're not great for a train. So I think that's what I'd like to hear from you guys. So, if we could have a moment, could you just take a moment to address the disability issues you're talking about? But I think we have got to have this honest conversation between the board of supervisors and the school board about the growth and what can we do to help. in the building but they're not great for a trailer so I think that we really need to have that part of the discussion as well and then I'll have a bunch more questions by the design so thanks sir thank you thank you mr. chairman may I just add something or ask actually a clarification dr. I remember the the dome like Epcot Center things that we have in two of our schools are they included in the trailers I'm not sure if you know what I'm talking about dome no yeah oh yeah horrible and red aren't they considered I mean they're not trailers but wouldn't they also be considered the same type of thing isn't that what their purpose is for and I've heard I've heard sort of I just want to make sure that they're included in that number because they're quite nightmarish according to the principles are spoken with yes so we can include that thank you so before I just want to clarify something it's been back and forth so many times long I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Iwwww one one am I maybe somebody put a wrong map there my impression was there's 16 for this year with about 20 if we could just if I can make please mr. chairs if I could make a recommendation I did send that number to you all whatever that number one is accurate I will reshare it with you because I again I don't have it here in front of me and I don't want to miss quote anybody and I want to make sure that we get a clear number I will say that's you all if that was the number I sent with you then that's that so whatever number I sent you is accurate we'll just say that I'll reshare it with you guys okay thank you mr. chair I'm in that grammar when you clarify that okay it could be eight buildings I don't care if it's 16 million the point is there are 16 classrooms that's what I want here I want to hear how many classrooms are outside of that building all those campuses throughout Frederick County that's what we can get that for you thanks sir I'm a question let me just ask real quick because we do need to give the school board chance to ask questions as well just one second if it later I just want to take a poll before I let her go are there any more people with questions who haven't asked you at a moment supervisors no okay let's pass it over to the school board vice-chair Klein I don't know if I may only you recognize the school board members last year go ahead please thank you just dr. Hummer just very few clarifying questions on the Finance Committee meeting presentation from Monday the sip this has to do with the teachers and when they leave us I have in those notes it's on slide number four it says 37 percent of our teachers are total of 63 teachers left last year with zero to five years experience and then in several presentations we keep harping on the fifteen years point when they leave and also in the tropics we are limited on exams it's not only the proof it's part of your experience it's additional motivation and I think it is your contribution building your EW in your education as adults any additional students this looks very clear from your point of view and then it came to the leave us so which one is it do we have a mass quantity leaving at zero to five and then another quantity leaving at 15 or do we just have to mostly statistically over the past let's call it five years have teachers leave at the zero to five year point can you clarify that for me what you were seeing that Henry yes thank you mrs. Klein sorry to answer your question when we gave you the largest number zero to five at 37 percent that will over the 60 percent I think was 37 percent was the highest um I think it was 37 percent was the highest I think it was 37 percent was the highest what we didn't do is give you 15 up because that was the largest group and we were doing it by five year increments but if you look at 15 and above that percentage was close to like 34 percent so it was pretty close but you would ask for the highest so that's why the zero to five okay does that make very much it does yes ma'am thank you and also to on going back to our current presentation that we're all looking at on slide 59 touching on the CET and this is camera this might be a question towards you as well the 2.2 million I just want to make it clear to everyone in the room that 2.2 million is a sunk cost meaning we will not receive any portion of that back in any type of reimbursement what we will receive back in reset or reimbursement is the cost the dollar cost of percentage of the dollar cost of the at cost value of that lunch or breakfast that's given to a student from the emergency meeting all right ah ok ah-ha a couple of things just kind of why I'd just have some stuff that Mr. Dunn had brought up and then some stuff I agree and disagree with. I 100% agree with you. The trailer situation throughout the county is just terrible. We've got to find a better spot to educate these children at. And to your point, Mr. Jewell, it's a security issue and I do safety for a living. And it's a bad spot to have them. It's an easy target. It's a bad choke point. One of the things I don't agree with you on is getting rid of Loudoun County as far as your numbers. And the reason I say that is with the counties that we're comparing to, the seven counties, when we look at why teachers are leaving and where they're leaving to, when they tell us where they're leaving, the three big culverts that we're getting, it isn't Clark County, Warren County, Shandell County, it's Prince William, Falkier, and of course Loudoun. And a lot of them do go to Loudoun County, visit the ERS, and try to make that the top three years so they have a great retirement. I totally understand that. But trying to bring back those teachers and trying to keep teachers and retain those teachers, we can have them. Build roots within the community. Give them a little bit more maybe at the hump, at the 15 year mark, and kind of let it die off a little bit and kind of let it mellow out. I think by then they'll have roots in the community and they'll want to stay like Mr. Leroy and retire out. You know, so I don't like, if we're talking about numbers here, we can't exclude any numbers either. So I, I, for that I want to keep Loudoun in there. I don't disagree with you at all about the staff travel. I think that is something we do need to look at. I'm not saying it's right or wrong, but I want that information as well. You know, it helped me make decisions as well. When it comes to the CEP, that one, I don't disagree with you at all. There are federal programs out there. There are bright futures, something else that we have, and our students aren't going to go hungry. I understand on the weekends, there's, there's other things out there, federal programs to help out those, those, those parents and those families. There's, like you said, churches. I understand not everybody out here is religious and may be a little bit shy or maybe too proud to go out and see that. But to Mr. Bell's point, when we look at some of the disciplinary issues that we have in schools, one of the leading causes is those hungry kids or distracted kids and learning. For that, I'm still kicking that one around in my head on the positive and negative. But I do agree it shouldn't be on the taxpayer, the local taxpayer to do that, you know, because there are federal dollars out there to do that. Maybe a face-in approach. It might be a little bit more palatable. I don't know. I'm still looking at that myself. And then, and to Mr. Lira's point, one of the student projections we did put out when we did the truncated rezoning, we took a look at a lot of that stuff and we haven't provided that to you. And I've, like you and I talked before the meeting, I'd be happy to sit down and walk you through that one. I know that's a lot of work. You're getting a lot fired at you right off the bat here. But, yeah, I'd be happy to sit down and talk with you about that. That's it for me. So, Chairman Sturdivant, if I can jump in. I didn't get to ask my questions, but I wanted everyone else to do that first. Maybe one of mine, I have only a few to zero. After you, I'll ask yours. But I wanted to jump in on that one subject so that I agree with Supervisor Dunn that I want to see the numbers both ways. There are a few charts I would like to ask for them to be run. For them to be run with, that you run with Loudoun and also run it without Loudoun. Because there's two purposes. One is, yes, that's the county who steals our staff. That we lose them to more than any other probably. But on the other hand, we also need to know as a board how we compare with the counties around us. And so I'd like, I'll send you a list of charts if you don't mind that we'd like to see. Absolutely. Thank you. And then if you want to continue with school board questions. Any other members have questions? No questions, just kind of statements and rebuttals. I would argue that it's nice, it's wonderful, and it's important to have perspective about taking Loudoun out or adding West Virginia in on to the numbers. But the reality is we are losing our teachers to Loudoun. There's no other way to spin it. So that is our reality. And that will not change no matter how much data we have. That is an absolute, pretty much. It is also an absolute that is going to be very difficult for us to catch up to Loudoun. And we may never do that. But that doesn't mean that we don't have work to do. And that doesn't mean that our educators here don't deserve fair compensation. On the topic of the $2.2 million to feed children in schools. Again, think of a better way to spend money. I can tell you a story of a little girl who had two other school-aged children in her home. Her mother was disabled from her job as police dispatcher from working so much on the computer. Her father had just lost his business that was a family business. And her mother had liquidated her retirement funds to pay for, to try and save the business. Ultimately, it failed and it didn't happen. And those three school-aged children were left. On a lower salary than they were much, much used to. Only one person was providing a workers' compensation salary to those three school-aged children. Those school-aged children got to eat every day, breakfast and lunch for many months because of a program that fed them. And that little girl was me. I benefited this and here I am sitting at the table advocating for students. This is one reason why I have such a passion for school. Education. And if you break it down very rudimentally, $2.2 million divided by 14,000 students divided by two meals a day divided by 180 days is generally what we have. We often don't, those 180 days are built in, right? We have snow days. It boils down to 40 cents a meal for each child. We do know that not all children will take advantage of that. For whatever reason. But those can also go into salaries and things that we need to store food and produce food and things like that. So I knocked on over 2,000 doors when I was doing my campaign. And I talked to well over 2,000 constituents in the Redbud District. And I don't know of any constituent that would argue against 40 cents for a meal for a child. So I strongly advocate and hope you guys will consider that point. I think that that's all I have. So I ask you guys to consider those points. I do have in growth, we have had trailers at Sharando for over half a century. The growth has been here for well over 25 years. It's not going anywhere. We have six developments in the county. And maybe more. We can come up with creative solutions to finance this. But ultimately that's not the school board's responsibility to come up with the solutions. We spend the money for these. We know where they need to go. We know how it needs to be divided. And we have a very transparent leader that is showing us. That is showing us the way. Is being a good steward of our dollars. And has provided everything that the board has asked for. So I ask you to consider fully funding our schools for our children. There's no better investment. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if I may. I know we've heard from three and soon to be four out of the Board of Supervisors. But I would urge you that if there's any part of this budget that you don't understand or don't agree with. Or would like more information about. To please reach out to Dr. Hummer. Or reach out to one of us. And we share everything. There's no secrets in between us. Because we can't help fix the problem if we don't know that it's a problem for you. And then when it comes to a vote and you vote against it. We wonder why you did it. We wonder why you didn't bring whatever it is that you voted against to our attention. So I would ask that you do that. So that we can be good stewards of the county and of the constituents. Thank you. Any other comments? I just, one thing here. I'm new at this. So some of you are a lot more experienced at it than I ever thought I would be. I'm kind of in a unique position. I'm listening to all the budget presentations. I spent 26 years working for Frederick County at the regional jail. And I've spent the last almost 10 years at another jail and another location. So I've been able to see some of these things. And I can tell you for a fact it's not just the schools that are losing people to Loudoun County. It is the law enforcement in the other areas that are losing people to Loudoun County. I spoke to one officer that used to work there. He said, I'm not sure. He worked for me here at the jail years ago. Just over the summer when I was campaigning. And he was leaving the Northwestern Regional Adult Detention Center for Loudoun County. Because they were starting him at $88,000 a year. He was getting almost $40,000 more than he was making here. And the same thing happens at the other jail that I work at in another county. We pay very well. They pay me very well. But I also know for a fact we're losing people left and right to Loudoun County. So it's not just the schools. It's everybody. It's going to be hard to compete with Loudoun County when they're starting people out at $80,000 up to $105,000. That's just the way it is. But just something to think about. I've looked at some of the things. And I do believe that we need to make sure that our teachers are taken care of. As being in law enforcement, and this is where my life is, I'm going to be a little bit more careful. I'm going to be a little bit more careful. I've been a general instructor now since the late 90s. Teaching at several of the police academies here in Middletown, Prince William County, and other places. And the reason that I'm kind of advocating for the teachers' raise is we need to get the brightest and the best that we can get here. You would be amazed. I was a supervisor at this jail for 25 years. You would be amazed at the number of people that, when they would write their institutional report, reports could not write a complete sentence didn't know how to punctuate and I have copies of reports if I gave them to you and blow your mind as an instructor in the police academy teaching basic jail students you'd be amazed at the number of students that can't read you'd be amazed at the number of students that have difficulty writing difficulty taking tests and I understand that's nationwide our school systems have let our kids down over the last four years that's a fact but that's why I think I would like to advocate for our teachers and I understand budget issues and I know we have to work through these things but I really like to see that we give our teachers the money that they need so that we can get the best and the brightest to help our students along so that they have a fighting chance and that's pretty much all the comments I had thank you thank you so much for allowing us to be here today because it has been I had one or two questions I skipped over myself I mean would you like the question I think I have a question I think I have a question I think I have a question ahead of me please go ahead say something I would like to advocate for the classified employees they they need to be bumped up they truly do you talk about cost of living and not being able to meet their needs and that's one of the reasons that we're losing a lot of them and they're very dedicated they love the children the bus drivers love what they do the nutritionists love what they do they love kids but they can't work for nothing and the other thing that I'd like to say is that the trailers that got it up it's one thing to have a few trailers for a few years but for the length of time that we've had them that's wrong that that's that's that's a stigma for our county to say that we've had them for that long and not been able to come up with a solution thank you yeah on the trailers I know at Millbrook I've always been at Sharando I've been a little frustrated we have some unused space in that school that's parks and rec and we haven't got wrestled around that if that had been classrooms it's at least four maybe more that it that it would make so if that could have been done maybe we wouldn't have needed trailers all these years or at least not near as many of years as we had them I had a question or two on slide 52 your salary initiative this is with regard to the 1% pay raise that we have roughly state matching funds not quite matching the question is is that a permanent state matching if we take that how long would that matching last great question so the governor in the first year of his biennium added a 1% one-time bonus the second year of his biennium is a 2% that would be added into the operating dollars so that what now again this hasn't been approved yet so the General Assembly can add it take it away what have you so we want to be cognizant of that so that is why it's just a 1% bonus because if we added it into the salaries of behind 1% next year that may happen. Does that make sense? Yes. Because we're not getting that again next year so that's why it's a one-time bonus. So our board has to be careful that we sign up for something you know that looks good in the short term but then we have to cover that difference unless we want to pull those salaries back down which is very annoying. But we're not doing that that's that's our point it's a one-time bonus it's not worked into their salaries what's going to happen is we're working again if it's approved they will get a separate check in either November December closer to the holidays again talking about incentives and it's a separate check not built into their salaries. So that's why it's a one-time bonus. So our board has to be careful that we sign up for something you know that looks good in the short term that then we have to cover that difference unless we want to pull those salaries back down. So that's why we're doing that so that we're not bound to that one percent next year if that makes sense. Thank you for clarifying. Absolutely great question. And then I had a question on all the things in your budget it's related to this question how many of those are continuation of things that were initiating using COVID era funds? So state and federal dollars flowed to counties everywhere and we took advantage of those to get some things done and initiate some programs. But we knew that we were going to have to do something. We knew when we did so as a board that they didn't last forever. So I'd like to be careful to identify which programs are new to the taxpayer even if they're not new to the school system as an obligation and maybe we need to do that offline. I can email you so we can sort that out. So I wasn't here when the COVID dollars were pouring in but I can share with you from experience also what they shared with me here is that a lot of school divisions were very cognizant of that so they didn't hit a cliff. That's why we did not purchase positions. That's why we didn't add salaries because when we got to this point not only would we be looking at an $8 million ask you might be looking at a $20 million ask because of all the other items that were paid with federal dollars. So we were very cognizant here in Frederick County to avoid those types of issues so there aren't going to be any additional dollars that cliff is not going to impact us. And there are some other school divisions Mr. Ludwig that did that and they're already behind because they had to build that in. So I think that's a great question. Thank you. I have a few more but they're in the weeds so I might email them after I think about them. Whichever. Whichever you desire. And then I see Supervisor Dunn wants to ask a question but before he does Mr. Chairman everyone's had a chance to speak. I don't mind. I just want to check with you and your board's patience and schedule. We appreciate you being here. So we can allow some time. We can go back questions from both boards but if that's all right with you. If that's fine. Is that good with everyone? Very good Supervisor Dunn. So let me just talk about Loudoun County. I understand that Dr. Hummer has people that go to Loudoun County. A few years ago there was a person in Frederick County, a teacher, who had been here for 27 years and she left. Deep Roots and Frederick County left for the last three years because you get people who don't know you. You don't know them. You don't know them. You get paid for the highest three years. I believe it's the highest three, not the average. So if I get to go to Frederick County, to Loudoun County for the highest three years, I'll make that commute all day long. It's still in deep roots here. I'm paying lower tax rate here than in Loudoun County. And how do you address that? This is not going to be solved today. But if we can go and get the General Assembly to go and take a look at a defined contribution plan versus a defined benefit plan. That's one thought. Or if you go and say that if you're a teacher you get paid for the average. average of all 30 years that you're here. That then dissipates that significantly. That's going to take some effort by all of us to go and change the law. But you can change the law. You lay out, sit down with your local delegation, make the case for it. I fully understand that those people, there were lots of people who say no, I've been a teacher for 26 years, you can do face-ins, but that's a way to try to address that issue. Loudoun County won't go away, but I'd say to each of you, do you really care for your spouses if you're married? I'm being sarcastic, because Bill Gates can outfund any of you or any of us. So you do what you can do, but the people that are here in Frederick County that work in Loudoun County are working, living here because of the lower tax rate. They don't go to Loudoun County because houses are more expensive and tax rates are more expensive. So they get in both of best world, the best of both worlds. My thought process is how do you neutralize that to some degree? It's not gonna be perfect, but if there's a way to try to neutralize that, that's helpful. Number two, we are also competing with everybody but Loudoun County, meaning Dr. Harmon says, I want to go hire a science teacher, a math teacher, etc. And that science teacher or math teacher can say, I can go to Fauquier or Clark or Warren or Winchester City. So you're also competing with them. So even though you're gonna lose some to Loudoun, you're also gonna compete with the locals. And if we can go and show where we are in relationship to those other entities, then we have a shot at that. So it's just a thought, you know, that issue. And West Virginia is also competing with us. Hi, I live in Berkeley. I want to hire somebody and those guys in Frederick County are keeping up with their salaries. So the guy we wanted to hire now goes to Frederick County. So that's kind of the dynamics. And if collectively we can kind of work this through, I know that Loudoun County is not gonna go away. But if there's other ways to try to address this, I'm just throwing it off the table. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Oh, sorry. I wanted to make a quick comment. Mr. Bell. Yes. I have a comment on the 15-year mark. I would encourage all teachers. You can run 529 plans for your kids. Oh. And so therefore, I have. Okay. So therefore I'm saying, you know, when you're married and have your first child or two, and Dr. Hummer, you can throw out to your teachers. Consider 529 plans as a way to go and get parents to start saving for college. I understand your 15-year mark comment, but it's another way to try to address the issue. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ludwig, I would really encourage you to share the questions that you had, regardless of whether they're in the weeds. It has been very difficult in the past for the boards to get together and be so civil with each other. I have two small children. I work in an emergency department all day. So I would really ask you to be respectful of our board's time. I think we are all full-time workers here. And pose those questions to us now. So my computer has run out of power, but I'll do the best I can. I'm going to ask you to answer the questions. I'm going to ask you to answer the questions. I'm going to ask you about all of them this afternoon and see if there are any additional questions. I've got a question about the LCI calculation. I suspect that it might use in treating us unfairly. There's nothing we can control. In a couple of respects. And I'd have to recover that to see. One of them would be, if inflation is really higher than factored into the formula, then we might seem to be richer than we are with respect to actual cost of living for teachers and everyone else. And we're not going to get paid for that. So I would really encourage you to postate a point for myself. If you don't know how to go about that problem, I'd ask the board to it. I'm going to ask the board of arrangements and we'll see if they've said anything about that, and we'll do the best you can possibly can do. So I'm aiming to currently in that calculation but I want to think through that further and look at the formula how the state did that. If it's true, one sign of that might be that most counties or all counties also suffer the same impact. They all seem richer than they did a year ago. So it was statistics like that. I'd be happy to forward those questions so that you all see them. Let's see if I can think of any others. Where did you come up with your statistic figures, Mr. Ludwig? Just looking at the description of how the LCI is calculated and inflation has got to be a part of that calculation. So I wanted to go through that formula. I was curious to what numbers of inflation, what percent do you have in your figures? So I don't have a favorite inflation index to use. The question is there's a lot of debate in society now about whether we're measuring. Inflation is an unusual number. Inflation is an unusual number. Inflation is an unusual number. Inflation is an unusual number for the last 20 years. So the question is are we measuring it correctly and are we being impacted in the school system by an inappropriately low inflation mark and therefore funds are being taken away from us. So I'm an engineer. I like to look at all the formulas. I haven't had time to do so. So I'd like to do that. Are you able to name the formulas? No. Okay. Well, the LCI calculation and a few others. Yes. Are there any other questions? Any other go backs? If not, I have one comment and I'll pass it to the school board chairman to close. Any other? This isn't a go back, but just a question. You said that the, Mr. Bolhofer, you said that this is being recorded audio. Will this audio be available to the general public? Yes. Thank you. Great. So I'd just like to say thank you board members and school staff. It's going to be great. I greatly appreciate getting this data. The few years I've been here and the additional years that I did go back and research, we got budgets usually in the end that were smaller than this. And this year we're getting something this big. That's a good sign that we're getting a lot of data and to investigate. And I think we have plenty of time before the end of that schedule that you showed that we can resolve most, if not all of our questions and have a really well informed budget. Thank you. Thank you. I think it's a very good decision and budget decision this year. So again, thank you very much for your openness and your questions from the school board as well. Chairman, would you like to adjourn us or add anything from your end? Just again, thank you so much for your time. Thank you all for being here and I look forward to working with you and looking for your help and guidance in this situation, and we can do as much as we can. But again, I appreciate you all for allowing us to do your thing. So with that said, if there are no other comments, may I have a motion to adjourn? Mr. Chairman. motion to adjourn second all those in favor of adjourning and do we need to do that as well yeah yes we do yeah we have a motion from the supervisors to adjourn I'll make a motion motion to adjourn do we have a second second all in favor say aye aye all opposed
