Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2026-04-22
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=341
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you He's still counting. I guess. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I call to order the Board of Supervisors, Wednesday, April 22nd, 2026, board meeting. at this time we have Pastor John Vendrunen of Fellowship Bible Church. Pastor, thank you for coming out tonight. Thank you very much. And I invite anyone who's able to join me in standing as we give the invocation and the Pledge of Allegiance. Let us pray. Lord God, creator of this world, we thank you for inviting us before your throne of grace this evening. You are our sure foundation. I thank you for the many faithful folks that are here this evening serving to address the many needs of our community. I pray, Lord, that you would bless them with clarity and discernment in each matter this evening. We thank you for the many men and women that are willing to step out boldly and come to the rescue of this world. We thank you for the many men and women that are willing to step out boldly in this situation. we thank you for the many men and women that are willing to step out boldly So let's get going. those in need here in our community. For each of those first responders, we pray for their protection and safety. We think of the many members of our military who are providing us a measure of liberty and freedom unlike other places in the world. We pray for comfort to those families that have lost loved ones in the line of duty of protecting us. Today we thank you for those who are serving around the globe. We pray for their protection protection, and safety. We thank you for our community, the many others that we get to interact with as we live, work, and enjoy this community. I pray, Lord, that you enable us to love one another as you loved us in Jesus. We pray that you would be a community that encourages, that we would be a community that encourages, builds up, and honors you in all that we do. We thank you, Lord, for your grace to us. In Jesus' holy name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. And if you'd join me, please, and pledge allegiance to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Next item up is adoption of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion to adopt the agenda, but to add an appointment of an EDA board under item eight of county officials. We've got the motion. All right, we have a second. All those in favor? Aye. Anybody opposed? Okay, we've got an adopted agenda. Next item up is citizens' comments. Yes, sir. If you may, let's adopt the agenda as amended. As amended. Let's adopt the agenda as amended. Thanks, sir. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we adopt the agenda as amended. All right. Second. We've got a motion. We've got a second. All those in favor? Aye. Thank you. Yes, sir. Perfect. Citizens' comments is up next. This is for anything that's not on the agenda, for agenda items that are not subject to a public hearing. Is there anybody? First of all, Madam Clerk, do we have anybody? Ross Hewitt. Oh, Ross Hewitt. Good evening, members of the board. Ross Hewitt, Back Creek District. Just coming tonight to vent some frustrations with the county regarding some landfill policies. Tipping fees and other policies related to the landfill. You're about to, I guess, be asked to vote on acceptance of a committee report that is recommending the closure of the C&D landfill cell coming up here at the end of the year for a full year. And for all the rates to be, C&D rates to be eliminated and bumped up to the MSW for that term could be longer than a year. They're estimating around a year. So I just found out about this yesterday. This would result for us personally and everybody, but just some clarity what it would do to us would be a 12% increase in costs. And we all just over 5,000 tons a month in. So that's looking at around $372,000 coming off our bottom line because of the difference of C&D to MSW. This is out of our control. This comes after an 18% increase last year in tipping fees and also the elimination of concrete and rubble recycling, which we got 90 days notice on last year at this time. And so I just want to point out the trend in bad planning and poor decisions by the county and the commissions and stuff that look at this stuff. The trend being in 2019, the county spent $80,000 on a study for recycling when they had nowhere to go with everything. Just to determine they couldn't solve the problem. So our company did step up in six months, build a recycling plant and solve that problem back in 2019. Last year, we were the 90 days notice thing of the increase in tipping fees and the elimination of concrete recycling. We stepped up within 90 days, invested over $2 million, put an aggregate recycling facility in and got it up and going by July 1 when you guys eliminated your rubble recycling. I was given 90 days. That's it. But we solved the problem. So what I wanted to point out is that I feel like we're paying more and we're getting less. It's placing an undue burden on private business. And I think the county needs to do some soul searching on who is placed on these committees and advisory boards and get people who actually know the industry and who are problem solvers. I know I stood up here back in 2007. I think it was. And called out Ed Stroh-Snyder and a couple other people for letting all the multi-million dollars of embezzlement go on at the time and was told the county would never hitch their horse to our wagon personally. But yet in the last 20 years, we've been a big part of the problem solving. Whether it's been recycling, concrete work, you know, whatever it is. And feel like this coming up, this 12% that's going to be laid on our shoulders again needs to be looked at. So thanks for your help. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Okay. Thank you, Ross. Is there anybody else who would like to speak? Okay. I'm going to close the citizens' comments portion. Board, the next thing up is consent agenda. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the consent agenda as approved. Okay. We got a motion. Do I have a second? Second. All right. We got a second. This one calls for a roll call vote. Supervisor Grumach. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Lierre. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor Oaks. Aye. And Chair Boatai. All right. Consent agenda is good to go. All right. This takes us now to action item eight, county officials. All right. All right. You've got a second. I'm sorry. I'm skipping the board and supervisors. I wasn't going to let anybody speak. Board and supervisors, any comments? Oh, here we go. Yeah, I've got one. I mentioned back in January to county administration, supervisors, my two planning commissioners, that if an application were to come on the property up there by Flying J, I would have to recuse myself. I would have to recuse myself. I would have to recuse myself. I would have to recuse myself. I would have to recuse myself because I would have to recuse myself. I do a lot of work surveying for farmers and orchards around here, and the family that owns that is one of my clients. So on that data center that's been entered on that property, I'm recused myself. I've already told all the planning commissioners and everybody, don't talk to me about it. When it comes up in front of this board, I'll be walking out of the room. I don't want to have any influence on the project one way or the other. So just wanted to get that out there. Thank you, sir. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? I'm all right. How about on my left? There we go. Now we'll move on to county officials. Mr. Chairman, due to a recent vacancy on the EDA board, I would like to nominate Doug Renker to be a member of the EDA board. Doug has extensive business experience, and he has previously actually been on the EDA board and has added a lot of value in the past. All right. Second, Mr. Chairman. All right. We got a motion. We got a second. Any discussion? All right. We're good to go then. This roll call. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Orndorff. Aye. Supervisor what? Vice-Chairman Williams. Aye. Supervisor Lero. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Grumont. Aye. Chair votes aye. And I'm thrilled that he's back on EDA. I am too. That's a great appointment. So. Okay. Next item up is going to be public hearings. We're starting off with 11A. I understand Mr. Tibbs has this one. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. Yes, this is a public hearing that is required on a proposed amendment to the lease agreement between the county and H&R Block Eastern Enterprises for their office space located at 223 Sunnyside Plaza Drive. This proposed amendment would extend their existing lease for an additional two-year period beginning May 1, 2026 and expiring on April 30, 2028. The proposed rent amounts were listed in the amendment. The proposed rent amount was listed in the amendment. The proposed rent amount was listed in the amendment. The proposed rent amount was listed in the amendment. The proposed rent amount was listed in the amendment. And as the board might recall, the rent income received from the tenants is appropriated to cover the cost to carry the property, including property management fees, utilities, and repairs. Our property management group, Virginia Property Group, has worked with H&R Block to renegotiate this proposed lease. And at the conclusion of the public hearing, staff would be seeking board approval of this proposed amendment. And with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. Tibbs. Any questions for Mr. Tibbs? Yes, sir, Mr. Chair. Mr. Tibbs, can you just cover what the monthly rental is on that? Sure. What the new rent will be? Yeah. The new rent will be $1,080 a month beginning May 1, 2026 through April 30, 2027. And then May 1, 2027, that rent would increase to $1,112 per month, and that would run through April 30 of 2028. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Any other questions? All righty. This public hearing, sir, I'll open up the public hearing. Madam Clerk? No one has signed up. No one signed up. Does anybody want to speak on this item? All right. Not seeing anybody running up. Close that public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would move that we accept the proposed amendment to the lease between the County of Frederick, Virginia, and H&R Block, Eastern Enterprises, Inc., as presented. All right. We got a motion? Second. We got a second. This requires any discussion. No discussion. All right. Roll call vote. Supervisor Gouvermont? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Leroux? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Chair votes aye. This one carries. Thank you. Next one up is granting a utility easement for Lot 10. 10. 10. On Ecuador Trail. I understand Mr. Wilder is here in case there's any questions. Do the supervisors have any questions regarding this? No? Okay. Well, how about if we open up the public hearing then and see? Madam Clerk? No one has signed up. All right. No one's signed up for this? All right. I'll wait. Is there anyone who would like to speak on this? No one has signed up for this? No one has signed up for this? Okay. Okay. Close that public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle it? Mr. Chairman, I'd move to adopt. It's in back Greek. Perfect. We have a motion to adopt. Do we have a second? Second. All right. We have a motion to adopt. A second. Any discussion? No discussion. Supervisor Oates? Aye. Supervisor Orndorff? Aye. Vice Chair Wells? Aye. Supervisor Lero? Aye. Supervisor Akins? Aye. Supervisor Grusmont? Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion passes. Thank you, Mr. Wilder. Okay. Next one up. Regarding proposed ordinance for salaries of the Board of Supervisors, Mr. Bullhalper? Yes. This is the ordinance to establish the salaries of the Board of Supervisors. The current salaries are Chairman 10,800, Vice Chairman 10,200, and each member of the Board of Supervisors. Each member of the Board of 9,000. I believe these salaries were established by ordinance in 2001. All right. That's the proposed. Any questions for Mr. Bullhalper? No questions for Mr. Bullhalper. Madam, I'm going to open up the public hearing. I got my friend standing right in front of me here. Anybody signed up? Jay Martz. There you go. We got it down. We got it down there, dog. All right. I don't want to, you know, delay the meeting. Hey, Chairman Jewell, members of the Board, I'm Jay Martz, a Frederick County taxpayer and resident of the Gainesboro District. I wanted to offer my comments on the Board of Supervisors salary ordinance. As a citizen and a taxpayer who has long espoused the need for limited government and lower taxes, a significant part of the Republican creed, I might add, I wanted to speak against this outrageous level of salaries for government employees. I've done a little research. I've done a little research on the current salaries of members of various counties of the Board of Supervisors across Virginia. Fairfax County pays their Board of Supervisors $123,000 a year. Loudoun gives theirs $76,000. Prince William, $74,000. Stafford and Spotsylvania, $20,000 each. Falkier, $19,000. It goes on from there. Based upon what I have seen from your scheduled meetings, your committee work, the ordinance studies that you've done, the proposal reviews, I think you're going to get a lot of money. I think you're going to get a lot of money. I think you're going to get a lot of money. I think your salaries should be doubled. This current group of seven earns a mere $66,000. I think the time and effort dedicated to our growing community deserves a compensated salary that is fair. Just a simple frustration you face putting up with people like me makes it quite deserving. Additionally, I would add that my comments be restricted from the record by the end of the month, so I will probably change my mind. Additionally, I would add that my comments be restricted from the record by the end of the month, so I will probably change my mind. Thank you for the work you do and the opportunity to address this board. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marks. That's the only name on the list, Mr. Chairman. All right. Was there anybody else that would like to speak? You know the rule. One and a half minutes. Mr. Tibbs, just hold it. Mr. Chairman, every time you say I only have now one minute, we're going to have to add an extra minute here. No, not with you. We're not doing that. Cruel, mean, and heartless. Go ahead, Jay. I'm here to speak in favor of a salary increase. I've served on this board for 10 years. The last time this board had a salary increase was in the year 2001, 25 years ago. Last year, I made a proposal that the salary ought to be $30,000. There are certain people in this room that said, whoa, that's a whole lot of money. My comment to those people is, if you're willing to go back and be paid whatever you were paid in 2001, then talk about it. This county has grown from about 50,000, 59,000 people in 2000 to over 100,000 today. You know what the workload is, 20 to 30 hours a week. I think you're vastly underpaid. I was told that I was doing this last year because it was serving my interests. I'm a private citizen. I get no benefit. So I'd say to each of you to consider going and raising your salaries, number one. Number two. If you don't want the salary, just don't take it. But I know people that have said, I don't want to run for the board because the salary was too low and there was too much time for the work done. If you're only going to give a salary once every 25 years, then $30,000 is a lot. Jay Marks said $18,000. Find a number in between. But the work you do is important. The work you do is time consuming. You ought to be compensated for it. I know one board member. He went to work a second job and could not attend board meetings. I know a second board member that told me that it was costing him over $100,000 a year time away from his business. I know a third board member that said it was costing him between $50,000 and $100,000. You know what the job's like. So I would encourage you to go and raise your salaries. And if you want to not take them, just say we're not going to take them. But for people that run for office, they have a higher salary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Is there anybody else who would like to speak? Not seeing anybody? Okay, I'm going to close the public hearing. Board, how would you like to handle this? I've always looked at this more of a reimbursement for your gas and that type of thing. I figured up once I got off the planning commission after 16 years and saw how much more work was coming in because I was no longer affiliated with the county, I was losing about $40,000 to $50,000 a year. Then again, I'm not up here for the money. One thing we did at Frederick Water back in 2016 is we just tied our compensation to the employee raise. So if they got a 3% raise that we okayed, I guess not salary, but reimbursement amount went up 3%. And then we've never revisited it since because it always creeps up a little bit. It just stops something we need to look at. So we may want to consider. We may want to consider that. Just say, well, whatever we grant to the employees of Frederick County, then our salaries bump up that percentage. And that way it's really not something you need to go back and look at anymore because every year it's going up just a tad bit. But I don't think it's out of line. Say you did 3% of $9,000, that's not setting the world on fire, but it's a little bit. And if they've been doing that since 2001, I think we would be up probably double by now. All right. Thanks, Mr. Chairman. Great idea. I'm all on board with policy changes that can kind of keep the conversations really not needing to happen. No different than what was proposed relative to the decals for transportation and a few other things. From the very back of napkin calculation, cost of living has gone up over the last 25 years by 2.5%. 2.5%. 2.5%. 2.5%. 2.5%. 2.5%. 2.5%. So a 2.5% increase for the last 25 years, guess what it's been, would take the salary for a supervisor, so I didn't do the math for the chairman and vice chair, but I'm sure somebody else can, would take the salary to $16,685.50. And so that's a 2.5% increase over a 25-year period. And hearing what Mr. Martz was so nice to say, I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. This position is a very demanding position. It takes us away from our families and our businesses. And so if we want to retain good help up here, just like all of our businesses or many businesses out there, need to pay for the people to be up here to do the job. So just some comments, not really a recommendation, but just some comments for conversation. Okay. Anybody else want to comment? All right. I need a motion for what you all want to do. Can we call it the March Amendment? March. Oh, I love that. Gary, want to make a motion? I don't think I'm going to go double. I think that's a bit much. But how about if we just do 3,000 across the board and then starting next year, whatever the employees raise is, that's what our salaries go up. And that way it's something we really don't have to look at anymore. All right. We've got a motion. Can I have a comment? Sure. So I would make an amendment to that motion that during the salary review, because we just approved. A salary review to be done for all county positions, I think is what that was, that supervisors' positions be put into that, to take a look at it on a fair and equitable matter across the board. That's a fair thing. Yeah. All right. I'd agree to amend the motion to that, but whatever they come back with, I don't know if I'd be comfortable taking whatever number they came up with, especially if it's a good bit higher. I think it's a good bit higher. I think where we're at, like I said, I look at this more as reimbursement. It is. We spend a lot of money in gas running around all these different meetings down the front row. Easily, probably $2,500 to $3,000 a year in gas just running around. That's right. That's right. We do this for the community. We do this for the love. But yes, it takes away from, and I appreciate you saying about the family part, because it does take away a lot of time from our families, too, because we want to do that. So, all right. All right. So, we got a motion with amendment? You got a second. You got an amendment to the original motion, so you have to vote on the amendment. Okay. We're going to vote on the amendment first, and I need a second. Second. All right. I got a second. All right. I got a second. All right. It's going to be a roll call, though. Supervisor Guvermont. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Warnedorf. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Chair votes aye. Okay. So, the amendment passes, and I'll be tied. Now, I have an amended motion. Now, I got an amended motion. Do I have a second on that? Second. All right. We got an amended motion with a second, and we'll start with Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Warnedorf. Aye. Supervisor, Vice Chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Guvermont. Aye. And Chair votes aye. Okay. So, this passes. And, Jay, I appreciate the comments. I really do. And Blaine. We go back and Blaine. And Blaine. We go back and forth a lot over a lot of things. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, along with what Supervisor Akins said on our salaries, I think we do salary survey. We need to revisit the planning commission as well. Yeah. I agree. It's been a while since their pay has been reimbursed. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. I agree. So, this is a great point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And Mr. Bowhoff. That is an excellent point. Absolutely. So, Mr. Bowhoff, do you want to put that on your list? All right. Thank you. That is a great point. Okay. Next up is public hearing. It's an ordinance. Mr. Bowhoff. Yeah. This is an ordinance to approve or just not approve the increase in the transient occupancy tax from 3.5 percent to 6 percent, which this board approved during the budget process. all right is there any discussion are any questions for mr bohal i have one i know we've been talking about maybe all the money going to uh tourism but i think part of that should go to parks and rec to build uh tournament fields so i'd like to see at least one percent of that increase be funneled over to parks and rec specifically for fields and courts for tournaments to try and bring people here for uh tourism all right we've got uh super roads the um i think there's a lot of conversations that need to happen between the tourism board and the city of winchester and ourselves uh to make a determination on really how that one and a half percent because it's of that two and a half percent one and a half percent of that has to get blessing to the city of winchester and the city of toronto and the city of toronto and the city of toronto and the city of toronto and the city of toronto and the city of toronto and the city of by state code by the tourism board um and the there's been initial conversations that um of that one and a half percent point seven five percent of that one half percent would be reserved for a tourism facility could be parks and rec could be used for incentives for um tourism related businesses that want to come to the area uh there's been some um recent things uh from an eda perspective where there's been um i can't speak on exactly the specifics but industries that have come to us excuse me not industries tourism related um facilities that have come in front of the eda wanting to know if there's incentives uh relative to that and so if that 0.75 percent was earmarked for um tournament fields or other items relative to tourism then that could very easily i think that the tourism board could probably get their head wrapped around that but earmarking just one thing may make it difficult uh in the future all right i i guess what i'm thinking is every year when we come to budget the first department that gets kicked in the teeth is parks and rec every time so if we could get some type of resource on these data uh that would be i'm not sure if this is a good could get some type of steady revenue stream going to them if it's not 0.75 if it's 0.25 or something just have something that they can count on that that money's coming in so they can get those fields built that's my preference as we see some type of steady income going to parks and rec that they can count on mr. chairman can I so so that's a great point now this my light bulb just came off in my head is that there's six percent there excuse me there's two and a half percent there so that other percent that's floating there I don't know how that four hundred twenty thousand dollars was allocated because there's four and twenty thousand dollars per percent was in in the budget on how that pans out because it was put into that extra percent was put into the general fund so technically we could do both um um um um um um um um um, whereas a percentage of that one and then still try to figure out what's going on with that other one and a half with the tourism board we could accomplish both. All right. So how about we open up the public hearing and then we'll come back. All right. I'm going to open up the public hearing for this ordinance amendment. No one has signed up. No one signed up. Anyone want to speak on this subject? Oh, here we go. Okay. Thank you. This was one of the Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. I just wanted to say I'm fully supportive of this lodging tax increase. Thank you very much. I've been in the tourism and the EDA board members board meetings. I think that there is a lot of exciting energy going on. So I don't know if parks and recs maybe trails or some other cool properties. But yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anybody else that would like to speak? All right. I'll close the public hearing part. We've had a nice discussion. We'll continue that. Is there a motion? You guys want to? I'll make a motion. Actually, I want to make a comment first that I'll make a motion, a comment relative to that. The, the city and the county must get together soon relative to figuring out the MOU and what it's in place. And I know that's in process. It's in the process. It's in the process. But bring that up. Let's bring that up. While we're, just the public's here. Right. You need to hear it. That we have MOU in place with tourism. The city and the county share the tourism. And one of the things that earlier in the year, you know, that this board took the step to start talking to the city of the city, the city of the city. About how can we work better together? And this is a good example of it. So we want to review this MOU and make sure that we're all in sync with where we are with this current MOU. It has not been reviewed for a long time. Correct? Correct. Correct. And I'll make a motion to approve, approve the tax increase from three and a half to 6% with, with a half percent, which would roughly be call it $220,000. It would go earmarked to go towards parks and rec. Second. I'm being a big parks and rec guy. So, okay. We got a motion. We've got a second. Um, this roll call vote. Yeah. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Leero. Aye. Vice chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Warndorf. Aye. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Chair votes aye. Roll. Well done. This is good. This is very good. Absolutely. Yeah. Very good. Okay. We got another ordinance amendment up. Hello there, Mr. Bohoffer. Yes. This is an ordinance to, uh, to increase the mills tax from 4% to 6%. This was also approved during the budget process. Okay. Any, um, any questions for Mr. Bohoffer? No questions. I'm going to open up the public hearing. Is there any, Ms. Madam clerk, anybody? No one. No one signed up. There's anyone that would like to come forward and speak? I'm going to move forward and speak regarding this item. Okay. I'm going to close the public hearing. All right. Um, discussion. Any discussions? All right. I'd, I'd like a motion please. I'll make a motion to approve as presented. All right. We got a motion to approve. Second. Second. We got a second. This again is a roll call vote. Supervisor Oates. Aye. Supervisor Warndorf. Aye. Vice chair Wells. Aye. Supervisor Leo. Aye. Supervisor Akins. Aye. Supervisor Gouverment. Aye. And the chair votes aye. And this passes as well. Excellent. No commission business. Good here. Board liaison reports. Do we have any? Supervisor Warndorf. Mr. Chairman, uh, members of the board, uh, Supervisor Gouverment and I attended the planning commission meeting on April 15th. Uh, two items, uh, public hearings and action taken. Uh, was phase one zoning, uh, subdivision ordinance update, uh, by the Berkeley group presentation. They provided, uh, three objectives, uh, provide a streamlined and user friendly ordinance format, incorporate current code of Virginia requirements, and prepare the county to efficiently address policy items as guided by the comprehensive plan, uh, in a future phase. And, uh, the first ordinance was to, uh, was for the modifications to the zoning ordinance. And the, uh, second was, uh, same thing, modification to the subdivision ordinance. Both of those passed and, uh, that will come to, uh, to the board in a later meeting. Thanks, sir. With that, unless Mr. Gouverment, uh, Supervisor Gouverment has anything to add, that concludes, uh, the liaison report. Thank you. Thanks, sir. I don't know how long it took you to get it, but it's in your, it's based your will. Sir, um, um, liaison on public works chairman there, and, um, we had, had, uh, you heard the gentleman speaking about our landfill, and we certainly have some issues out there we are working on. Um, the, um, uh, we're in fine shape. We're taking care of what needs to be done. Um, we have plenty of land to do it with. It just takes time to do it, but there is no, But there is another part, and this is one we'll call public service announcement. At our last meeting, public service committee and public works staff discussed the abuse that we're seeing from commercial haulers who pick up trash in Frederick County and other states, West Virginia specifically, and knowingly allow their companies to pick up trash that's not in Frederick County, but to deliver it to the Frederick County landfill. So you have a company, ABC company, that services here, services Martinsburg, services Strasburg. They have the same color trucks. Trash is trash. But sometimes because of distance or cost. They decide they're coming here. We have to let them know that that needs to stop. We're not going to put up with it anymore. We've involved the sheriff's department in it, and we're taking steps to do the best we possibly can to stop that. So the word is out, and we're asking them to please take care of themselves and stop doing what they're doing. And if you don't, you could. Certainly have the situation where you'll be fined. And if that doesn't work, then you'll be taken out of the circuit, and you won't be able to use landfill at all in Frederick County. So pass the word around. It's your landfill, and we want to take care of it. It's there for the people in Frederick County. And I got to say, they do a wonderful job of all the sites that are locations where you can go to. So if you see someone abusing the system. Call the sheriff's department and say, hey, I see somebody abusing the system. And they'll take care of it from there. Thank you very much. Very good. Anybody else? Supervisor Oates and I and Mr. Tibbs attend the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission. And one report that we got is the broadband project is on track and going well. It's interesting. I've actually had several people yesterday while I was working polls. What's going on? And when I told them, they're like, oh. So it's on track and it's on time. So that's the big one that came out of the commission report. So OK. Next item up is citizen comments. Madam Clerk. Kurt Krieger. Good evening, members of the board. Mr. Chairman, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the. Grant Creek Magisterial District. I'd like to speak briefly to the legal memorandum that was released this evening. It's in the public record. I think it'll be posted to your website tomorrow. This is entitled Data Center Regulation via County Zoning Ordinance. It outlines four options that the Board of Supervisors may consider to regulate data centers differently. I would just summarize. By saying of the four options, number one is basically business as usual. Act on pending and future applications under the current zoning ordinance. Number two, amend the zoning ordinance to remove data centers as a permitted conditional use in all but certain non-residential zoning districts or in all districts. Number three, amend the zoning ordinance to amplify and clarify restrictions and conditions on data centers. Number four, amend the zoning ordinance to make the data centers as a permitted use in the county. And number four, which has no legal effect whatsoever, pass a resolution or issue a non-legislative statement of the Board's policy on data centers. I would ask you to consider a fifth measure. Of course, I've only had ten minutes to look at this. But nonetheless, I appreciate the legal analysis. It concludes that you can't do a moratorium per se. It concludes that you can't do a referendum. You are limited in what you can do. And I encourage people to read this thoughtfully. What it doesn't say is that you could remove data centers from the zoning ordinance as a permitted use for a time certain. And that is you've already initiated, you've already paid for a comprehensive plan update. Tomorrow will be the evening meeting where economic development is discussed. And I would argue that. You should consider a hybrid of number two be considered. And that is remove data centers as a permitted use in the zoning ordinance until such time as the new 2026 comprehensive plan is enacted. And the comprehensive plan map is in effect. That way you can look at that land use in context with all the other land uses. The reason I say that is that the current business as usual really isn't working. Regulatory requirements, proffers are insufficient to mitigate the impact of the land use. So, I would encourage you to consider that. And that's why we're here today. And that's why we're here today to mitigate the predictable impacts of data centers on public health, safety and welfare. And this paper goes into a great deal of analysis about that is your principal charge. Public health, safety and welfare. And then secondly, it gives the taxpayer, citizens, residents of Frederick County an understanding of how important the comprehensive plan should be. And that is it should be a framing device. It should contain your goals, your objectives, your values and your vision. And data centers should be able to actually be a framework for that. And that's why we're here today to discuss this. And that's why we're here today to discuss this. And that's why we're here today to discuss this. And that's why we're here today to discuss this. And that's why we're here today to discuss this. And it's also the reason why our data centers should be subordinate to that vision. So, thank you for your consideration. Thanks, sir. Mr. Chairman, that's the end of the list. Is there anyone else that would like to speak? Blaine Dunn, Red Bud. I want to talk about TDRs. About four or five years ago I held a town hall meeting as a supervisor. About four or five years ago I held a town hall meeting as a supervisor. At that town hall meeting I talked to a farmer. And he said that he wanted to work with us on a project. The idea was that if we were to have a TDR, we'd work with the farmers, the community, and the public health. We were talking about rural preservation. I suggested instead of having a five-acre buy-right option, there ought to be a 10-acre buy-right option. I believe there are other counties in the state that do that. He said to me, Blaine, don't do that because it prohibits my ability to go and borrow money and raise money. I also know another landowner that said, and that landowner said, I will never go and develop my farm. I know a second landowner that said, I'll never develop my farm either. He's not a farmer, but both men went and created TDRs. In Redbud, you have last year a Pekin East, which was taken by a TDR. The cost was a neighborhood of $6 to $7 million. On Greenwood Road in Redbud, there's a second TDR, and the land there is valued probably in the $9 to $10 million range. I spoke to that farmer, and I know that he turned down an offer for $9 million a few years ago when I was his supervisor. I want to ask you all to reconsider TDRs. Ask the question, do TDRs benefit the county? You can do a conditional use permit and make that decision on whether they do or they do not. But on Greenwood Road right now, if you add another 400 homes, how does the traffic handle that? On Sensany Road, a Pekin East is handling about 300 homes. That's 700 homes that will be going on to Sensany. And most of those homes also go down to Greenwood. Greenwood right now is over, there's more traffic on that road than that road can handle. So you as a board, in my opinion, need to go and have a specific session to deal with TDRs. And the options ought to be either one, revise them. Option number two, make them a conditional use permit where you can decide whether this TDR benefits the county or not. Or kill them. I think they're being abused. The purpose for TDRs was to try to preserve rural land. And when I made a proposal for 10 acres, that also preserves rural land. But farmers said no, because it hurt their ability to borrow money. By the same token, how do you pay for the roads and the associated costs that come with TDRs? And if you're going to go and fix Greenwood Road, it's going to be a multi-million dollar situation. The same thing for Sensany. For those people that are in favor of TDRs, and for those farmers, I'll be glad to have an open conversation with anyone. So for those that are listening, especially certain people that I know, please call me. But we need to do something. But we need to have a discussion on TDRs in which all sides come to the table and do what's best for the county, not necessarily what's best for two individual landowners. Thank you. Thanks, sir. Anybody else that would like to speak? My name is Leslie Spencer from Gainesboro. I wrote a speech, but it was way too long, so I decided to just say it. Um, about the other thing. I think I've asked all of you for data centers to think about studying them now and putting them on the next comprehensive plan cycle. Possibly even taking a poll or a survey when we do our next community engagement data center. And that'll give us plenty of time to take all of those land masses. You know, Vanguard is employing 2,500 people on 91 acres that make between 80 and 120,000. Or more. And those are significant job numbers. So I think that having our land parcels for jobs will be amazing. So today is Earth Day, or Happy Nature Day. It's Apple Blossom and soon Arbor Day. So happy blossom, happy Apple Blossom to you, Supervisor Oates. Your district is really wonderful. And it's so dynamic. When you open, when you come into Virginia, thousands of people come in. When you open, when you come into Virginia, thousands of people come in. When you open, when you come into Virginia, thousands of people come in. When you open, when you come into Virginia, thousands of people come in. You know, it's the first thing they see is Stonewall. And it has to do a lot. There are very important waters that feed into the Clearbrook Park that we need to protect. And it has the highest amount of sediment and bacteria that some of the water protectors are concerned about. It's still a beautiful district. It does so much. It protects rural communities and historic battlefields. So thank you very much for stewarding that district. Supervisor Orndorff, your district is amazing for all the food. It literally feeds us culturally and food for all the wildlife and the people. We are the number one fruit nut and berry producer. And I have no doubt with as much acres that the Agriculture and Forestry District has in your district, it's an amazing district for all kinds of things. It even has one of the oldest houses in Frederick County. It's still standing in 1751. Supervisor Wells, your district is really amazing for water and especially Lake Frederick. It's home to so many migratory birds. Very special place that the land and the people, they get to experience nature a lot. And Supervisor Lero, your district, thank you so much for speaking up at the CEA to protect the Eastside too and the people of your district. Your people and our county gets to interact with nature. And our beloved Tarando Park, it's an amazing park. And thank you for wanting us to protect more lands for the people on the Eastside. It's very important. Supervisor Akins, your district, oh, 10 seconds. It's a wonderful forest block. Supervisor Gubermont, you have one of the oldest trees in our county. It was literally born before this county and country was made. And it's on the biggest trees registry. Its nickname is John. It was born after one of the disciples, and I'd love to point it out to you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Kim Watt, resident of Gainesboro, landowner of Back Creek. I think we ought to keep a few things in perspective here on TDRs. Farmers didn't create the TDR program. Frederick County did. It was designed to save farmland while allowing growth in designated areas. Areas determined by the TDR program. Farmers didn't create the TDR program. Frederick County did. It was designed to save farmland while allowing growth in designated areas. Areas determined by the TDR program. Areas determined by the TDR program. by the county. It's not a loophole. It's not abuse. It's following the county's rules. Farmers are facing increasing restrictions on what we can and can't do with our land and now TDRs are threatened being taken as well. It's worth noting that farmers who sever their development rights are forever giving up future development potential on our land. It's a long-term commitment to agriculture and our community. If there are concerns about roads, schools, or services, valid discussions, but should be directed at how the county structures its programs, not the farmers who are trying to use them as intended. Hence, our lawsuit against Frederick County. Farmers are not the bad guys here. We are trying to keep our farms running, our land forever preserved, and a community rooted in agriculture. This conversation is a real challenge for us. This conversation belongs with the people who designed it, not the farmers and the families trying to keep their farms alive. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else want to speak? Name as your district please. First and last, Teresa Ostertag. So I've been delving deeply into the data center. Where do you live? I live on Faye Street. Okay. In Kernstown. Oh, in Kernstown. Okay, so you're back. Okay. There you go. Thank you. So I'm just addressing data centers in general, but lately I've been doing a lot of deep dives and so I know a lot of things as well as a lot of you do because you came to the meeting and you were informed. But I talked to people in Snowden Creek, or Snowden, where there's thousands of homes and I've talked to so many people in there that were actually moved here from Ashburn and Loudoun County. And some that moved from Georgia who left data centers as well. So they moved away, you know, for a great place to live, like we have here now. And so I'd really hate for them and others to leave. It's only like four to five miles away. And the generators are about the size of a tractor trailer and there's 288 of them and they will run, not just when the power goes down, but during peak loads. So I consider all these things and all this energy that the county is putting into it, the people, we care. It's not about not caring. It's about caring. And so I think that's an important thing to think about. So I'm going to ask Senator Mott to speak. Okay, so the question is, is It's about caring. We don't want to come off rough or come off serious because it's a serious matter. And I know that legally you have to address it as well. But I've also talked to Macbeth and Rubuck area near the location, like right there, where the 11 would go. And I talked to like six or seven people directly the other day that do not want them. I did talk to one house in Macbeth that said they're still weighing it, but they have a meeting with the developer. And I also know that the developer told the planner that someone in Macbeth is okay with it. So I consider everyone that I've talked to that are against and one that's talking to the developer. So just take that into consideration. I know you do. I know you know the way things work. So please consider the ones that haven't been talked to because we're talking to them and they care. And that's all. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else like to speak? Okay. I'm going to close this meeting. I'm going to go back to the Board of Citizens' comments. Board of Supervisors' comments. Yes, Mr. Chair. Supervisor Harris. I have a couple comments. I want to go back to item 11D, the discussion on the transient occupancy tax and Parks and Rec and tourism. I just, I'm putting on my basketball parent hat now, okay? My son is a college basketball player at Penn State Hazleton. He started in Frederick County Parks and Rec. Proceeded on to travel back. He played in middle school and high school and now plays in college. I wanted to point out that Parks and Rec does not currently have a single basketball facility for our local players to play in. We have satellite locations in some of the elementary schools, but we don't have a single Parks and Rec gym. This past winter, there were 97 teams of youth basketball in Parks and Rec of 10 players each. Okay. So, the next slide, please. Okay. So, there's Parks and Rec, and the other one is the Winchester Rising Stars. And their typical path, like I said, there's Parks and Rec, but they can also join local parent and family. We traveled up and down the East Coast to various states playing basketball. And by the way, basketball, you think of it as a winter sport, you know, from about November to February or March, but in the travel season, it goes year-round. So, if you have a venue that can host travel basketball, that's open for business around the calendar. So, anyway, we traveled up and down the East Coast, spending our money in hotels and restaurants, and, you know, we're doing a lot of things. We've got, you know, a bunch of things I couldn't talk about today that you can't talk, again, we hungry individualists in, you know, even though we're at home right now. Sunglasses. When you try to buy it, it's all man-made. There's someBeen B Guinea-Bonnock races. So, you know, what we do if that stuff is going when you are trying to get complete muzzle on a matrass. The timing doesn't know what you've got on a mat, and you plan to home off, but getting things out of your hands고, coming from your pocket, if that's going to be necessary. On game night is a schedule. courts in my understanding is they're filled just about every weekend with tournaments, which kind of helps supplement that cost or almost pay for it completely from outside use. And meanwhile, they have that facility 24-7 where they can have parks and rec basketball during the week and practices, different teams like that. So going back to the discussion from 11D, I'd like to see us get a funding stream to get that facility built. I know everything costs money. I think the facility in Rockingham was somewhere around $15 million to build, which is pricey, something that we have not been able to afford here in the last couple of years. But if we can do that, I can tell you, it's like the movie said, build it and they will come. It'll pay for itself and it'll help given a facility here locally for our parks and rec players. Thank you for that. Thanks, sir. Mr. Chair? Yes, sir. I just want to piggyback on Supervisor Liero's comments. So I go to watch a lot of the men's leagues through parks and rec, which are also at the schools. The one thing I want to mention is I've been taking pictures of broken bleachers. The bleachers are in poor condition in a lot of these places, in a lot of the schools. And I think while we're participating in the parks and rec and I appreciate the partnership with the schools in parks and rec, those facilities take additional abuse from the amount of people in there. We're putting hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of games into a facility that was meant to house school operations. So while we're getting a lot of extra use out of the schools, it's taken a lot more abuse. So I just think, you know, I think it's eventually we got to keep working like they're all talking about to try and find a way to fund these things so that we have separate facilities that are income producing. Because even on the weekends, the kids are playing soccer on the fields that are owned by the school system. The schools are providing parks and rec with a lot of the space. And if it wasn't for that partnership, we'd be in trouble. So thank you, Supervisor Liero and Supervisor Rose for those comments. Thank you. Any other thoughts? Mr. President? Mr. Chairman. You know, Supervisor Liero had a very good point. And I want to make sure that it's on the record that the half percent needs to go to an individual fund. We don't want that money to just go into parks and rec's general budget. Because eventually whoever's on this dais may lose sight of where we're wanting this to go. And I think that's important to make sure that we try to achieve that. That long term goal. Thanks, sir. Anybody else? Okay, I've got two things. Mr. Krieger brought up about the community Frederick County Comprehensive Plan update. There are two meetings scheduled. April 23rd is the economic development at Stonewall Elementary School. You can also find us online if you want to make comments. There's actually, I think the staff's done a fabulous job. They've covered, you know, community facilities, water, housing, rural. So there's a lot of information sitting up there. There's also an option for chat with a planner at Bowman Library. That's from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on May 4th. So, and then tomorrow night it's Stonewall Elementary from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m. I encourage you to come out. You know, we're all trying to do what we can for our community. You've heard me. You've heard a lot about that tonight. Second thing I want to talk about is it's the bloom. It is apple blossom season. Now, you think about apple blossom, you think about the parades. But there's a lot that goes on in this community. And this is a community event. This is Frederick County and Winchester City. This is not Winchester City. So you've got a lot of things going on. I please encourage you to go out, take a look, get involved. I'm very proud of the fact that we're doing this. I'm very proud of the fact that I'm one of the chairmen for the Veterans Dinner. It's one way I can work and say thank you for your service. We've got great opportunities out there for you to get out there with the community. Marker Miller hosts the apple pie baking contest. I judged that one year. Man, I walked away full. So get out there. Have fun. That's what it's supposed to be about. Let's show the community that we're loving each other and just having a great time. And wear your pink and green and have fun. So when you're out there, I want you to thank all of our public safety. They're putting a lot of extra time in to allow us to do this. So for the citizens, both the fire and rescue and sheriffs and the city's Winchester City Police. So when you see someone, thank them. So with that, Vice Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Did you want me to still make that announcement? Yes, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you, sir. I just want to announce that tomorrow we'll be putting some information on our website regarding data centers. One item we'll be putting on there will be the data center questions and answers. The second item we'll be putting the information on the website regarding our public meeting we'll be having May 7th. And the last item is we will also be including this legal memorandum, which is a summary of what was discussed in tonight's closed session. That should hit our webpage tomorrow at about 10 a.m. Thank you, sir. Thank you for the reminder, too. Vice Chair. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. We are adjourned. Happy Bloom, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
