Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2026-01-07
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=309
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you so Thank you. Let's see. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I'll call the January 7th, 2026 meeting of the Frederick County Planning Commission meeting to order. If you would, please stand with me and I'll ask Pastor Ross Halbersma from the New Hope Alliance Church to give us invocation, followed by the Pledge of Allegiance. That's pronounced Halbersma. That's why they call me Ross. Okay, Ross. Let us pray. Almighty Father, this part of the country most of us call home. It's a beautiful place to live. It's a privilege to steward the land that you've given to us. Father, as these leaders deliberate, listen, discuss, and speak to issues that will impact all of us, give them ears to hear and a heart to ask the questions in such a way that when we leave this room, we leave as neighbors and friends, maybe not always agreeing. But headed forward for the betterment of this community that you have gifted us with. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen. Mr. Thomas, will you lead us in the place? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. In keeping with our bylaws, our first meeting of each year, the Planning Commission is responsible for electing its officers. I'll turn the meeting over to Mr. Pearson for that purpose. Thank you. I'll open the floor for nominations for the position of Chairman of the Planning Commission. Mr. Secretary, I nominate Mr. Tim Stowe for Chairman of the Planning Commission. Second. Second. Second. Any other nominations? I move nominations be closed. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Only nomination was Mr. Tim Stowe for Chairman. All those in favor of Tim continuing to serve as Chairman, signify likewise. Aye. Aye. Turning back over to you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you, Planning Commissioners. I appreciate your confidence in me to continue leading the body through 2026. It's going to be interesting times, to say the least, and I'll lean heavily on all of you. We need to also elect a Vice Chairman, and at this time, I'll open the floor for nominations of a Vice Chairman. Yes, I'd like to nominate Roger Stowe. I'd like to second that. All those in favor of Roger Thomas serving as Vice Chairman, signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? Good. And the Secretary has been filled by our Planning Director, Mr. Wyatt Pearson. We need to nominate Roger Stowe. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. And thank you. That leads us to item four, adoption of our agenda. Is there any motion to adopt the agenda? So moved. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, indicate by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. Item five is meeting minutes from our November 5th meeting of 2025. Are there any corrections, additions, or edits to those minutes? If not, I'll be glad to entertain a motion to adopt them as presented. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And that takes us to committee reports. Before we get into committee reports, this is a great opportunity, I think, that I want to take to congratulate one of our own, and for those of you who get the Winchester Star or see on Facebook some of the articles from Winchester Star, our very own Jack Perry, who usually writes a lot of stories for us here tonight, wrote a story back in December about Woodbine Farms. And Woodbine Farms was one of ten farms here in Virginia that got a Virginia Grand Basin Clean Water Farm Award in 2025. Now, you may not know, but Ms. Betsy Broomback is. Woodbine Farms, along with her family. So I just want to say congratulations, and thank you for the work you're doing here in Frederick County to keep our water clean. So thank you. Okay. With that, we'll move into committee reports. And do I have any committee reports to my right? Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman, the Development Review and Regulations Committee met on Thursday, December 11th. We had two. Two items. They were both zoning ordinance text amendment proposals. One was for an RP district dimension requirement change for allow for new housing type rear load townhouses, and the other was for public utilities, transmission and distribution facilities relating to transmission projects. So through the magic of the holidays, both of those on our agenda this evening. Very good. Any others to mark? Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee met on Monday, December 8th. The only item on the agenda was a review of the 2026 to 2020 31 capital improvement plan. That's a schedule of the major capital expenditures expenditures for the county for the next five year period. That was reviewed and the committee recommended it move forward for adoption. And that was all on the agenda. Very good. Thank you very much, sir. Are there any committee reports to my left? Frederick Water. Sure. Frederick Water Board met on December 16th. During that meeting, we reviewed the fiscal 25 financial report and audit that was performed by Brown Edwards and Company. There were no findings issued by the auditors and Frederick Water is on firm financial ground. We continue to be in drought conditions. In that meeting, we also approved a revised residential leak adjustment policy. The Lake Frederick well is nearly complete and testing and training and BDH approval to operate will hopefully come through in the next few weeks. And the advanced metering system that's being installed throughout the county with turn on dates sometime in January. This will eliminate the need for Frederick Water. We will also be able to allow our employees to drive through neighborhoods and get meter readings. The antennas will send signals to the Frederick Water offices. In addition, there will be an app that you can have on your phone that will allow you to have real time water usage in your house of your house. That's it. Thank you, sir. I didn't. Is there anyone here from Winchester's Planning Commission? I don't recall seeing. They couldn't make it this evening. Okay. Very good. That takes us to the Board of Supervisors. Mr. Lee. Good evening, sir. Good evening, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chair. A couple of introductions first. In the back of the room, Supervisor Mike Gouvermont, newly elected Red Bud supervisor, will be serving as the Planning Commission liaison starting, I believe, next month along with Dr. Al Warndorf to my right, who is a newly appointed Back Creek supervisor. So those two individuals will be sharing that duty over the next year or so. So welcome, Dr. Lee. Thank you. I appreciate you having them here. As far as last month's meeting for Board of Supervisors, December 10th, we talked about three issues that were at the Planning Commission previous to that. First one was Ordinance Amendment for Frederick County Code, modifications to supplementary use regulations for outdoor lighting as contained in 165.201-.07. That was postponed due to a couple of circumstances. The first, I think, was the Board of Supervisors' meeting. We talked about the plan commission. That was the first one. The second was the Board of Supervisors' meeting. That was due to a couple of safety concerns about lot entry and exits, building entry and exit, and site entry and exits. And the other issue was the definition of high security areas, which I understand now the staff has worked through and gotten a little bit more definition on that. So that's going to be coming back to the Board of Supervisors in February of 26. of 26. I think our first meeting maybe in February. Two other issues ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code modifications to amend design requirements contained in 165-501.06 for the R4 residential plan community zoning district to remove minimum size required and amend residential density requirements that was adopted on December 10th 7 to 0 and last item was ordinance amendments to Frederick County Code modifications to amend dimensional regulations contained in 165-705-04 for traditional neighborhood design business overlay district to modify the maximum height and feet and habitable floors allowed that was also adopted 7 to 0 and that completes my report. Mr. Chair thank you. Thank you very much Mr. Lira. We will miss you sir. But I know that we will miss you. I know we've groomed you to do better on other committees and serve a higher purpose for the county so we wish you all the best with that and Dr. Orndorff Mr. Goodbremont welcome. We look forward to having you here with us. That completes our reports. The next item on our agenda item 7 is citizen comments. This is a time for citizens who would like to address the Planning Commission to do so for items that are not scheduled for a public hearing this evening. If you're here to talk about the data center fact sheet that is not a public hearing so this would be the time for you to speak to the Planning Commission about it if you'd like to do so. All I ask is that you limit your comments to three minutes in length. Please come to the podium tell us your name and your magisterial district and I will open the citizen comment period. Thank you Mr. Chairman we do have a sign up list so I can run through those first 15 if that's all right. Yes sir please do. Forgive me if I butcher any names but the first sign up is Willie Deutsch and followed by Mr. Lira. Thank you Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan district behind the Martins and Stevens City. I wanted to speak to the data center fact sheet that's out. Thank you to staff for all their work on it. There's there's a lot of good stuff in this fact sheet and I think one of the things to really look at is all the parentheticals where there's kind of additional commentary that's included and so it's important to kind of read between the lines get the whole picture that's presented here. One of the backbones of this report is the 2024 Virginia JLARC study which is definitely an important study. However part of what's going on with data centers is they're progressing incredibly well. They're progressing incredibly quickly in terms of the technology that's being utilized for them. So while that study is wonderful things keep progressing forward. So one of the things to point out is that in the power usage portion at the beginning of the study there's a discussion of average use of data centers and it's compared to hospitals to homes and it's it's quite jarring. But in parentheticals is a reminder that what we saw in the proposals this summer for power usage was much larger than the actual data centers. So I think that's a really good point. we want you doing a deep within tell her thatч If you want to make discussions with employment og election ministers you You're going to have to do papers to find out more but beg yourbar for a So that call to that that's what you disisn't4 Bloody Average usage has been toar. And it's not an anomaly. It's because every year the power usage by these data centers keeps expanding. So the newer the data center proposal you see the larger their consumption is going to be so a 24 average is not going to be what you've got to look at, you've got have to look at the proposals that coming out this year and key are etc. in these mixed use areas of the county. There's a lot of discussion tax wise on the data peripheral tax, but data centers are also taxed on their property assessment values. And property assessment taxing is required to be done at the highest and best use. So whatever you end up doing for the zoning that the data centers are done in, that zoning area, the land assessment for it is gonna be then done at whatever the data centers would pay for that zoning. So in Prince William County, they use M1, M2 land, but that's also what they use for other businesses. All of those businesses then are paying the land use valuations of what a data center would pay for that area. So it's very important if the county moves forward, have a very particular zoning land use that's just for data centers. Because otherwise, if it bleeds into what other businesses are gonna be using, that valuation is gonna shoot through the roof for the other data centers. So that's not addressed in this study, but it's very important as you think through how do we make effective policies that don't negatively impact other people. So my time's up, thank you all very much. John Tagliamento followed by Ariel Agman. Thank you. I have my comments written now, so please bear with me. Data centers are basically cash cows for county budgets, but at what cost? Frederick County Board of Supervisors need to balance their budget and find revenue to build a new high school. I think we can all agree on that, correct? The obvious solution is to improve the building of data centers in Frederick County. If you look at Loudoun County revenue, you will see that 38% of Loudoun's budget or property tax is from data centers. That is equal to billions of dollars. Loudoun County's budget is $5 billion. About 38 to 40% of that comes from data centers. You could argue that Loudoun County has become a slave to data centers. The reason they let data centers in in the first place was to lower property taxes, provide new jobs, and balance their budget, but what happened? Loudoun individual property taxes have not gone down, but they have been reduced. They have increased. Loudoun is losing its groundwater. The data centers create heat and need water to cool down. Loudoun residents learned that data center cooling fans and generators run frequently, and not just when the power goes out. Since more data centers are planned, a new transmission line costing $700 million needs to be built, and that may be part of the lines that will be running through Frederick County. Guess who will be paying for this in their monthly bills? And I think we're all concerned here tonight with what the impact will be on our utility bills and our taxes. Loudoun County currently has about 200 data centers, and Prince William County has about 60. More are scheduled to be built. I also request that the board and everyone here drive to Gainesville. It's about 50 miles from here. It's about 50 minutes from here. That area is packed with data centers. Have you been there? Have you seen that? When you just focus on revenue, this is what happens. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Ariel Agman, followed by Kurt Krieger. Good evening. Can everyone hear me? Wonderful. I'm coming with... Can you tell us your name and magisterial address? Of course, of course. Forgive me. My name is Ariel Agman. I live in the Shawnee District. Thank you. Thank you. I'm coming with a question and a concern. I'm approaching as a social worker, and a social worker that understands that a good number of our community members rely on assistance to meet their basic needs. This pertains to data centers, I promise, because, like the previous commenter mentioned, our utility bills are likely to skyrocket. These data centers, and I read through this report, and I do appreciate it. The report mentions that these data centers have tremendous energy needs, tremendous. And that, and actually, the JLARC report also, talks about the sustainability long term, and we cannot even begin to meet the energy needs statewide. So, I think it's a foregone conclusion that bills are gonna go up. And the report mentions that they would go up, the estimate was 17 to $40, which may not seem like a lot of money to many of us, but to those on fixed incomes, that could be catastrophic. That's half a card above. But it's a lot of groceries that these people don't have, because we have a data center now. So, I also saw in the report that there are significant barriers that would prevent the Board or anyone else from mitigating that increase. So, I'm wondering if the Board can realistically make a commitment to keep those bills level or low. So, I don't know if you can answer that. the commitment that I would want if this was going to go forward. Thank you very much. Thank you. Kurt Krieger, followed by Darla Barrett. Good evening, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations. Members of the Planning Commission, my name is Kurt Krieger. I live in the Bat Creek Magisterial District. I'm just going to focus on two issues this evening in the three minutes allotted. Thank you very much for the opportunity to review the summary report and recommendations, but there's an assumption embedded in the report that I want to lay open for your consideration and conversation. And it was also mentioned in the study session you had in December with the Board of Supervisors with regard to the comprehensive plan of the Planning Commission. I'm going to focus on two issues this evening. I'm going to focus on the data center's direct economic benefits and the data center's direct economic benefits. And that has specifically to do with, and this is on page eight of the report if you're tracking this, the staff indicates that a review and analysis by Tischler-Bice concluded that direct economic benefits of data centers exceeded by six times other uses and particularly singled out that office was one half of the return and manufacturing was one third of the return. So the reason I want to challenge that assumption is it's a superficial analysis and needs to be looked at from a life cycle cost basis. That means the return without looking at the end, the total cost of undertaking a project is like buying a car without planning for the insurance and the maintenance and the depreciation. So office uses are resilient. We're seeing conversions of office to housing presently across the country. Washington, D.C. happens to be leading that effort. We see manufacturing uses being repurposed by other manufacturers. But I think what you will find is that data centers, especially the hyperscale data centers, are purpose built for one particular use and that they don't have an alternative use. They also drive water consumption as previously mentioned, power consumption as previously mentioned, which will require systems and operating expenses that need to be rolled up into a total cost. So I urge you to look at the life cycle cost as you do so. Be thinking about the cost of decommissioning and returning to green because what you don't want to do is have buildings three and a half to five acres in size sitting vacant for the next 50 to 100 years scattered across the Shenandoah Valley. That same assumption, was using your comp plan analysis. So I urge you to look seriously at it because it's a weak assumption that you don't want to base a lot of land use policy on. I would also mention that in the final few seconds that as Willie Deutsch mentioned, technology is moving rapidly. The DEQ has already indicated their willingness to relax rules on emergency generators. Those generators may be used for several hours a day, not just for emergency power, but for cost control. So your current TM zone I think is inadequate because it deals with the assumption that generators will only be used for emergency power supply purposes. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Thank you, sir. Darla Barrett followed by Pete Ziakowski. Hi, my name is Darla Barrett. I'm in the Gainesboro area, Whitehall District. I've been reading a lot about data centers in general before it started hitting this area and there are several concerns. Typically, it seems that a lot of planning commissions, government bodies have signed NDAs with these data center builders, which then prevents localities from actually having clear information about how much energy is actually being used, how much water is actually being used, how much property tax and other taxes can be used, because they're not allowed to go in and look. So I'm just urging no NDAs in this area, please. There has also been a concern with sound, low hums that come out of neighbors that are like half a mile away that now they can't sleep in their upstairs bedroom because it just seems to be coming over the tree line that's separating them as well as more coming into that same area. So, hey, it's not just electricity, it's not just water, there's also a sound issue. And then the water usage. They're talking just about the water usage. There's different systems, closed systems, which supposedly use less, but they still have to take that water from the aquifer, I assume. Most of the people here in the county are on wells, depending on where that's coming from and where it's going to, whose wells are still going to be impacted. I'd like that to be addressed. And then they're going to get rid of some of this water. Where is that water going to go? It does have some impurities that's going to go right back into our streams or aquifers. So these are concerns I want this planning commission to keep in mind when they're looking at this and in your county that is not real happy with the idea in general. And as the one last gentleman said, what is the long-term effect of these buildings? Technology is changing. Are those buildings going to be good in five years, three years, ten years? Who knows? Thank you. Pete Ziokowski followed by Jan van Hout. Good evening and thank you. My name is Pete Ziokowski. I'm a resident of the Back Creek. And I would like to make a comment today about the analysis itself. And the technique used in the analysis in many parts is really an individual comparison to another individual. In other words, I'm going to compare data centers to a food processing plant. And that's a technique. But I think that's a mistake. You have to, instead of looking tree to tree, you have to look at the forest. And if you don't look at the whole picture, you're going to have unintended consequences. And I'll give you an example of that. Right on page 10 of the report, we talk about electrical costs. Right in the report, it says it's going to be a $14 to $37 increase by the year 2040. All right. Now, in doing analysis of this, we know that in 2021 to 2025, there's always been a lot of change. Right? And there's always been a 13% increase in the county for electrical costs. So electrical costs, this $14 to $37, if you look at our costs now, it's less than roughly a 10% increase over 16 years, whereas we've already been seeing large increases. We see from other places around the country that data centers could raise costs by as much as utilities by as much as 10% a year to 25% a year. If you look at that total cost, you'll see that the cost of electricity is going to be higher. So if you look at that total cost to the county, right, you're talking about a $9 million to $13 million hit over the roughly 45,000 users of utilities. That's $9 million to $13 million coming out of the economy. We talk about supporting businesses. What happens when you're removing $13 million out of our businesses? What do you talk about to the individual users who don't have that money to spend in our businesses? So not only will the companies be passing over those costs, right, people have less money to spend. And I think you really need to look at that because this is only the first layer of the onion. If you go back and look and say, well, if we're not spending money in sales tax, how does that affect our tax revenue, right? There's a lot of things that roll back into it. And it has to be looked at in a greater depth over a larger period of over the larger scope of the problem. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Jan van Hout followed by James Jenis. Good evening, dear Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. My name is Jan van Hout and I'm from the Back Creek District. I'm a small business owner together with my partners. We invested. And we'll invest about 12 and in the future even more, a million dollar into this county. We are bringing future jobs as well. And the reason why I came to this county, as you all know, and you will hear it over and over again, is because I love the rural area. And my mission is to work with farmers and stuff like that. So. I'm a chef that came here to work with farmers. And farmers. And, you know, work with small businesses and create attention to local artisan stuff. I'm the example of bringing different investments to the county to create jobs and tax revenues. So I feel like there's a lot of one direction currently. Only looking at data centers. I have as well my own fact sheet that I have from our well that was inspected through Valley Drone. 30 years when the well was drilled, it provides, produces 25 gallons per minute. Because of our business we opened, we had to figure out what it does now and it's only 12 gallons. That's like more than half of the water in 30 years. So I just want to make sure I'm willing to provide this report that is made by Valley Drone here in the county. Thank you. Thank you. And I know it's a little bit of a long story. But I have my fact sheet, too, to present to you. So thank you for listening. Thank you for leading and being here for the community. Thank you so much. Thank you. James Jenis followed by Jack Tensley. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. My name is Jim Jenis. I live in the Back Creek District. I've been a Winchester Frederick County resident for the last 50 years. A couple of my qualifications to speak on this topic. I'm a senior. I'm a senior. I'm a senior in the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. I'm a senior in the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. I'm a senior in the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. I'm a senior in the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. I was the chief technology officer for the United States Coast Guard response for operating and managing the Coast Guard's main data center for years. More recently, I've been the principal architect for Amazon Web Services, the largest hyperscale computing platform in the world. Amazon Web Services, when I retired in 2022, had more than 10 times the computing capacity of all the other providers, including Google, Microsoft, Facebook combined. I've read through this report, and my readout on this report is this is the tip of the iceberg when you're talking about hyperscale computing and data centers. Folks have mentioned Loudoun County. Amazon's US East region. And Loudoun County is the largest concentration of storage and compute capacity on the entire planet. And it continues to expand. If this report has lots of good information in it, but my opinion is the county ought to look at the long term because this is the tip of the iceberg. Once a data center is built, there is no stopping the expansion. I built large scale AI, large language models. They depend on a lot of communication in class to work, and yet we don't have to play the chip-and-m phenomenon for a lot of data centers to work. It may be two, three or four times faster than the previous data center and then it has to drop the judgement mark. If that's the case, then I would recommend early development. But the key factor I think the common thread is is that this needs to go forward. Another piece of information to ensure this point is is that with Tools, they are from less than an extra plane, they're made mix instead of more. Why are you not taking data centers as an example of this kind of complexity of things, especially if they had high latency performance due to online 5G? Well, that is very important. But the truth is that I was part of the Νcon balanced trust of data centers with cameras within close proximity to one another. So when you, it's not building one Dandy Center or even a small campus of data centers, it's building a giant infrastructure of data centers. And if you think that providing these jobs is gonna happen, it isn't. Because I live in Frederick County, I've lived in Winchester for 50 years. Where I worked for Amazon, where all our data centers were in Northern Virginia, I live here, my office is in Ashburn. So I live here because of the quality of life here, but all of the data center work environment is done remotely, almost 100%. When I worked to manage the Coast Guard's major national data center, all we required was that our employees live within an hour of that data center. Many of the people didn't even live in the county. So if you build data centers here, a lot of people that maintain them aren't gonna live here. They're gonna be outside of here. They'll live wherever they are now and do their work remotely. They'll be just a few onsite people. I would urge the Planning Commission to look at this as a tip of the iceberg. There's lots of good information in that planning document, but it does not forecast what the future will be. Thank you. Thank you. Jack Tensley followed by Scott Sturdivant. My name's, excuse me, Jack Tensley. I am a resident of Gainesboro District, and I just want to spend a little bit of my time just repeating some of the things that this gentleman said, but no stopping the expansion, the jobs being remote, and further than that, the way that AI is developing. Even if they are remote, most of them will probably just be automated. So I thought that was a really, really good point. The rest of my time, I think most of us here know that data centers take a lot of power. They take a lot of water. They take a lot of land, which are all precious commodities. And I have a lot of questions. This report talks about water usage, up to 700,000 gallons for this one facility. And we've had some pretty long-lasting droughts here. So I want to know what gets prioritized, our wells or this data center? And I want to know who decides when it gets really hot over the summer and these droughts come again. Is it going to be somebody from Richmond that makes laws? Is it going to be you all? Or is it going to be us, the people? The report also talks about the amount of energy this could use to power up to 11,000 homes or 15 hospitals, the equivalent. And those summers when they get hot and energy spikes for AC and other utilities, I want to know what gets prioritized. Is it going to be our electricity and our homes and the hospitals? Or is it going to be this data center? My really big fear here is, you know, I'm not sure. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do this. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do this. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do this. But my biggest fear is the security risk. It's 2026. Everything's crazy. We've got infrastructure attacks and failures, cyber attacks that happen. I want to know if this puts a target on the back of Frederick County. And I want to know if the Frederick County Sheriff's Department is going to be responsible for protecting this or are we going to have to deal with private contractors with firearms patrolling the streets to make sure that this place is safe. And I also want to know who foots that bill. Who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and doing the work? And I also want to know who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and doing the work? Who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and policing this area? On that point, And I also want to know who foots that bill? Who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and policing this area? Who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and policing this area? Who's going to be paying those people who are going to be coming in and policing this area? On that point, I want to talk and I just have two more questions. I want to talk and I just have two more questions. If there's a failure of this system or a contamination event a Fashion Copy, who's gonna be paying those people who are going to come in and policing this area? And that shivers my time today. If there's a failure of this system or a contamination event which means I also want to know who owns this facility. I remember reading about this. This was before I was alive, but the Reinhardt tire fire turned into a Superfund site that took almost 20 years to clean up. So I want to know if this happens here, who's going to take care of that? Are we going to eat that cost? Is the county going to eat that cost? Or is the data center going to have plans to eat that cost? I just see a lot of risk here. I know this is going to be a private venture, so I see the profit not coming to the people. I just see the risk coming to the people. And if we can't guarantee our own water and power supply, I'm not really convinced this is a risk worth taking. Thank you for your time. Scott Sturdivant, followed by Dan Best. Scott Sturdivant, Back Creek District. In 2014, I retired as a lieutenant with the jail in Winchester. I retired as a lieutenant with the jail in Winchester. I retired as a lieutenant with the jail in Winchester and then went to work at the jail in Manassas, which makes me a special kind of stupid because I retired from one jail to go work at the other one. In the 10 years that I worked at the jail in Manassas, I saw as the data centers began to pop up year by year as I drove up there and how they marred Manassas and Manassas City and Prince William County. As a Civil War reenactor with the 8th Virginia Infantry in 87th Pennsylvania, I love the rich history of Winchester, Frederick County, and the Shenandoah Valley, and I would hate to see those, those things pop up here and mar all those spaces that we have where all our ancestors fought and died and built. The other thing is something that I don't hear people talking about much is that those things are going to be with the technology. Sooner or later, they're all going to be on satellites and we're going to be stuck with all these ugly, ungodly buildings in the next five or six years with nothing in them. And then what are we going to do with them? And those are my concerns. And the last thing that I'll make a point of is that I'm going to be in the military. I'm going to be a law enforcement officer. So what I'm going to be doing is that the report given by the Mountain Patriots was done very diligently and thoroughly, and I hope that we take that report and use that information. I understand, as the former chair of the Frederick County School Board for the last two years and the current member from Back Creek District, the importance of revenue, the importance of finding those things. I realize data centers are coming and we have to be, have some type of revenue for the schools and things, but I think we need to do this smartly and judiciously, more our county with all those data centers like has been done in the rest of northern virginia thank you dan best followed by neil tidro good evening my name's uh dan best uh my wife and i retired to back creek county just west of stephen city god's country we want to keep it that way and at the same time we recognize that for it to stay that way frederick county also needs a thriving business community hence my involvement in the mountain patriots dat data center task force the mountain patriots is a grassroots organization that strongly encourages citizen involvement in county issues local issues so it was the data center task force was a six-month grassroots project that tried to find focus on finding solutions to identified issues we issued a major report not long ago that sought out to identify those issues come up with solutions without taking sides pro or con we try to be impartial in this we looked at the situation both locally over the mountain and across the nation how people were doing and how the data center can move forward to address those issues the main goal was to start the conversation on how new guidelines could be established to guide data center development in our county if feasible we believe the recently introduced uh frederick county fact sheet is excellent we believe that it complements the conclusions drawn out in our own report for which all of you have summaries of read the report before you i hope you read it take time to uh contemplate it also that the report addresses additional issues not yet covered. In fact, listening to the comments here, it addresses most of the comments made by people. What we found, key concerns of Frederick County residents were the impact of data centers on the scenic view shed and historic degradation of, or I should say degradation of both the historical value and the agro-tourism business of this county. Massive water consumption from a fragile aquifer, noise pollution and aggravation, electrical grid strain and costs, loss of prime farmland, visual blight, quality of life impacts, uncertain revenue projections and lack of transparency, negative impacts on the local tourism business. So just to cover very quickly, I believe this report addresses those issues. It's a very fast moving technology. Things are always changing. Therefore, we believe it's very important that we keep the conversation going between us to stay on top of these developments and see how they would impact the feasibility of data centers. We've covered issues like, for example, underground versus overground development, closed loop cooling systems, NDAs and transparency issues. The technology and the evolution and also the potential bankruptcy and obsolescence. Thank you very much for your time. I appreciate the opportunity to speak before you. Thank you, sir. Neil Tidrow followed by Sheila Tilly. Hi, Neil Tidrow, back Creek District. I'm not going to say too much that hasn't already been said. I've been doing landscaping in the area 20-ish years and I know everybody around is pretty well aware of the water situation that we've got. We've got wells that are having to be drilled deeper and deeper. And just about every year for the past three years, we've had wells going dry already in Frederick County, Clark County, but one of my other concerns has to do with the amount of power that's being drawn and whether or not we can kind of handle that amount going into our grid. And And I haven't gotten a good look at the fact sheet. But as I understand, a typical medium-sized data center is going to draw somewhere on the range of like 15,000 households, typically, which Frederick County households are about 2.68 people. We've got about 91,000 people in the county. So that's a power draw somewhere on the order of like 40% of the existing county population. And I'm curious how we can handle that. And if we can't, as has been seen in other places where data centers enter, they have supplemental power that they provide via portable gas turbines, which are both causing noise pollution and air pollution. So I want to know whether that's been considered and whether there's any contingency plan, if that is a necessity. The other consideration is, I'm in my 40s, so I've seen a lot of stock bubbles in my lifetime. And this AI stuff kind of has every indication of another bubble. And there's some concerning things coming out of the big data companies right now regarding their accounting with their depreciation schedules on the primary equipment used in the data center, namely the GPUs, the servers. They're putting them on. And there are some of the big data companies that are putting them on. And they're putting them on for up to five to six months, and that's not a long-term scenario. And I'm concerned about the long-term potential for maintaining a data center if they're kind of kicking the can down the road to make sure that revenues are satisfactory to investors. I'd like to know if there's a plan for what happens if they decide to shut down, if it's no longer profitable. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sheila Tilly, followed by David Dixon. Hi, my name is Sheila Tilly. I live down the street here about a half a mile. I'm just speaking to the fact that not only are neighbors far and near, that there are people right here in the city of Winchester that are going to stand up and make sure that this issue is not just about the people who live where there are wells and where there are data centers going in, but all of us here in Winchester are standing together for this issue. My concern is about the reciprocal nature of this. What are we really, really getting out of losing all of this water and all of this energy and all of these things, right? What are we really getting? Artificial intelligence? An impact that is going to make our climate change plans for the next 25 years incredibly complex. Right? And I think it was said very well earlier that when we're talking about this issue, we cannot see around the corner. And so for me, looking at it with you, I'm thinking if we're talking about 20 years, our county water supply, they're looking at 20 years, but they're not looking at it from the complexity of all of this, plus climate change. So when you add that all together, I'm not sure I would want to go into this with already the impacts of climate change on us. And then we're adding this to it. We have so much wisdom in the room. I guess I want you to consider that there are other solutions and there's a wider way to look at how we can resolve some of the economic issues. People in this area are super strong. They have a lot of talent. They have a lot of wisdom to bring to it. I guess I want you to keep your lens really wide and really far. Thank you. David Dixon, followed by Gary Krause. David Dixon, Stonewall District. So my farm's connected to the quarry, and I had to drill my well 540 feet for two gallons a minute. And we all know how the quarry is. We sold ourselves out to the quarry. And I don't have to tell you anything about the research. I don't know anything about the resources it's going to take for this data center. So basically, you've got to answer yourself, am I going to be a sellout, or am I going to think about the county's resources and keep the resources for the people? And I'm sure Ms. Brumback understands we need our resources for our farms and for our people. Make farms great again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Gary Krause, and he's the last one signed up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Good evening. Planning Commission and Frederick County Government. My name's Gary Krause. I live in the Shawnee District. I've worked on the bleeding edge of technology, whether it was in the Naval Intelligence and Special Warfare Community or at Microsoft or building data centers for or working on the software for data centers for the government, and now working on large distributed systems and bitcoin mining. But I just wanted to paint a picture of why data centers are so lucrative, right? Nobody's kind of highlighted this. Why is it so lucrative? Why do they have data centers? Why does it bring up so many taxes? That's because there's been a rapid hardware commoditization, right? They take hardware out, they throw it away, they replace it with new hardware. Where does that hardware go? It goes into e-recycling bin. That can be used at your home, right? There are more efficient software solutions, free and open source, available to anybody in the world to run these types of large computing models at their houses. Computing on the edge, getting embedded devices, doing neural network processing, advancements in that. All accelerated, ironically, by the AI. But I just caution that the hardware commoditization allows for the general person and businesses to do this. Just highlights a lot of the points that have been made about the rapid advancement, outpacing the life cycle of any data center. I also want to talk about the difference between training AI and then inference. As alluded to before, these training, these frontier models, they've kind of plateaued. You need way more infrastructure resources. But the actual running of the AI, again, you can do at your house for the cost of a used car. So, basically, we already have a low latency here, sitting so close to US East 1, like the previous gentleman stated. So it's not like we need a data center in our backyard to get an even better Netflix, right? The latency, the speed that you get at your house just by being so close to US East 1 is already as best as it's going to get. And on a personal anecdote, my house was built in 2021, and I do not have that latency. I'm on a Starlink or a T-Mobile connection. I can't even get fiber to my house, yet we want to bring a giant data center. That's a little personal, a little irrelevant to the county, but just as a point of note, I'm sure there are many others like me, one sitting on the board here in front of me. Lastly, just for the health of the internet, it's best to spread out the resources. So putting another huge data center campus here is not good for geographic distribution and redundancy of the internet. So let them be built somewhere else. Finally, as I always like to try to bring a solution to the table, I recommend the county, planning commission, board of supervisors, et cetera, to core agri-tech businesses, agricultural technology businesses. We can use these small microcontrollers. I'm sure there are many others like me. One sitting on the board here in front of me. This is open-source software to accelerate and improve on the existing businesses and things that make the Shenandoah Valley great. And then lastly, the county of Frederick, or Frederick County's government works for the people. And as with any employee, if you perform poorly, you stop getting paid. Thank you. Would anybody like to speak who did not sign up? If you would, please queue up here at the microphone. I need your name, Magisterial District. Yeah, get in line. Hello. We'll roll through. My name is Wendy Werner. I live in Winchester. I didn't sign up to speak because I wanted to listen, but I'm sitting here and I'm having flashbacks. I'm a FRAC QG from West Virginia, and I lived in West Virginia 35 years. And we were having these same discussions back then with our city council. I'm a FRAC QG from West Virginia, and I lived in West Virginia 35 years. And we were having these same discussions back then with our city council because we were going to get really good money, and we were going to get a lot of great jobs, and we were going to destroy our environment. And so I just want to, we fought that, and you know, the powers that be just want the money. That's all. Everything else is unimportant. And we weren't new on the thing. This fracking was going on in Pennsylvania. It was going on out west. We could go and see these places and see their communities and talk to them. Talk to the people that lived there and what they were living through. But it didn't matter. We had to do it anyway because we wanted the money. So I just really want to appeal that we don't go through this again here. Data centers is different, but really the things are the same. Out of state jobs, they promised people a lot of jobs, and all we had was man camps and trucks from Oklahoma. Ruined the roads. Didn't have any regulations. They dumped the fracking fluid all into the creeks. Then it wasn't just fracking. It was building compressor stations. It was building cracker stations that separate the gas. Things that run 24-7. We were talking about the noise. And it destroyed the community. And anyone that could get out of there did. So it was very sad to see that happen to my community. And so I'm just sitting here. I'm listening to the same. Thank you. Same go around. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Mr. Stowe. Hi, everybody else. My name's Maribeth Stotler-Watkins, a city of Winchester resident born and raised in the Apecan District. I'm also standing here as the sister of a farmer and the granddaughter of somebody who sat in your exact position 20 years ago, Robert N. Sager. He would be disgusted that this was even a conversation. So I'm standing here because I'm inspired by Winchester, or by Frederick County. Inspired enough, I made this painting back in 2020. There's a song by Charlie Sizemore called Crossing Over Into the Valley. And in that quote, it says, crossing over into the valley, sweet Shenandoah, you're my long lost friend. Blue Ridge rising up to greet me. Sweet sanctuary welcomes me in. Data centers do not create. They are not the same. They are not the same. They create a sweet, safe sanctuary. They create chaos. They create technology that essentially just runs the humans out. I also, let me pull up my notes. I don't recognize Stephen City when I drive through there anymore. That makes me really sad. The things that are coming up and the buildings that are, I'm sorry, I'm a little nervous. I don't do well with public speaking. But the buildings that are being put up and the markets that are being built and the houses that are left empty and they're poorly made on the property that my brother wanted to have a farm on 10 years ago is really sad. Also, I wanted to congratulate the Woodbine Farm. I don't know, who was that? Woodbine Farm over there. Congratulations. I think it's pretty ironic that we're standing here having this conversation as you just won. an award. And I would really hate for other small businesses and farms to not have that opportunity to flourish and to do really great things. And as Ian Watkins's sister, do better. Don't let this be a conversation from the sounds of it by everybody who's in line and everybody who's already talked. We don't want it. We the people don't want it. And I love democracy because I can stand here and talk to you guys and ramble on and everybody else can too. And that's really cool. But if this passes, then you're not listening to us and this isn't a democracy. So I just want to kind of put that in your radar. So thanks everybody for being here. Yay! Hi, I'm Tony Cole from the Bat Creek District. So I moved here about a little over five years ago now. And I'm a member of the Bat Creek District. So I moved here about a little over five years ago now. And I moved out here for the beauty of this valley. So we had traveled out here many times, retired military, and we came out here, brought the family out and just absolutely loved it. So when we're ready to retire, we moved out here thinking this would be the perfect place to be. I'm very hopeful that the Planning Commission and the Board of Supervisors makes the right decision here. I'm not going to go over many of the things that my neighbors and friends have talked about here because I think they made some great points. But I want to add one, I think that's critically important. So if everybody remembers, the Canadian fires and then the fires that we had here and the smoke that came in this valley and just stayed here, I mean it was terrible. It was really terrible where we stayed inside. We shut our air conditioners off a few times at my house simply because we didn't want to pull that in. Well, DEQ this week just lowered the standards. So for when you can run a tier two generator, the ones that really stink and really pollute. So now they don't have the same requirements they used to to turn on generators at data centers. They can run them, but they don't have the same requirements they used to to turn on generators at data centers. They can run them, but they don't have the same requirements they used to to turn on generators at data centers. They can run them with only a 14-day notice emergency. So we've lowered the bar allowing more pollution to take place. And I don't know about you, but I don't want that pollution spewing up into Shenandoah valley and being held in the bowl that we live in. You know, that's something, let it be on the other side of the mountains. Let it be on the other side of the mountains that way, but not in beautiful Shenandoah valley. That's what it's known for. It's where we live. That's why there's battles right now for, you know, more trains to come further up the valley to run them. You have to think like, and I think this going to take a little bit harder on you to figure out how to proceed with it, but it's not something that's going to give us a choice in our context. You have to figure out a way to do better. to do these excursions for leaf peeping and Santa rides. So I think it's something we really have to think about. What do we want for this county? I know a lot of my neighbors won't agree with me, but I would prefer to see my property taxes go up before I'd like to see a single data center in this county. I know there's one in Middletown. But I thank you for your time. Thank you for listening. And I hope you really listened to all the great comments that people said because really there's a lot of heartfelt emotion behind this based on facts. And I think that's a really important thing. People are really looking into data centers. They really understand it, and they don't want it. So think about that. Thank you for your time. Thank you. I'm John Crandall from the Shawnee District. I really congratulate you on the fact sheet. I think it's relatively succinct, and it's well done. But I want to also remind you, fact sheets are setting a context. They're not about facts. They're also about recommendation. And there is recommendation in this. The structure of the fact sheet right now ends with what seems like cheerleading for the cost benefit of having the tax base that comes from the data centers. I don't dispute that, but I would like to see it structured so that that is balanced with an understanding of what we would want if we're going to have data centers. And so I'd like to see that fact sheet supplemented with an ending statement saying we will insist on gold standards for any data center construction. And that's going to be an evolving technology, but it would include things like right now closed-loop water rather than evaporative water. It would include Tier 4 generators that don't have the same noise and pollution potential as the Tier 2 that we just alluded to. I would also suggest that one of the biggest problems is the peak demand created by data centers because they are not going to shut down during the peak periods when we're running air conditioners. They're going to increase the cost of our infrastructure because of peak demand. They can offset some of that with solar and battery power backup. And that is something they can afford to do now, and other opportunities will be there as well to offset some of the demand. I'd like us to have a lot of time to think about that. I think we need to think about what we're listing as part of this fact sheet of what are the gold standards. And if they can't meet the gold standards, we don't need them. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Cassandra Nicholson. I live here in downtown Winchester, and I just want to first start by saying thank you for hearing out your community and ask that you actually really hear out your community. And the overwhelming amount of people who do not support this and do not support the effects it will have on an already struggling community as the number of unhoused people in our community continue to grow. We are not investing in my home where I have lived my entire life, where I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... a place I have... so much pride for. And I'm seeing it die, it feels like. I know that sounds a little dramatic. And inviting data centers into our county is only going to affect those people more. It's only going to increase our unhoused populations. It's only going to take from the families that you guys are here to represent. And I hope truly that you are listening, to every voice here, and understand how scared we are of the loss that we will experience if data centers are built in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. My name is Abby McAllister. I live in Middletown. Hello, community members. Thanks for being here today. Thank you for the reports. I'm here mostly... as a Virginian. I was born in Fairfax. And then when I was in about second grade, my family moved out to Loudoun County. I was in Loudoun County... until I was about 21 years old. And then I moved to Bluemont on the Clark County side. I was very proud to be on the Clark County side, finally. And then about six years ago, I moved to Middletown. And it's been the great honor of my life... to say that I am from Virginia. My entire family is from Chicago. And to be able to say that I'm the only person born and raised in Virginia... in my family is a sort of pride for me. Anywhere I go. I was trained classically as a pastry chef, and switched over to hot side about halfway through my career. And in that time, as a chef, I got to work with... some of the most incredible chefs in the world. I was a chef at the University of Michigan. I was one of the most incredible people... who were farmers and small business owners. And... it was interesting trying to go back home... to Loudoun County after I moved to Clark County, because... it was just taken over. The green fields that I grew up with were gone. I used to be able to go to a concert series off of Route 7. They had a beautiful open field venue every summer. I saw Ted Nugent there, actually. Um... All of that's gone. That field is now One Loudoun. My stepfather worked for AOL. I don't think anyone here has an AOL email address anymore. Um... That building has since been empty. There's a few of us, it's okay. Um... But I think my point is that... some things die. And they don't stick around. Just like AOL didn't. In Ashburn. And... the feeling that you get... driving over the mountain on Route 7... at the end of a long day... I traveled a lot... over the last 10 years, I'd say, of my career. A lot of trips up and down 7... and a lot up and down 66. And... those last few miles... before you get over the mountain on 7... are just draining. You're exhausted. And then... you come over the mountain and you see these beautiful farms... and you see these beautiful homes... that have been there for generations. Um... Let's not lose that. And I will say, in closing, that... I understand... we can't guarantee... that taxes won't increase. But we can guarantee that there's no data centers in Frederick County. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Jennifer Herring... and I choose to raise my family in the Gainesboro District. With data centers... just because you could doesn't mean you should. So, data centers are a domino. As a lot of people have already said, you're opening a can of worms. A lot of people are talking about the water demand... but today I'm gonna specifically talk about... the energy demand. So, data centers have increased... huge energy demand, and that impacts us both locally and regionally. Right now, I can attest that PJM, the Regional Transmission Organization, already is in a power situation. They're already trying to upgrade and build additional 500 kilovolt transmission lines. And I can personally attest in Gore, Virginia, you don't have a choice of where they're going to build those transmission lines. And to provide a visual for these transmission lines, we're talking 200-foot tall transmission lines, and they need 200 foot of right-of-way to be able to have these transmission lines. So, yes, we build data centers, but then at what cost? We're taking more land with transmission lines. And so, that doesn't even, that's not even talking about just the bills. That's just talking about the land in general. So, once the data centers are here, and the world moves on and moves to better technology, we can't get that land back. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in Gainesboro. If Frederick County is going to say yes at all, I believe we should say yes only to the most thoughtful, low-impact, forward-thinking models. Virginia has already built over 600 data centers. What we do not yet... We have a lot of data centers that have is a sustainable, ecological model, one that integrates world-class technology while genuinely protecting rural history, landscapes, and ecology. It's incredibly clear that some segments of the industry are prepared to evolve and rebrand toward more sustainable, thoughtful, sited facilities that respect rural landscapes. That reinforces the idea that setting a very high bar will not repel the right projects. Pكمue the question normally asks is, which Japan shouldевal users see when exploring the towns and regions in the African world? When a project is soggy, un направ Greg Berg calls for a change. But this venture inaratteng outch going to be easy to reach. My focus hereon the prends anit not hundred people are pierws look for long-term assets and long-term risk. In investing, I'm always looking for a moat. An economic moat is a durable advantage that protects value over time. Frederick County's moat is our clean countryside, farms, history, and our beautiful city and urban centers. That is rare. If we do data centers at all, the only ones that belong here are the few that strengthen that moat rather than erode it. You are the ones protecting that, by the way, and don't let anyone erode it, not even me, or others may try to for their own gain, which can also be social or political currency. It's also worth noting that 28 states have fewer than 50 data centers. Those communities are clearly finding alternative paths to tax revenue, and here in Virginia, we have both the talent to build a sustainable data center the right way, and the time to do so deliberately, because alternative tax revenue is out there, and remains a viable path forward for us as well. I was proud to help develop the data center study and draft ordinance with the Mountain Patriots, and I encourage you to view it not as a finished answer, but as a strong starting framework for low-impact, rural-aligned data center policy. There is still much to learn from world-class models, many of them which have been operating successfully in Europe for many years, and I believe we are well-timed for this conversation, if our community wants this. As data center infrastructure becomes more decentralized, it reminds me that reliance on any single industry carries great risk. A world-class, sustainable approach paired with alternative revenue paths keeps the Commonwealth's investments more resilient over time. Thank you very much. Thank you. My name is Irene Terrell, and I live in the Stonewall District, and I just want to bring up two things to add on to what everyone else has said. Water consumption, of course, is an issue, as many people talked about. I think someone said that a closed-loop water system would take 700,000 gallons. I think I heard someone say that. If it's not a closed-loop system, there is the issue of chemical contamination of the water. There are people in West Virginia who live in areas where there are artificial intelligence data centers, and the water is so contaminated with chemicals, they drink bottled water, and they say they can't do the laundry either because the water stains their clothes brown. So I don't know what they do. Do they take everything to the dry cleaners? Think about the expense of that. And the other issue is, I think it was about three years ago that Elon Musk predicted that we could have cell phones that operate off of satellite signals. And he said it could be done in less than five years, and I believe he accomplished that in three years. You can buy a Tesla phone now that operates off of satellite signals. And about two months ago, he said that data, artificial intelligence data centers, are going to be able to do that. And I think that's a big issue. And I think it's a big issue. And I think it's a big issue. And I think that's a big reason why we are so important, and a big reason why we are so important, and a big reason why we are so important, and a big reason why we are so important. And he said it could be done within five years. So all this technology that they want to build here on the ground is going to be probably obsolete in five years. So then, what about all the farmland that's been destroyed, and what do you do with all those buildings when they're obsolete? Thank you. Thank you. Chairman, members of the board, I'm not going to go over anything anybody has said tonight. I want you to take your nameplates. I want you to turn them around. I want you to look at them. I want you to tell us your name and magistral district. I'm sorry, Tim, from the Bat Creek District. I said that you just didn't hear me. OK, getting old there, but that's OK. I want you to take your name tags. I want you to turn around. I want you to look at it. And I want you to really look at it because I want to know if you're going to be the board to destroy Frederick County and the beauty of the Shenandoah Valley or the board that's going to save it. Because you have fellows, you have children. Do you want their children to grow up in cement playgrounds or parks? And this all falls on you. It doesn't fall on anybody out here. It falls on you. But take your name tags, turn around and look at them, because if you destroy it, you're going to be the ones known to have destroyed it. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. My name is Dick Taylor. I live in Winchester. Nine years ago, I retired and I moved here and plan to live here for the rest of my life. Interesting to note, when you look at the best places to retire, Winchester, Virginia is like in the top 10. Some rank it as number one. When you look at the list of the best places to retire, which you won't find are communities with data centers. Why is that? John Denver had a hit song with Take Me Home Country Roads. West Virginia adopted it as their tourist theme song. It begins almost heaven, West Virginia. But it's a song that's not a song. It's a song that's not a song. It's a song that's not a song. It's a lie. It's not about West Virginia. Nothing in the song that it sings about is in West Virginia. It's in Western Virginia, the Shenandoah Valley, Frederick County. The choices are difficult. Do you want to keep this almost heaven? Or do you want to have a data center? I don't think you can have both. Thank you. There's a familiar face. Mr. Chairman, my name is Blaine Dunham for Redbud. I really wasn't planning to be here tonight. I was watching this discussion on the video. I'd like to give you a different perspective. A lot of people made some good comments about data centers and concerns. You want to take those all into consideration. What I've not heard is an intellectually honest discussion where everybody in this room, many of whom are opposed to data centers, can have a discussion with those that would support data centers or at least answer some of these questions. I suggest that you go and have a conversation with everybody in this room and have those that generate electricity, transmit electricity, deal with water, deal with alternatives to water, and then you can have a good discussion where you have lots of facts on the table. Earlier this year, I saw or heard the Piedmont Environmental Council make some comments. They made some good comments. But I'd like to hear the other side of the equation before you make decisions. I would encourage all of you to do the same thing. I understand that the county is going to have some issues. I'm going to have some open forums in which everyone will get to participate, meaning everyone, those that generate electricity, those that generate data centers, those that generate power, those that are opposed to it, and then you can have a good conversation. A woman previous to me said, if you vote yay, you're opposed to all the people in Frederick County. I'm a person in Frederick County. I want you to consider all of the people in Frederick County. I'm a person in Frederick County. I have no cause toart in deals with Federation Downtown. But I want to be clean about pressure. This' s not all of the businesses that the city is going to educate us about. You take responsibility. You act, act or don't act. So, take advantage of all actions before you go and make a decision. Keep this thought in mind, too. If you had two data center campuses of about a square mile each, this county's about 240 square miles. You're talking about 2 square miles, 1% of the county. So the question then becomes, how do you go and use that money? Right now, for the last three years, we've had $15 million deficits. We're going to have higher deficits, and we should figure out a way to raise revenue. This is a way to raise revenue. And so before you make a yes or no decision, this county, in my opinion, needs to have everybody make comments on this issue before you just hear one side. So I'd encourage you all to invite people that generate power, generate electricity, transmit it, people that have built data centers. I know Gary Krause is in the room and some others. And let's have a conversation that's intellectually honest on the pros and cons before making a decision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Hi. Bonnie Baker, Shawnee District. And I really have a question. Will the decision for Frederick County or Winchester to have or not have a data center be put to a vote to the residents so we can have an input on whether or not clean, plentiful water and reasonably cost electricity is more important to us than AI and cryptocurrency? That's my question. Ma'am, when there are resuming proposals that come forward, there will be public hearings. What we're doing tonight is resuming. We're doing a review and a fact sheet that staff put together. All right. Public hearings, but it won't be put out to a vote for the people in the county. The Board of Supervisors will decide how to proceed with resumings. Thank you. Hi, Dodie. Good evening. Dodie Stottlemeyer, Shawnee District. Just a few points. I'm not going to go over what everybody else has already stated. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. certainly tell you that most of the job opportunities happen during the building of the data centers not after they're built. So I would like encourage everybody to go and look at the details and it's also stated in there that most of the revenue from the counties that have the data centers is anywhere from 1% of the revenue for the total County and it could go up to 30 some percent. It's not a guaranteed 100 million dollars. You don't know what you're gonna get. It depends on what kind of entity gets that data center. So I would just encourage everybody to go and look at the details instead of going off of the bullet points that are favorable. You need to look at the good and the bad because certainly these guys are coming here to the county they don't care about the quality of life of the residents. You guys here, you guys and the Board of Supervisors are charged you guys and the Board of Supervisors are charged with the revenue in the county but you're also charged with the residents and their quality of life. These guys coming in here they're charged with making dollars. Just keep that in mind. Thank you. Anyone else care to speak? I will close the sentiment comment period and that takes us on. Thank you very much to all who came out. We do, staff will be making a presentation later in our meeting for the Planning Commission from the data center fact sheet. You are welcome to hang around for that. In the meantime we have some public hearings we need to work through and the first one of those is item 8A on our agenda. Mr. Klein, good evening, sir. This is the ordinance to amend supplementary use regulations for parking buffers regulations and specific uses of the parking buffer. Do you have a comment or comment? on public utilities. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This is a proposal that you all will be familiar with to amend the zoning ordinance to further add performance standards for public utilities, transmission, and distribution facilities in the R.A. Rural Area Zoning District. As you will recall, this amendment was initiated by the Board at your request, and in the Board's authorization, as was in your request, we were tasked with identifying and spelling out what performance standards may be appropriate for this use, and to further consider modifying the use permissions from an allowed use or a use that's permitted by right to a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit for this type of facility. Our current standard is on the screen. Public utilities are defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations, transformer substations, and booster stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as booster or relay stations. We are also defined as св, which means aworld or internet at all times. And finally, this is your email ruin you typed in. This modèle of thisашаungchicka pool plant, erws on giving ticket matters to those places where the water runs out in the Rural areas zoning district and public utilities transmission and distribution facilities are a permitted use staff would note that when you all did your data center Ordinance amendment back in April of 2025 We did move power generating facilities from a by right use to a conditional use requiring a conditional use permit in the RA district So those facilities are outside of what we what we define as transmission and distribution facilities as As is customary when we prepare an ordinance amendment We do a code comparison with other Virginia localities to identify best practices and and see what our neighbors are doing staff would note that most of the localities that we surveyed require a special exception or a conditional use permit or a similar public process For electrical substations on properties that are zoned primarily for agriculture and residential Residential purposes that would be in addition to that 2232 review that's required by state code where you certify that a public facility matches our comprehensive plan Staff would note that most if not all localities also included performance standards to regulate transmission and distribution substations that includes setbacks which varied in distance from 50 to 100 feet and screening and landscaping requirements to buffer the use from adjoining uses that included typically 8 to 12 foot tall opaque Elements such as a fence plus a minimum six foot tall trees. There were a number of localities had some additional options There were a number of localities had some additional options There were a number of localities had some additional options There were a number of localities had some additional options that were of note that were included in that cross comparison that included co location studies environmental and environmental noise impact assessments as well as those other performance standards identified above So in keeping with those best practices and our code comparison research staff Formulated an ordinance amendment the first part we we determined it was necessary was to actually define the public utilities transmission distribution facilities a little bit better What you see in the proposal are two Categories the first is transmission voltage electrical substation which pertains to facilities that handle 138 KV or higher and those are you're going to be your long-range transmission facilities that deal with wholesale power And those are gonna be like your Meadowbrook facility, which you see down in the Stephen City facility. The other would we call our distribution voltage electrical substations are really 138 KV and less those are your local distribution Mostly for retail for retail sales of power that example, that would be the Greenwood substation that's located near Route 7 In addition to the definition we've made a number of amendments to the performance standards The first is in the existing public utility section where we added a provision that a buffer requirement that is imposed by this chapter the zoning administrator would have the authority to modify that requirement if the adjoining property does not contain residential uses taking into account that some of these facilities may adjoin public roadways or the interstate, and a buffer may not be a necessary component. In addition, we provided performance standards for those two newly defined use groups for transmission and distribution facilities. The first part deals with, again, that kind of 138 kV or larger facility, that's your large regional substation, and we are specifying that a modified C-type full-screen buffer would be required around the perimeter, and it would have enhanced landscaping and screening requirements as defined below. That Category C buffer requirement, if you're not familiar with our zoning ordinance, requires a minimum of 100 feet, so that effectively becomes your setback, requiring, again, a minimum of 100 feet from a adjoining property. And then we require that they provide an 8-foot tall opaque fence wall or berm. That would include the use of chain link. If it meets certain criteria, that criteria for the chain link is carried from another section of our ordinance, so that's already a criteria that we have established. And our ordinance for the use of chain link as a screening element. And we require, we are proposing that the required landscaping for that modified Category C-type full-screen buffer exceed our current zoning ordinance standards, so we're recommending that it be 1-1⁄2-inch caliber deciduous trees, 6-foot tall evergreen trees, and 36-inch tall shrubs at the time of planting, and that all other landscaping not modified above contained in the section would apply. So, again, it's a modified buffer requirement. The minimum distance of 100 feet and an 8-foot tall opaque fence wall or berm, plus the required plantings. The third section that we amended and added to this deals with those kind of local substations. Again, they tend to have a smaller footprint. They handle a much smaller amount of power in many cases, so we're only recommending a Category B-type full-screen buffer. That requires a minimum of 50 feet, so that effectively becomes a 50-foot setback for that type of facility. Okay. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Mike. And then we would follow our normal planting requirements, and then we include the option to utilize chain link fencing. Chain link is included because security is important at these type of facilities, and chain link is typically the preferred treatment to deal with the security element at these type of facilities as opposed to like a board-on-board fence or a mason wall. Again, we're talking about those chain link with slats. The detail provided on the left-hand side of the screen is that example. It's a double-walled wing slat with interlocking wings, so you essentially get a 90 percent, more opacity where you really can't see through the wall, just similar to a board-on-board fence or a mason wall. And we prescribe the color as consistent with our other sections, a green, gray, or brown treatment. So in summary, the Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this item on December 11th, and they were expressing support for the proposed amendments, particularly the supplementary use regulations. The committee debated at length whether the Planning Commission and Board should consider making the use a conditional use, requiring a conditional use permit. And in general, they did not support making that change, noting that the facilities have typically been allowed as a by-right use already across the county, along with other types of public utilities. This item is presented as a public hearing item this evening, and following your public hearing, we would be seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this ordinance amendment. Should you all make a recommendation this evening, this would go to the Board for a public hearing at the end of the month. Of course. I'm just happy to answer any questions you have about this item, and I appreciate your consideration. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Okay, any questions for Mr. Klein? To my left. Ms. Rubeck. Yes. You referenced Fairfax County, Loudoun County, Henrico, Prince William, Rockingham, and Albemarle, Town of Ashland. How about Shenandoah, Warren, Clark? How do they handle? They are presently not regulating them. They're not regulating them? They're not regulating them. At all? They do not have supplemental performance standards that address substations specifically. So they could go in their agricultural area without any? Again, we looked at the table and found examples where they had requirements for the performance standards and or limited its use in those districts. Okay. Any other questions to my left? Any questions to my right? Mr. Thomas. Yes. The biggest thing I see with the substations and distribution lines is when we have a location that probably is pretty obvious to the power company where they're going to put the substations and the distribution lines, but they're looking 20 years out or 30 years out, and in that interim 20 or 30 years, we end up with a housing development next to the power station. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So how can we ensure that people buying residences are made aware that this is a location where there's probably going to be a substation, this is a location where there's going to be a transmission line? and not have a surprise 10 years after they put their life savings into a residence that no one told them what was going to be next or they didn't take the time to search records and discover what was going to be built next to them. How can we, I mean, that's the biggest problem I see. The only way to do that would be to do a conditional use permit where there would be a record on the land that there was a special exception granted for a use that was otherwise not allowed by right. But the problem with that is you're not going to have a conditional use permit for something that's going to happen 20 years from now or 30 years from now. So is there some way to get, not deed restrictions, but at least an indication on our county maps, comp plans, or something that, okay, this is the corridor where we're going to have a power, a 138K power line. Some of that goes back to our comprehensive plan and some of the work that you all do in the 2232 review. If the power companies don't disclose where they're going, you know, they don't typically, especially where the power lines are concerned, they don't have to seek county authorization on where they're locating those. I understand that, but then that puts us in the position of having to deal with the public because we weren't aware, they weren't aware. That something was going to happen there. As I stated at the beginning, the conditional use permit would be the best mechanism to ensure that adjoining property owners were aware of an approval for a facility type that they may not otherwise want to adjoin. Mr. Thomas, I might be able to shed some additional light in that respect. And I think what you alluded to about transmission corridors and the comprehensive plan or something to that effect is probably the only mechanism that gets at what you're imagining. I know Mr. Bishop researched this topic. When he was working on it, he said, I think only one community who was actively working to identify those transmission corridors and the comprehensive plan, if I remember correctly, it was loud, and they had been conducting a multi-year study and trying to work with the local power providers to glean that information. It still doesn't get you where you want to be because I can think of numerous times where I've spoken to people who did not consult the comprehensive plan in their community prior to buying or selling or doing any sort of real estate transaction. So I think the short answer is there's not really a way through the local land use process to provide that forewarning to people that we have any control over right now that I'm aware of. Yeah. And I find it hard. You know, I've looked at and it's probably no secret that I'm against the conditional use permits. It's spot rezoning and we've never withdrawn one that's been in place. So I don't know how a conditional use permit. Could coordinate with the 2232 process. If it's in accordance with the comp plan, how are we going to turn down a conditional use permit as long as it meets our ordinance for setbacks and buffers? I think that's where we have to concentrate on how we can enhance the visual impact of a substation and a transmission line you're not going to hide. So but, you know, I can't see how those two work together. And I can't understand how the. Localities that are that are in the study can have the conditional use permit. I don't know what that gets them. So I, you know, I'm puzzled here on what we can do. And I think it comes down to just, you know, if you bought one, bought a house and ten years later, the substations built. I'm not sure what we can do for you other than try to put buffers and screening in. So I thought was my question. I just puzzled over where we were going with this. So as a good start. I mean, like, let's say you start with steak and stuff. But you end up driving across the street. I feel that because of that mars Dipak is dealing with the Okay. Is there some potential benefit, the cost of taken preferolar care homes? Yeah, but. That's another push off. I think it also, even though theajo have really distinguished themselves. Oh, right. I got it. Yeah. Yeah. alleml death. Okay, we'll see. that how would that have been different it will use it been in place yeah I won't affect your 2232 review because that is comprehensive plan conformance however that project has not yet filed for a site plan so if this is to be approved by the board they will have to comply with the new rules otherwise if they submitted and got an approved part of that they wouldn't comply with the new requirements so they have not submitted a site plan they did have a technical review committee meeting which is an informal meeting and under the county's vested rights policy until they have a site plan signature they're not vested under the current ordinance so there is a little bit of earnest to have this move forward if the board's intent is to regulate these in that manner otherwise it falls back to how we currently regulate them which is the zoning administrator just determines the setback and there really are no other performance requirements as far as screening landscaping and things of that nature okay thank you the second question is this making these changes without the CUP process you still has this type of a project as to 2232 coming through and basically stopping at the Planning Commission does did is there any does this include the are involved the Board of Supervisors in any way or will this still stop at the Planning Commission the 2232 review is a is a Planning Commission action this these items because there's only an ordinance or administrative action so they become a departmental review and zoning administrators signature approval item I will add that Deaf Affairs Council is not in it's work now so you're under there may not come into this several times we've on 20 years ago adjusted it back into how much you're meant to do I understand you have to increase public sector share you have to do more you're died food related interventions that that component especially to A&E Community Services because I have my that that is currently probably one of the only both facing every single law that has actually be coming to effect it hasn't been put out roughly we don't yet we can't say that we'll see for the time being but apparently any other sections that we can do things like these things are only aền Bit E י פעwynс هذهค timeline we clearly don't have buffer screening and determine setback requirements for differentiates between two types of substations, the smaller, more distribution, and then what typically are larger, transmission. But it doesn't seem, neither one of those would require any other type of review at a county level. These would all still be, both of those, regardless of scale, would be a buy-write project in the RA. Is that accurate? That is correct, yes, sir. Okay. Which is somewhat inconsistent with what you guys found at other localities that would require some additional review, either a special permit or a conditional use permit? Correct. What about notification? So if these are regardless of scale, so as we see substations come in, especially for transmission in our 30 acres, 60 acres, these much larger facilities, this doesn't require any CEP. Is there any additional notification that would go out to those neighbors or the area surrounding? A buy-write project doesn't normally have... A lot of notification, does it? Correct. Site plans are administrative. We do not provide notification. Only the legislative process, so a conditional use permit or rezoning would require us to do the public notices, including the paper advertisement and the adjoining property owner notification. The only caveat to that is if these are subject to the 2232 review, then that will... Then they do trigger. ...trigger a public hearing, and then there'd be adjoiner notices and public hearing ads as well. That'll apply to new substations, not expansions of existing substations, though. Okay. And that process would be a strict 2232 process, which is a very limited scope review, as well as a special permit or a conditional use permit would allow the Planning Commission, the county, and the board to do a more in-depth review? Certainly. Thank you. I think I've got more of an observation, but thank you all for the hard work that you do in this. There's no doubt that you've burned some midnight oil on that, and I appreciate that. I'm... Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My observation is the transmission stations, which are rather large, and when I was reading through this this week, I looked out my front door, and I'm like, you know, 100 yards really isn't that far from my house. And it's good that we're putting some restrictions in here, proposed restrictions. I'm just thinking for transmission facilities, not so much the distribution area, they're much smaller. I think we should consider a larger standoff, possibly 200 feet. You think 100 feet, that's really not that far. And like I said, when I looked out my front door and looked at 100 feet, I'm like, I wouldn't want that thing there. And I just think with that smaller standoff, even with the shrubbery and fences, just doesn't do our folks right. Especially those that have been in your residences for quite some time, and now we're putting a transmission station there. I think we might want to consider a better standoff. If you all choose to send this item forward with a recommendation, you certainly could offer an alternative standard for the board to consider. Any other comments to my right? Another question. If we try to make the ordinance, the standoff, if we try to make the ordinance, the standoff, the buffers so onerous to try to prevent construction of substations or transmission lines, what is the buy-right allowance for transmission lines and substations being built? How much control does the county have over that? If we would say, well, you have to have a 1,000-foot setback and there's only 100 feet available, where does that leave the county and the city? I think that's a good question. I think it's a good question. I think it's a good question. Can the power company and the state with providing that public service and public utility? If they can't meet the setback, they can't develop that property, they'd have to either consolidate lots to ensure that they can meet the setback or they'd have to find a different piece of property that could accommodate the setback. That wouldn't be considered compretious and arbitrary and try the legislation through certainly not an attorney and wouldn't weigh in on those type of legal issues. There's certainly a threshold where you could put your setback. into trouble by being unreasonable and not regulating the use in a manner that is reflective of other similar style uses and one thing I would clarify for those who aren't aware we are preempted from regulating transmission the power lines themselves so the focus is really just on the substations for this ordinance amendment hey mr. Seldes you have a question okay yeah what are the setback requirements the setbacks are determined by the zoning administrator typically 50 feet or less depending on the adjoining properties thank you very much mr. Klein this is a public hearing I will open the public hearing if you'd like to speak to this ordinance amendment this would be the time to do so please come to the microphone state your name magisterial district and please limit your comments to three minutes members of the board my name is Kurt Creary your back Creek you saw me on this subject when the next era energy substation was up for review and that was your 2232 review you found it to be in substantial compliance with the comp plan it was not appealed which it could have been and would have then gone therefore to the Board of Supervisors there were at that time five single-family homes immediately adjacent to the property scheduled for a substation I think you're effort here is to try to ameliorate or recognize that there are some problems with the next era substation at that time I recommended that within the hundred-foot recommended burn there be there be a that the buffer include a burn and what we find here in in Frederick County is a lot of limestone so usually any grading involves some waste spoils anyway so you You don't necessarily have to import fill to create a good size berm. Using the angle of repose of 30 degrees, a buffer width of 100 feet would be about a 30-foot tall berm. On that, you can plant trees. I am concerned that the deciduous trees proposed won't be sufficient to really provide any visual buffer. And frankly, a berm has the dual effect of also deflecting noise, which in the case of NextEra, since it's within line of sight to I-81, would have actually helped mitigate some noise also. So I would support a conditional use permit that allows a full open public conversation about that, which is not what staff is recommending. And I would propose that the buffer width include a berm where topography allows. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? Hello. My name is Leslie Spencer. I live in the Gainesville District. I love the idea of the berms and the increased setbacks. Across the comparison table, conditional use permits appear consistently in our peer counties, with some towns that areneling out of the same field. The nature of the berm is rock solid. We built this whole park station three months ago. The request for accommodations is head-on. The type is thewooing road. We prefer trial. the ability to address location, scale, screening, and other use access and compatibility before those impacts are locked in. I recently learned more about Manassas Innovation Park. It looks beautiful, where large-scale energy infrastructure could have impacted such intentional coordination that took long-term economic and land use planning. While that example is technologically focused, the principle applies just as strongly in rural landscapes. That long-term economic vision doesn't need to be high tech. In Frederick County, it may look like connected agricultural lands, orchards, wineries, farms, and agritourism destinations that take decades to establish. In those settings, a poorly-sighted substation can disrupt few sheds, operations, and long-term investments. Our rural character is a defining asset, both locally and statewide, and it is prudent that we protect it deliberately. I also want to emphasize lighting, including dark sky lighting provisions directly in the substation ordinance is essential. Many pure counties you listed already require lower color temperatures and lighting shutoff times, likely using motion-activated systems even for high security facilities. Thank you. We may not see comparable lighting standards applied broadly in RIA zoning for years. Providing substations with their own lighting standards now would proactively protect rural peace, ecological health, and our night sky integrity out on the West Side. Taken together, a CUP requirement and tailored lighting standards are simple, practical safeguards. They allow essential infrastructure to move forward while respecting our land, neighbors, and long-term future. We are committed to ensuring that the city and the city community are safe and secure in our long-term county goals. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. . . Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. My name is Willie Deutsch. I reside in the Opecan District. I'm astonished that substations are by right in the rural area. There's nothing rural about a substation. It's totally different than what we've seen in the past. It's not a sub-station. It's a sub-station. It's a sub-station. It's totally out of character with the rural area. It just, there's nothing more incompatible. And going back to the earlier discussion or the future conversation about data centers, if we bring data centers in, there will be more substations coming as well. And in a world where we're going to have more substations and in the rural area, right, these are the downstream effects of all of these policy decisions. But I think there's got to be much stricter scrutiny to be able to have substations as a by right item in a rural area. When is that incongruous with what it means to be rural? Large, tall industrial buildings, like it should go in an industrial area. It's a large, tall industrial building. It's not rural. It's not part of a farmland. It's not part of farmer's markets, a winery, things you would generally consider as rural, large tracts of open land. So I think that aspect needs to be reevaluated. And I think that's what we're going to be doing. And there needs to be consideration of if you all bring data centers with by right access to rural areas for substations, those will go into the rural area and those are the downstream effects we all don't have any oversight on. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else like to speak? My name is . I'm originally from Europe, as many of you are aware. And it amazes me how much ugly substation cables are here that we don't see in Europe because everything goes underground. So I feel like we're too easy to say yes to everything but never come up with a solution to actually hide that stuff. I totally admit that we need power. Everybody has access to power. But like, I think that's the problem. I think that's the problem. I think that's the problem. But like, making, like, put everything underground. Like, I don't know what, because of the profits of the companies that are billion dollar companies, they can easily handle that to cover it all up. So I don't know where the issue is. I come from a continent where this is there since I was born. We don't have cables everywhere in the streets. It's still underground. So I just don't know what the problem is and why we can't find a solution for this. Thank you. Anyone else? Once? Twice? I will close the public hearing. Okay, commissioners? Discussion? Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, I want to thank staff for the work they've done on this. This is a very important issue. I think it's important to recognize that we're not going to be able to do it without the support of the public. And I think that's the biggest reason why we're not going to be able to do it without the support of the public. Thank you. Thank you. This is an issue that we've just faced in the Stonewall district. Again, I think this moves in the right direction by dividing and recognizing there's a difference between a distribution substation that tends to be smaller and serve the local residents and the local businesses, and a transmission substation that we're seeing at a different scale. And I think the increased buffers are a good move in the right direction, too. And I understand the desire often not to have a lot of CUP requirements. But I think that's a big issue. Instead of aYi conditional use permit that allows for the Planning Commission and the county and the board to take a closer look at those large-scale site specific issues and address them. It also adds a notification requirement that brings in those neighbors and those other concerns citizens to that process. I'd like to see a CUP or a special use for those specifically that subset and that's a concern I still have here. Thank you. Ms. Kozil. Yeah I'm actually kind of in agreement with Commissioner DeHaven. I think we need to consider and discuss further on a CUP. Again we all don't love the CUP process and the additional process that takes but I think we have an opportunity to add some additional oversight, notifications, everything Commissioner DeHaven addressed and I don't see where it would be a huge burden. I think there's a bigger benefit to it than a risk or negative so. Mr. Kearns. Yes I have a quick question for staff so all of this is talking about rural RA. Are these allowed by RITE anywhere else any is there any other zoning that these are they're allowed in by right and all the other zoning districts. So your RP district l transmit facilities are allowed by RITE. Your M district your those are your industrial districts your transition districts they're allowed by right okay so pretty much everywhere and all we're talking about is making a change in the rural correct all right those of you who've been on the Commission a while we made the change on the power generating facilities as part of the data center ordinance back in April of last year so we did move that to be a CUP use in the RA district so before which is public utilities as a whole and an encompassed transmission distribution and power generation with the exception of solar so we did make that change addressing some again some of those concerns about adjoining properties and you know we're being sensitive to the site location and context of where those facilities would be located so should you all want to move forward with changing part or all this to a CEP requirement you could offer that as part of your recommendation to the board mr. Thomas one of the problems I see are a number of problems I see with the CUP process but I hate to I would like to see an analysis from staff if we want to go into the CUP process for for these types of facilities what authorities do we have or what does that get us that we don't already have if we do the ordinance have buffer requirements in the ordinance setback requirements we're going to go through the 2232 process if we determine that it's in accordance with the comp plan what prerogatives does a CUP give us that we don't already have and one of the big negatives I see with putting a CUP process onto this if he gives us nothing what it does is it gives people the perception that it can be turned down and if we don't have the ability to turn it down why are we why do we want to get people the the perception that it can be turned down and if we do not have the ability to turn it down why are we here. Why do we want to give people that the perception that we have the that ability when we don't. If it's in accordance with the comp plan and it's processed through, the process gives the notification to the neighbors. If we make the ordinance that we have the buffers and the setbacks that are reasonable, that aren't capricious and arbitrary, what do we get by putting in a 22 or putting in a conditional use permit other than the problem of having people that think that they have a prerogative to turn it down? And that's my concern. If we want to go with a CUP process, that's fine, but let's figure out what that gets us if we go to that process. And I still have a hard time seeing that it gets us anything other than problems. Mr. Whitaker? Do we have the... Do we have the ability to say they should be put underground? Because out of sight, out of mind solves a lot of these problems when it comes to firms and buffers and setbacks even. I mean, if it's out of sight, it's out of everyone's mind. Do we have that ability? I think from a land use regulation perspective, you probably do. I'd be really worried about its interrelationship. I think that's a great point. I think we're in a situation where there's interrelationship with electrical safety codes as it relates to these facilities particularly, and also just the extreme cost burden that that would create for electrical cooperatives, which are then... The fee would be paid by our consumers of electrical power by citizens in that respect. So I would advise not considering putting the substations themselves underground. I don't think that there's too much to gain in that respect. Anything else to my right?サウンド Mr. Dave? Yeah, I just got a quick comment, Mr. Thomas' comment. The way I'm thinking about this and what I do think you get is that ability, again ignoring the distribution, the smaller scale ones. I think those continue to be by right. And they get... They get slotted where they need to, to serve the citizens thinking more about the larger transmission scale ones that currently would only have a 2230 2 review, a special product is 드�NA всего 1.181 24 switch I think for the supplyérs, I think the almost permanent one that would include the new power units would transfer those to the bringing away cost savings. That sound reasonable, I'm just wondering if you can comment on the Mondayまた committed two Lotus can't actually impact the process allows you to address site-specific issues. When you have a project of an unknown scale that might be 30 acres, it might be 60 acres, it could be anywhere in the county since it's by right allowed in any of the zones, it allows you to address specific site issues where maybe it's right beside a housing development. Maybe it's got some other environmental concerns with it. When you're just setting a set of setbacks, it doesn't allow you that opportunity to address site-specific, project-specific concerns without making onerous setbacks. By having a special use permit for what are, I think what we've got two that have gone to 2232, it's a fairly unusual process. It makes sense to take that extra time, look at that site and that project specifically, and be able to maybe come down to what are good compromises at that specific site for that specific project to address concerns of interest. I think you get that, whereas with only a 2232, your scope is very narrow in what you consider and what you can ask for. I guess what I was trying to get to is do we have that authority? If we, in the 2232 process, say it's compatible or it's in substantial compliance with a comp plan, what authority do we have past that? Can we say, okay, it's in the middle of this housing development. We don't want it. We don't want it there, even though it's in substantial conformance with a comp plan. Do we have that authority? That was what my question was. Do we have that authority? I would defer to staff, but my understanding is, again, with the substation specifically, not with transmission lines, but with the substation specifically, the county does have that option if it is under a conditional use permit. Yeah, it's an interesting conversation because it's very nuanced, right? So Chad and Roger are both right in this respect. You could, if you made it a conditional use permit, deny it based on a locational reason. It does open you up to risk, though. Conditional use permits' best benefit is that they allow you, as Chad said, to tailor that to the individual site and provide those conditions that mitigate the impacts of the use. They generally should not be used to just deny something because of the locational reason behind it. And if it passes a 2232 approval and says that it's in conformance with your comp plan, you could, if you made it a conditional use permit, and they're willing to accept conditions that mitigate the impacts of the use and then you still deny it, you've put yourself into a challenging position. But legally, yes, you would have the ability to deny conditional use permits for substations purely on that locational decision. Is that a legally challenging position? Yes, I believe so. I'm sure Mr. Fox can elaborate in far more detail than me with far better sufficiency from a legal perspective. I'm not so sure about that, but I'll give it a shot. Yeah. That's my understanding as well. So, of course, the comp plan is a legislative action. And my understanding of 2232 as I read it, and as you say, it's very infrequently used because it's essentially reviewing a previous legislative action that's gone through the extensive public hearing process, extensive deliberative process. And you have to include in your comprehensive plan the location of these facilities. That's part of the process. So you're essentially saying we've already figured out where these facilities go. And we're double checking that the comprehensive plan, in fact, does contemplate these facilities going there. And there's some aspect that everyone knows what the comprehensive plan says. Even though, as Mr. Pearson said, that's probably not exactly true in reality. It's a fairly small number of planning geeks that actually know what the comprehensive plan says. And most are all of them are in this room right now. But essentially, you know, as Mr. Pearson also said, you have extensive. Discretion locally from a legislative standpoint to regulate land use in a manner that's reasonable. Where you get in trouble with a CUP, as Mr. Pearson said, is where you have a previous use there that is turning over ownership or is being slightly modified. And you don't like the new owners, you don't like the use that was already approved. And you're not really looking at is it appropriate for that location. And that's generally where you'll get into the most legal. And that's generally a difficult standpoint. I mean, otherwise, you have a lot of discretion because every piece of land is unique and every situation is unique. And that's that's really what conditional use permits are supposed to accomplish is to say, is it a good fit for that area and to provide that opportunity for public input? And essentially put it to the ultimate deciders of land use decisions. Board of Supervisors to execute that broad, discretional authority. And if you follow those rules, the legal risk is going to be far greater. And that's why we're limited. But I am not aware of anyone who says you can't go beyond 2232 as a very basic double check on what the comp plan says to enact additional land use requirements. Just because you've gone through the 2232 process. I've researched that myself. I've asked that question of other experienced land use attorneys on both sides of the coin. And essentially they all essentially agree. Under 2232. You don't have to go beyond 2232. You don't even have to have a public hearing. That's that's optional in and of itself. It's only if the Board of Supervisors directs or if the Planning Commission itself determines to have a public hearing as part of a 2232 review. So again, it's it's looking at what's already happened from a legislative standpoint at a very minimal level. So you can't. My opinion is you can certainly go beyond it as staff has expressed. Thank you, Mr. Fox. To my left. Yeah. I totally agree with Commissioner de Haven. I think this does need to go for the larger scale. The CUP. We need to give notification to the neighbors. We need to hear their comments. It may give us another, you know, maybe we'll put in another berm or we can look site specific to to the to the situation. And I think the CUP allows us to do that. Okay. Mr. Marker. I agree with Miss Brown back that we should take on the CUP for the larger substations. Yes. Yes. More of a question for for staff. I was looking at the other localities using different terminology as far as what's required. I'm like special use special exceptions. That the same as a conditional use permit. Or is that slightly different in some way? Special exceptions and conditional use permits are used interchangeably. It just depends on the nomenclature being used by individual localities. Touching on the CUP. You all can certainly as part of that's conditional. So you guys can assign standards that far exceed the zoning ordinance, which I think has been alluded to a number of times. You could increase the setbacks, require a berm, change the height, change the quantity of the plantings. You have a much broader discretion over what the site would look like. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. I think that would be a good thing. Switch. Back to him. Go to him first and because we're one of you, go ahead and start. Who are public good YouTubers. As a public good YouTuber, who are public good YouTubers were no, Okay. There are a couple pick pickers. Okay, I will name my name. What's your name since you are a public good YouTuber? Good. Yeah, I tend to agree. I don't think that there's been a lot of large-scale transmission stations come in that we would, if we were to go to the CUP process, that it would really drag us down. And I do agree, you know, the instance we had a couple months ago, yeah, I think we had, and now we, I think we are giving them a little bit more buffer if we get this through the Board of Supervisors. If we ask for the CUP process for the larger stations, does that delay getting this information to the Board for action? If you all make it as part of your motion, we can take that straight to the Board. So that would be putting in the ordinance changes and adding the CUP process to that. Is that what I'm understanding? Any other comments to my left? Okay, the only, the thing I would add. The notification is the big benefit that I see of the CUP process, and I've been in discussions with Mr. Pearson for some time about how do we require the utility owner to notify the adjacent property owners in the cases where we may get some plan in that does not require us to notify them. The CUP process would overcome that. So I agree, I think the CUP has benefits. I would... I would also say, I don't like the CUP process. It implies that we're putting conditions on something, and if they don't meet those conditions, we can take their permission away. I don't know how we would take away permission for a substation if they're not complying with their CUP. So, for example, if they plant trees on the berm, as was spoken about by Mr. Krieger, and the trees die because the soil is terrible for the species, you know, we... I don't know how we would take away permission for a substation if they're not complying with their CUP. So, for example, if they plant trees on the berm, as was spoken about by Mr. Krieger, and the trees die because the soil is terrible for the species, you know, we... I don't know how we would take away permission for a substation if they're not complying with their CUP. What do we do? We're going to tell them to take their substation and go home? We're really limited. So those are the kind of things that concern me about the CUP process. But I will say, again, I think the notification benefit far outweighs my concerns about CUPs and the spot zoning that that incorporates. With that said, this is a zoning ordinance that's not specific to a particular district. So, I think the CUP process is a zoning ordinance that's not specific to a particular district. Mr. Kearns or Mr. DeHaven, the substation we're referring to most frequently was in your district. Would you care to make a motion? Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'd make the motion that we forward to the Board of Supervisors with a recommendation for approval of the update to include a requirement for a CUP on the transmission... Let me see how they titled it here. The transmission voltage electrical substation. So, only the transmission electrical voltage substation. Okay, we have a motion. Is there a second? Second. And we have a second. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Whitaker, can you start our voting, please, sir? Let me repeat the ordinance. The proposal is for approval of the ordinance as is presented with the addition of a CUP for the high voltage substations. So, a yes vote is... Yes. Whitaker vote, yes. Crane, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozell, yes. Thomas, no. Markert, yes. Snudden, yes. Vauther, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. Lamani, yes. Chair Vest, yes, and the motion carries. As was stated earlier, this will go to the Board of Supervisors on January the 28th. Next is another public... hearing on orders amendment for the RP residential performance district dimensional requirements. Good evening. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Eric Bender-Planer. This is a proposal to amend the chapters 165 section 204 for the residential performance or RP zoning district to allow for a new housing type of reloaded townhouses. This ordinance amendment was initiated by staff at the request of a private engineering firm though leading up to that multiple firms have inquired an office about that. This the RP district standards section was last comprehensive comprehensively updated in 2013. On the screen now before you is our current standards. This is our definition of townhouses which is essentially saying that townhouse units are attached by their garage or connected by a permanent architecturally unified structure. And then here we have our dimensional requirements and design standards. Of particular interest to this amendment is the requirement of the district to allow for a new residential building. So the first section of the amendment is going to be section of B building setbacks. This has our front setbacks from private or public roads as 25 feet with a garage or 15 feet without. Off of a parking lot 15 feet, 10 feet on the side and 20 feet in the rear unless you're using a back-to-back option in which case the townhouses are attached by the rear. Additionally there's also section C which is setbacks for unroofed decks, stoops and landings. Those have reduced setbacks of 10 feet and 15 feet from the front and front public road and off street parking respectively. As part of our review we looked at other localities and we found most localities don't actually differentiate between front and reloading townhomes. Those that do typically had a reduced front setback but left their rear setback unaltered from the front loaded townhouses. Typical setbacks that we saw averaged from 15 to 25 feet in the rear and the front of 25 feet. We also noticed that several had optional elements of reduced setback for a detached garage which could be at times up to a having a zero lot line that could be right up against the property line. In your packets is the full comparison of the ordinance ordinances that we looked at. Here we have the proposed standards. These sections in bold and italics are these sections proposed to be added. This would have a reduced front setback of 15 feet and a reduced side setback of 10 feet from off street parking lot. The side setback would further be reduced to 5 feet and a rear alley would be reduced from 6 feet from the shared alley access easement. Additionally there's reduced setbacks for the unroofed decks, stoops and landings which is about 5 feet and then 10 feet if utilized in the rear. This is a schematic report prepared by Pannoni Associates which illustrates those standards once they've been put to a site plan standard. Here you can see that they have the rear building setbacks with the alley access coming off of the alley. No driveways in the front. This essentially acts as their backyard as now their front yard. A couple of considerations for the Commission. There were concerns by Frederick Water during the review of utilities and easement sharing if the utilities are located in the rear of homes. That shouldn't be a terrible concern. Those would be addressed at the site plan level either by widening the alleyway to allow for those or by having utilities coming through the front. Additionally there is the parking requirement. Townhouses are required two and a half parking spaces per unit. If there's no garage those townhouses wouldn't likely be able to go to the six foot setback line as they would have to be farther back to accommodate a driveway. Alternatively they can supply those parking spaces off property through street parking or shared parking lot. There's also a lack of specificity for several of the standards being the setbacks for C2. That's the landings and stairwells. Those would apply also to back-to-back townhouses as well. A couple of alternatives that the Planning Commission could incorporate into their motion would be having a rear setback of 20 feet if there's no garage to allow for driveways. If a garage is attached or detached that could be set six feet from the rear easement line. Front setback be reduced to 10 feet if a garage is provided and to specify side setbacks for reloading townhouses specifically. Additional consideration is the open space requirements. In addition to the 15 foot setback, in the front, which would function as a yard, RP developments are required to have 30 percent open space of the parcel. That's common open space and they would still be required to accommodate that. As the DRC discussed this item on December 11th and expressed support for the proposed amendment, there were a couple of questions that were pretty design specific and those would all be addressed at the site plan level. Typically dealing with alley width and driveway size. This item is presented for a public hearing and staff are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the Board of Supervisors, which is scheduled currently for January 28th. At this point, I'm available for any questions. Thank you, Eric. Any questions to my left? Any questions to my right? Mr. DeHaven. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening. Just one quick question. With this change, was there any reaction from Fire and Rescue on the ability to respond to these new layouts, these new designs? Or is that something that would be specific at site plan level? These would be specific to the site plan. As part of the site plan review process, these are distributed to the Fire Marshal's office. They would review to make sure that they don't have any concerns and are capable of accessing the lots. So that would be all dealt with at the site plan level. Thank you. We did circulate the ordinance to Frederick Water and the Fire Marshal early on after it was authorized for public hearing. And that's where Mr. Bittner brought it. He brought forward the comments from Frederick Water. The Fire Marshal said as long as they beat their fire code requirements for the width of the alley, they wouldn't have any other concerns. So that minimum is 26 feet and that would be set at the site plan. Any other questions to my left? To my right? Okay. Mr. Markert. What's driving these changes? So this is from Del Albert. In this case, it's been open. Okay. Rural cents coverage and four points. It's about $500 per day. It gets Remote SHIP. That's green enough. quotid Jingle. All right. We're moving along. And you can see here as you see here, through KOMEN, next to the right, that K—th江 burner over Sика Road. A question I had. Has an analysis been done to make sure there's room for all the utilities that are going to be required to go underground? I mean, it's not just water and sewer. It's gas, electric, communications, all of those, and they're all going to want their easements. Yes, that was part of the concern that Frederick Water had was sharing those easements with those other utilities. Again, that would go back to the site plan review. Those easements would need to be provided for either in the rear or in the front, and that would be addressed for the specific sites during site plan review. Okay. Very good. All right, thank you. This is a public hearing. If you'd like to speak to this ordinance amendment, this would be the time to do so. Please come forward, state your name, magisterial district, and limit your comments to three minutes. Mr. Krieger, it's been so long. Good evening, everyone. I'm here. I'd like to speak to this. Living in the Bat Creek Magisterial District, my career brought me to develop about 40,000. 40,000 housing units in seven states and abroad. And part of my career I spent in Fairfax as a redevelopment and housing authority executive director. So we financed and negotiated proffers with developers in places like Herndon for townhouses. This creates a much more conducive, pedestrian-friendly environment. It's a much nicer-looking product. So I think anything you can do to encourage homeownership that's affordable for moderate, income families and produce a good outcome is a positive outcome. So I applaud staff. I recommend that you approve this. I think it's a good option. It's good to daylight this. It's a good choice. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anyone else like to speak? My name is Leslie Spencer. I'm from Gainesboro. I don't know what's supposed to do this, but I think an art installation, coming down 81 to help cover up that substation and berms would be really great. So that's a great idea. The townhouses, I want to begin by saying that I appreciate the look and efficiency of townhomes with garages in the rear. Their designs are lovely and can work well and can support walkable, compact neighborhoods when done carefully. My concern is not aesthetics or density in principle. It's the loss of usable green space at scale. Without a clear base, baseline standard, we risk creating housing that permanently lacks meaningful outdoor spaces for families and children. That is not a lifestyle preference. It is a long-term public health and livability issue. I've spent time in denser townhome neighborhoods in Northern Virginia and in older compact areas near Adams Morgan in Georgetown. Density itself is not the problem. The difference is tree canopy. Areas with trees feel cooler, healthier, and more livable. Areas without them feel harsh and once the canopy is gone, it is very difficult to restore or it takes time. Green space is our infrastructure. Tree canopy reduces heat, manages stormwater, lowers energy demand, and supports mental and physical health. When shaded usable outdoor space is missing those costs don't disappear. They shift to the county to higher infrastructure needs, higher energy use, and poorer long-term outcomes. I'm not so sure if our millionICKEN I'm not suggesting denying projects. I'm suggesting that we guard against this model becoming dominant without standards. Eliminating nearly 600 square feet of private or semi-private outdoor space per unit when repeated across many developments is a significant trade-off. A practical option would be a minimum usable green space requirement, for example, a 500 square foot yard or garden area per unit, which could be met through shared courtyards with defined usable spaces. If rare yards are not provided, then mandatory tree canopy or planted green space should be required on site by changing the open space guidelines. My concern is generational. A few two to three projects have limited impact, but many 15 to 20 projects together begin to shape how our children grow up in this county and will continue to grow. Thank you. I'm not suggesting that we should consider the green space as a general effect or overall green infrastructure. We should ensure that townhomes like these remain a true choice, not the option that quietly removes access to trees, soil, and comfortable shaded outdoor life. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. My name is David Frank. I'm with Pannoni Associates. I have a question. I've got a lot to do with this text amendment in front of you today. I'm with Pannoni Associates. We're a local land planning and engineering firm, and I have been approached professionally from members of the industry and also people in the community as to why some housing products aren't constructed in Frederick County, but they are all over other places in the country. And the simple answer that I tell people is what we're allowed to construct in Frederick County is specific to the zoning ordinance. So we're in front of you today because in the urban development area, townhouses are allowed. They've been allowed for a very long time, but when we approached the planning staff on whether we can produce this kind of product inside the UDA in an urban area where we want a street, a more dense townhouse community, this product wasn't allowed. So the garage in the rear, the alley served, the specifics to what is being constructed in other communities requires a text amendment. And clearly I'm in favor of that. I'm in favor of a variety of housing types being allowed, more modern housing types being entered in Frederick County, but tonight we're here just talking about the alley served rear townhouses. So again, I'm in favor of this. I hope you guys would push this onto the board as an alternative housing type that could be offered in our community. All of the other regulations, all the required parking that currently is required, 2.5 spaces per unit, all of the open space requirements, all of those requirements are still going to be met. Yes, utilities are going to have to be designed and engineered at time of site plan. Some recent changes in Frederick County, for those of you who have been on the planning commission for a while, is in the secondary streets and in the neighborhood areas, VDOT is allowing sewer and water to be in the street where it is and many other areas. We have other northern Virginia communities, which does allow for more room for utilities and the narrower streetscape. The back-to-back townhouses currently allow for the same 15-foot front setback. So I appreciate your time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Would anyone else like to speak? Anyone else? Close the public hearing. Okay. Planning commissioners, how would you like to handle this? Any discussion? I move that we recommend approval of the dimensional requirements for the rear-loaded townhouses as presented. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. We have a second. Any further discussion? Okay. Dr. LaMonna, can you start us out with the voting, please? A yes vote would be adoption of the ordinance amendment as presented. LaMonna, yes. Brumback, yes. McKay, yes. Potter? Yes. Sneddon, no. Markert, yes. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, yes. DeHaven, yes. Crane, yes. Whitaker, yes. Chair votes yes. The motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on the 28th of January. Thank you, Eric. Mr. Pearson, we are at the data center fact sheet presentation, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the commission. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you may remember, the Planning Commission did request the Board of Supervisors direct us to conduct further study on data centers as a land use. We prepared what we hope was a concise and impartial report focused on some of those key topics. Roger, I know your assignment was 10 to 20 pages. I think I came in at 22 pages, so apologies there. It is presented for information and discussion. And just a couple caveats. This is a heavy topic. I probably could have written an additional 100 pages. And then if I expanded it to some other relevant topics, I would have to put an additional 100 on top of that. So I think one of the citizen comments earlier was that this really is just the tip of the iceberg on the topic. And it's true. There's a lot to be gleaned about data centers as a land use. But I think we tried to cover some of the ones that I think are most pertinent to Frederick County as a whole. So primary sources for information, and I would, JLARC, the Joint Legislative Audit Review Commission, one should probably be in bold. The vast majority of the images and figures were pulled from that as well as some of the data in it. We did look at PEC's report on industry impact in Virginia. And then Fairfax and Henrico had also done very similar reports for their planning commissions and boards. So we used that for some of the structure of it. And then to add some Frederick County context, we had some conversations with our EDA, our water utility, our two electric cooperatives, and First Energy from a transmission perspective, and then the Frederick County Finance Department as well. I was the primary author for it, but if there's anything, that you don't like in it, that's my fault. If there's stuff you do like in it, it's for the other people who did internal reviews and refined it and really helped me hone in on some of the key issues relative to this use. So our county code was amended in April and does provide a definition for data centers. So it's a premise in which the majority of use is occupied by computers and or telecommunications and related equipment for processing, storing, or transferring information. You all are probably very well aware that data center demand has been driven sky high in recent years. There's a lot of things that are driving that, but it has caused data center developers to look in places where they hadn't for probably the past two decades. And that includes Frederick County as well as many other markets where they have not been a presence before. I can remember even just five to six years ago, many people in the Frederick County context referred to data centers as a pipe dream and that we didn't have the infrastructure and nobody would ever be interested in it. So we have a lot of data centers that are interested in having them here and now we certainly do have developers who are interested in attempting to establish the use. Generally speaking, they have the ability to contribute substantially to local tax revenues and require very few public services, but they can certainly create impacts that need to be carefully considered. And those include noise, visual impacts, substantial power demand, water use, air quality, and many others. So I'm going to overview some of that here in a moment. I used the general chapter breakdown from the report to go through this. Putting 22 pages of report information into a PowerPoint would keep us here very long, so I'm going to really just hit the highlights and leave some time at the end for question and answer because I think there might be more value in that. So as it relates to site selection criteria, they are very focused on being near reliable and abundant sources of power. Fiber optic is secondary to that as well, but it can be brought with limited cost compared to bringing power infrastructure. And then they need traditional wet and dry utilities. So these are very much part of what we're focusing on this standalone structure and the campus style development. You all remember the tract project. I think that would certainly qualify as a campus style development. And then the Winchester Gateway project that was slotted as a comp plan amendment, same timeframe as tract was more scaled to sort of a standalone building. For the purposes of evaluating them, the co-location versus hyperscale concepts really doesn't matter as much from a land use regulation perspective, but it does create different needs from an infrastructure perspective for that individual data center building. So hyperscale data centers are built, purpose built to maximize computational capacity and may require greater power infrastructure and in turn potentially a greater water usage. Whereas co-location is similar to like a leaseable office building where there's priorities are placed on security and redundancy and the ability to allow for the switching of different servers between different companies and kind of segregating different pieces of the building. And if at any point you want to stop me and ask a question, please don't hesitate to. So I mentioned before that in April, we amended our county ordinance relative to this use and adopted performance standards that look to be more stringent in controlling the location of mechanical equipment, increasing building setbacks, screening, addressing height waivers, regulating backup generator locations and requiring a wide array of site assessments for when these things are considered as either a rezoning or conditional use permit. Probably the key change that came out of that kind of evolved with the process, which was to eliminate the buy right allowance for data centers that had been in the county for the better part of 40 or 50 years, probably since they evolved as a use. I will note that in order to do a data center in Frederick County, you need to conduct either a rezoning or conditional use permit right now. For those who have been kind of astounded by the sprawl of them in Loudoun County, they went 30 years under a buy right allowance and only recently, Claude, they've been able to get a buy right allowance for their own use. So, the idea is that the state is not going to allow this to happen. The state is going to have to do a lot of work to make sure that we can get this all back to a legislative process. We don't really have any right now and we're starting that way. So, it's every single one I'll have to come before the Board of Supervisors and this body for consideration. They are not explicitly addressed in the comprehensive plan or contemplated in any sort of detail. It's fair to say that because of the high revenue generation that we're seeing in the state, it's not going to be suitable for some of the areas in our county that are designated as mixed-use industrial office or other industrial land use designations. Now, that is a caveated statement and requires evaluation through that rezoning process and when there is infrastructure available. One of the key concerns from staff relative to infrastructure is if you place these things where there's not power and they get entitled and somebody is interested in constructing them, they will bring power to it and you'll have pretty much no control about how that power is going to be used. So, I think that's a key concern. I think we have to be very careful about how we're going to do this. And then, as I mentioned earlier, talking about substations that were preempted on transmission lines, it'd be very likely that if you located a data center in a place that is not near electrical power, that the transmission lines could be hauled through rural areas of the county, creating an additional impact beyond the site itself for new transmission lines through areas that were otherwise rural. Broadly, data centers located in the county, they have a lot of capacity to do that. And they can help to achieve that goal of fiscal balance. You all remember that in the comprehensive plan, it's often referred to as a 75-25 split for residential and commercial industrial as a means to balance out the tax base. Where data centers fit in that puzzle is that they would require far less acreage to balance out that 25% of the commercial and industrial because of the high revenue generation capacity that they have. They have extremely high electrical demands. And because of that, sometimes they require on-site generation. It's often provided via fossil fuels, namely diesel generators or natural gas, either for emergency purposes or for bridging power until they can bring full-size power lines to the site to run the property. There's also the possibility in the not too distant future that SMRs or small modular nuclear reactors could fill that role as well. But right now, air quality, noise generation are quite a concern as it relates to both the emergency backup power and for those that bring their own power to the site through natural gas generation or diesel. I would note that local utilities, including REC and Shindo Valley Electric Cooperative, have taken the necessary steps to isolate those infrastructure costs and charge that, the rates to the data centers themselves rather than local customers bearing that burden. And I'll go into that in a little bit more detail in a minute. It's very complicated. But we're going to have to do that. In summary, I think it's fair to say that when you break out the cost of power between transmission, generation, and distribution, the distribution side of it is largely protected by those rate structures. Transmission and generation, we are not protected from rate increases on that. We're already feeling the burden of that. And because it is pooled across such a large area, whether we do data centers in Frederick County or not, we are still going to be hit by that generation and transmission costs. And if we do data centers in Frederick County, it's not likely to make that any worse than if we weren't to. And I'll explain that here. So this is an infographic from JLARC that I think just describes the power generation transmission distribution system very effectively. So it's cut into three slices there. You have your generation system up top and your transmission system in the middle, followed by your distribution system. Most power customers are only familiar with their distribution system because it's who they get their bill from. But that's your RECs and your SVs. For our local example, transmission examples are your first energies and the larger power companies that move power between states and then sell it to those retail providers, similar to Schindler Valley Electric Cooperative. And then generation is handled separately as well. What I was referring to earlier is that generation and transmission rates and the cost that we pay as consumers is handled at a broad regional, almost east coast range called PJM. And because of that, all of the demands that is being caused by data centers east of us or elsewhere, even in Ohio, is contributing to the cost of power as there is not enough generation to keep up with it. And in turn, we're feeling the effects of that. And there's really no way at a local land use level to deter that. Call your state legislatures, call your federal legislators, tell them it's a concern of yours. But if you're concerned about it relative to citing data centers in Frederick County, it doesn't matter because you're going to get hit with a lot of data. You're going to get hit with it regardless of what happens in this community. On the distribution side, the local power providers, as I mentioned before, have broken these kind of businesses and residential and industrial large commercial users into rate classes. And those rate classes are intended to ensure that the people who create the need for such large infrastructure pay the burden of that cost. So if it's a small distribution line that's serving my residential home, I have a certain rate relative that reflects the necessity for maintaining that small distribution line. And an industrial or large commercial provider or data center would have a rate that reflects the maintenance cost and the operational cost for the larger electrical power infrastructure that is necessary to serve their operation. On the water side, I know this is a hot topic for a lot of people in all the evaluations that we looked at in this. And I think there's a quote in here from Jay Lark on it. There are data centers that use a fair amount of water, substantial amount of water in many cases. However, that is not at all the rule. They're very capable of using very little water. The technologies vary widely in the amount of water that they use. People have mentioned closed loop systems and immersion chip technology and other emerging trends. But in the Jay Lark report, they looked at some of the most common communities in Virginia that have data centers that use water. And they're very capable of using data centers in them right now and found kind of without exception that the vast majority of them used about an average large office building or less. And that is not a substantial amount of water as it relates to compared to other industrial uses. Now, we want to caveat that by saying that since there are technologies, namely evaporative tower cooling, that can use a lot of water, it's very important to continue to pay attention to it. But Frederick County is well suited to deal with that, because they're able to require rezoning or conditional use permit, and as part of that, impose proffers or conditions to assist in mitigating that concern. And Frederick Water would be an excellent partner and has already been in evaluating potential projects to figure out if that's something that we need to pay attention to. Yes, sir. Yeah, I have a question. I don't recall seeing the calculation that a data center consumes this and businesses consume that. I'm not sure if you're talking about a data center that uses a lot of water, but 100 data centers all of a sudden blows everything out of the water numbers-wise. So that begs the question of then limiting the number of data centers because of the water consumption. Has that been considered? So we didn't work on recommendations relative to this assignment, but to answer your question as it relates to, yes, if you have 100 data centers that all consume, you know, a relatively large amount of water, that's going to total up to a large amount of consumption, and it's something that has to be considered. Now, thankfully, because you're going to be taking them all on a case-by-case basis, it's something that you can monitor and have your finger on the pulse relative to that. The experience in Loudoun wasn't that way. They were allowed by right in their commercial and their industrial districts, and in turn, those already zoned properties got built by right or got rezoned to allow for them. But they have a major surface water source that they use to provide water and sewer capacity as well. So it's different context for sure. Did I answer your question? Yeah. Okay, great. Could go into great detail on water, but just really wanted to hit the high notes with it. Something to continue to pay attention to, but it should not be perceived that all data centers always use massive amounts of water. That's not the truth. There are technologies that allow for the opposite of that to occur. So, I'm going to turn it over to the governor. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Noise is of particular concern. The primary sources of noise are from the cooling components and the emergency generators. There's some thought that the actual servers themselves, if the buildings are poorly insulated, produce a fair amount of noise that can be heard from the outside as well. This is something that's really worth paying attention to, and we're glad that the ordinance that we adopted requires noise studies at the forefront of that consideration. And in particular, we want to focus, if we do have to consider an application, on the fact that we're not able to do that on the ground. So, we're going to focus on comparing the baseline ambient noise levels to what the model is going to show that these things are going to produce. Because noise is a bit of a tricky beast. The noise is relative, noise is additive, and it's logarithmic in scale. So, it's relative to a person in a rural area who experiences 40 decibels on a regular basis. And any sort of change, even if it's 45 decibels, is relatively loud to them. It's additive in the sense that if even a project comes in next to somebody. Who has a 40 decibel baseline noise level, and that project only produces 40 decibels, a regular person is going to perceive a change in noise, even though it's producing the same amount, because noise is additive. And then it's logarithmic in the sense that if somebody's experiencing 40 decibels, and then the project next to them is producing 50 decibels, that's actually ten times as much noise as they were experiencing prior. So, it's something to pay a lot of attention to, that we're going to evaluate if we get any applications through to the Planning Commission and provide you all. As best advice we can on it, we've had on retainer noise expert that doesn't do any work in Frederick County on data centers, but does work for the industry elsewhere, that we've used to evaluate some of the preliminary applications, and that we're ready to, you know, engage to help us with that piece of this. Visual and design considerations, I think, are noteworthy, because there's really no debating that these are inherently industrial structures, but they have very similar typical construction patterns as warehousing with tilt-up walls, with the only variation being that they often have much higher parapet walls, because they tend to put the mechanical equipment on the roof. They can range from 40 to the three-story products being over 100 feet in height. In Frederick County, that would certainly require height exceptions to the zoning ordinance in pretty much every district. It's, we believe that some of that can be mitigated via unique architectural design considerations and controls. But we shouldn't forget that these are going to be industrial structures, and in turn, where they're sited in the county is important, because there's only so much you can pretty up an industrial building relative to that. I picked two examples for the report. They were both Equinix buildings. The one on the left was built in 98, and then the one on the right is one of the more modern structures. You can notice that the county or the city that required the zoning approval for it required them on the right side to guts up the facade a little bit. But still the back of the structure is still largely a tilt-up concrete structure. In addition to architectural controls, I think in the Frederick County context, screening and buffering will be particularly important in an attempt to hide those structures. And then beyond the buildings themselves, screening requirements for the mechanical equipment are particularly necessary as well. Generator enclosures, thinking strategically about where they locate the generators or the mechanical equipment on the site. It's very common right now for them to be located on the site and then to roof mount the mechanical equipment and then put a large parapet wall around it in order to direct that noise upwards and help with those noise study concerns. The generators are harder to deal with in that respect. In the Frederick County context, we think it's really important because of our topography that sometimes we need to think about view shed analysis because even if you put an eight-foot screen outside of the mechanical equipment, if everybody around it sits 30 feet higher than it, they're still going to see everything going on with it. And then the other thing that we're going to be looking at is the The one on the left, the screening is not up against it so it's very visible. Those are stacks of, you know, gen sets over there. And then while there's an aerial view on the one on the right, you'll notice that it's entirely wrapped in an opaque element. appealing structure and the screens themselves can in and of themselves be a bit of a challenge to look at as well. Going into economic impacts and there's plenty of information in this report as well as in the JLARC report. I really didn't want to dig too much into the economics on this and I think it's unfortunate that this is the way I sequenced the report was to end on this because it's really as important as everything else that I've just mentioned. It's worth noting and needs to be considered alongside of everything else as well. But there's no doubting that these things have the potential to be really strong fiscal generators for local governments. Unlike most other commercial industrial land uses, a large portion of their taxable value is derived from the business personal property which is the value of the computers themselves. Those computers are on refresh cycles that was alluded to earlier by individuals. So every kind of five to six years they replace the vast majority of the computers. And you see the taxable value go back up and then it slowly declines based on the county's depreciation schedule until there's another refresh. They do create far fewer jobs than comparable industrial settings. These jobs do typically pay more on average than other industrial businesses. And while there is the risk of them being operated by tax exempt entities, we found that to be very rare. Frederick County has some experience with that because of some of the federal facilities that we have here. But from a data center perspective, the likelihood would be non-profits or banks. Banks would be subject to bank franchise tax instead of business personal property. So it's relatively limited to those two options. And most data center operators do not fall within those categories. This is a really simplified version. When we were doing some of our internal review, we had information in there as to what the likely revenue generation would look like for a typical data center. And one of the comments we got from a fellow staff member was, this is great. I understand this. I do local finance. But you need to put it in a context that means something to other people. So express what a potential need might be and then express how this could meet that need. So in order to do that, we just pulled the Frederick County draft CIP, which contemplates over the next five years about $400 million, $394 million in capital needs. It's not a fiscally constrained plan. It's very unlikely that Frederick County will obligate debt to that level and try to construct all that capital infrastructure. But it is what the county has identified as future needs for capital facilities. In addition to that, the county public schools has some of that $394 million in our five-year plan. But they have an additional 10-year plan that identifies an additional $386 million that they want to try to secure in the next 10 years as well. So using half of that. So if we go back to the previous slide, let's say we were looking at the state of Florida and we had a state of Florida that had about $400 million in capital needs. So if we were to go back to that value, let's assume that we needed to contract debt of about $400 million. In order to do that with common interest rates right now, the county would need to produce about $23 million in annual revenue to service that debt. That similar revenue could be raised through a 13-cent real estate tax increase. If state legislation allowed, we could approve a sales tax increase of 1%. So that's is the first step. If state law allows, we could approve a sales tax increase of 1%. So there's a lot of different ways to start. So the first step is the business personal property tax, the motor vehicle license tax, cigarette tax, meals tax, all the typical things that are allowed under state law for a locality. Now, to put that in comparison to revenue generation from a data center based on the Tischler-Bice analysis that we'll be providing to you in full form very soon, as well as the economic development authorities estimates and paired with the estimates we've received from developers. So comparing all three of those sources. sources about 400 acres or more of a data center project or multiple standalone buildings could provide very comparable levels of revenue for meeting those those needs so again very fast quick hitting the wave tops of the different chapters I'm glad to hear that people read the report I've written a lot of documents in my time as a professional and I'm just thrilled that some people found some amount of interest in data in there that was informative to them I do believe that data centers do present an option for Frederick County that has high fiscal efficiency but there's very concerning considerations that need to be evaluated throughout the process to ensure the sighting of these things do not create issues in the county I feel confident that our existing ordinance provides a good framework for doing that and I think we need to continue to monitor state legislative changes that I expect to come in the near future relative to this use with that I'm happy to answer any questions mr. Chairman thank you mr. Pearson I would like to commend you on the report I thought it was very well done thank you thank you very much any comments questions to my left any comments questions to my right mr. crane mr. chairman I want to be as pragmatic about this whole thing as possible because on one hand we see we live in almost heaven and that was mentioned earlier on the other hand we see that fiscally the county's not doing very well and so we've got to find a balance I think the data centers may be an option if and my standards going to be pretty high on that is where is taking zero groundwater and where you know there's no fiscal responsibility of having a八卦贄 Всё üd thing Thirty years later I think we're going to see what happens I have lost some of my investment that I'm starting to see because you know I'll only rely on our fund for funding these și them to receiveMIRIĆĆ2501176 when it comes to utilities. And I think these things need to be built in an industrial area where noise is kind of restricted to that area and not near residential or farming areas. So those are my thoughts. I mean, the standards should be high if we're going to go down this road. And, you know, we've got to maintain the ambiance of the county. That's why I moved here 22 years ago. You know, I was one of those guys that got employment in D.C., but sure as heck didn't want to live there. And my wife and I drove out here, and it's like, this is the most wonderful place on Earth. And we planted our stake here, and we plan on living here until we go to the other side. That would be heaven, not loud. And so I want to maintain the ambiance. You know, I've listened to the folks, and I agree with what they have to say as far as, you know, we want to keep Frederick County, Frederick County. We want to keep Shenandoah Valley, Shenandoah Valley. But we've got to consider other options. So those are my thoughts on this. Thank you, sir. Mr. Thomas? Yeah, this is an extremely emotional issue. I'll get this right one of these times. This is an extremely emotional issue, as we can see tonight with the comments. I do like, I think Mr. Dunn gave some very good comments and wrapped it up at the end. Frederick County consists of 266,000 acres. If we build 1,000 acres of data centers, you were talking 600 acres would pay for costs over the next X years. If we build 1,000 acres of data centers, if we would build 1,000 acres, which is double that, which would give us more income, we would be less than a hundredth of a percent of the area of Frederick County. And I think a lot of the concern, I heard four concerns really from people who spoke tonight. One was we're going to have data centers covering 100% of Frederick County, which probably will never happen because we're not going to build 266,000 acres of data centers. So when we put that into context of, we're looking at probably maybe a hundredth of a percent or maybe even, you know, three hundredths of a percent of the county being covered. Now, when you look at Frederick County, unfortunately, we only have 60,000 acres in workable agriculture at this point. I wish there was some way to increase that, but we're looking at 22% of the county is in agriculture. The rest of the county is in whatever else. Now, data centers will produce, you know, a lot of the income that we need to be able to afford all the residential development that's going on in the county. You know, the other big concerns were power and water and what happens if the technology changes and data centers are abandoned. Well, it's a big industrial building. So if data centers are abandoned, it's the same as having a big shopping center or industrial complex. If you have an industrial building abandoned, you repurpose it for something else. The other thing we could consider, and I think we talked about this when we had our discussions on solar farms was requiring the developer, if they go out of business, they have to remove the structure or repurpose it into something else usable. As far as the water consumption, you know, depending on how much water, I mean, I certainly agree we ought to have data centers use as little water as possible. And, you know, the discussion of people's water wells going dry, I think it's probably time that we had a, maybe a briefing from Frederick Water on the condition or the health of the Frederick County Aquifer. There's a lot more water being pumped out of the aquifer by water wells at residences than will ever be pumped out of the aquifer. It's a magnitude of, you know, 100 times more than would ever be used from a data center. With the five-acre lots we have in the county, approximately 7,500, they have water wells. At normal usage of the water wells, they're pumping close to 4 million gallons a day out of the aquifer. Well, if you compare that to 100,000 gallons a day out of a data center, that's probably not insignificant, but it's maybe a little bit more than that. But, you know, it's a lot of water. It's probably not where the concern should be. As far as power, your presentation on the power I think was excellent. Your report's excellent on how they isolate the costs. I was curious, in the state of Virginia, has there been any packaged nuclear plants currently providing power to data centers? I know in some parts of the country where there are less transmission lines, less power sources, there have been a number of packaged nuclear plants put in service to power data centers. And I was curious if that has happened in Virginia anywhere or if it could happen. Does the state have a regulation that it can happen or is it something that could happen and we just haven't had it here yet? Yeah. I think there's demonstration projects. Go ahead, Mr. Stubbs. Yeah. There's one underway in Chesterfield County down below Richmond. There's also three under the state of Virginia. There's a lot of other projects under development in Idaho that are supposed to be online within three years. Yeah. Small nuclear reactors. So, yes, that is going on. It's been going on in Europe for a longer time. Yes. And Europe uses packaged nuclear plants for a lot of different things. Now, you know, even if we approved a data center today, it wouldn't be online for another 24 to 36 months. So I think you're probably looking at like five years based on what I've heard from the power providers about their ability to get power to the site. That's assuming it's not like an on-site generation, but yeah. Yeah. So it will be a while. So, you know, I think by the time it comes online, we're looking at new technologies. We're looking at probably a more universal use of some kind of a packaged nuclear plant to power it because the packaged nuclear plant provides a much cheaper power source than a power company does. So, you know, I think there's things we need to look at. My big concern is logic is not going to have much impact on what goes on here. This is such an emotional issue with maybe some facts that aren't necessarily accurate or that aren't balanced in their approach. How do we get a more balanced approach to the public or to the public? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get the potential developers to come in with a more balanced approach. I mean, we have four high interest areas. You know, what happens to an abandoned building? Power, water, you know. View Shed. View Shed. Well, it's a big industrial building. Whether we build a data center or an office building, we have the view shed problem because they're both big. I think it just involves continuing this conversation. This kind of setting up all these, you know, setting that we're in right now is not great for a back and forth with residents to answer their questions regarding this. So if we do move further into what county administration has alluded to about community information, conversations and things like that, I think that'll be the opportunity to have some of that back and forth and hear about things we need to be concerned about and maybe dispel some things that are rumors or otherwise. But that'd be my suggestion. Ms. Kozel. Quick question. I was curious during your research, did you come across any data on sustainable design standards that other data centers have used and have they analyzed? I don't know if you go with a lead green standard. Does that provide better mitigation to some of the water power, different items like that, and especially using brownfield sites that go into that? Ms. Kozel. I don't know if that can be analyzed. Yeah, I actually did. It's all incrementally beneficial. The challenge with these things is the massive power draw and the cooling is it's only a fragment of kind of what they need. So I was talking to somebody the other day about they should put solar panels on the roof, right, to power it. It's like, well, you would need thousands and thousands of acres of solar panels to power even a singular structure based on the demand that they have for it. It's not a reason to not pursue those items, though. I think LEED certification, things like that, and what people have referred to as wanting the gold standard of data centers is certainly something we're striving for in our county. Anything else tomorrow? Okay. Mr. Kearns. Thank you. Love the 22-page executive summary. I'd love to see the whole report someday. Thank you. Great information. Two things kind of jumped out at me. I don't know if you can go into these a little bit, but I'm and again, this kind of maybe toes into the economic development, the EDA work. I think it's important to note that the EDA work is a very important part of the EDA work. It's a very important part of the EDA work. It's a very important part of the EDA work. It's a very important part of the EDA work. It's a very important part of the EDA work. development, the EDA world a little bit, but NDAs, is that, I'm researching just the tip of this, but is that a common thing where we're not allowed to even see or talk about what sort of use these have? Is that a common thing? Like we can't even see what kind of water they use? We can't see what kind of power they use? What is that? Yeah, there's been a bit of a concerning trend relative to these uses in particular about how they control some of the information with it. You all know that. You all know that. You all know that. And I think it's important to note that, you know, we all would have to sign an NDA if a developer wanted you to sign one to have them disclose information to you, so you're not bound to do that. So it's a two-fold thing. Sometimes communities enter into NDAs with developers when they're doing site selection so that it's not disclosed where they're looking at and they're not hit with competition or real estate speculation for it. And then those have also been used to negotiate incentives. Frederick County is not doing any of that right now that I'm aware of. Now, the other side of it is they view on like our site plan side, they'll redact information from the site plan that they view to be trade secrets or information like that as well. And that could be relative to like water use and things like that. I think we've positioned ourselves pretty well here to say these are requirements we need to evaluate this and if you're not willing to disclose them, then that could be a reason for denial of an application. So I'm not terribly worried about that. Okay, great. Thank you. Second question I've got. What is the cost of a site plan? What is the cost of a site plan? What is the cost of a site plan? So the, and this was kind of, you said it was a very small chance, but a nonprofit or a bank, are there guardrails that we can, that we can, with the CEP process or anything, is there something we can do about that or is there going to be a thing in five years like, uh-oh, well, we drew the short straw? No, I've dug into that. I spent probably two weeks trying to figure out a way to handle that through the local land use process. And every avenue that I went down. And every avenue that I went down. Is probably something that would be a little bit legally dicey. Is probably something that would be a little bit legally dicey. Like you could try to distinguish categories and say, you know, data centers, colon financial institutions or data centers, colon nonprofits and then regular data centers and say, you know, we don't want those two that don't pay taxes. But generally speaking, you're not supposed to conduct land use that way because it's treating individuals who otherwise aren't really different in their impacts differently. So, there's, through the land use mechanism, there's not a good way to evaluate that and so. It's not a good way to evaluate that. Right. And there's a lot of things that I'm not aware of. avoid that issue. I do think it's so limited in scope that it's very unlikely to happen but it's something to be aware of. Now there are considerations if we wanted to get more nuanced about it that those types of institutions seek out certain types of data center opportunities. So for example if you have a large corporation they generally have some amount of you know corporate interests in carbon offsets and things like that so they'll focus more on data centers that use more water and less electricity in that respect. So you can get into the nuances of trying to encourage the type that would not land us in that but it's tortured, it's a tortured process. So no I don't have a good answer for that. I think the bank franchise tax thing is ridiculous and state legislation should address that with time but until it's a big problem for a big locality I doubt that the state's going to take an interest in it. Okay thank you. The question is to my right. I'd like to propose two motions for the Planning Commission to consider based on what we've heard tonight and the report that we've got before us. The first motion I would make is the request of the Board of Supervisors direct staff to create a data center policy that will establish strict guidelines to ensure data centers provide measures to protect the health safety and welfare of Frederick County citizens and provide information to developers and communities regarding the county's expectations when preparing an application for and citing a data center project. What this does is adds more guardrails to our zoning ordinance, paints more color, it identifies and gives us the opportunity to close gaps, many of which we heard questions about tonight, that we would work on at the DRC level, come back here for the full Planning Commission to vet it, and would ultimately go to the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Supervisors for adoption. That is my motion. Second. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Whitaker, would you please start our voting? Whitaker, no. Crane, yes. DeHaven, yes. Kern, yes. Kozel, yes. Thomas, yes. Marger, yes. Sneton, yes. Bottdorf, yes. McKay, yes. Brumbach, yes. THANK YOU, CHAIR. AND, CHI BARTON IN THE REPORTES, COMMENT BEFORE AND AFTER THIS. CLICK C Hutdle chair votes, yes. Advertising Any Necklace? No. Dr. Ult Pokey? Second. The uhh and Mr.� Russian first-hand jury losяхs? I would like Mr. Intelligence and, Mr.ная, you are prepares to request a board from the ties like however actors were applied, pursuing States office and allowing the is to be located. Digital matters that I believe may e could be considered only in in these technology land use areas this is something the CPPC would work on second emotion in a second is there any discussion mr. could you repeat that please the motion the motion is to request the Board of Supervisors to direct staff to amend the comprehensive plan land use map to show technology land use areas where data center projects are to be located data center proposals should be considered only within these technology land use areas thank you I have a question which would come first these would go parallel we anticipate the policy process would move quicker than the land use map from what I've understood about the drafting kind of policy text that could happen a lot a lot quicker I think the identifying areas would be a little more involved and and if I understood mr. Stowe correctly it'd be developing a new future land use designation on the comprehensive plan future land use map for where we think these things can should be any other question mr. Kearns it may ask if that would be separate of the the update process that we're going through or just about an enter into that be separate of that or built into that that would be separate and we would do that as quickly as we can move it forward you the other questions comments we have a motion and a second dr. Lamanna can you start our voting please sir run back yes okay yes yes yes Margaret yes Thomas yes Kozo yes current yes to Haven yes crane yes Whitaker no motion carries so those will be communicated over to the board of supervisors mr. Pearson thank you for not cringing when I made those motions and added work to your staff I appreciate your efforts in that but that will help us answer questions that we've heard tonight and make sure we can protect Frederick County that moves us to item 9 B mr. Pearson current planning application item 9 B mr. Pearson current planning application item 9 B mr. Pearson current planning application applications do you have anything to add there sir no sir which leads us to item 10 which is adjournment so moved second all in agreement say aye careful going home thank you for your perseverance you
