Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2021-06-23
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=98
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As, as the board might recall, on May 12th, the board authorized the issuance of a notice of intent to award a contract to EF Johnson for the new public safety radio system. A second component of that action was the approval of a contract for project management services. After some discussion by the board, the board directed staff to seek other consulting firms to provide the implementation and oversight of this project. So given the urgent nature of this project, staff per the board's direction began searching for cooperative contracts that the county could ride on. And an effort to procure these services. So on June 7th through 10th, interviews were held with three different consulting firms, CTA consulting, federal engineering, and TUSA consulting were all invited to participate. Each firm was provided copies of the original request for proposal, the estimated project timeline, the county statement of needs and scope of work, and the most up-to-date negotiated documents between EF Johnson and the county for their review and in preparation for the interviews. Following the interview process and after completing reference inquiries, the negotiating committee, which was comprised of Mrs. Neal from finance, myself, Chief Mishak, Director Perez from 911, and First Lieutenant Barry Kitto from the Sheriff's Department, as well as the board member liaisons to this committee, which were Supervisor McCarthy and Chairman DeHaven. It's the committee's recommendation that TUSA consulting be selected as the desired consultant for the implementation of our public safety radio project. And so tonight what staff is seeking is board action to authorize the county administrator to execute a contract with TUSA consulting for a not to exceed amount of $416,130 pending final legal review by the county attorney. And for the board's information, it would be staff's intent if the board is agreeable that the monies to fund this particular portion of the project would be taken out of the county's capital fund. That's the point. That money has been been already appropriated as part of the budget, so we would not need an appropriation, but just concurrence from the board that that would be acceptable. So with that, Mr. Chairman, I'd be glad to try to answer any questions that your other board members may have. And we have Mr. Dean Hart here with TUSA consulting. Should the board have any specific questions for him or about his firm? Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Tibbs, I had a conversation with Mr. Hart earlier. I believe the price is $4. 16,000, whatever the number is called, is a fixed price, not a not to exceed price. So I believe that is a fixed price. Is that correct? It is a not to exceed price. The way the contract is worded is that they get paid based on the amount of work or quantity of work that they perform, but it is a not to exceed $416,130. I believe it was for 28 months. So if the time or effort is less than that, is the price then going to be potentially less? For simplicity's sake, if they have advocated 28 months, which the contract says, but they get everything done in 26 months, and if their expected time is X, but it's really less than X, will we pay less than that $4. 16, or are we still going to pay the $4. 16? I'll defer to Mr. Hart, but my understanding of the contract is it's based on quantity of work, so it would be for the hours that they perform. Okay, I'll just appreciate the clarification for the record. Yes, sir. Dean Hart with Tusa Consulting. I stand corrected from our conversation. I'm good with not to exceed, so we'll bill the hours as they happen. Right? Thank you. Appreciate it. Yes, sir. Others? Thank you, sir. How would the board like to handle the request? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. In light of the litigation, which we. spoke of earlier and in light of us putting the cart before the horse many times in this process I'd like to see us postpone this until our very next meeting and we have a little clearer direction on where the litigation process may be and we might be able to make a little bit more of an informed decision so I would like to postpone make a motion to postpone this until our first meeting in July motion is there a second second for the point of discussion and the second discussion mr. chairman yes sir I with all due respect I am opposed to the motion because I don't think that one really has to do with the other in this case we're looking for a really good consultant that's going to give us advice and guide the county through a process my experience with the committee was that tusa is eminently qualified to do that regardless of how the litigation ends up so I'm prepared to make the offer to Tucson recommend that to the board because I think that whatever happens in the next few weeks isn't going to change the fact that they are eminently qualified and could do a good job regardless of what their role ultimately ends up being thanks sir would have to agree we will need a good consultant regardless further discussion yes sir just for discussion on the matter and I appreciate the comments that have been made and I concur with those comments my concern is is that we may be beginning with an all-new process possibly at beginning of July we could be looking at not simply an implementation of an already passed contract but we could be looking at a consideration of a new RFP I believe at that point we should make a decision on who we want to do the entire process the right way if that would be the decision of the board at that point I feel like we've piecemealed this an awful lot to this point we've put the cart before the horse some have put the cart before the horse multiple times I think it's time that we quit putting the cart before the horse we know what our legal ramifications are and then make a solid decision on an entire process when we have all the facts and right now we don't have all the facts but by the next meeting we'll have court dates to know all the facts or at least a better understanding to know how we should move forward and and so I believe it's imperative that we just simply postpone it it doesn't cost us anything to do so and I think that it would be a wise decision moving forward thank you okay sir further discussion anyone Mr. chairman yes sir can I ask one more question of the representative from Two-Side stove surely yes sir thanks sir if this board were to vote to postpone this decision would your offer stand for those two and a half weeks four weeks before the next meeting or would it change no they would stand and i mean i have to say i would love the opportunity to entertain services to help you write an rfp if that's this board's decision so if you have us under contract that makes it easier but you know we'll we'll work with you however we need to work with you so mr chairman thank you very much so to your point supervisor graber considering that they're amenable to waiting and um i don't think my my vote will change but it's not like he can get to work in the next two weeks anyway so i'll support your motion based on his qualification they'd be willing to wait until that date mr chairman yes sir i concur with mr graber's comments my concern is that you stick to the length of the projected budget in the assistive design all in all we are still thicker than we should be if there's an?] thanks so her micro Nederland um i mean in the recent weather Desert model and with this year's budget i would also be more positive for you i'm sure as well I'd like to hear both sides of an argument. So if there's another side of an argument that makes my argument null and void I appreciate understanding what it is. I'm not trying to point fingers It's simply when trying to hear both sides of the end of the conversation. Thank you To that I would probably offer that we're gonna need a consultant either way We're very very impressed with with where we are today with our opportunity One of the first things that they were going to be tasked with doing is looking at the original RFP evaluating its strengths weaknesses whatever Advising on that. I mean all these things take time that they could be working on Yes, sir, so mr. Chairman no disrespect and I hope that there's none taken I Made that comment about three months ago. I asked for a second opinion on this RFP and it was denied and So I think it leads back to my original question What does it hurt to postpone this to see where a legal standing is and move forward? Other comments anyone are we ready? supervisor If we do not postpone Then and if a firm is hired tonight is that firm they're gonna start to work tomorrow reviewing the current RFP and in light of what? We have to deal with the next two weeks or three weeks I'm just asked where are they gonna do nothing until we come up with a decision on what happens? I Think that that would have to be a discussion The reason I asked the question is that to says Proposal is for 28 months and I'm sure that if it was 28 months in two days, they're not gonna argue But if it goes to 30 months or 31, so this is gonna be a three-week timeframe And I don't want to burn a month doing nothing If we don't get something out of it, that's all understood Mr. Chairman, yes, sir. Just to Back off of that I don't know that it makes any sense for a consultant to do any work in the next two weeks because they don't know what their Mandate is gonna be two weeks from now. So I pay a consultant to be in any work because it could be One or the other depending on what it is. So to supervisor Graber's point I think it doesn't make any sense necessarily to go ahead and enter into a contract if they're willing to wait I think we give it the two weeks and then we say two weeks from now. Here's what the job is You know, what's what's this look like? Anyone else we're ready supervisor Graber motion to do postpone for two weeks My boat is I got it. Thank you supervisor done. I surprise well supervisor slaughter supervisor McCarthy supervisor Stegmaier I am chair votes I motion carries will delay action for two until our next meeting which is the All right I don't think there's any other business to come before the board vice chairman Wells Chairman movie adjourn Motion to adjourn is second all those in favor aye Aye No, thank everyone for their time and attention
