Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2020-10-28
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=68
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our Father, we are grateful that you've revealed yourself in Psalm 46 as the God of our refuge and strength and a very present help in time of trouble. And Father, in the midst of these troubling days of pandemic, of contentious elections, of turmoil around the world, thank you that you reveal yourself and you truly are that refuge and strength. And I pray now for these civil servants, these people who have given of their time and their talents to serve the citizenry of this county. And I do ask, Father, that you would give them the wisdom and the perception, the humility to do those things that may not be always popular, but the things that are right to do. Grant them that wisdom, even tonight, Father. And always again, we look to you. You are our refuge. You are our refuge and strength in troubling times. I pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Vice Chairman Wells, would you lead us in a pledge, please? Everyone, please stand and face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. With respect to the secret beetroot plant that we use to make the flag of America and for our citizens. The city will have to stand with us not only for what I understand we should do as we keep it in place, but also to imagine the future of ensuring that it is aritable by the general use of naturalsh kadın instead of natural 12-inch black dots. With respect to Count Carlito. Here's your motion. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. 9a 1 and 2 and that we postpone those until the following three conditions are met The first one is is that the joint meeting with the school board that was proposed approximately six months ago Occurs the second is is that a detailed comprehensive budget from the school board is received that we can have discussion upon and look into and The last is is to see how the cares money may be dispersed or spent prior to taking action on those two items So therefore I would make a motion that we adopt these agenda as presented with the exception of articles 1 & 2 under 9a Or the motion sir second I'll second it and the second concerning discussion Supervisor Fisher Oh supervisor McCarthy Hi, thanks, sir supervisor slaughter Supposed or Wells Oh Oh supervisor done supervisor graver I sure votes no motion fails Entertaining additional motion to adopt the agenda Okay, I've heard the motions are second Thank you He made the motion to adopt with the agenda change Which was voting credentials for the Vaco meeting Sure Okay, thank you. We apologize. We had a speaker that was off. All right any discussion Supervisor Fisher Supervisor McCarthy All right Supervisor slaughter Supervisor Wells I supervisor done I Supervisor Graver Oh chair votes I motion carries the Denda's Agenda is adopted with the one addition That'll bring us to citizen comments for agenda items. Did anyone sign up? No, sir Thank you consent agenda, how would the Board like to handle the consent agenda? Chairman I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented or the motion is our second Second And a second discussion is there any anyone hearing none supervisor Graver I Supervisor done. I supervisor well supervisor slaughter supervisor McCarthy Supervisor McCarthy All right. Thank you, sir supervisor Fisher I chair votes aye in the motion carries the consent agenda is adopted as presented with the addition second So we have a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented by the board of Supervisors. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. the Volunteer Fire and Rescue Association thanks you, all of you, for your agreement to go and release some funding for their operations. That's very helpful to them during this COVID time, so I want you to know that they appreciate the actions we took a couple weeks ago. Number three, we're in a national election, and I think that in future elections, everybody should vote on election day. This early voting, I don't think it's appropriate. Everybody should have the same information at the same time to vote, except for those people that are in a hospital, or truly cannot. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Other comments, anyone? Hearing none, we'll move on. Thank you, sir. Recognition of Millbrook cross-country team, Supervisor Dunn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to take a couple minutes and show you some pictures of Millbrook High School, and I'm going to take a couple minutes to show you some pictures of Millbrook High School, and I'm going to take a couple minutes to show you some pictures of Millbrook High School, and a cross-country race. That's the last one. Go to the beginning. And so in the area behind Millbrook High School, there's an area that is used by Millbrook High School. It's a cross-country course. There's competition there, and here's part of this course that if you're a runner on a team, you're going to be very familiar with. And at this point in time, you've come to a middle field. And that middle field in 1864, which today is part of the cross-country team, was a killing field. And I'll make some comments on that. These are placards that are on that field. This is the middle field from the Confederate perspective, a monument to those from Alabama, and the finish line if you're running a race. So what does the middle field mean to you? The walking field is behind Millbrook, the middle field, Red Bud Run. The Millbrook High School cross-country team, this is their course. In 2013, the men's cross-country team won the district and regional titles and finished second in state championships. In 2014, they repeated winning the district and regional titles and placed fifth. In 2014, they repeated winning the district and regional titles and placed fifth. In 2018 and 19, the women's team won the district titles and finished third in the state championships. Drew Hunter from Loudoun Valley High School knows this course very well. He ran the fastest time in Virginia history of 1421 on this course. Wayne Kendall from Heritage High School also knows this course well, and she set a state record for women with a time of 1629. Between 2017 and 2019, this course had more than 2,000 registered athletes each year, and last year, 2019, there was 2,164 athletes alone, representing 49 teams that competed in an invitational meet. In 2013, Kevin Shirk, the Millbrook High School cross-country coach, started these successful invitational meets. Between then and last year, they've raised more than $1,000 a year. In 2013, they've raised more than $35,000 at these meets and donated the money to the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation. Several other people made contributions to these operations as well. They include Chris Garber, a former athletic director at Millbrook High School. Scott Mankins, the current athletic director and current cross-country coach. Matthew Lofton, the former assistant coach. From Department of Veterans Affairs, Assistant Maternal Secretary to the Department of Veterans' Affairs, Keith Hope even more turned out at the Millbrook Howell Hospital in a successful celebration it's then,shift back and didn't thought he had this see the other one were you I'm just saying, who's on his team<|en|> recently made many contributions to things such as Doris Oraba and the Midway Connect встреч back and didn't think anyone else was getting an opportunity to contribute a 1942 philosophic heart to the Millbrook High School, and numerous amounts of parents, teachers, employees and athletes who have donated their time and effort, to help the meet run smoothly everything from setting up the meat to cutting the grass, to helping in the parking lot to collecting the donations. Who else is familiar with these paths of Redbud Run and the middle field? Let me give you Cyndra Sherman. George Patton, the grandfather of General George Patton. General Robert Rhodes, who General Lee considered to be the best officer in his army other than Stonewall Jackson. And future presidents, Ruther B. Hayes and William McKinley. Hang on a second. All those men are familiar with this ground. All of them participated in the third battle of Winchester, which was fought here on September 19th, 1864. Union forces lost 5,000 men, almost 12% of their army. Confederate forces lost 3,600 men, almost 25% of their army. 14 Union soldiers and one officer were awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor at this battle. Today, the middle field is both the beginning and the end of the cross-country race. Many runners here have tasted the sweetness of victory and the agony of defeat. However, this very middle field, which today is an enjoyable place to run or walk, was on September 19th a killing field. The Confederates had broken the Union line and were on the verge of victory. Sheridan ordered the 114th New York Regiment into the gap on the middle field that you just saw and told them to hold the line at all cost. They did, but at a terrible sacrifice. The Shenandoah Valley Foundation used the money that Kevin Shirk and the Millbrook High School cross-country team and coaches raised, had donated to replace the old, outdated, and rural placards describing various aspects of the battle. Many placards were hard to read and in some cases, completely destroyed. These new placards are clean, vibrant, historically accurate, and informative. They provide great insight to what occurred here on September 19th, 1864. Today, many residents walk on this battlefield and their coaches and appreciate the place that's there. The placard on the middle field today is a key part of the cross-country team when September 19th was a killing field. And the words on that placard read, and some of the fallen are still here, bodies that were never found or post-body burials that could not be relocated when the dead were later reinterred. This is hollow ground. Hollowed by the blood of Americans, both North and South, who fought and died on September 19th, 1864. This park is a memorial to them. As you walk the ground, remember their sacrifice. Thank you, Kevin Shirk and the other coaches and staff at Millbrook High School and the Millbrook High School cross-country team for the contribution to both your cross-country course and to the battlefield. We appreciate your efforts and gifts to this endeavor. If you too think this is a worthy cause, you can reach out to them to make a donation. Mr. Shirk, please stand. Are you here? Please stand. Thank you very much for your effort. You have done a great job. Thank you for joining. Normally I want to shake your hand and congratulations, but I'd like to present you with this record. Thank you for your resolution. Well done. Your young folks did an outstanding job with your guidance. I appreciate that. Thank you so much. Thank you. I have to run because I have a wife and these kids in the car. That's fine. We appreciate your efforts. Thank you so much. Thanks for being with us. All right, we have a guest this evening, the president and CEO, of Rappahannock Electric Company, Mr. John Huey. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Appreciate you sharing with us. Fantastic. Thank you so much, Chairman DeHaven and Administrator Tierney and Board of Supervisors. I really appreciate the opportunity to be here this evening. I know you all have got a very full agenda and I'll do my very best to be succinct, but I just wanted to first of all introduce myself. I'm the new CEO at Rappahannock Electric Cooperative. I've been in the role since about August, but been at the cooperative for over three years and in the co-op space for many years. I'm CEO of prior co-ops in a couple of other states. And I just wanted to spend a few minutes just updating you on a few of the things that the co-op is working on and then answer any questions that any of you all might have this evening. So again, let me also just say, I commend each of you for your service and your work to ensure all the stakeholders in Frederick County and the health and the safety and all the issues that you all are having to tackle during these times. So I commend you on that very, very difficult work and the accomplishments. So just quickly, I'll just kind of give a bit of a high level overview here and then talk a little bit about your cooperative. And I know some of you may be members. Some of you may be members of Shenandoah Valley, a neighboring cooperative. But collectively, America's electric cooperatives cover about 56% of the nation's land mass. We provide service in 88% of all U.S. counties, which is most, a lot of folks don't quite understand how large the co-op network is. Rappahannock today is serving in portions of 22 Virginia counties. We have 17,000 miles of power lines. We have 430 extremely talented, dedicated employees. And we operate on an annual budget of about $460 million. About 70 million a year is being invested back into the grid in terms of capital investment. We've got a lot of growth. We're adding about 3,000 accounts a year. We've got a lot of growth that we're working to keep up with. And we're also working to increase our capacity for power. Here in Frederick County, we've got just short of 22,000 meters and about 2,200 miles of power lines that we maintain on the eastern side of the county. And again, we really appreciate it and enjoy the relationship with Shenandoah Valley, our neighboring co-op as well. Some of our, we do have 31 employees who reside in the county, and hopefully that number will continue to grow over time. And we've got some major key accounts that I'm sure all of you are aware of, Southeastern Container, Riviana Foods, Kraft, and then Monoflow as well. And so we're always working to make sure that we're taking good care of those accounts. And I'll mention Jeff Henson. Some of you may know Jeff. I know he attends the meetings from time to time. And he's our director of member services and community relations here in what we call our Blue Ridge region, which is where Frederick County is located in our service territory. Our cooperative is, of course, we love the cooperative business model. We're governed by nine elected business models. We have nine elected board members. Our vice chairman, Mike Lindsey, his region actually encompasses Frederick County region. But our members act on behalf of the cooperative at large. If you want to know more about our governance or any of the board members that are serving today at REC, we have a brand new updated website at www.myrec.coop. And we have a governance center there with documents and information. And we have a lot of information on the board and the board of supervisors. We've got a lot of experience and policies and updates and our positions on a lot of key issues that our members and the board of supervisors may be interested in. Now, just commenting briefly on the current pandemic situation that we're all working to manage. As a member-owned co-op, we've worked very, very closely with our member owners. The state did have a disconnection moratorium that has expired. We have continued. At this point, we have continued working with our members. We are not at this time disconnecting service for nonpayment. We're working with our membership on long-term payment plans, in many cases 12 and even out to 24 months in some cases, as we work through this really challenging time. So it's a topic that is, of course, been very, very intense for the co-op. Our team did a really fantastic job in terms of migrating our office team members to remote work. Our field crews continue to roll predominantly, independently, as much as possible, in taking care of and maintaining the grid. Our offices do remain closed, but we offer a number of other avenues for our member owners to interact with the co-op. And our members have been extremely flexible in working with the co-op over the last many months. I will say that the co-op also accelerated its capital credit distribution this year. We put a little over $13 million back into the community in the June time frame to just embody the co-op. And we're very proud of that. And we're very proud of the co-op model and also to help our membership with some reduction in their summertime power bills. Now, in terms of reliability and responsiveness, we are experiencing quite a bit of growth across the territory. Much of that is in Frederick County. And we want to make sure we're always a good partner with respect to growth and growth planning. And so please don't hesitate at any time to reach out to REC. We're glad to get our engineering and design and planning teams engaged in any initiatives that the county has to offer. And the other initiative that we have on the immediate horizon is our Millbrook substation, which is in the Route 7 I-81 area there to handle some of the commercial and other growth that we're recognizing. So that's a project that we are currently in the planning and environmental review for that effort. While we try very hard to eliminate outages, inevitably problems do arise on the grid. And our team really takes pride. Our yellow trucks really. We take pride in rolling and being responsive. And I hope that that's your experience with the co-op. If you ever have any challenges with respect to service, myself, Jeff, any of our team members, we're glad to jump in and make sure that we're always here to be a highly responsive organization. I won't go into great detail because you do have the slides, but we have a lot of community programs. The photographs I am showing are pre-COVID. I just want to clarify that. But we do have a lot of community programs. We've had to resort to different ways to engage with the community this past year. But we do have scholarship programs. We have the Washington Youth Tour programs. We have community grants and community cares programs where we are working with our membership with voluntary contributions to help put those back into the communities to help nonprofits and other organizations that are in need. So at any time, if you have an initiative that you'd like to see Rappahannock become a part of, please don't hesitate to ask. We're glad to look at our community programs and see if they can align with the needs here in Frederick County. And just quickly, just our territory is quite diverse. Just a real brief tour here. But we have a lot of subdivision developments that we serve in suburban areas of our 22-county service territory. We have quite a few commercial districts. This happens to be down in Spotsylvania County. And we're always working to support that economic development. We have recently brought in a new economic development director as well to help with key accounts. We're beginning to get a lot of inquiries from data centers and other types of very large potential beneficial clients for our region that could bring jobs and tax base and of course energy for us. So we're working very closely with a number of these key accounts. We're beginning to see another wave of high density growth as well in many of our regions. Now if you've driven through REC territory, there's quite the diversity. We do serve a lot of beautiful rural Virginia farmland. And we work very closely with those property owners to make sure that we're very mindful of their property and that we leave their rights of ways and their lands in as good a condition when we're finished with our work and maintaining our lines as it was before we got there. And our service territory does span. We actually border Shenandoah Valley Electric Co-op up on Skyline Drive. So we serve up as far up as Big Meadows lot. So an iconic site that many folks are aware of. And of course our region encompasses a lot of small business and commerce. And so we're again just a very diverse co-op. And I wanted to make sure that you kind of knew some of the areas that we serve around the region. Now our members are beginning to ask for a lot more of us. There are a lot of changes underway with the regulatory front here in Virginia. But really just consumer and member owner demands. And so we're seeing we've got about 1,000 members at this point that are interconnected with solar systems, whether it be rooftop or in some cases ground mount on their farms. And we're working very closely to make sure that they have advice from the co-op, they're connected, they have the support of the grid, and they're also contributing kilowatt hours back to the grid to help their neighbors in many cases. The next wave of technology that is really upon us and I think will be a really big factor for this particular region. We do have four interstate corridors that go through our service territory. And the commutes of many of the Rappahannock member owners are into Charlottesville, into Richmond, into Northern Virginia and D.C. and other areas. And so the electric vehicle wave as GM and Ford and others bring forward a whole fleet really of vehicles, we anticipate this to be a real big cost saver and a good benefit for our membership. So this will put some demands on the co-op in terms of having the charging capacity and we're working right now on some rate design to really incentivize nighttime charging and help our members charge as affordably as possible. Just quickly here, ODEC, Old Dominion Electric Cooperative, is our generation and transmission provider. They're headquartered in Richmond and they provide service to 11 cooperatives in Virginia, Maryland and Delaware. And this is one of their clean national vehicles. They're also a part of the Central Gas Power Plants that was put in service in 2019. That's about a thousand megawatt facility there. ODEC has about a 3,000 megawatt capacity. And ODEC is also investing in new forms of energy. Right just down the road in Clark County here is a solar facility where ODEC is purchasing the offtake of that electricity for its wholesale customers, including Rappahannock. We are working on the construction of a fiber optic network that will be traversing through 820 miles, route miles, traversing through the communities that we serve and interconnecting over 100 of our substations and co-op facilities. And we have advised our members as well that we will be participating in an upcoming FCC auction with respect to the Rural Development Opportunity Fund. And it's an FCC auction for broadband services, which a number of electric co-ops across the nation are involved in. Just some final initiatives here. We've, for any member, member owners of the co-op that are listening, again, we try to minimize those outages. But if you haven't signed up for our outage text alerts, you know, again, we're trying to keep the outages from occurring. We roll as quickly, as safely as possible to get the lights back on. But when problems do arise, the next best thing would be to get an update and know what the situation is. And so we're doing a lot of that to make sure our members are not in the dark. From an informational perspective, when they are, you know, in the dark from an electricity perspective. We also have a wide array of energy use information for members and businesses to look at energy efficiency or sizing new technologies that they may want to integrate into their home or business. And then just this past week, we launched a new website. So with that, again, I commend you for your service to all the stakeholders here in Frederick County. We appreciate so much our partnership. We appreciate your partnership with the member owners and with all the jurisdictions that we serve. And I just want to make sure that you could put a face with the name and that you knew that we're available should Frederick County have any needs of Rappahannock. And please don't hesitate to contact us. I hope to follow up, Mr. Chairman, with an email to you with some contact information and some updated information about the co-op that you feel free to share that with the rest of the Board of Supervisors. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. I congratulate you and thank you for your willingness to consider broadband expansion as well as your power grid. It's really important to rural portions of Virginia and particularly Frederick County. Absolutely. Thank you for your time. Most of it's outside your service area, but you're willing to look at that technology and it's much appreciated. Yes, we're recognizing a lot of opportunities these days with respect to technologies and very much engaging in a number of technology fronts. So you can be sure that we're going to stay on top of these issues. Thank you very much, sir. Appreciate it. Have a great evening. You as well. Thank you, Scott. That'll bring us to committee appointments. Hanley Regional Library for your term. I'm sorry. I was saying Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So as the Board's liaison to the library, I know Carl Rush and I'd like to go and nominate him to the position. Hanley Regional? That's where we are? Yes. I thought you said Extension. Yes, sir. Hanley Regional. Yes, sir. All right. So motion to appoint. Second. Sir, second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you very much. Apologize. Four-year term of A. Nicholas Powers to the Historic Resources Advisory Board. He's been a huge asset there. How would the Board like to handle that one? Chairman, I would move for the approval of Mr. Nicholas Powers to serve on the Historic Resources Advisory Board. The motion is there. Second. Second. Second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll stand appointed. Note from me, Gary Oates to a vacant position just for the following reasons. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to get to the next one. I'm not sure. Thank you. It, I think, is in favor. Any discussion? A motion. Cast Member Oates. Aye. Seeing none, Mr. Laurec to approve, Comments. Aye. Opposed, no. Aw Tina, Aye. So we do. would like to choose? Mr. Chairman. Yes. This was originally discussed back in March and voted upon by this entire board on June 10th. I'm extremely disappointed that the school board has not seen fit to have this conversation prior to their joint meeting or their large meeting on the 13th. It was my hope that we could have had this conversation. We could have injected some of our concerns and gotten some feedback so that they could have had that in their collaboration meeting. With that said, neither of the dates that are listed here would work for me. Thus, I would like to propose the date of November the 18th or the 25th as good dates. We could discuss other dates if those are not available for others. Okay. Other responses? I'm looking. Any of those dates, the 13th or the 17th? The 25th does not work for me. 13th, no? 17th? 13th, 17th, or 18th. I think the school board said the two days they wanted was the 13th or 17th. If that works for them, either one of those dates works for me. It doesn't make any difference. I heard both ways. 13th and 17th both work? Yes. Thank you. Okay. Other responses, please? Mr. Chairman, the 18th and the 25th, I think that's what Mr. Graber said, were both Wednesdays, both work for me. I'd like to see if we could get all seven of us and all seven of the school board members together on the same date. If that doesn't work, maybe we send out an app and put out a series of dates and then just see what we can do. But 18 and 25 both work for me, Mr. Chairman. Okay. Other responses, please? Mr. Chairman, I can't do the 10th. I'm sorry. Doug, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead, Supervisor. I was going to say all those dates work for me as well. Okay. Thank you. I'm sorry. Supervisor Slaughter? The 25th does not work for me. The 18th, we have finance and MPO, so I don't know what time frame. We're looking at, but... I could put you on the spot, Supervisor Fisher. Thank you. All right. So any of those dates I can make work, as long as they're not in the a.m. Correct. All right. Any other comments? No. Mr. Slaughter, do you have a position on the 13th and the 17th? 13th is good. 17th is . Okay. All right. Well, it's always a challenge to try to get everyone. So, let's forward the 18 and 25th request to the school board. Um... There were three of us that could do all of those dates. Are we finished? All right. Let's move on. Legislative agenda. That would be me, Mr. Chairman. Okay. This is the board's proposed legislative agenda for the upcoming 2021 General Assembly session. Usually every October the board considers items of interest for the upcoming session. So what you have before you is a draft incorporating some of the positions and items that we've had from last year and prior years. You will note highlighted verbiage in this draft. That is new language compared to last year or new initiatives. Much of that highlighted language was pulled from VACO's legislative agenda. Particularly item number one, the land use regulation and development, which speaks to additional tools to help cover the cost of growth, some of which was broad impact fee authority. I know Supervisor Dunn and Supervisor Graber have both expressed an interest in pursuing that, and VACO has gotten on that bandwagon as well. We've added verbiage to item number two on tax exemptions. We had kept that vague over the years. But one of the things that we've done is we've added verbiage to item number two on tax exemptions. One of the items that we've added this year was the revocation of the tax exemption for Westminster Canterbury that was granted by the General Assembly and bring that back to the county for consideration as a tax exemption since the General Assembly in 2003 gave that authority going forward to localities. And we've tried for years to try to get a reversion of pre-2003 tax exemptions to get the authority to consider those as well. And then item number five, with the, I guess, new interest in solar farms in the county, and again, this also came from VACO's draft legislative agenda, we're talking about maintaining local authority to address impacts with utility scale solar projects and opposing any efforts to try to extend the state mandated tax exemption on local property taxes for solar equipment. So it's sort of a twofold position there. Then item number six, that was an item from last year as well, the presumptive illness for workers' compensation. Last year, that dealt with firefighters and law enforcement officers, and it identified certain cancers that may be covered under workman's comp. This year, there's been an effort with COVID to try to make COVID as potentially a presumptive illness under workman's comp. So we are opposing any efforts to expand workers' comp presumptive illness to public employment. So we are opposing any efforts to expand workers' comp presumptive illness to public employment. So we are opposing any efforts to expand workers' comp presumptive illness to public employment. That is not done in concert with additional state funding or assistance to local governments to offset those liabilities, because it's easy for the General Assembly to mandate that, but the county is the one that ends up footing the bill. The other items on there are other positions that we've outlined for the county, but items one through six we have identified, at least initially, as main points for the county to lobby our state elected officials on. The other items on there are other positions that we've outlined for the county to lobby our state elected officials on. As in past years, this is not a finite list. As bills get filed and as the General Assembly convenes, staff will continue to monitor bills and report back to the board if there are any items of interest or anything that we feel the board should take a position on. Much like last year, there were some items that we brought resolutions of support or resolutions of opposition to, and staff continues to be in contact with our delegate and senator, as well as our lobbyists down in Richmond to convey the county's input on bills. So with that, Mr. Chairman. I'll be happy to answer any questions that the board might have, and staff will be looking for an endorsement of this agenda, and we would then forward that to our elected officials. Thank you. Any questions of Mr. Tibbs? Anyone? Looking for adoption tonight, or comments and input? If the board's comfortable, as I said, this continues to be a work in progress, but if we could get an endorsement, we could at least get it out to our elected officials. And because I know that the time to file a bill comes pretty quickly after election day, so we'd like to get this in front of them as soon as we could. Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right. How would the board like to handle this request? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to add one additional agenda option. That Frederick County supports school choice for all Virginia families, including tax credit for those who choose homeschooling or private schooling. I would second that. Good, Mr. Tibbs. Yes, sir. Okay. Yes, sir. Oh, thumbs up on that. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Just under the other positions is education funding. The only concern that I have is the yellow addition. It says, in addition, Frederick County supports additional funding options for localities for capital and school construction costs, including expanding dedicated local sales and use tax authority. I agree that we have to find ways to fund those costs, and I believe that that is outlined well, as Mr. Tibbs made mention of, as far as impact fees. I just have a hard time supporting any new taxes in the county, simply because we have a very high personal property tax as it presently stands. Our real estate tax is comparable to our adjoining localities. I just hate to see us continue to increase taxes on our constituents. I just hate to see us continue to increase taxes on our constituents. And the tough business environment many find themselves in. So those are just my concerns. Thank you, sir. Other comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So we've talked about this before, but Frederick County has grown significantly in the last 20 years. We've gone from 60,000 to 90,000 people. And I've mentioned this before. It's part of what Mr. Tibbs has on that, but some type of support for some type of capital cost recovery. When you have 30,000 people move in, you have a cost for schools. Fire and rescue, the sheriff, et cetera. So I would encourage us as a board, and I also encourage those on the school board, to join together. The school board has gone and made requests for capital costs. We recognize those costs. But if we can collectively go to Richmond, all 14 of us, and say, we think this is important, that will have a much more effect than just one person going. I've gone down to Richmond twice now in the last two years. But if we could do that collectively, that would be helpful. In addition, if we can go and encourage evasion. I would encourage the board of the state of Chicago to put it on their agenda as well. If we as boards can do that, that would be helpful to move that along if there's a consensus to do it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments, anyone? Do we need to endorse the list? Is everyone ready to do that? I'd entertain a motion. So... Mr. Chairman, I would move for endorsement of the legislative agenda as presented with the addition of Mr. McCarthy's request. Second. The third motion is seconded. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, none. I'm sorry? We'll bring will us to Committee Business. All right, skipped all questions. Is there a motion to approve the second area of the legislative agenda as presented there? For the 여러분들's recommendation, I'll recommend profitable corporate houses for business incorporation, safer housing,ribbon-obligatory housing.... Again, Mr. Chairman I will move that the legislative agenda is considered if there are no business operating fund and general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $294,942.57. This amount represents FY 2020 unspent restricted funds. You have a memo in your packet that outlines the restrictions of this money. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Heard the motion, is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Is there any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graver. No, I'm sorry. Oh, so Mr. Chairman, I have concerns on this. Back in March, I made some proposals on my concerns on the budget at the time, which was for the FY 21 budget. In March, I laid out some concerns and I laid out some possible solutions. Mr. Foreman and I had a conversation in January of this year which was very concerning. He said, Mr. Chairman, you have a very constructive, he called me up and said, Blaine, let's get together and chat. And I said, great. And we had a very good constructive conversation. I said to Jay, you know what, if we get the two boards together and chat, we would really do something well. We had another meeting in March. Again, highly constructive. He laid out concerns that I had, I laid out concerns from him, et cetera. And in March, when I made a request for a meeting, it's been eight months. So when the school board, I said, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to have a one-on-one meeting. And the school board comes back and says they'd like to have another $294,000. I have a problem with this. I'd like to see the budget that the school has. The online budget that the school board has is at a high level, but there's a lot more detail to it. I asked my school board member for some answers to some questions and was told, let's have a one-on-one meeting. I'd like to have a group meeting. I'd like to just go and make a motion to delay this until we've had that meeting, had an online budget, and been able to go into the same depth that Mr. Foreman and I have done. So I'll let just to move that we will go and delay. I can't accept a motion during discussion. Okay, thank you. All right. I've made my point then. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman, I believe we can make an amendment to the motion, can we not? You could offer an amendment. Okay, I'm gonna make an amendment to the motion that has been offered that we do not take action on this item until we have had the opportunity to have a joint meeting with the school board, as Mr. Dunn has proposed, as well as that there be provided a detailed comprehensive budget as not only Mr. Dunn and myself and some others may have asked for, but also some of the school board representatives have asked for a comprehensive, detailed comprehensive budget that they have yet to receive. And I think that it is only fair that we allow the school board members to be able to do due diligence in their role that they have a state mandate to do, as well as allow us the opportunity to see their budget and to have good dialogue and conversation regarding their needs. So I would also ask, I'd make the amendment that we would postpone further action on this until we've had the joint meeting and we have a comprehensive budget so that we have a good idea of what we're looking at. I'll second it. Motion and a second. Any discussion? We're voting on the amended motion to delay. Supervisor Fischer? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes no, motion fails. We will now have any other further discussion on the original motion. Is there any? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I believe that we will be dialect of duty if we choose to vote on this without having a comprehensive budget and a detailed budget. In light of some of the comments that were made on September the 15th, and I will bring video of that here shortly. There has been complete, in my opinion, it's been apprehensible, some of the actions and voiced approaches to the budget that has been done by the Finance Committee Chairman of the School Board. And I will have video of that here before the end of the meeting tonight. I firmly believe that this board is dialect of duty. If we vote to approve, we will vote to approve. If we vote to approve this without allowing there to be considerable review of the detailed budget of where we are and how we got there. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Fischer? If I read this correctly, these are restricted funds that are dedicated to grants that they're specifically, you know, some of them spelled A. So to me, it's not an issue for discussion. They're restricted funds. So that's all I've got to say. I understand. Thank you. Supervisor McCarthy? I was gonna make the same comment that these are the restricted funds. I'm more concerned with some of the following proposals more than this one. Right, sir. Anyone else? Supervisor Fischer? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? No. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Please. Item number two, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance request a school capital project fund and general funds supplemental appropriation in the amount of $1,976,978.24. This amount represents unspent fiscal year 2020 school operating funds to be used for the purchase of 19 school buses. As you may recall, our capital fund appropriation, included one school bus for the current fiscal year. Local funds are required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Motion is there a second? Second. And now discussion. Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Graber? I'm gonna hear about making a motion exactly what I made for the previous, that we postpone making any further movement on this matter until we have a joint meeting with the school board and we have a detailed, comprehensive budget to be made. Thank you. I'm gonna move the motion. So, Mr. Chairman, we have a comprehensive budget of their current budget year and also 2022 when that should arrive before we go to disperse money in this matter. For the amended motion, is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. So, there was several years ago discussion on pre-K education and we were told as a board that there would be no local funds spent and only to come to find out that there were several hundred thousand dollars in local monies or money spent outside of the grant for that. We were also given budgets that show that there's money spent on textbooks, tens of thousands of dollars, but we aren't given any real input on what those textbooks are. I have to wonder, because I've asked the question, there's a deep equity book here. Is that considered a textbook? And if you look at who the author of it is, it is a renowned Marxist communist in Gary Howard. And that is what was taught to our school students and to our staff, because I have a record now. I paid $475.63 for this information through a FOIA's request. But it was taught for several years. I have a complete list of staff in which it was taught to. It is despicable. I also have a copy of the September 15th meeting where the chairman of the finance committee made some pretty disparaging comments. I would like for this board to see those comments as we consider this motion for this request of funds. It is directly tied to this. It is a 10 minute conversation. Please enjoy this and at the end, I will have a couple of additional comments I would like to make. Thank you. Motion by Mr. Hester and seconded by Mrs. Washington, the committee agreed to forward to the full board a recommendation to approve FY21 budget adjustments to the School Capitals Project Fund totaling $1,902,uper كلったハ完ですね and seventy six thousand nine hundred and seventy eight dollars and twenty four cents for the purchase of 19 school buses and with that mr. chairman I will make that motion for that amount all right we have a motion by mr. Lake do we have a second second second mr. Hester any discussion mr. chairman just a question for administration really quickly is there anything that's pressing or we need to make a decision tonight or we may lose these funds back to the county mr. chairman sir okay all right so mr. chairman with that I would like the board to consider maybe postponing this until our next next meeting just receive the information today and although school buses definitely a worthy endeavor and are needed I think there may also be something that we can do to make sure that we're making the decision tonight so I'm really hopeful do you see the possibility of maximizing our investment with the limited a tuition only飛 falou that we may be able to review tonight's miel tecnología free time-span ticks coordinator delos san texturemiti cardalamini orchard Center attorney it has previously been recommended by senior even's board that we bening advances from our current options I also admire and recognize premier insane to the recent announcement of the next three months to a youth budget meets the my first year on the board. And what happens is that there are numerous, many trips made to Charlottesville and Richmond in a training mode where you learn about all the school board and the school board stuff. I would care to venture by this time in my first year in 2012, I probably made six or seven trips to either Charlottesville or Richmond. And so what all that comes down to, Mr. Monk, is that we are a consumer of information from the school system, and we are a policy board. And what we need to keep an eye on is policy being followed, and is the school system following good, decent business practices? We do not. I can tell you, this is my ninth year. We do not do the weed stuff. Would you stop that for a minute? I'd really like to know what the weed stuff is, because this is your chairman, folks, of the Finance Committee for the school board. Please continue. And we are consumers of information from the staff. We judge, does it meet the policy requirement? Is it good business practice? But the bottom line is, we don't adjust figures. We don't basically, and to tell all three of you, we do not run the school division. Would you stop that? Would you reverse that for 10 seconds, make sure I heard that properly? We don't adjust figures. We don't basically, and to tell all three of you, we do not run the school division. Would you pause that? I'm very concerned, my friends. If the school board does not run the school division, who are we giving $86 million of our money to every year? Please continue. Dr. Savine and his staff's business, and we keep to our policies. So in that regard, if we were to delay this, come back and think of other categories, it's theirs to decide. Dr. Savine decides on this, buying these 19 buses. We're probably not going to change that. We don't know enough about all the categories of the budget book that's probably this thick that where- Would you pause there and go back to that, sir? Please, please. We don't know enough about all the categories of the budget book that's probably this thick that where money may or may not be spent. Would you pause that, please? So I believe there's an acknowledgement there that there's a budget book about this thick. I'd like to see that budget book. I've asked for it. There have been a couple of school board members that have asked for that budget book as well, and we haven't seen it. The budget book that I've gotten is about that thick, and it's online. I'd like to see it. And it talks about textbooks, but I have to wonder if it includes this textbook that is a part of a communist manifesto. If they don't run the school division, and they're acknowledging that there's a document this thick that I have FOIAs twice, once was a $7,800 figure for any documents surrounding the budget, which was not also, the FOIAs request was not followed appropriately, I have to question what else is hidden that we're not seeing. Please continue. Sit around and think of a few. But it's really not our job. And so that's where I would put it. And again, I want to go back to the three first-year members. I think you've been penalized. I think you've been put behind without these trips, without this training, and I feel bad for you for that. But in that regard, I just think we have to take the information. We have to trust what we're hearing and what we're getting, and if it's good business, we have to trust it. If it's good business practice, that's where we go. Anybody? Thank you, Mr. Lake. So. Mr. Chairman, I think those comments have to be followed up. I think it is this board's prerogative to make decisions about the school division and its future and its finances, and obviously I think we have some great administrative support, and their work does not go unnoticed. But . As I said, we have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. We have to do it. It definitely is within our prerogative to make those type of decisions, especially when it's impacting. We're talking about $2 million. We're not talking about $20,000. So I think at that level, at least giving it consideration as opposed to seeing it just four hours ago is prudent and allows us to give full consideration to all the options that are out there, not saying that buses aren't important. Maybe we do go with those 19 buses, but at least giving us the time to consider. That would be helpful. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Are you making a motion, Mr. Monk? There's a motion on the floor that's been seconded. So I have. OK. We have a motion on the floor. Would you please pause the video? We are in discussion. You have the prerogative. I'm a little bit confused here. I'm not quite sure why the vice chairman is running the meeting with the chairman present. And I'm a little bit concerned that the chairman is not correcting other people on this board. And there seems to be some improper procedure. But let's let this play out. Please continue. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we lay this on the table. OK. We have a motion. We have a second. Mr. Rivers, help me. There could be an amendment with their table, and we have to take the original motion off the table. We have to take action. Either Mr. Lake and Mr. Heston have to agree to withdraw their motion to the board. Or Mr. Mulder could make a motion to amend the motion brought forward by Mr. Lake and Mr. Heston. And the board would dispose of that and then take action on whatever the motion is. Whether that be adopting the motion as amended. In just a minute, you will get to see how they proceed. And I think that that is important to the closure of this. OK. So to my point. Mr. Monk, is that a motion? Yeah. Actually, as I said, move to lay on the table. So I would need a second. OK. Mr. Monk. OK. Do we have a second for Mr. Monk's amendment? All right. Hearing none, that dies on the table. We're back to our original motion. Any further discussion? May I? Yes. Can I ask a question? Yes, Mr. Chairman. In previous discussions, when we were discussing the hybrid model and potential budget cuts from the county and things like that, there were discussions of potentially having to furlough staff and things like that if it were unsustainable. Is there still, is that still a potential thing that we may be facing? I guess my question being, could this money be earmarked for that if that were something we were facing? Does that make sense? We address, I think we tried to address, well, sort of address that. I asked Dr. Savine if there was need to put reserve funds aside for future COVID impact. And I mean, this is not coming, you know, we've seen this in the daily briefs that are coming from around the states where that's being considered. But I won't speak for. Dr. Savine, but he, you know, he answered that there are pockets and there are sources of cares and COVID money that they are certain that are coming. And so he feels confident. Absolutely. Just making sure there's nothing else that we could be facing, I guess, is my question there. Mr. Chairman. Would you like to address that? Yes, sir. I would be glad to speak to that. And it was, as Mr. Lake mentioned, it was part of the discussion in the finance committee. We have. Been very aggressive in applying for the many buckets that exist in terms of the cares act funds. We just received funding from the county request of three point five when we certainly appreciate the support of county administrator and the board of supervisors and their initial installment of right around. I believe it's eight million dollars. We were. We were. We were fortunate to benefit from three. Point five million. They have recently received an additional eight million second installment. I have communicated with the county administrator our intent and also our needs that will continue to grow as we recognize and in the finance committee, we looked at the list in terms of PPE. Also, Wi-Fi hotspots, nearly a half a million dollars, but the PPE with the demand. We anticipate. Those those needs will grow. But we are fortunate to have significant choices regarding a variety of buckets of funding through the cares act that will allow us to support that. And then while we do have a a plan and we recognize that phase one, we from the start of this school year reduced our budget from about 10%. Would you go back 10 seconds or so? Make sure I heard that properly. We do. We do. We do. We do. We do have a a plan and we recognize that phase one. We from the start of this school year reduced our budget from about 10%. But certainly the of the cares act funds are helping us to address these needs. Thank you, Mr. Motion by Mr. I would like to share a couple of things there that I saw the three and a half million that he speaks of regarding the cares act. That was what the school system stated would be required to do online learning. And and to take. Care of the needs for distance learning. The three and a half million dollars from the cares act was should cover that. That's what the estimate that the school system gave us as needed needed costs. So that did not come out of their budget. Additionally, they should be receiving an additional three money. Three million dollars in cares money to take care of any new or additional things that arise. Therefore, that should also not be coming out of their budget. I'm a little bit confused on where that 10% reduction came from. Because this board did not reduce their budget. But they did. by 10%. We gave them the full amount of funding that they received last year. And in fact, if you go back over the last five years, there's been between a 27.5% and a 30% increase in funding for schools over the past five years. Therefore, I'm a little bit remiss to try to understand where the 10% reduction came from as I spoke with my school board representative yesterday and he did not vote on a 10% reduction in the school spending. Therefore, I have a little bit of question where the authority came from to reduce those funds. I would like to now ask my school board representative and anybody else who has asked for a comprehensive budget that has not received one from the county administrator to possibly follow up with the state attorney general and ask for a state police investigation as to why the information is not being disseminated to our school board. They have a fiscal responsibility under Virginia code to disperse the funds that are given to them. I am extremely concerned that they are not being provided the opportunity to see the numbers, to see the books, to make good decisions. As we just saw in this video, it would appear, according to the finance chairman, that we do not enter into the weeds. That we do not adjust figures. His words, not mine. That we do not run the school division. That scares me to death. That we don't know enough about all categories. What categories are we talking about? I don't get to see them. I have a lot of concerns. I have a lot of concerns over what we just saw in this last ten minute video. If we continue and give these funds to the school board right now, we as a board of supervisors are dialect of our duty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Further discussion on the amended motion? Anyone? Amended motion to delay. Supervisor Fischer. I think Supervisor McCarthy was trying to... I didn't hear him. You there, Supervisor McCarthy? Yes. Yes. Further discussion on the amended motion, please, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At our meeting on September 23rd, I pointed out to our board that the Virginia code mandates that each school board shall manage and control the funds available to the school board for public schools. Shall manage and control. That means that not only is it the school board's job, but it's a legal duty of the school board to manage and control the funds under their care. And to do otherwise would be misfeasance in office at best and possibly malfeasance. We have very clear indication at this point that the Frederick County School Board members have not been engaged in the management of the school or control of the school funds. We have evidence, in fact, that certain board members were working under the false premise that it is not their job to make financial decisions or run the school board. Despite my admonition on September 23rd, there's still no indication that the Frederick County School Board has taken any steps necessary to familiarize themselves with the school's expenditures and budget. As I stated on September 23rd, knowing these facts about the failure of the school board to carry out their statutory duty, I cannot in good conscience vote to expend county taxpayer dollars, knowing that there is a lack of proper oversight. I don't see how any supervisor can in good faith approve the appropriation of any of the funds that are required to manage the funds. I would like to make a point that the school board has taken the necessary steps to properly oversee the expenditure of the taxpayer funds. You'll recall the recent debacle in Warren County where millions of dollars were appropriated to the Industrial Development Authority even after there was evidence that there was no proper oversight of the funds being expended. In that case, the Board of Supervisors was indicted for criminal charges related to the failure to require proper oversight. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that the school administration has done anything inappropriate or criminal. What I'm saying is that the body responsible for ensuring that no one is responsible for the failure to require proper oversight of the funds being expended has made it clear that for many years they have failed to take an active role in managing and controlling the taxpayers' funds. I am aware of one school board member who has stated that he has requested from the school administration the budget information necessary to do his job, to do his duty. There are also at least three members of this board, the Board of Supervisors, that have asked for the same information. And time and time again, the school administration has refused to provide the information and instead refers us to a fairly useless and very anemic budget document on the school's website. Why is it that we're not allowed to see the budget information? Why is it that we're not allowed to see the budget information? Why is it that we're not allowed to see the budget information? Why is it that we're not allowed to see the budget information? Why is it that we're not allowed to see the budget information? Where the taxpayers' money is being spent, what are they hiding? And if they've got nothing to hide, why don't they disperse that information to us so that we can see that they've got nothing to hide? Therefore, I encourage all my fellow supervisors to do the right thing, to do our jobs, to safeguard the taxpayers' funds, to ensure that tax money is being spent on the priorities most necessary for the common good of our community. I encourage my fellow supervisors to require that the school board take proper control and management of the school's funds before any additional funds are appropriated to the school system. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, sir. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, sir. Further discussion on the amended motion? Anyone? Anyone? Hearing no one. Supervisor Fischer. SUPERFER. Did you state the amended motion again? CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. To delay consideration of this, it's been on three separate steps that I can't adequately repeat. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I will repeat them for you, Mr. Chairman, if you'd like. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you, sir. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. The first condition is that there be a joint school board board of supervisors meeting where this can be discussed. The second is that there is a detailed, comprehensive budget provided to any board member or school board member who desires to see such. The last is to see how the CARES money is dispersed, and the reason for that being part of the CARES money can be, could be utilized possibly for school bus purchases, depending upon the buckets in which and how it is laid out. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. May I answer your question, Supervisor Fischer? SUPERFER. Yes, sir. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. How is your vote? SUPERFER. No. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. I'm sorry? SUPERFER. No. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. No. SUPERFER. No. SUPERFER. No. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. No. ASSISTANT Iес. Eleanor drives B. ASSISTANT I sprint Так. LAWMAKER1 I servicing MA' Herrmann-Hughes . LAWMAKER2 That's not on my list. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I am extremely disappointed in my fellow board members for not assuring that these citizens' tax dollars are being accounted for. It is extremely concerning to me to think that we are not going to require the school board to show us that they are being good stewards of the hard-earned tax dollar money that our taxpayers are paying every year. Thank you very much. Other discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Graber. No. Supervisor Dunn. Nay. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. No. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Chair votes aye. Motion carries. Supervisor Slaughter. Item number three, the Frederick County Public Schools Executive Director of Finance requests a school operating fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $2,400,000. This is the amount that the Board of Directors has requested for the school. The amount is $35,300. This amount represents CARE CRF funds for local education agencies. No local funds required. And the committee originally discussed advertising the item for public hearing. However, the amount of the request is under the threshold that requires a public hearing. As a result, the action requested is the supplemental appropriation, and I would so move. Second, Mr. Chairman. And a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn. For the same reasons I stated before, we need to have a meeting, like to see a budget, like to go through the details. We could do that in a workshop. And so for that reason, I'm going to make a motion to delay this until such times we've had a meeting and had a budget. You're offering an amendment to the motion to delay. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Second. And a second. Any discussion? All right. Are we ready? This is the amended motion to delay until we've had a meeting. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Slaughter. No. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Fisher. No. Chair votes no. Motion fails. We'll take us to the original motion. Any further discussion on the original motion? Hearing none, Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. No. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. No. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. We'll take us to item number four. Manchester Regional Airport Authority request an airport fund supplemental appropriation. The amount of $190,000 represents funds from an unbudgeted lease and will be used to pay existing bond debt. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. Is there a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCartney. Aye. Thank you. Supervisor Fisher. Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Item number five, the Winchester Regional Airport Authority request an airport capital fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $190,411.75. This amount represents unspent bond proceeds. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval, and I would so move. The motion is adjourned. Is there a second? Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. I'm so sorry. Thank you. Supervisor McCartney, I'm sorry. Supervisor Slaughter votes aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. Public Works Director request a general fund supplement from the Board of Directors. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second. Extra. Extra. Extra. Overtime. Overtime. Overtime. Overtime. Next sign is được een stok hurting bed. Second. Nice. Next sign is durch 데� eller omfug. Isn't it too tight on the piano for me? Second. Second. Second. Second. Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number seven, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,408.76. This amount represents an auto insurance claim to be used for vehicle repair. No local funds required. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. The motion is there a second? Second Mr. Chairman. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graver? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Item number eight, the sheriff requested general fund supplemental appropriation in the amount of $7,408. This amount represents a total of $7,408. This amount represents restricted reserved e-summons funds to be used for additional printers and scanners. The committee recommends approval and I would so move. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second Mr. Chairman. Any discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Chapter 7 Sweetlil and ingredability and compliance projects. Is there a motion? pedestal or not. I accept.tre Sometime sit comment. Abstesch? oral Quarter. Fore Sund Moment. Actions. Tim Irwin,ist a million dollars plus for overtime is significant. Some of that is offset by the entities in which that's being provided. But I'd just like to delay this until we can have that information. So I'll make that as a motion. You are aware that these are restricted funds. They can't be spent for anything else. I'd just like to have the data. Understood that, and you know staff is spending a great deal of time. I'm just asking your question. That's fine, and I'm just looking to get some information. I'll be glad, they're legitimate monies. I'd just like to have some answers to some questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll second his motion. With a motion and a second, is there any discussion? Any? So we have a motion to delay consideration until he understands the sheriff's overtime. Are we clear? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I didn't understand that to be the case. It's not a matter of understanding his overtime. It's a matter of, if I heard him right, and please correct me if I'm wrong, of getting a response and having some information as to where finances stand regarding the overtime. I think he understands the overtime was utilized. He just would like a breakdown of where some of those expenditures were. Please correct me if I'm wrong. That's correct. Okay, I stand corrected. That's the amended motion. Is there any further discussion? Supervisor Graver? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? No. Supervisor Slaughter? No. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Fisher? No. Chair votes no. Motion fails. And we'll go back to the original motion. Is there any further discussion on the original motion? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Until some of these individuals understand that there's some accountability, there will be no accountability. And as Mr. Supervisor, as the chair of the board of trustees, I'm going to ask a question, and that's to the member of the board, Mr. Scott, from Gainesboro. McCarthy. Thank you. Previously mentioned, we have a fiduciary responsibility to know where the money is being spent and to make sure that we are good stewards of those funds that are entrusted to us. I find it extremely disheartening that there are members of this body who would choose to expend funds without knowing the details of how these funds or previous funds have been spent, they have had the opportunity to see the books for lack of a better word of items that are of concern to them thank you further discussion anyone we're back to the original motion to approve supervisor Graber Oh supervisor done hey supervisor Wells I supervisor slaughter I supervise McCarthy supervisor Fisher I chair votes aye in motion carries that concludes my report sir Thank You ma'am all right that will bring us to Planning Commission business public hearing for CPPA 0 1 2 0 miss Perkins thank you Mr. Chairman members of the board this is a comprehensive plan amendment request for the Waverly farm properties they are requesting to expand the sewer water service area around the site if I can direct you to the screen on your left the subject properties are outlined in blue you have interstate 81 you have Hopewell Road and the screen line here represents the current boundary of the sewer water service area now currently these properties are zoned RA which is rural areas the swaza currently in that area this kind of bubbled out area that's in the swaza is about 51 acres around the interchange now the Northeast land use plan of the comprehensive plan shows that area inside and around the swaza with the mixed-use industrial office future land use designation and then the remainder of that area in that blue is a future industrial land use thank you Mr. Chairman we will now move to the next item of the agenda item is the future land use designation and then the remainder of that area in that blue is a future industrial land use now the proposed swaza expansion before you totals 171 acres for 13 properties now I would note that the applicants application was for their properties which is about 145 acres and going through the process the swaza was increased slightly to include this area this little triangle between their subject properties which is that green hatched area and Hopewell Road to make a more consistent slu mixed-use industrial land use designation scести boundary that would make a more consistent swaza boundary no note that tribes are going to have a much cheaper price tohaler conventional land was also considered with the frederick was a complication of that water recommendations and that Acquaviva regional budget for Leonard entire area was shown for inclusion originally we have also drafted Northeast land use plan text to go in appendix one at discusses this with sewer water service area for the Northeast land use plan area it outlines the purpose and the importance of the for includes having thegnition of brunt its relationship to economic development and it also reinforces the need as discussed by Frederick Water for participation in the future funding of sewer water of sewer infrastructure projects by users in order to facilitate future development. So this is originally started back in July with the comp plan amendment process and the comp plan committee. Most recently it did go before the Planning Commission at their meeting on October 21st and they did recommend approval of the expansion and the new text. So with that we are seeking a decision from the board on this proposed sewer water service area expansion request for 171 acres as well as the proposed Northeast land use plan draft text. I'd be glad to answer any questions and the applicant is also here. Thank you very much. Questions Ms. Perkins anyone? Who's representing the application? Mr. Riley sir welcome always a pleasure. I'll be brief. My name is John Riley I represent the Stiles family with reference to this Waverly Farm request. We support staff's position on this application and we're we would wholeheartedly recommend your endorsement and approval of same and I would be more than happy to answer any questions. Thank you sir. Any questions of Mr. Riley? Anyone? Thank you very much. Thank you Mr. Chairman. This is a public hearing would anyone comment concerning this proposed CPPA approval? Anyone? Approval or denial? Anyone? Seeing no one we'll close the public hearing portion. Mrs. Stonewall. Yes sir Mr. Chairman I would like to make a motion to approve the 2035 comprehensive plan amendment CPPA 01-20 Waverly Farm sewer and water service inclusion request. Hearing the motion is there a second? Second. Second. Is there any discussion? Anyone? Hearing none. Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Second. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Request is approved. Ms. Perkins 2035 comp plan amendment Northeast land use plan as it pertains to Swaziland. Thank you Mr. Chairman. This is kind of part two of this of this study. This proposal is for adjustments to the boundary of the sewer water service area for the entire limits of the boundary for the Northeast land use plan. Now this review really focused on like I said that overall boundary. It looked at uses that currently have a plan of future land use but have not previously been included in the boundary as well as some areas that may not have followed property lines. Now we did coordinate this study with Frederick Water and they did adopt their recommendations for the Route 11 corridor. Ms. Perkins 2035 comp plan amendment Northeast land use plan as it pertains to Swaziland. This effort was really to make sure that these areas with the planned land uses could be served by Frederick Water in the future. So really the Frederick Water recommendations. It showed areas with planned land uses that did not that would not need public water and sewer to be taken out. Areas that would need public water and sewer to be placed inside the limits. So what that really showed is removal about 681 acres in in addition of about 1,017 acres into the Swazer. So it's a net increase in the sewer water service area of about 335 acres. Now those areas that are shown for inclusion, just for reference, you have Interstate 81, here's the West Virginia boundary. You have this area north along Rush Church Road. You have this area on the opposite side, along the boundary on the Woodside area. You have this area here, which is the area we just previously discussed for Waverly. And then this area in the gray is the area for proposed removal. So this really followed the same timeline as the past. So most recently it did go before the Planning Commission for public hearing. Sorry, I need to back up a little bit. So when this went before the Board at your October 14th meeting, I would note that the Board did send forward those two additional areas that were not previously included, which is the area near Waverly and this area between those two other expansion areas. And I would note that because of the timelines and the advertising, that this had to follow a separate track. So that is going to the Planning Commission for public hearing at their November 4th meeting, and it'll follow that. Thank you. And it'll follow then with the Board. So the Planning Commission, they did hold a public hearing for this at their October 21st meeting, and they did recommend approval. So we are seeking a decision from the Board on these adjustments to the sewer water service area for the removal of that 681 acres and the addition of that 1,017 acres for the net increase in the SWASA for 335 acres. And I'd be glad to answer any questions. Thank you. Questions? Anyone? From Ms. Perkins. Supervisor Dunn. So, Ms. Perkins, for the record, the area that's being reduced really currently is a quarry, and so it's really not susceptible to SWASA. It'd be very difficult to put that in there. So the reduction is not a give up as much as the fact that there's nothing there, correct? Correct. Okay. The SWASA in that area, it's mining. It does not typically need sewer water. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Any other questions for Ms. Perkins? Anyone? Thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. So this is a public hearing. Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed change to the SWASA line? Anyone at all? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion of the meeting. Again, Stonewall. Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a motion to approve the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Amendment, Northeastern Land Use Plan, NELAP, and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the NELAP and the Supervisor Fisher? Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Board liaison reports, are there any? Hearing none, citizen comments. Is there anyone that signed up? Is there anyone who would like to say anything or share anything with the Board of Supervisors? Seeing none. Good evening, Mr. Chair, members of the Board, Mr. Tierney, I'm David Savine, Superintendent of Frederick County Public Schools and resident of the Shawnee District. I want to thank each of you for your sacrifice, for your hard work in serving this great county. So I thank you because there is much sacrifice in many ways. I want to thank you for your hard work in serving this great county. I know you have been through many, very challenging decisions. So I thank you. A few weeks ago, you should have received in writing an invitation to our school board's annual school board training session, which focuses primarily on the budget and CIP. I want to publicly invite you to attend this meeting, which will occur on Friday, November the 13th, at Lord Fairfax Community College. I know many of you have attended previously, And certainly we welcome your participation if your schedule allows. But we welcome your attendance at this school board meeting. The primary purpose of the meeting is for the superintendent and staff to establish some potential budget drivers, allow the school board to establish priorities, which is ultimately approved in a following school board meeting that provides the priorities, budget priorities for the superintendent staff for the annual proposed budget, which is approved by the school board. Certainly we have much to be proud of in Frederick County. We have Frederick County Public Schools is an award. Winning school division recognized in many ways for its leadership at the state level and has also recognized in many ways at the national level. We have much to be proud of. And for years we have engaged in a very civil, respectful way. We have not always agreed on every issue, but we have. We are committed to doing what's right and working together. And I certainly welcome that. I know we've had some conversation tonight. Regarding finances. Our school board receives a financial report on a monthly basis of all revenues, expenditures, construction. And as a courtesy and basically an agreement with the Board of Supervisors since 2010, on a quarterly basis through the Finance Committee, this board receives the same information, all revenues, expenditures, construction projects, over 25%. And that's about $1,000. I'll just mention through the Finance Committee, you just received a year-end review document. Also, at the beginning of this year, you received our full comprehensive budget document. That is, for the eighth consecutive year, received a meritorious award. Much like, very similar to the comprehensive document that Mrs. Schiffler puts out for you. And once again, I believe both of you have a very comprehensive document. both systems, the county government as well as the school system. We have much to be proud of and both of these budget documents are comprehensive and are recognized by professional external sources. I will provide both documents as a courtesy while I recognize each of you have this, I'll leave this with the clerk for additional review for those that may be interested. Thank you Mr. Chair. Thank you Dr. Sabine. Is there anyone else who would like to address the board? Welcome sir. Yes, Allen Marson, Gainsborough District. I'm a little unsettled to find out that more than half of the taxpayers investment in the Frederick County is being spent without elected representative approval. Civics 101, the people elect the officers, your elected officers, you have fidicial responsibilities, school board are elected officials, they have fidicial responsibility to the people of their district. That needs close attention. That's why we have an elective form of government, contrary to what you hear on the TV, we don't have a democracy, we have a republic. Summary budget information can be more of a smokescreen than actual information and when you only deal in summaries, executive level summaries or summaries of this or summaries of that, you are making decisions based on wrong or typically unclear information. I think it's a palpable fact that we have a lot of information that we need to be able to get to the top of the budget. I think it's a palpable fact that we need to be able to get to the top of the budget. I think it's a palpable fact that we have people run for office, get elected to office, and then do not discharge the duties of that office. In some cases they're told not to. In some cases they don't want to cause problems. In some cases they don't think it's a big deal. But when you take money out of my pocket and give it to somebody and they spend it and nobody knows where it goes, that is a problem. Now we just have to be able to get people to do what they want. We have to be able to get poor or even rich businesses out there to do their current employment. So we generally have some kind of idea where it goes. It goes to the schools, and schools are wonderful and schools are necessary. But every business I've ever worked in that were cost cutting opportunities, we don't do that in Frederick County. Our budgets only go one WAY. They go up. They never level out. They never go down. And I think we are not doing all of our business rough work. I think I have to say maybe this is a행 of freedom. I don't always hear the president press the get over. I'm here to serve. And I really think not all of our businesses. They have never level out. jobs when we allow this to happen. Thank you. It depends on who you're speaking to, Mr. Morrison. If you're speaking to your elected school board, they decide how they spend. They do. That's their job. It's not a debate. I have an opportunity to make a comment, and it's with due respect. This board decides how much money they get. No one else can tell us how much money that they get. That's our job. Their elected board, whom you vote for, decide how they spend it. That's the way it is. How can they make a decision when they have little or no information? You would have to speak to your elected school board member. I have. I'm sorry if he was unresponsive or her. Point of order, sir. Yes, sir. I have been called out several times for having questions or dialogue with a person from the diocese. If that is indeed against the rules, I would ask that we follow the rules and allow Mr. Morris to speak, and you will have a chance to speak after this. Mr. Morris made a comment, and I believe that he has made his comment well, and I don't believe that it is in the place of this board to rag on or to pull him, to distract him from his comment. Thank you. That wasn't my intent, and I will conclude rapidly. Yes, sir. I thought you had. A third of my time was used up. Procedure is a wonderful thing. It can be a great place to hide. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. It is always great to get an answer. Tim Regan, Back Creek District. I came here today to speak about something totally different than what I just saw on that with the school board. We all know that you're elected. Like they said, you're appointed, you get elected, and you're there to do a job. I'm watching, and I looked at this, and I said 1.976978.24 being used to buy school buses. When there are kids that are special needs that can't go into schools today because the schools don't have the capabilities of getting them in. If you've ever dealt with a child with special needs, you will find wearing a mask puts a kid into a meltdown. Now, there was two reasons. I asked Mr. Foreman today, I watched the school board meeting. Halfway through it, it shut off. It's no longer available. I asked him, where do you get this from? He said, well, come to us, and we will give it to you. Now I'm listening to what's going on. It would cost $400 to get that, if I'm correct, and if that's the cost to getting that. But yet you stand here, and you appropriate $1.9 million to get school buses when they have a $6 million facility. That I believe could fix those 19 school buses for at least one year, and use this money to help these kids that need the help to get back into school. They said, your job is to make sure the money is spent correctly. You give it to the school board, obviously the school board can't spend it correctly, because they don't know what to do with it. So they leave it down to two people. A guy that doesn't know how to get kids that are in special needs back in schools. Do you think there's something wrong with this picture? I do. I don't mean to stand here and reprimand you. Throughout this whole pandemic, it's been a big issue for everybody. It's cost millions of dollars for tons of businesses. But to give 19 school buses with a $6 million school facility to fix school buses, they can't keep school buses running for one or two years? There's something wrong with this picture. There really is. I always notice that there are the same four people constantly voting the same way. And I just may take Mr. I'm going to pronounce it wrong, and write a letter to the Attorney General to find out why you're just throwing away money. That's all I have to say. Be well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Ms. Dunn, welcome. Joy Dunn from Redbud District. I just want to ask, if your child came to you and asked you for $20 or $50, $50. Do you just hand it over? Well, of course not. You would ask them, first of all, why do you want it? What are you going to spend it for? That is how a parent is being responsible. So, as a former teacher of over 20 years, I want to tell you, every year I was always given a budget at the beginning of the year. I had to be accountable for every single penny that I had to pay. I had to be accountable for every single penny that I had to pay. I had to be accountable for every single penny that I had to pay. I had to be accountable for every single penny that I spent. I did this in several states where I've taught. I also did it when I taught at Aylor Middle School quite a few years ago. The beginning of the year, I was told exactly how much money I had, and I had to be able to document and say exactly where I was spending my money. So, my question is, as a taxpayer, I want to know where my money is going. I am really disappointed. I am really disappointed. And some of you, as board members, that we do not know where our tax money is being spent. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Newcomb, sir, welcome. Dana Newcomb, Gainesboro District. I find the video and the associated information, which I've had knowledge of now for a couple of weeks, very disturbing. Now, obviously, the chairman of the finance committee for the school board is from Gainesboro, so the citizens and taxpayers of Gainesboro are going to have to decide what they want to do about that. And hopefully, we'll decide wisely. But I find it disturbing that having Chaston, who is the head of the board of the school board of the state, is the chairman of the board of the school board of the state, has castized a junior member of the school board based upon his years of experience that Mr. Lake then turned around and said, despite all those years of experience, he had no idea what that thick budget consisted of. And he's the chairman of the finance committee. Now, they are duly elected independently, conduit of the taxpayer's money. And as such, you have a fiduciary responsibility that faced with that kind of evidence, you need to take action. And if you don't take action, then I suspect there will be consequences for that also. It's clear that the management of the funds are the responsibility of the school board, but clearly when you have your joint meetings, what you approve is based upon your understanding of what they're going to use those funds for. There's nothing in what we heard this evening that tells us what those funds that they're carrying forward were originally intended for. I can tell you from discussions that I've had with chairmen of various committees in the school board that some of those people have no clue what they're doing functionally. There are things such as school maintenance that go wanting, yet every year you approve funding for school maintenance that then disappears into those general categories that they use, which are absolutely worthless. So unless you know line by line what that money is allocated for and how it's being spent, you have no assurance that the school board is doing with those funds what you believe they're doing with them. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the public comment portion. Board comments? Anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes. I'd like to respond to a couple things. There was a comment made this evening by an individual from the school district that stated that we received the outline every month of expenditures and income. I would concur that we do receive that. However, it is simply stated, it states textbooks or it states IT material or other things. There are no line items broken down where we're going to be able to get those things. So I'm not going to be able to get those things. I'm going to be able to get those things. I'm going to be able to get those things. I'm going to be able to get those things. I'm going to be able to get those things. But we do have to be able to get those things. I also have to clarify that we've seen the comments we've heard this evening from some folks. We heard a lot of comments this evening from some folks that the comments we heard this evening by the Chairman of the Finance Committee or the school board was simply a misspeaking. I would like to make it very clear, it is not a misspeaking. I have heard similar comments three times over the past year and there are more recordings where that one came from. On that note, I would like for all of us on the board to present our comments. I'm going to let our speaker speak. Speaker 6 on this board to strongly consider how we are spending our money. If we do not know where our money is going, I would strongly recommend that we do not spend it. Thank you very much. Anyone else, any other comments? Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Chairman, in the last year or two, we've had decisions on event centers by farmers, by landowners, et cetera. Supervisor McCarthy and I would like to have a meeting on November 9th at 7 p.m. in this room with farmers and landowners who have event centers, who do not have event centers. We're trying to go through and go into some more depth on whether that is necessary to keep areas rural and agriculture, or are there other options? So we will reach out to farmers, but for those that are listening here, November 9th, 7 p.m. in this room, if you have an interest in how to preserve the rural parts of Frederick County. Number two. A few years ago, Mr. Fisher, a few years ago, Mr. Fisher, you left this committee and then come back. I've enjoyed working with you. And although this may be your last meeting, I just have two comments. Number one, if we have a joint school board supervisor meeting, because I made that request back in March, I as one would encourage you to attend. I'd be glad to say, hey, please attend, because I think you've made some good contributions to this board. We've agreed sometimes and disagreed. I think you've made good contributions in our joint meetings previously. So if we have that joint meeting, I hope you can attend if you so desire. But then Mr. Fisher, I'll just say, I've enjoyed working with you. It's been a pleasure and thank you. Anyone else? Okay, so Supervisor Fisher. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had planned to bring to you tonight one more spiel for the airport, because we've got some, you know, we've got some good contributions to this board. We've got some good things going on, but unfortunately due to some tough events there today, I'd like to postpone that and maybe in December, you'll allow me and Mr. Sabo to come back and show you some of the good things that are going on at the airport. And we're trying to reduce the use of local funds in our economic development efforts there. But since this is my last, hopefully my last meeting right now, I just want to say, I thank you to staff, especially legal, public works, planning, administrative. We've got great staff here in the county and I appreciate all your support and help. Mr. Dunn, I appreciate your comments, because I think one of the things this country could really do is, you and I don't always agree, but you know, we're still friends and we talk rationally and everything, and that's just much appreciated. And I thank you. Thank you for your comments. You're welcome. And the last thing is, I just wish this board well, as this county continues to grow and all the challenges you will face. I wish you sincerely well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Brother Jean, thank you. We've worked together for many years and it's always a pleasure. You always work hard. You're always prepared. You always have good comments. And also we owe Ms. Betsy, a big time, because she reminded me of that when I asked you if you'd be willing to do this. So for her, I think my comment to her was, I would be there on a bended knee. So anyway. Thank you again. Your community's grateful. We've all appreciated it. Hope we'll continue to see you regularly. Anyone else have comments? I'd just like to thank Supervisor Fishman. it has certainly been a pleasure and I wish you very well. Chairman Wells. Mr. Chairman, thank you Mr. Fisher for all your service to the county. Great friend. And I move we adjourn. Turn to motion and second. Second. All those in favor aye. Opposed no. We thank everyone for their time and attention. Thank you. Thank you.
