Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2025-05-21
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=283
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you Hearing none, all those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we have an agenda. Item four, meeting minutes from our March 19th meeting were sent out with the agenda. Are there any comments, corrections, or additions? Hearing none, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for approval as presented. So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. And we also have the April 2nd meeting minutes for our review. Any edits, corrections, anything there? Hearing none, I'll be glad to entertain a motion for approval. So moved. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Any opposed, likewise. Okay, those are approved. We'll move to committee reports. Do we have any committee reports? Ms. Brannon? Good evening. The Transportation Committee met and they're sending out the bids to try to get some roads paved and some roads, so everything's good. Okay. Thank you. Any other committee reports? Frederick Water didn't have a meeting this month. Turn your mic on, please. Frederick Water didn't have a meeting this month, but Mr. Lawrence did sign out a note. Said with the recent rains, a couple of the quarries have come up a couple feet in elevation, so that's good. That's good news. Yes, sir. Thank you. Any other committee reports? I'll mention one item under committee reports. Several of us went out last night to Gore, to the fire hall, to see the first public meeting for the Mid-Atlantic Resiliency Link, which is a power line, the transmission power line, first of the transmission line projects that we will be seeing in our area. I would just encourage you to stay attuned to those as they come forward with various public meetings in the coming days. Mr. Liero? Good evening, sir. How are you this evening? I'm doing well. Thank you, sir. All right. These are a couple of notes from last week's May 14th Board of Supervisors meeting. First item was on the consent agenda. It's kind of a big ticket item, not usually a planning issue, but I wanted to cover it. This was adopted 6-0. Approval of the Commonwealth Development Opportunity Fund Performance Agreement and adoption of a resolution approving a general fund supplemental appropriation and an economic development authority supplemental appropriation in the amount of $5 million for a local economic development incentive grant as stated in the performance agreement to assist in the location of Claussen Quality Chocolate to Frederick County and approval and appropriation of a payment of $3 million to the Economic Development Fund. Thank you. This is the development authority of Frederick County for the Commonwealth Opportunity Fund to assist in expanding the operation for Claussen Quality Chocolate in Frederick County. Next item was the ordinance amendment to Frederick County Code, additions to define chicken coops and provide additional regulations for backyard chickens and chicken coops in the RP residential performance, R4 residential plan community, and R5 residential recreation community zoning districts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So that measure was adopted 5-1. I'll just give you a couple notes. I think your commission voted to exclude the RP from allowing chickens in the RP district. That was upheld by the Board of Supervisors. So the RP is excluded from the ordinance. The permit that the Planning Commission recommended having a permit required. To have chickens was not approved by the Board of Supervisors. So a permit is not required. And the six-month waiting period was changed to a three-month waiting period. Last item I have is road impact fees and transportation cash proffer considerations. The Board previously approved a scope of work to update the capital impacts model and evaluate the implementation of road impact fees program and or off-site cash proffers for transportation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We will be interacting with the applicants and asking them questions and trying to better understand what they're proposing. But from a citizen comment period, if you wish to comment on any of those items that are action items, this would be the time to do so. That would be waiver 0125 for MREC down at Lake Frederick. That would be waiver 0225 for storage solutions and waiver 0325 for glazed development over in Ravens and Underwood Lane. Would anybody like to speak to any of those items? If so, please come to the podium, state your name, magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Good evening, sir. Good evening. I'm Marv Davis, a resident of the Opecan District living in Lake Frederick. Tonight, I would like to address MREC's interparcel connector waiver request. Over the last eight and a half years, I've served as a volunteer community leader, serving as the chair of many community-wide projects for which I collaborate very, very closely with our two HOA presidents. At a community-wide meeting this past October in which I first apprised our homeowners of the proposed MREC, I was asked to address the proposed Madison development. The residents asked me to form and chair a resident working group to assess the ongoing Madison rezoning proffer application. Given how Mr. Pearson's office has described the proposed connector siting to be outside our planned resident-only gate near 277, our community supports the current MREC. Thank you. Thank you. This has been two-part of the 3, 5 minutes reading of our Pack Winter statement. As we send out today's results, unfortunately, we didn't submit as much information in the beginning as we should have in the early minutes. So,內部program�報 왼데치고시 مت singular pyramid version of the MREC enters in the next很好 themes so that we Ginら 또 Jr. Without the support of the maggots of today and theți Deshalb Pr Circumstancfe DihaRosuhoW California Kom Gallery exercise for eligible residents A elder member of our community, Mr. We welcome your fy Gary. We welcome all of you to danced. We welcome everyone of our community to the Welcome Festival eruption ceremony. We cannot as if the Office of Communications for the MREC was still out there today. Thank you for co-hosting this meeting. Mr. onto 277. Secondly, and I would add that's of critical importance to we Lake Frederick residents because the plan Lake Frederick direct access to 277 from all the data we collected would not meet the VDOT warrants to require a traffic light at the Lake Frederick access. Secondly, the proposed connector road would be outside our planned resident only gate in that northern part of our community and would likely be classified as a public road by VDOT, thereby negating the requirement for Lake presidents to be financially responsible for maintaining the connector road. And most importantly, and I'd like to say it again, most importantly, the connector would provide access to 277. The lack of that access on the east side of Lake Frederick remains a very, very serious health deficiency for our residents because we don't have a means for an emergency evacuation and we don't have a means for first responders to get to our residents on the east side of the lake quickly. Specifically, that would be a very serious health deficiency for our residents on the east side of the lake. So, we would like to say that we would like to say that the plan would be to reduce the response time by five to seven minutes. So, in summary, we ask that you deny the request for a waiver. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Davis. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Hello, my name's Gary Porter. I live in Lake Frederick and I'm a part of the Lake Frederick County Department of Health. I'd like to go on record and just say up front that I am not in favor of the waiver. I also want to say that Marv and I did not collaborate on our responses. So, if some of my concerns sound like Marv's, we did not collaborate at all. So, VDOT has determined that a light is appropriate for the intersection of both the Madison and the Lake Frederick property. That being said, the purpose of the connecting road is to provide access to a light for both properties, which is really important for many reasons for both the Madison and the Lake Frederick community. You know, currently, there's only one exit in the Lake Frederick community for all residents on the 522, one exit. Where I live, and there are three of them, there's a five-and-a-half-year-old and a three-year-old, and there are three thousand residents, by the way. Where I live, it's a two-and-a-half-mile drive from what is called the peninsula or the eastern part of Lake Frederick to the exit. So, we make a big U-turn whenever we go north. So, it's about a five-mile additional drive. The other important key point is that having only one community exit for the three thousand residents is very problematic. And so, there are some safety issues that none of us really want to think about, but we probably should. Natural disasters. You know, you think about the wildfires in Pacific Palisades or the hurricanes in western North Carolina. It's highly probable that many residents will be stranded on the roads here at Lake Frederick or in their homes because the current exit may not be accessible because of debris, road construction, or abandoned vehicles, i.e. Pacific Palisades. Emergency responders, on the other hand, have a very difficult time responding to critical care patients in our neighborhood because there's only one exit and one access point. A northern exit will drastically improve the emergency response times for residents living in the northeastern part of Lake Frederick. The connecting road is vital for the Lake Frederick community and the community. The Lake Frederick community is a community of people who have a lot of experience and a lot of experience in the community. So, it's a very difficult time for the community to have access to 277 and access to a traffic light to make sure there's a safe entrance and departure area for the community. So, in summary, I'm absolutely not in favor of the waiver and really appreciate your consideration tonight. Thank you very much, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Sir, good evening. Waiver 0325, connecting Underwood Lane to Taggart Drive. I reside at 204 Taggart Drive in the Shawnee Magisterial District. I want to come out and say that I am in favor of the waiver to not connect Underwood Lane to Taggart Drive. Currently, we are a quiet suburban neighborhood and my concerns are with the safety of the neighborhood. There are children, there are adults who exercise, there's minor Keeping burden in the community. So, anybody who is involved, if the person coming in today, there's no access to the street, there's no hope, no traffic through the street. To the point of less work, the overall issues and the streamline will be vertical, is it querer facing where there are a lot of road learntin, a safety hazard for the people who live, the kids that play. Also, there are, there is already an exit onto Cincinnati Road from Ravens Point. And in order to get through the neighborhood, you have to zigzag, which helps reduce speed, helps reduce trucks going through that neighborhood because they'd have to, it's not designed for a truck to make a turn. It's pretty much a zigzag through the neighborhood. So again, connecting Cincinnati via Underwood Lane to Taggart Drive would just open up a major thruway for trucks, traffic trying to get to Route 50, the fastest route. And again, my concern is a neighborhood concern for the safety of our neighborhood. And I am in favor of the waiver to not connect Underwood Lane with Taggart Drive. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Perry. Would anybody else like to speak? Good evening, ma'am. Good evening. I am Elizabeth Peldunas, a two weeks shy of three years resident of the state of Virginia, the Opec and Magisterial District and Lake Frederick. I started attending planning commission meetings or watching live from home. I've been a resident of the city since about eight months ago. As a new resident, I've been curious about how Frederick County plans to capitalize on its uniquely beautiful location and to preserve its specialness as more people move here. I've learned a lot by watching and I've spoken at this podium in support of one proposed project and against another. Tonight, I'm expressing my opposition to MREC's request for a waiver to providing inter parcel connection from Lake Frederick to the Madison owned property along 277. Reason number one, egress. As you know, for residential traffic coming out of Lake Frederick, its exit at 522 or bust. There is only one way out of the community. MREC has stalled for years in building a promised second egress for residents. Our community is not safe and MREC should not be rewarded for its tardiness in that regard with this waiver. Reason number two, ingress. Emergency services from Stevens City have to come all the way around to the entrance of 522 and then drive Rachel Carson all the way back north towards Stevens City to reach residents on the east side of the lake and on the peninsula. Inter connectivity to the Madison development can provide a second access point from 277 after MREC finally builds the long delayed access to 277. Reason number three, VDOT rules prohibit the installation of a traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Reason number three, traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Reason number three, traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Reason number three, traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Reason number three, traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Mr. Pearson was unable to tell me how many fatalities there would need to be at that intersection before it could be signalized. However, if the Madison property is developed with a commercial component complementing its residential buildings, a traffic signal could be installed at that intersection with 277. Interconnecting the parcels would allow Lake Frederick residents to access that traffic light and to make an easy left turn onto 277 towards Stevens City. Reason number three, traffic light along 277 at the future Lake Frederick entrance. Mr. Pearson was unable to tell me how many fatalities there would need to be at that intersection. quota space. Imagine what the parking lot would lead to then as other clients of Lake Frederick residents would arrive on 6 future Lake Frederick safe for residents. This interconnection outside our gates can only improve community safety at Lake Frederick. Do not capitulate. Enforce the zoning ordinance. Deny this waiver request. Thank you. Thank you. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Hello, Steve Prater, 106 Merlin Court, also in Epiquan. I just wanted to, first of all, concur with the previous comments regarding the waiver request into the Madison property from that Emmerich is making. The one point I would like to point out is if we finally get this kind of connection into 277, it would at last give a connection for our entire community, a Frederick County community, into Lake Frederick, right, into Frederick County, excuse me. Right now, the only exit on 522 is into Clark County. So we have a very, very large part of your community that has absolutely no connection to this county. Thank you, sir. Mr. Wine? Good evening, sir. My name is Rodney Wine. I live on Underwood Lane. I'm here to speak in favor of the waiver to remove the interconnection or the connection from Raven Point to Underwood Lane. Currently, under the master plan, it shows that Taggart Lane is supposed to, or Taggart Drive is supposed to interconnect with Underwood Lane. You're actually going from a 40-foot-plus road down to about a 20-foot-plus road where residents park vehicles on both sides of the road. It was never designed for that, the width of it. If you look at the state's safe space, you don't have it in that area, will not happen. So we're going to have to make sure that we're going to have a safe space. I talked to John Bishop a couple years ago. I thought this was taken off the master plan then. It was supposed to have been. Lots of little kids live on that road. When you actually get to Sensity Road, you're actually coming to an intersection that's about a quarter of the width of the connector. I think it's crestly where it hits Sensity Road. So you get a quarter of the width there. And you're actually coming to a intersection that's about a quarter of the width of the connector. And it's not unusual now to wait up to 10 minutes to turn left, heading west on the Sensity Road into town. I think it's common sense for you to drive out there. You see what would be a bottleneck going from Taggart into Underwood. It would be a raceway to 50, and then it would be a dead stop where you would wait 10, maybe 15 minutes, car after car to turn left there. It's not designed for that. I encourage you to ride out there and take a look. Ride out there in the morning, ride out there in the evening about 5 o'clock. Try to turn left, heading west on Sensity Road from Underwood Lane. You'll see it's a no-brainer. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak on any of these three action items? Anybody else? Okay. I will close the public comment period. That'll move us to our first public hearing. This is for Conditional Use Permit 0223, the caterer, Cola Towers. Ms. Pellaquin, good evening. Good evening. Good evening. This Conditional Use Permit application is for... This is for a 150-foot tall telecommunications tower on a 2.03-acre property, Zone B1, neighborhood business in the Shawnee Magisterial District to be located at 1930 Front Royal Pike, where the caterer is located. This county-wide map shows the approximate location of the application. It's in the red dot. It's just off of 522 South, southwest of the city of Winchester. This is a property that was previously used as a parking lot. This is a property that was previously used as a parking lot. This is a property that was previously used as a parking lot. This property is outlined in purple. This property is outlined in purple. It's located just west of the intersection with West Parkins Mill Road, where West Parkins Mill meets 522. As you can see, the light pink-purple color is the B1 neighborhood business zoning. The application proposes a 150-foot monopole. The application proposes a 150-foot monopole. wireless telecommunications tower within a fenced compound of an eight-foot tall chain link fence with privacy slots. A fall zone with a 75-foot radius has been certified by a professional engineer, and the fall zone is not more than half of the total height of the tower, which meets the ordinance requirement. This is the proposed site plan for your orientation. North is the top of the page. Front Royal Pike Route 522 is on the east, and the property boundary is shown in the thick dashed line. So zooming in just so you can get a better view of the tower location, it is in the center of that dashed line circle, which is the 75-foot fall radius, and you can, it's still hard to see the fenced compound, but it is directly surrounding the proposed tower location. And the existing building, the catering company, is located in the northeast portion of this site. This is a elevation of what the monopole would look like. Again, 150 feet tall, no lighting is required, and it will be gray galvanized steel. So the comprehensive plan designates the long-range land use as high-density residential, the public facilities chapter of the comprehensive plan includes a broadband and telecommunications section with a goal to promote the development of a high-quality wireless telecommunications network throughout the county to serve its residents while protecting the county's visual landscape, historic resources, and natural resources. The proposed tower generally helps the county achieve this goal. Should the planning commission find this use to be appropriate, staff would recommend the following conditions. All review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times. The tower shall not exceed 150 feet in height. The tower shall be available for co-locating personal wireless service providers. A minor site plan meeting all requirements of the zoning ordinance, including the additional regulations for commercial telecommunications facilities shall be approved prior to the establishment of the use. In the event that the telecommunications tower is not constructed within 12 months, the tower will be approved prior to the establishment of the use. In addition, the policyammaceuticals be approved to all the the men'stles for the training mission. Any changes required would be denied by this Pangs. Asuben This item is presented for support. Please consider donating money to support the planning commission with special conceding the appropriate plans of the установ near-度 and collaboration. If there does not survive approval of the planning commission through the following order, please email ceilings at skinnet. Tschau desks endure ed gin k Rolling어야 Im. stakeholders have a chronic designer bl leavingstanding Young City security River 땅ba cela Thank you. Please do not give in in case you are in awonison Well you may also see the site you have created from the beginning. So that city residents will not be able to get access to ahírts ánd you aragéla áco Any questions for staff? To my right. No questions? To my left? Ms. Brannon? Do you know if the applicant asked for this tower because their cell phone coverage is so horrible there? Because I drove out there. Did she say why? I'll defer to the applicant on that. Oh, she's here? It's not just? Okay. Okay. Any other questions? Yes? Do we have any other towers? I thought there was one going up in Stephen City proposed. Is there? On the Frederick Water? Wasn't it Frederick Water? There is a separate conditional use permit application for another tower to be located up near, up on the Frederick Water property. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. And is there a presentation? There is no presentation, but Mr. Yates is here representing the application and he'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Okay. Mr. Yates? Actually, you go first. You'll excuse me. Okay. My name is Thomas DeStanislo. I'm here as a Virginia Council on behalf of Arcola Towers and I'd like to introduce Mr. Yates. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Thomas. Good evening, Mr. Yates. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, good evening to you. Jonathan Yates. First and foremost, I have to thank that gentleman, that lady, and I don't see Mark Sharon. During this process, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, I think I asked 85 stupid questions. Not once did Wyatt, Kaylor, or Mark laugh at me. Thank you very much. And I'll get to your question in a second. I wanted to make sure that you're listening. It's like the first time you've heard from me now in a very, very long time. I just want to say thank you for that. You know, I've been with you, you've been with us, and I appreciate it. And I'm so grateful that you made that decision. And I appreciate it. You've been with us. You've been with us. I appreciate it. Thank you. And I want to thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for having me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And you might see a little bit more of me this summer because we're also working on the tower on the water company. The proposal before you today is a 150-foot monopole on the property of the caterer. you're getting something good. The property in question, as Kayla pointed out, is two acres and important for us, it is zone B1. Interesting history on this property. Nick bought it in 2021. Before that, it was relatively vacant for about 22 years. I think briefly someone was selling some picnic tables there and then briefly till the county shut them down, I think someone was trying to operate some adult emporium there. I assure you, Nick has none of those vices. What we're doing tonight and the purpose, the need is if you look at the towers around there and in that location, we have what we call a hole or a deficit. The anchor tenant for this tower is T-Mobile. T-Mobile has determined, and this starts with their customers coming back to them where they have problems. I got to visit them. I got to visit the nice folks next door and we're going to talk with them in a little bit this afternoon. The traffic was phenomenal. The traffic going down Front Royal Pike 522, just phenomenal. So T-Mobile needs to cure a problem. What we've designed is the monopole design. And what is a monopole? A monopole is just a pylon, sort of like you'd have in front of a Hardee's or a Walmart, but a lot thicker and it's designed to carry. Cellular equipment. T-Mobile is the anchor tenant on this facility, but the facility has been further designed for at least three additional broadband carriers because we feel at least two others probably have needs in this area. The way this starts is we are given an assignment by T-Mobile. We have an issue. We need to try to rectify our issue. They give us a little bit of what is called a search ring. We need you to try to place inside this ring. We need you to try to place inside this ring facility. And that's very important because the towers have to talk to each other. They have to connect. With me also tonight is Ryan Foltz of Arcola and Christian Winkler of Arcola. It fell on Ryan's shoulders to solve, well, Christian helped him a little bit. It fell on his shoulders to solve this problem for T-Mobile. I think, Ryan, you looked at the wastewater treatment plant, which you have direct, you know, across the street. And the interstate. The interesting thing also about this part of the county, the topography goes up and down. When I was in Jackie's backyard this afternoon, I saw it for sure. It just goes up and down. The wastewater treatment plant would not work because of the incredible drop-off in the topography. We were then able to find, and this is very important, a commercially zoned property along that strip. There are not many out there. But right where T-Mobile needed to be, we were able to find a commercial facility. And we are now in the middle of the city of T-Mobile. We have a B-1 property, zoned two acres, where we can put this facility. About the facility, it's a monopole. It is only 150 feet tall. And there's some significance to that. We have had the facility reviewed and approved by the FAA. The FAA made two important determinations. No hazard to air navigation and no lights. If anything that bothers people, the tower lights sometimes irritate them. So we had that approved by the FAA. We then had it approved by Virginia SHPO, the State Historic Preservation Office, approved this tower on November 14, 2022. Then with the help of Kayla, about a year and a half ago, I went to your Historic Resource Advisory Board. They also recommended approval. But all of a sudden, we have another bigger issue. The ERA issue with T-Mobile, Jeff's said it now repeatedly. And in what that issue some of those services are removed from T-Mobile services, and how is this going to present itself, and how do we fix that? This is a serious issue right now. And we have to know our formula on a personal scale. And that is, if one thing is left unresolved, it has to be purchased for alltid doing your job. If it's unresolved, then it's going to happen at all times. Yes, it's not over the top. So justIMING kneels down, so we take your time. I'm going start in 50 seconds. T-Mobile won't let you finish at your 40 and 50, but we will get the car to American Shopee in just three minutes. fence, we come back with the privacy slats so that it's opaque. If we're allowed to do this, Ryan also heads up our construction division. It takes him anywhere 45, no more than 60 days to put the facility in. A lot of that time frame is in the foundation just getting set. The tower itself is erected in one day. After that, the facility, T-Mobile will come along, put on their equipment, go through their integration process on the equipment, and get everything ready to go. This facility will not produce any noise, odor, lights, vibration, fumes, or glare. What will it do? It will allow people to have effective voice, broadband, and to me, something very important, effective access to 9-1-1 versus. Whether they be fire, police, EMS. You have in the county a service called Alert Fredcoba. It's an excellent way to get warnings of weather conditions, other conditions that you need to know about. For Alert Fredcoba to work, we have to have that capacity out there for that area. I don't want to leave certain people in the Shawnee district out of that. Going forward, um, another review we had done, which is in our packet, um, Virginia P. David Charles Cotton, Jr. reviewed for what he called the RF Emission Compliance Report. The federal government sets a certain limit of the emissions compliance that T-Mobile can put out, and T-Mobile is allowed to hit to 100% of that level. In this case, the review came in, they would only be at 1.09% also in the very voluminous thing that our incident was in. So, in that case, we're going to need to increase the that I and I knew why it was hating me having to read it all but we had the we presided the NEPA report which National Environmental Policy Act which reviews all flora and fauna to show that we will not have any damage to any indigenous species or any migratory animals coming through long in the short to try to do a tower it takes a while we have to go through the federal regulatory system we have to go through the state and it takes a lot to get before you tonight the toughest part of my job and doing towers for our cola is I cannot do a tower where I don't have a next-door neighbor and more towers we do now we're going to get closer and closer to cover the residential areas so I have a lot of land in the area that is not a residential area and the areas that are lot of neighbors. The other unfortunate thing for me is when the neighbor is actually a pretty nice person, and that's Jackie Valencia. She has been very kind to me this week, and what we hope to do with Jackie, I don't know what I just did, what we hope to do with Jackie is I know she would like the tower to just disappear. What we hope to work with her and her family, see if there can be some possible mitigation with landscaping, that kind of thing, to try to make it more palatable. But what we're doing tonight is we're coming in with infrastructure. Wireless is now considered by many to be the fourth utility. If you look at usage, as you can see, I'm not young. When I started doing towers, the cell phone was a toy for rich people and business people. Now everyone has a cell phone. Some people have two. Some people have three. What I don't understand, and now I'm taking a look at my son, how it's always in his hand and always in his face 24 hours a day. But all that aside, we've become a fact of life, and we've become an important fact of life for a lot of people. The great thing about our infrastructure is versus power and telco, water and sewer. We do not have to run every linear foot. We create networks. The networks have to talk to each other, but we can place a tower that can cover an area, just the one tower, and that tower will connect to the rest of the network. Looking through your ordinance, I feel that we meet it. I am a little disappointed that Jackie is so nice and that we are next to her house, and I'm always next to someone's house. But we hope we can find a way to work with her and her family to mitigate it, because what we're trying to provide is something not just for the Front Royal Pike, not just for the Shawnee District, but for everybody in the County, whether they live there, travel through there. and that's that's the other part of towers. As you drove here tonight, if you were on your phone you went from tower to tower. Some of them were next to neighborhoods, other with some businesses, some of them going next to also next to the forklifts, two vehicles. Some of them were next to neighborhoods. Some of them next to businesses. some next industrial parks, but it all comes together to create that network. I also want to apologize. People say that when I'm asked to say my name it takes me six minutes. I'm a southerner and that's just I like to talk. I'm here for any and all questions. Mr. Foltz is here and Mr. Winkler is here also. So anything we can answer we will we will give it our best. Okay wait right there. Any questions for Mr. Yates to my right? Mr. Thomas? Mr. Yates, where is the network towers that are closest to where you're at for this project? This is where I get to take a break for ten seconds, Mr. Thomas. I figured you probably would. Good evening commissioners. So I think you guys got a copy of this? I have copies. So Mr. Yates hands it out. So the from our tower center the closest tower is at the Walmart across the street from the Walmart right there. It's a small sorry it's a small Chantel Tower. T-Mobile is on it. It's about a mile and a quarter away. There's a self-support crown tower with three carriers on it about a mile and a half. There's another tower to the west 2.79 miles and then they're on a silo to the north of 522 and that's about a mile and a quarter as well. Okay. So you are filling a hole there that. Yeah. Yeah. There's a we're kind of in the middle of all the surrounding towers. It's definitely a hole. Yes. And I appreciate it's tough to find a location to put a cell tower and that's that is a zoned area that you could put it. It's an unusual area because it is down in a bit of a dip and I guess that's why it's 150 feet tall so you can get it up high enough. Yeah it's the topography in the area is pretty rough to deal with. Yeah. Yeah I can appreciate the dilemma of no resident wants a cell phone tower next to their house. I understand that. We've had a number of towers where we've had it turned down because there was a lot of public sediment at a lot more than just one person living close to it. There will be no there's no ham there's no lights. There's no noise at all. What kind of a security system are you going to have around the tower. I'm going to ask you a question just in the general public. Are you going to have any security around the tower. Yeah. What kind of a security system are you going to have around the tower. Is it something that produces lights or anything like that? No. So we'll have an 8-foot fence around it with privacy slats. And then when T-Mobile comes in afterwards, if we get there, they have silent alarms that trigger when something enters the area. So all the alarms would be silent alarms? Yeah. It gets sent to their network, correct. Okay. I also pulled up the map so everyone could see. It might be easier to see than the sheet, sorry. Any other questions to my right? To my left, any questions? I've got a few. Okay. Okay. Ms. Cosell, I'm sorry. Just curious. You mentioned that there's possibilities of other towers in some general location. It looks like on average you're about one to two miles that they need to be located. So is the next, this one proposed, are we looking further down? I'm just trying to get an idea of like what this area is going to... The next one is 1.12. ...look like? Can you ask that again? I'm sorry. Are you looking... For the other tower, the other two towers? So this proposed tower might be the location, but future towers along 522, are you looking? Not along 522. We are, we talked briefly about the one on the, I believe it's a water treatment plant on Lakeside Drive back in there. That's also because we're filling the hole kind of on this side, but as you go west, there's additional hole right there. So that's where we're trying to fill that one. It would be the next one, which we have applied for, but we haven't got there yet. So... Yeah, and this area, especially along Parkins Mill, the ability, you do not have high-speed internet. So that connection for even trying to connect, not just from your cell phone, but trying to get internet access, is not available. So T-Mobile is the only option or Verizon hotspot. So I guess your complaints, T-Mobile customers were complaining probably about that connectivity in this general area. Okay. General radius, correct? That starts the drive. Okay. To solve the customer problems. Understood. Okay. Go ahead. How many sites did you look at before you landed on this one? From existing infrastructure owners? So the first thing before we go into the tower companies, which we are, we have to make sure we're, we kind of do something very similar to this, see all the existing towers in the area. So, because if there's an existing facility, we have to make sure we're, we kind of do something very similar to this, see all the existing towers in the area. So, because if there's an existing facility that they don't need our help, they'd rather go on the existing tower, it's cheaper, it's faster, go through the processes. We went through several properties trying to find this location. Our first thought was the water facility next to the cross, but that's really in a bowl. And we did look elsewhere, but kind of as you get out, you're getting closer to the other towers. And then we're also filling the need to the west with another location. So we looked at several, several ground properties. Yeah. Okay. How close is the nearest home? Okay. How close is the nearest home? 175 feet. You can, yeah. Okay. We're going to go. The nearest home is 175 feet away. Okay. And that's up on the hill? That's, yeah, right behind, that's, this nice family right behind us. Okay. The Valencias. One of the comments we got, and we got several comments online pertaining to the project, but one of the comments alluded to microwave being used for back feed, is that correct? It's potentially a back feed. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But I think it's a back feed. Yeah. It's a back feed. Yeah. It's a back feed. So, microwave being used for a back feed, is that correct? It's potential. Typically they like to run fiber, because fiber they don't have to offload to another tower. So, T-Mobile has got to figure that out, but they do have the ability to pull microwave, but their first shot is usually to use existing fibers. So sometimes, usually within the three to four mile radius of underground fiber, they'll run fiber to the tower. So, usually it's Verizon, Comcast, one of those. Okay. Was the microwave included in the RF evaluation? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. When you co-locate, what kind of requirements are going to be on the additional carriers? So, they have to meet all the requirements of if we get the CUP approval. They have to be within the compound and they have to go on the tower. And the elevation page staff showed is where they have to go. And they're subject to our conditional use permit requirements? Absolutely. So, they sublease from us. Part of our leasing conditions, you must get all their government approvals. They'll come to you guys for a permit also, which also makes double checks to make sure they're following all the CUPs. And we also make sure we review that as well. And who will loan the tower? Arcola Towers. Arcola's going to retain ownership of it. Yes. Okay. Very good. That's all my questions. Thank you. We'll give you an opportunity to come back after the public speaks. Okay? Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay. This is a public hearing. I will open the public hearing for anybody who would like to speak to this application. And this would be the time for you to come forward, state your name, magisterial district, and please limit your comments to three minutes. Would anybody like to speak? Please come on up. Good evening, sir. My name is Nate Corral. I live in the Shawnee District in Canter Estates Phase 5. My family will be directly affected by this tower. Just to address some of the comments that were asked by the board members here. Ms. Brannon, I'm a T-Mobile customer. I have no issues in the area, including the dips going up to Canter Estates. I'm a T-Mobile customer. I live in the Shawnee District in Canter Estates Phase 5 and traveling out West Parkins Mills. While Mr. Yates was speaking, I did a quick elevation search on the difference between the proposed site and the wastewater treatment facility. And depending on where they were looking at in the wastewater facility treatment, it's only a 10 to 20 foot difference overall from in elevation. Let me see here. Canter Estates, which is an RP zoned area, is about 600 feet away from the T-Mobile. And that's the area that the T-Mobile is located in. It's about 600 feet away from the proposed site. And microwave transmitters are in the 300 page plan submitted by Arcola Towers and is pointed in a compass bearing of 240 degrees, which puts that microwave pointing directly back through the Canter Estates neighborhood, based on my rough assumptions there. One thing that hasn't been taken into consideration is the elevation of the area. It should look like a Darkness Tower or something like that, but in R Tripod which has an option to be on the 22nd or 23rd as they have been in the intersection where the Rosemary Davis Avenue is. That's only 25 feet away from stage 2. How's that 7 feet difference? Well, you know, color, and no water have been considered. We took a close look. And again, it's a 128 foot difference in height. I would say the intruders a lot of that height difference . also the hydropilwrightokay.com. for me and my family. New studies are coming out that show a safe distance to be from any cell tower for residential neighborhoods is a thousand to sixteen hundred feet depending on what study you read and again that's all very new research. This affects depending on which reading you use 25 to 60 homes in the Canter Estates neighborhood. These you know this tower would also have an impact on the values of homes in that area as well as the health of all the residents. As they've covered you know there are additional towers in the area averaging about 1.3 miles away that could probably have upgraded you know I was reading online before this meeting that the average cell tower range is one to 25 miles. So if we're looking at so many towers within such a short distance is this one really necessary? As I was messing around doing some other elevation researches I just find that the this tower isn't necessary because it'll barely get to Interstate 81 with the elevation changes and the things that are at because again it's down in a hole. You usually want towers up a little bit higher. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else like to speak? Yes sir. Good evening. Good evening. My name is Victor Balancia. I reside at 1449 Apple Pie Ridge Road in Winchester Virginia. I am also the co-owner of the adjacent property. We are the people next door. First I'd like to say to the Board I don't think you can make any decision about this until you've heard from all interested or affected parties. I as a co-owner of the property did not receive official notice of this meeting. I was never told about it I heard about it of course from my daughter Jacqueline Jacqueline can speak to this but she went up and spoke to some of the residents I believe the same subdivision of this gentleman the people that she was able to speak to who are home and available were not aware of the tower or this meeting so I think I'm not sure what the requirements are in terms of notice but certainly in the spirit of hearing from all affected residents I think the board would would say that they need to hear from anybody who wishes to to speak with you or will provide written comments and I provide a written comment says as the Jacqueline in our particular case the home is called Parkins Mill it is a historic home in Winchester and my family my wife and I and Jackie collectively owned two homes here in Winchester both of them are historic homes mine is Elm Shade Farm own previously owned by two women in Winchester and two women in Winchester owned by two women in Winchester and two women in Winchester and two women in by a mayor of Winchester, Mr. Gretchen, who was the mayor over 100 years ago. We invested a large sum of money in renovating that home and keeping its historical character. When the opportunity presented itself in 2020 and we saw Parkins Mill, it's a very similar type home. It was in disrepair. It needed an enormous amount of work. It was owned by an elderly person at the time who really wasn't in a position to do the kinds of renovations that the house needed to be saved. We bought that house and we went to town and we made enormous renovations, again keeping the historical character of the home. The floors, the walls, the windows, the doors, it's all original. But we brought back the systems that could be a livable home. HVAC, plumbing, electrical, etc, etc. We have an enormous investment in that home. I did see on the chart that the young lady had up talking about natural and historical resources. This home is one such resource. It's a beautiful home, lovingly restored. It's a spectacular property. It looks like a park. It's absolutely gorgeous. Plunking a cell tower down destroys the entire character of what we've established. You want residents to do the kinds of things that we've done. We've collectively put about two million dollars into these homes to save them, to renovate them, to make them as beautiful as we can. And it's a terrible message and you don't need a telephone tower to do it. It's a terrible message to tell people, hey make that kind of investment and we're gonna stick a cell tower next to it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak? Yes, sir. Hi, my name is Paul Hessler. I live in Canter Estates and I don't know what magisterial district that's in. I don't know what district that's in. I don't know what district that's in. I don't know what district that's in. I don't know what magisterial district that's in. I don't know what district that's in. I don't know what the district that's in. I don't know what the magisterial district that's in. I don't know what the district that's in. I don't know what the district that's in. I don't know what the, I don't know. So I'll, please bear with me. It's in the Shawnee district, sir. Is it Shawnee? Yes. Okay, that's cool. I will echo with the first, I'm in line with the first gentleman with his views. I did not come here prepared with facts, figures, or what have you. But I do work part-time for a health care organization here in Winchester and as a result of that I have been forced to do a lot of research on EMFs and and radiation and the effect on the human body. And I do know that 5G towers, while there's not been enough research that's acceptable, and that is real scientific research, we've all been aware of the past four or five years that there's a lot of junk science running around and being paraded as regular science. There is sufficient evidence to indicate that there are some very, very destructive possibilities with the 5G radiation, especially for the folks within that area that he was talking about, the radius because of the microwave transmissions. So I urge you before you make any decision on this that you really get some background on the effects of EMF radiation on the human body and do not just consider one single radiation. Do not consider one source because there are a lot of sources out there where people have been doing research. There are anecdotal, all kinds of anecdotal evidence regarding not so much the flora but the fauna of the area, birds crashing into the towers, trying to get rid of the towers and stuff like that. The reason that the towers have to be that close is because of the nature of the transmission itself. It is very, very easily absorbed by anything and so they need the extra power, and the higher frequencies, and that's destructive to the human body. And like I said, I don't have the facts with me. I did not come prepared for that. I just came prepared to hear what this was all about. But I do know that there are some not so wonderful effects on the human body as a result of the 5G towers. You can check on the internet right now. People that have cell phones, they can put them up to their head. They can end up with brain cancer. And that's a whole lot less than the 5G towers. They have a lot lower power and a whole lot lower frequency radiation than a cell tower is gonna produce. So I urge you for the benefit of the people involved, especially the children and the older people, children's immune systems are just maturing. Older people's immune systems are faltering. So for those people, I urge that you carefully consider your decision because of the danger that you could possibly put these people in. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Would anybody else like to speak to this? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Hi, my name is Jackie Valencia. I am the neighbor next door in the Shawnee District at 1908 Front Royal Pike. I would like to agree with all of the previous comments and point out that Loudoun County Public Schools in September actually banned the future building of cell towers on their property, citing the potential for health risks, which is also on the app. I As the city has used these facilities systematically over the last two years for their efforts to prevent school districts from finished their construction of their building units in the future, I urge everyone to أنا anderes meet Ms.ちょっと Ranjian. Denise to man what American cities would do if they were visiting platforms supply weeks? The pit point I'd request alternatives for that. Complete. cao Nice news as I visit my house as the sf官 out to visit. No quilt icecedes at the top. As in I anlamieca, it is RC West Broadway healthcare Watch conference. France armour to college Wildlife this afternoon. The Mississippi River. But if you too, seem to provide a clearAlась Properness at the top, the clouds city I'm sorry for this information success can leave you was the top point. I would like you to provide specific evidence every single person I spoke to was about 15 to 20 people said that they were not in agreement with this I had to leave copies of the notification with those residents because they had no idea many people said that they were unable to come tonight so I agreed to be here and I'm not a good public speaker but I told them that I would speak for them the presence of the tower with close proximity to residents will negatively impact the value of our homes my house was purchased and renovated with significant funding and will be recoverable should I convey it in the future that would be the same for my neighbors modern convenience is attractive the reality is that nobody wants to buy a house next to a cell tower I understand location was selected due to its designation as a commercial site however there are numerous other commercial properties located along 522 that are less residential and more suitable for cell towers in addition to the negative impact on our history and property values the presence of a cell tower will threaten many natural species that call the river home the proposed towers within the current nesting ground of many migratory birds including a family of black vultures these federally protected birds reside in the machine shed in the woods behind my house and they often visit me on a daily basis and I'm concerned about their safety and how this tower may affect them and their nesting ground in the future I fully respect the need for an increased infrastructure as the county expands however such growth should not come at the expense of those already living here in Frederick County I asked if the planning board may consider the possibility of a tower in the future and if the planning board would not like a tower in your backyard that you kindly not put one in mind thank you thank you would anybody else like to speak to this yes ma'am good evening hello my name is Stacy Helsley I am in the Shawnee district I live in Cantor Estates along with a couple other gentlemen that spoke my side on the TC our state arch sposy site what happens when someone sets out to try and get out an amenity dlatego I want to recognize Jackie一 of the first三個市長呢 So to be fair as I said when Jackie Vocino was supposed to be supposed to share the experience um Mackay vermdelenosiju is this town 어떻게 pior your private income is going to get noticed here i'm so sorry I didn't mean to break ou but heard and everyone is be like jessica nice off seeing everybody lucy how many peopleın um life is getting You know i like Vishu too pretty much als like venus president jelly thanks and thank you also concealer cancers hope to open a small one that michael chen stillany in theINC we've just about the health aspects and the value of our properties declining and we you know we're just upset to hear about this we like our neighborhood and it's peaceful back there with the trees and the nature and we just you know are opposed to this thank you thank you ma'am but anybody else like to speak yes good evening I didn't prepare my speech so my name is Amy Venegas Shawnee district Cantor State so I speak as a parent as a mother first of all I care about my child and as anyone would care second we got this note I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry like maybe two three days ago so I had no idea what's going on that the company is going to build this tower we have one tower tell this tower on like not far from the small Walmart on tasker Road so I'm also a client T-Mobile client so we are doing perfectly well I don't think we need another tower which affects us I just don't want to get any cancer in the future as any people in our huge residential area I just want to say that I don't think it's a good idea because we have already one tower so I'm like I don't think it's necessary my main thing is that it's me a few years ago and I just want to say that I don't think it's great to have the technology in here and there could you have even for us and life after this would it be able to7048 you and I think it will affect us I'm our health that's my main concern thank you thank you would anybody else care to speak anybody else then I shall close the public hearing mr. Yates do you care to respond any of these comments if you Being briefer, thank you. No, we appreciate the comments that came from these folks. And if there's a deficit here, and we will try to do this, see if we can get together with these folks prior to the supervisors meeting, perhaps a lack of communication, and we apologize for that. But just again, what I ask you to look at in terms of all the health impacts that is set by the federal government, there's federal preemption for that. We have presented the RF emissions compliance report. T-Mobile has allowed up to 100% of that level. They're only coming in at 1.09. To explain health to me, the engineer explained it to me the easiest way, he said, that tower will have emissions at 1.09%. He said, every time you put your cell phone to your head, you're getting 50%. So we meet the limits. When you look at your ordinance, this is not an easy task doing a tower. We're always gonna have folks next door. But again, all we can do is take your ordinance, see which properties comply from a zoning standpoint that have the necessary zoning that we can make the application for a conditional use permit that lie within the area, the T-Mobile, and the T-Mobile. So there's a lot of work to be done. I appreciate that. And I think that's what T-Mobile needs to serve. And that's what's driving this. T-Mobile does not make this incredible investment if things were fine with their network in that area. They're trying to improve it. And what it does, it improves for the entire county. Sir, what is the cumulative effect of all the carriers that would be on there with yours and the three co-located carriers that are on there? You've done it for your service, I assume. Does your report include the other co-locates? We would have to assess as the others come on. But I think you'd have a cumulative maybe of 5%. But we would, again, it would be assessed. And the carriers do a pre and post assessment as they install their equipment. Very important to them that they stay well with inside the licensing requirements that the federal government has set for them. Okay. Thank you. Can I ask him a question? Yeah. Mr. Yates, one more question for you, sir, before you're seated. Mr. Yates, one of the comments was that people were wondering why you just didn't increase the output power from this tower so you didn't need so many towers. Is it accurate that if you increase the output power and you start getting up closer to that 100 level that you're allowed to have, it provides more of a risk for human life or for potential health hazards? You really, it's not like the old days of AM where you have WGN going throughout. Quite frankly, we are a very low power technology. We're a very low power technology with cells. And where does the term cell come from? You split the cells. You split the cells, you put in more facilities, and that way, you can reuse the frequency over and over again to handle the capacity. And that's really, Mr. Thomas, what drives it going forward. You can cover an area, but then as people start to use their phones, their broadband in the area, whether they're traveling or at home, we've got to increase the capacity. We could do that by splitting the cell, having another facility that works with the others, and we can carry those calls. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to go back to what you were saying. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. All we're trying to do, all we're trying to do here, folks, is provide coverage capacity for folks to use wireless. And the problem we have, there's always folks next door. You know, one night years ago, I thought I'd had it easy. I was on a 30,000 acre, it was, I think, a huge paper track down to the south. And I said, there's not going to be a next door neighbor. Well, what happened in the middle of the hearing, this good old boy came in, he had torn up coveralls, he had a torn up ball cap, and he said, I poached that property, and I'm afraid the lights are going to affect the deer. Well, fortunately, that board, they didn't arrest him for poaching, but that's the biggest issue for us. We're trying to serve people. We're here to serve. T-Mobile is here to serve. The other carriers are here to serve. Because these are their customers. Your constituents are their customers, and they're just trying to serve them. There's always someone next door. There's always someone next door. Not always as nice as the Valencia is, but there's always someone next door. So that's why we try to do the things we do. The monopole design versus the three-sided lattice. Keeping the height down so it works for T-Mobile, but we don't have to add the air nav lights. We just want to make sure that we're doing the right thing. And this is where our co-leaders come a little bit of an A-team. They do sites, and they do them right. And going forward, it will be maintained properly. They do it right. And that's all we're trying to do here, not trying to harm these folks. And I've gone to a lot of these hearings. Everyone's right. They got the tar and feathers going for me outside. And a couple months later, they say, it didn't drive us crazy. Like we thought. It didn't drive us crazy. You drive up and down that road, what do you see now? Power lines. You got power lines every which way. You got a wastewater treatment plant over there. We're just another cog of infrastructure. And that's all we're trying to do. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. Close the public hearing. Mr. Pelican, do you care to summarize? Sure. So to summarize, this conditional use permit application is for a 150-foot tall monopole telecommunications tower located in the B1 neighborhood business zoning district at 1930 Front Royal Pike. Staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors, who will hear this item on June 11. Thank you. OK, discussion among planning commissioners. Jemma left. Jemma left. Sure. Brandon? Since they were talking about the cancer and the 5G, I did Google it. And it is coming up when it didn't used to. Like I know 5G has a much smaller area. So there's got to be more of them. So they're going to have more neighbors. So I wish I had thought to ask it while I was there. But I don't understand the big benefit from going LTE to 5G. If we're going to risk cancer for everybody. Because it's just too new to tell. Mr. Pearson. Yeah, sorry to interrupt, Mr. Chairman. But the applicant alluded to the Telecommunications Act briefly in their comments. And there is a federal preemption for local land use considerations that one of the reasons for denying a telecom tower cannot be related to the RF frequency. It's been decided, I think, in the early 90s, if I remember correctly. So. I know we haven't done a tower in a long time. That topic hasn't come up. But that is kind of one of those no-go territories as it relates for a local land use body deciding on a telecommunications tower based on federal law. Thank you. They don't care about our health. OK. We're still in commission discussion. Any other comments, discussions to my left? To my right. Miss. You know, I know there's always a concern on the health in these cell phone towers. I've listened to an awful lot. I've read an awful lot. You know, we've done a lot of cell phone towers in the past. I think the last one we did was one at the library there. There might have been one since then. And there was a lot of concern from the neighbors. You know, there really isn't any, unfortunately, there isn't any definitive medical studies one way or the other. Whether they can conclude that it's a health problem or they conclude that it's not a health problem. My only concern about that, or my only question about that, is if the tower's a problem, I can't imagine having all these kids with cell phones by their head 99% of the day is not a bigger problem. So I'm not sure which we ought to be looking at more, the cell phone by the student's head or by the cell phone tower. But, you know, I still, I'm not sure. I think it's a great question. I think it's a great question. You know, I'm not sure if there's any, you know, We've never had anybody be able to present any absolute conclusive evidence one way or the other, whether it's a tower or whether it's a health risk or not. I assume the federal act that says we can't include that as a reason to deny it has to have some kind of medical advice behind it. Now, I won't say that I always trust advice given to you from the federal government, but we have nothing else to go on at this point. And I don't know that we'll ever build a cell phone tower in Frederick County where we don't have residents that are against it. A monopole tower is certainly a preferred option over a lattice tower, much less a change to the view shed. And I'm not sure with all the cell phone towers we've already built in Frederick County that we've cost a lot of neighbors their property value after they get over the interception. And I think that's the initial shock of the change. So that's my comments. Thank you. Mr. Kearns? Thank you. I mean, this one feels a little different to me. I mean, you're going to have proximity. You're going to be close to people, I think, no matter what you do. But it feels different just because this one's in a hollow, and then the houses nearby are on a ridge. So it just feels like it's a different situation than if the houses are down here and the cell phone tower is up on a ridge, and then the house is on a ridgeway over there. It just feels like a different situation. And I'm just thinking if this was in my backyard, what would I feel like if it was a low tower and I had a high house and I'm sitting there looking at those? I question kind of where this is and the way of the lay of the land. And I'm just looking to the north and the east, and I understand the zoning and the CEP. I understand all of that, but I see a lot of open land to the north and the east that's a lot higher up. And I know it's complicated. I know it's complicated. I know it's a long thing to go through the processes and the permitting and all of that. But I just feel like I see other places to put this that might be better. And I also question the people that are here that live there that have T-Mobile that are saying that this is not a huge issue for them. This is not a dire situation where there's zero cell phone coverage and they're out in the middle of nowhere and there's nothing. Well, it's kind of low, and it's kind of a spot where we need to boost it up a little bit. Is this—this sounds like a nice thing to add on. If it's just the right project. And I don't know if it's that for me. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other comments to my right? Nope. Last shot. All right. This is Shawnee. What would be your pleasure? Mr. Chairman, I move that we recommend approval of Conditional Use Permit 02-23. We have a motion for approval. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Is there any additional discussion? Additional discussion. Nope. Mr. Whitaker, can you start us out? The motion is to approve the Conditional Use Permit that will allow the tower to be built. Nay. Akins, yes. Kearns, no. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Margaret, no. Sneddon, no. Watt? Autorf, no. Brumbach, no. I feel like since I said— My reason, and it's illegal, I'll say abstain. Okay. Chair votes no. The motion does not carry. Okay. We go for another motion. Would anybody else like to make a motion? This opens it up. Based on our bylaws, anybody can make a motion at this point. So the motion to approve it did not pass. Would anybody else like to offer a motion? Ms. Brumbach. Yeah, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to— Move to deny CUP 0223 for our COLA towers. We have a motion for denial. Is there a second? I'll second. And we have a second. Is there any discussion? Okay. Being fair and balanced, I'll start with Ms. Brannon. Ms. Brannon, the motion is to deny approval of the CUP. I still have to abstain. Brumbach, yes. Autorf, yes. Sneddon, yes. Markert, yes. Thomas, no. Cozo, yes. Kearns, yes. Fakins, no. Whitaker, yes. Okay. Chair votes no, and the motion carries the motion. So this will go to the Board of Supervisors on June 11th with a recommendation. Yes, June 11th with a recommendation for denial. Okay. Thank you very much to all those who came out this evening. Okay. Now we get into the action items that we talked about earlier. First action item is Waiver 01-25 for MREC, Shenandoah, Virginia, LLC, Ms. Pellequin. Oh, Mr. Pearson. Surprise. Now I'm going to help out tonight. Ms. Pellequin has a lot of presentations, and I worked with her on this project. So just give me one second to get a corrected presentation pulled up. And sorry to Kayla on the last presentation. As you notice, she flipped through some slides because I uploaded the wrong slide deck there after she had made some changes late in the day. Okay. So I'm going to wait until everybody filters out. Mr. Chairman. Sure. Yeah. Mr. Chairman, this is a waiver request for an inter-parcel connection requirement for a 60-acre parcel zoned R5 in the Opec and Magisterial District. You'll notice it is partially zoned. It's part of the Lake Frederick development, and it is the remaining 60 acres in question that have not yet been subdivided or platted. Most recent land use action we had on it was for an updated master development plan in 2021. The ordinance does allow the Board of Supervisors to waive the inter-parcel connection requirement should it meet certain criteria. Back in May of 2024, representatives of the Lake Frederick developers submitted a master development plan. We were able to waive the inter-parcel connection requirement for that item. The other part of the plan is that we've changed the housing types for some of the remaining phases. There were no changes into the total number of units, but rebalancing some of the single family attached and single family detached amounts. We've worked with the applicants and discussed the requirement with them, and the MDP is not in an approvable form without the inter-parcel connection being waived, as it was not shown on the master development plan. A couple board members might have remembered that this item got postponed for consideration a couple times. I think two successive postponements. The applicants, for a short period of time, had gone through an engineering exercise in an attempt to try to provide the interparcel connection, had some meetings with VDOT, and then in recent correspondence with staff indicated they'd like to move forward with the waiver request. I'm sure the applicant's representative can speak more to what happened and to why they wanted to continue with the waiver request. So generally, this is located in the southeast portion of Frederick County, Neopack and Magisterial District. Many of you are already familiar with the Lake Frederick development. This is the remaining phase that abuts 277. In purple there, you can see Sandy's Mobile Home Park. And then to the left of the property is what our public commenters refer to as the Madison property, which is 1702 Fairfax Pike. That is a property that is contemplating rezoning for a number of mixed uses, be that commercial and residential, and we're working with those applicants separately. You can see the property's zoned R5. It was originally zoned back in the 1970s before we did proffers and was referred to as Wheatlands or the Shenandoah subdivision throughout the time that it's been built out, more recently being termed Lake Frederick. The section in question. Is right here. This is 277 heading towards 522. Those of you familiar with the area, the water tank is located right in that area. Here's another sheet from the MDP that shows a little bit more detail for how the units are laid out within the project. In particular, the interparcel connector and the parcel line that we are discussing tonight. Is this boundary line. With the Madison property and allowing for a street to connect through for future connection into development on that property. So this is a zoning ordinance standard that they're seeking to waive. We require interparcel connectors in certain zoning districts whenever the development exceeds 10 units. So these are the criteria that the Board of Supervisors can use to grant a waiver. The connector street is adjoining a parcel. It's not like a zoned out. It's not likely to be needed. The connector street would be required to be placed in a location that's impractical for the location of a street. In this specific instance, it's worth noting that as you get further south into the property, the ravine deepens. And it does become somewhat cost prohibitive or costly in order to provide a street connection there. But generally speaking from an engineering standpoint, there seems to be a level of confidence that the closer you are to 277, it's certainly feasible to have a connection there. That that will be done to be brought to naught to Providence for proper praying and access to city benefits. .? for the area in question many of the planning commissioners remember that the Madison property actually processed a comp plan amendment I think last year they rebalanced some of their land base changed some of the existing neighborhood village and extended it north on the other side of what would be a primary arterial with the South Frederick Parkway that is shown in this area of the map here and changed some of the mixed-use commercial office added it to the urban development area and then added some text to the plan that's shown on this slide it's part of your southern Frederick area plan I would note this because it's actually very pertinent to the requesting questions so in addition to the proposed north-south trails connecting the route 277 triangle to the existing Lake Frederick community vehicular connections should be considered to provide inter parcel connectivity between the Lake Frederick community and other communities. I'm here to answer any questions you might have about the application and I believe the applicants representative Mr. Petler is here and may have some words for you as well. Back when this was initially talked about as Wheatlands and there was a lot of discussion even I mean it's so long ago that I was even in Opec and district at that time before I was rezoned out but that was last year Mr. Thomas yeah but part of the discussion or a lot of the discussion at right below 277 to assist in the large population that was anticipated to go into that Wheatlands development and now Lake Frederick. There was supposed to be a emergency facility in there and we actually had there was property set aside so that people could come out with a fire potentially a fire station and ambulances here to reduce the time to get from Steven City to the folks at Wheatlands or Lake Frederick now without that access into 277 we have really taken away a lot of the attractiveness of a large population. But we're ready to go. Thank you. Thank you Mr. Petler. Thank you. I have a question. What is the definition of a transit area? What can we expect from a transit area? What is the definition of a transit area? that was sold to us, sold to the planning commissioners at that time for the development. And I don't think, you know, that's several owners ago. I understand that. I don't think we're being fair to the residents at Lake Frederick now if we take that connection away, take that inter-parcel connection away. I don't understand if they're going to put a commercial area in there, why they wouldn't want to allow access instead of making people go out onto 340, come back up and turn on 277 to get to it. It just doesn't seem reasonable to me to grant this waiver to allow them to not interconnect that parcel. There's too many residents there right now to have one entrance. We need a back door out of that community, and that back door was always proposed as being the access onto 270. So we're going to have to get that back to 277 there. With this waiver, we take that away. And I don't think it's good planning. I don't think it's, I don't think the developer's being, you know, he's fulfilling his commitments that were made to the planning commission and other people back, and I know, I don't recognize it was 20 plus years ago, but it's still, you know, it happened. And I think we need to follow that commitment. And I don't understand. I mean, it's, certainly, it's a cost. It's a cost factor. And the developer will save a lot of money, not having to put this inter parcel connection in. But I don't think we're being fair to the residents there. Or following through with the commitment that was made that they would have an access up to 277, or that emergency service people would have an access off 277 to cut five or seven minutes off of the time to get into that development. And five or seven minutes can be very important in an emergency service. Yeah. Aspect. So. And I just want to clarify, and I think this is, might have been what you were alluding to, but I want to make sure it's clear for the rest of the planning commission that the waiver that they're requesting is not for the Rachel Carson extension that's going to come and have a full new gated entrance with Route 277. It's for the inter parcel connection to the adjoining property for when that develops, that somebody could move between the adjoining property and the Lake Frederick community without having to go out to 277 and come in through this second entrance. They're not asking to not build an entrance on 277. And it's always, you know, great to have the history that you've had being on the planning commission, Mr. Thomas, because I've heard anecdotally about, you know, the fire station in Lake Frederick and the promises that were made over the years. Had researched it previously at the request of another planning commissioner. And, yeah, it obviously, as you know, we did not get proffers on this when it was approved in the 70s. At some point under previous ownership, a master development plan was submitted that showed that there would be a fire station annex located at the front of the community. And then as ownership changed, master development plans were amended to remove that commitment. At no point was it binding or something that the county could enforce. But it certainly set an expectation for members of the community and the planning commission that something like that could or would be provided or at least the land would be provided to facilitate the development. And so I think that's something that we need to be able to facilitate the county constructing it. But, yeah, I didn't detect a question in your comments, so I won't go any further than that. But thank you. I just wanted to make sure I was accurate there. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Any other questions to my right? I do. Yes. You just confused me there. So are we or are we not going to have a gated entrance on 277 to enter this? Yeah, there will be a gated entrance on 277, and that is not the subject that we're discussing tonight. The waiver is being requested for, to not stub out a street to connect along that red line that's drawn on the parcel boundary right there. That's what I thought. I just wanted to make sure that I heard you correctly. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions to my right? To my left. Yes, sir. Mr. Marker. Yes. Doesn't VDOT have a requirement of having at least two ingress, egress to a community? Yeah, VDOT has what's called the subdivision street acceptance requirements for, VDOT streets and whether they're going to be accepted for maintenance by the state. But because of the age of this project and because they're private streets, their requirements do not apply in this instance. However, the counties still do, and that's why they're seeking a waiver to the county requirement. I would note that it's, you'll probably notice in looking at this that the ordinance standard had not been enforced without throughout the entirety of the project. Otherwise, there'd be far more entrances to the community than there are along all of the other parcel boundaries. But in our view, it's a very good idea. Yeah. And in our opinion, that's not a reason that when there is a common sense connection, the ordinance standard is applicable and they're seeking to amend the master development plan, that it doesn't make sense to enforce it in this instance. Another question, the gated entrance that you mentioned, if that is built, as you say it will be, there's still part of that community that can't get to it without the interconnector, right? No, incorrect. The, you know, this, the whole community, it can be accessed off of 522 right now based on the way the streets are laid out. Right. This would provide the 277 connection as we'll refer to it. And the second gate there would provide for a secondary point of access that would provide for much more expedient access both from fire and rescue and from people coming from the Stephen City area to a vast majority of the community. But the inter parcel connection doesn't, not having the inter parcel connection doesn't in any way cut anybody off. I think you heard some public speakers earlier mention that they want it to have an ability to hopefully make it to a signalized intersection in the future. If the Madison property were to develop as comp plan and as they've indicated in their draft rezoning documents, they're likely to have some commercial land base that will have significant traffic generation and warrant a signalized intersection on 277. And for that community as they've communicated to me in the public meetings they've asked me to attend having a signalized left onto 277, that's a protected left rather than just turning out on an unprotected left. Right. Right. So, the protected left at a stop control, which is what they're going to have at their new gate there on 277 is a priority to them. And the interconnection provides that. As you can see that red line there would allow them to free flow across street into that adjoining parcel, which may or may not in the future have a commercial development on it that would get them to a signalized intersection. Is that kind of what you were asking about? Yeah, I'm still confused but on a higher level. Okay. I apologize. I'll fill you in. Yeah. All right. All right. I'll let the other tour ticket from there then. Yeah. Any other questions to my left? I'll defer to after the . Okay. Can you give us an estimate of how many residential units are occupied in here now and how many are yet to be built? I know you don't have here. Yeah. 1,475 are occupied as of Monday. Okay. There you go. And we have approval for 2030 or 2130? 2130. 2130. My friends are here to help me. Okay. Very good. Is the adjacent owner adverse to this inter parcel connection, Mr. Madison? Not that they've indicated to us. Actually, their draft proffer package seems to indicate that they're willing to accommodate it. I think they're thinking if they are going to have commercial end users, they prefer having that direct access and connection to the community. Okay. In Mr. Petler's letter, he indicated there were five inter parcel connections, I believe is what he cited. Yeah. I can speak to that. I just want him to know I read his letter. Yeah. No, that's all right. And I'll let Mr. Petler correct me if I get anything. Are there any of those that have been built or right away reserved or? Yeah. That's, you know, on the master development plan, we've been in the habit of allowing them to place an asterisk in places that might make common sense for connections in the future and you can see that on this version, those large asterisks there. However, there is not right of way reserved through the HOA common space in order to make that and none of those were constructed as part of the development approval process in previous years. Okay. I believe I said thank you, sir. Yeah. Mr. Petler. Good evening, sir. Good evening. I just want to . Okay. Great. I need to get my stuff out. Good evening, Mr. Chairman and members of the commission. I'm Steve Petler with the firm of Harrison and Johnson. I'm here on behalf of MREC Shenandoah. And I do want to thank Wyatt and the staff because we have been trying to work through this for some time and we appreciate you deferring the time and the time being. Thank you. Thank you. So I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Petler. And then we can get to the board. So Mr. Chairman, I'm really happy to do this. I really appreciate you providing the hearing on this until today to allow us to do that. And I think I will start off by saying why we are here after those two deferrals. So if you look at the graphic there, at the top where 522 is, and I'm glad it was cleared up, there is a connection that's planned and has been planned for 13 years since this first was mastered, developed by my client. And at no time, this is the sixth revision to the master development plan, and I believe it's the fourth submitted by MREC over the years. At no time did staff request an interparcel connection with the Madison property until the Madison property applied for the comp plan amendment. And the reason why, probably, is because it didn't make any sense before then, but now, all of a sudden, because the Madison property has kind of come alive, they want our client to deal with it. Now, to also give you some more context before I get into why we're here, if you look at the picture there, there's a slanted line, and there's a triangle where the water tower is. That property is owned by Frederick Water, and Frederick Water has made it very clear that they don't want any kind of road going through their property. Which would make the most sense, because it would then connect to that stub out that would go up to 522, where they can put a gate there, have their gated community, and the traffic can just flow right through there. But we can't go through that triangle. So we've been told that, and we knew that kind of going into this. Since then, we've been working to try to see if we could run a road through, it's marked as a dog part, you can't see it. Is there a way to blow this up in that section? If I touch that, it will be irreversible. It's just going to be irreversibly wrecked. That's it right there. Perfect. So there is a dog park right there, but what we were trying to do is route it so it would connect to that, where the fork is. Above the fork would be where the gate would be, and we were hoping to run a connection from there to the boundary line, so we can't go on the Frederick Water property, down to the corner where the triangle kind of touches right there. And as you go down, you go south from there, where you get down to Zinnia Way, where that last triangle of buildings is shown. There's a line there, you can barely see it, but that's the property line. That portion of the property from that line down has already been sold to Shea Homes. My client doesn't own it. They didn't own it when they submitted this. All they submitted this for was to rebalance the densities of the single family and the multifamily development. And they've already sold that property, so between the fact that they don't own that property and can't really impose something on somebody else's property that they don't own, and the fact, as Mr. Pearson pointed out, as you go down that line, that ravine drops, it makes it so it's not practical to make a road connection there. So really what you're looking at is everything from above that line up. What they're asking to do, though, as you can see, would be to put a connection through where the bridge is, through where the development has been planned for 13 years to have buildings built. And that section of the property is currently under contract. So it is under contract to be sold, and now the county out of nowhere for the first time, the staff, is asking for them to put a connection here where it's already been planned and contracted for in that area for years. So that leaves us with that one little area down there. We thought that would be okay. So we looked at it more closely. There are two power line easements that go exactly, they're bounded by that boundary. There's one owned by Rappahannock Electrical Co-op and one by Potomac Edison. You guys ever heard of Potomac Edison? They're not around here supplying power, but they still own a lot of easements through the county. Rappahannock Electrical Co-op was contacted. They said, we'll work with you as long as we can run our lines there. You can do whatever you want there. We went to Potomac Edison. They said, we're not interested in talking to you. And we said, under any circumstances? And they said, well, no. Somebody comes and designs it, submits design, engineered design plans. Then we'll schedule a meeting to talk about this. So they're not interested in allowing us to use their easement to run an inter-parcel connection there. So where we are then is in a situation where the planned minor arterial road kind of goes up to the Frederick Water property. The area on the boundary where the staff is suggesting that anywhere on there would be appropriate for a connection is either not owned by us or in a place where it's been planned to have buildings there that would immediately take money out of the developer's pocket if it doesn't kill the contract that's under contract currently for the sale of that parcel. And we have no other alternative to go across that power line easement. So that is why, after asking this to be delayed two times, we're back here tonight asking for the waiver. And I think that the real legal reason for this is the last one. That it's not practical to put a connection here on this property also not knowing really what the Madison property is going to be someday. You keep hearing about the Madison property, and some of you have been on this commission for a long time, a lot of projects come before you, a lot of projects get rezoned or get commercial use permits and never get built. And what they're doing is just right now a concept of something that may possibly occur in the future versus something that is actually happening right now and is being developed. And in order to get this moved forward and to close on the sale for the property that's there and get the roads built that will build the connection to Route 522 up there in the north to alleviate the concerns that the neighbors had about not being able to I'm sorry, 277. Did I say 522? I misspoke. I'm sorry. The connection with 277 to alleviate that concern, we need to get the master development plan number six approved. And again, for the first time after 13 years of submitting master development plans showing the road layout essentially like this, and the buildings essentially like this, for the first time we're told we need to put a connection and most likely through the middle of where the buildings are built. So all those reasons are why we're here tonight after some effort that we had. And I've spoken with some of you individually about this. I understand your concerns. I know Mr. is it Badorf or Batorf? Batorf. It was kind of his prompting that got us looking really closely at trying to get this done. And I think it's a good thing that we're trying to run that something down that one boundary line before we ran into the problem with the power line easements. So what I'd like to do now is just invite any questions that you may have for us. But we believe that the reason why you should grant the waiver is because it's not practical to put it there. And it's not against any good planning by not putting it there because there will be a connection to 277. And I will also add, there was a graphic that was included on the third page that showed a blowup of the comp plan and the traffic plan there. And the minor arterial road, it shows where it goes through and where it touches on the Madison property and the different types of zoning that have been comp-planned now for the Madison property. And you'll notice that road doesn't go to the commercial part. It goes through the residential part. So this isn't really going to be a way for people to easily get from, let's say, Clematis Court down there in Lake Frederick over to any commercial development that would be in the Madison property. The logical way to get there would be to go out to 522 and go out and turn there instead of weaving away, taking a big U-turn and going around there. So for those reasons, we ask that you please grant the waiver. And I'd like to make myself available to answer any questions any of you may have. Thank you, Mr. Petler. Any questions to my right? Mr. Thomas. Yes, Mr. Petler, you talk about the other proposed connection that's been on the books for 25 years now and never been built. Would your applicant agree to build that connection instead of doing this inter-parcel connection? I'm not sure which one you're talking about. The other connection to 277 that you keep saying is on the books for the back door. It's already in the approved master development plan that's currently approved right now, and it's on this one too, and it's been on every one that's been approved. I understand that, but it never gets built. So what I'm saying is if you don't want to build this inter-parcel connection, will your applicant agree to build the other connection to 277 and build that before Madison is developed? I don't know what the timing is on that, but I know for certain that they have to build the connection to get the building permits and be in conformity with the rules. I don't know if they're going to be in conformity with the master development plan. You're doing a good job at evading my question. I think the answer is yes. I don't know my client's going to be the one who's actually building it because they have a contract to sell the property, and I can't speak for a potential owner in the future, but I think that anybody who owns this property and is going to build houses on it has to build the connection to Route 277, and I think my client, as far as being the owner currently, is currently committed to build that when they open up this phase, and this being the last phase, it will get built when this phase gets built. I know I'm not just saying yes to you, Mr. Thomas, and I just cannot do it because I'm not in a position to do that. That's what I figured. But again, I believe it's required in order to build in this phase of the development. Okay. Any other questions to my right? Yes. Mr. Whitaker. What is the guarantee that we can get that there will be a connection to Route 277? The approved site plan, master development plan. It's been on for 25 years. Okay. Mr. Akins? I was going to ask staff. Maybe staff can educate everybody on the commission on how the site plan, how making sure the site plan conditions are met before building permits can come into play. Yeah. And I might be trying to guess at what Roger was getting at as part of this, but Mr. Peller answered it correctly that in order for us to approve a subdivision plat on this property, it needs to match the master development plan. In order for us to approve a subdivision plat on this property, he needs to post, his client needs to post bonds for the associated infrastructure, which if he were to fail to make all the associated road improvements, we would pull and complete the infrastructure ourselves. But I think what the planning commissioners might be referring to is the timeliness of that connection to 277 and whether or not there's a means in which the client is capable of doing so in a more expeditious manner. Because right now it's all dependent upon the entire project for this phase initiating in order for that connection that people have been waiting for for long. Did I hone in on what you were getting at, Mr. Thomas? Yes. I don't know if that helps you answer his question any better than, oh yeah, I figured. Not at all. I just cannot speak for my client who's not here with me right now about timing. I do know that it is under contract. I do know that if the waiver gets approved in the master development plan, version number six gets approved, that contract's going to close. And I do believe that because of the high demand for housing in Frederick County that it's going to be built very quickly. And that should be some assurance to you that it is going to happen sooner rather than later. I mean, this entire, the entire Lake Frederick development was phased. And it was phased and it was built, you know, from 522 kind of over, then over the, now we're going over the lake, so to speak. And that's what this part is. It's the last piece. I think just the market demand is really what's going to be your best assurance that this is going to get built pretty soon. Well, maybe you can understand my concern. I mean, this has been going for 30 years now, plus, from master development plans and other plans. And we still don't have a connection. We've talked about it every time a master plan comes in and it's changed. But we still don't have a connection to 277. And that was one of the selling points back when this was approved by the Planning Commission initially. Whether it's your client owns the property or doesn't own the property or didn't own the property back when it was done, my concern is we need a connection to 277 for a back door out of Lake Frederick. Until that connection is built, I think it's up to the Planning Commission and the board to put as much pressure on the developers as we can so that 20 years from now we're still not waiting for that connection to 277. And until there's a firm commitment, I'm not inclined to approve any waiver that gets a developer out of building a connection to 277. Mr. Thomas, that is not what this application is about. It is not about building a connection to 277 at all. It is an inter-parcel connection with the Madison property. The master development plans that have always been approved have shown that they are going to be built. They have shown the connection to 277 in the north part of the property. The best way this Planning Commission could ensure a prompt construction of that connection is to approve this waiver request so that the contract can close and the builders can start building and post the bond and build the roads that have to be built before they can start pulling permits. Okay, now I'm pretty dense, so you're going to have to explain how that would help. Because I don't see that approving this without the inter-parcel connection and some verbiage in there gets the connection to 277 built any quicker. Well, I guess the only thing I can explain to you, to maybe clarify that, is they need to rebalance the units, the density of the units between the single family development, single family and the multi-family. Once those get balanced, then the contract closes and construction starts. The staff, again, you have to appreciate the position that my client's been in. For the first time in 13 years, the staff is asking for them to put an inter-parcel connection in a place where they have already proposed to have buildings built and have already signed a contract to sell the property based on those buildings. So they go in to just rebalance it, which they've done every single time they've come back with a revision. That's really what's happened. There's been a few other minor things. I think there's a boat ramp that got moved a couple times or something like that. This is the way to getting somebody with money to build the connection. If you want to get the connection built, then we ask you to please grant the waiver and then we'll get you back to work. Grant the waiver so the staff can approve the master development plan and it can move forward. I guess what I'm looking for is a simple commitment with a sentence that just says we commit to building the connection to 277 before any permits will be pulled for residents in the Madison area. Mr. Thomas, as a matter of law, the owner of the property subject to this master development plan has to do that. Maybe I can jump in here for a minute. Um... Um... I've got five residents out there, five neighbors that have all spoken. I've lived... We moved here from Ohio. I've lived at Lake Frederick since 2015. In 2020, in our HOA meeting, the vice president, representative for MREC, said the entrance to 277 is coming and will be built within two years. We are now in 2025. We have nothing but dirt to 277. We have residents in the peninsula that are losing their lives. They're losing their homeowners insurance because of the 17 to 20 minute response time from Stephen City or Warren County to come up and deal with issues in our community. So I... We can't push MREC fast enough to build that exit at 277. On 522, we had a traffic light there that blinked for years. When did it finally get turned on? After we had a fatality. Somebody T-boned a resident from Front Royal, a poor guy going to Costco to work, and then the traffic light turned on. You're going to now ask people to make a left on 277 on a 55 mile an hour two-lane road and ask school buses and people 80 and 90 years old to make a left on that road because we will not have a traffic light. That's why we want a traffic light and the interconnection with Madison property. I'm sorry. MREC has not been a good neighbor as far as our residents are concerned. We've been promised and promised, and it was only until the county forced their issue we're finally getting a road paved that hasn't seen construction for seven years. So I'm sorry. I just want to be clear if I understand the commission's reasoning here is that this waiver application, you're denying it because you believe that MREC hasn't qualified. You're saying that MREC has operated on other items at the subdivision. Is that correct? No, along with the safety issue. We need a safer way to get out on 277. We still don't have a VDOT design for the exit on 277 other than we've been told it will not have a traffic light. Well, that's because this hasn't been subdivided and construction plans haven't been made yet because we can't get the master development plan approved by the staff in order to take that next step. Well, you've had the master development plan. Previous versions had that. So why not? VDOT's commented on previous things before too and VDOT approved that location for the connection with Route 277. But they haven't come out with a specification of what has to be on that exit other than it will not be signaled. I don't even think that's set in stone, Mr. Boddorf, to tell you the truth. I think that's going to depend on the construction drawings and the traffic signs. My conversation with VDOT and planning staff is that it does not meet the requirements. The 18-point requirements for signalization. And that's why the Madison property is going to qualify for a signal because of the commercial development that's going to occur. And if it doesn't qualify, that means VDOT says it is safe as it is. And you may dispute that, but that's for the engineers to decide and for VDOT to decide, not for my client. That's not something that my client has any control over, those standards at all. Oftentimes, I've had clients say, well, we're going to have to do this. And sometimes I've had clients in the past who wanted to put traffic signals places where VDOT wouldn't let them do it because it didn't meet the requirements. So it is a safety issue for sure. And VDOT does have regulations and they have a manual that basically sets what those parameters are. And again, that's totally outside of MREC's control as far as that's concerned. But what I'm hearing is that the main concern here is this access point with Route 277. But I'm also hearing that you're going to hold this map. You're going to want to hold this map. You're going to want to hold this map to send to this master development plan hostage and the ability to generate cash to construct that road and to construct that connection because you feel like this hasn't been done quick enough in the past. And I would submit to the Commission that the way these developments work and the way any subdivision works is the developer has got to generate money to build the infrastructure. And that is why this phase was pushed to the east. phase was pushed to the end because this is a big road project in this phase. Not only is it a large area, but there's topographical challenges throughout. And they've done it up to this point, and they've done it by selling off the different sections. MREC is the developer, not the home builder. If you want to see that connection built, you would have to prove the master development plan number six revision with the waiver so that it can close, and the home builder who's got the money, who's going to post the bond and, in fact, construct the roads, or the county will construct them if they fail for some reason. That is how these things work. So if you want that connection, please grant the waiver. I think it's that simple. And for the other reasons that you've stated, I don't think that is what this application is about. I'm sorry that the neighbors feel like they haven't been served by MREC. I think it's that simple. I think it's that simple. I think it's that simple. I think it's that simple. I think it's that simple. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. planning standpoint. And again, I would refer the commissioners to its page three of the staff report with the graphic on the long range land use plan for this area with the showing the road connections. And it does not connect to the commercial and the Madison property as it's been comp planned. So I understand the desire for that. And that would be great. But that's not what's being that's not what has been comp planned and what was approved last year. And I just want to make sure I'm very clear. My comments were not directed at the developer, not committing or not building that exit in a timely manner. My comments are transportation planning and getting the residents of back door out of 277 for traffic flow and efficient operation and has nothing to do with with the developer at all. It's planning and transportation flows, my concern and safety. And it has been planned again for 13 years. It's been planned. And it's it's the last phase. And now we're here. And this is the time to allow it to go forward or not. So we'd ask again to please grant the waiver. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Okay, commissioners, our opportunity to discuss this among ourselves. Any comments to my right? I'll start to my right here. Comments, questions, discussion points? Nope. To my left. Mr. Steve. So I mean, I do see a connection right here on the I guess west side to the commercial, you know, right there at the property line. I mean, I see where you can just jump right over. I don't see where you have to run through the residents. But yeah, I mean, I agree with Mr. Thomas. I mean, this is a safety issue now. And especially, you know, people are losing, you know, basically coverage, insurance coverage and things of that nature. You know, it really just comes down to safety and response time. Thank you. Yeah. Comments, questions? Anyone else? Ms. Bradley. I know he keeps saying it hasn't been on there for 13 years, but we have an excellent staff now that is matching our plans to our ordinances, our laws. He's asking us to waive our law. Well, no. Okay. Anyone else? Mr. Akins. The The The. The The I understand why the developer's doing this. It's a density play. If you have to do the inter-parcel connector, you're gunna lose houses. If you lose houses on the density side of things on the development, then the development becomes unprofitable, which means that the development becomes unprofitable, this last section and the connection to 277 won't bel. So, I can understand why the request is there. It may not be Euannine going to be there, but with the portion on the building, it's going to be that extra portion and not really. And so anyway, I mean a screen right towards the red line, presumably, and then we do have to change the duration. be, I hear the frustration really from the commission and also the applicant in the regards of the interparcel connection to Madison, but Madison just came into play within the last year. Is that right? And the developer's been working on this for the past, sounds like 13 years. And what I don't understand as a planning commissioner is that why would we have done a master development plan without an interparcel connector to the Madison property if it warranted anything to begin with? But now that we're talking about something 12 years later, now it's really important. I just don't understand that. So I might be the minority here, guys, but I'm in favor of not doing the interparcel connector to be able to do that. I'm in favor of not doing the interparcel connector to be able to connect 277 to the residents of it because that's what's going to be needed to be done to get the density for the project to make it work. Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Pearson, how long have we had an interparcel connection requirement in our sending ordinances? The original ordinance was written in 2005. Okay. And? Obviously, there's asterisks on this plan showing where interparcel connections were to be made. It appears they were for every adjoining parcel. Was that the intent? They were for the side that borders 522 and 277. They were not for some of the adjoining parcels on other sections on the western side of the lake. But I think generally speaking, that was the intent in looking at the previous versions of the interparcel connections. The master development plan that they would put a placeholder asterisk there and say, you know, this might be a good place in the future for a connection. But I think as we discussed earlier, to my knowledge, no right of way has been reserved and no streets have been stubbed in any of those locations. Okay. Yep. Thank you, sir. Yep. All right, folks, this is Opec and what's your pleasure? I'll make a motion that we deny the waiver 0125 for MRIC. Shenandoah LLC. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Ms. Brannon, can you start off the voting? The motion is to deny the waiver request. Brannon, yes. Brombeck, yes. Botthorpe, yes. Sneddon, yes. Markert, no. Thomas, yes. Kozo, yes. Kern, no. Whitaker, yes. And the chair votes yes. And the motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on June 11th with a recommendation for denial. Thank you very much. Next item on our agenda is waiver 02-25. Mr. Thomas, can you take this item? I'm going to recuse myself. Waiver 02-25 for Storage Solutions. Ms. Peloquin? This waiver request for Storage Solutions is for a 27.12 acre property, zoned M1, Light Industrial, in the Stonewall Magisterial District. Here's the county-wide map, the property, the subject properties in the red box in the Clearbrook area. Zooming in here, the property is outlined in purple. The light blue color is the M1 Light Industrial zoning. It's located adjacent to the Winchester and Western Railroad right-of-way. It's east of Martinsburg Pike, Route 11, and it is just north of Brewstown Road. This is the proposed master development plan. It shows the main truck and car entrance from Route 11 near the Railroad right-of-way. And the orange, slash peach color would be the proposed private drive. The entrance from Route 11 is proposed to be a right-in only, and the private road would be a full access entrance. The rail transload bay would have the tractor trailers and rail cars loading and unloading, and the other lot to be created would be used as rail car storage and storm water management. This is a really good map for the M1 and the M2, and it's a lot of work. This is a request to waive the subdivision ordinance requirement in 144.24c that all lots must have direct access to a public street or right-of-way dedicated for maintenance by VDOT. Another ordinance, Section 144-5, allows the Board to grant an exception to these requirements in cases of unusual hardships or unusual situations or when strict adherence to the general regulations would result in substantial injustice or hardship. This is presented as an action item. Staff are seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors, who will hear this on June 11th. That concludes the presentation, and Mr. Painter, with Painter Lewis, is representing this application and is present to address any questions. Are there any questions for staff? I'll look to the right here. Yes, thank you, Mr. Publicman. With a waiver request, does VDOT have an opportunity or do they go back and they re-look at this plan at all? Have they made any comments on this or does VDOT not review this? VDOT has actually already reviewed this MDP, and they did not have an issue with it being a private street should the waiver be approved. They only really commented that the new entrance on Bruce Town Road must meet current rules. They did not have any specific requirements for the current VDOT entrance requirements. Thank you. Any questions to the left? Okay, with your comment about they had no, VDOT had no comments with the waiver being approved since it was going to be a private road. If the waiver was not going to be approved, did they think it should be a public, I mean a VDOT road then, or? They didn't really comment on that. The draft MDP that was submitted to them showed the private road, the public road, that was the public road, and the public road was not approved. So, again, they are okay with it being a private road should the waiver be approved. I'm not sure if they would prefer it to be a public. Well, I wouldn't think so, because it's going to cost them money. That's why I was just wondering about it. Okay, there's no other questions. Do we want to hear from the applicant on this? Is the applicant here? Yes, Mr. Painter is here. Mr. Painter? With Painter and Lewis. Well, I couldn't see him. He was standing, sitting behind you. He's making an appearance. I'm Tim Painter with Painter and Lewis. It's been a while since I've been before this body. It's good to be back. We have been working on this site for literally two years, and we feel that this is the best solution to this rehabilitation site. We're improving the entrances to and from, and we're enhancing stormwater. And VDOT has reviewed the entrances, and they have acknowledged the right end off 11, and they prefer to have the one entrance off of Bruce Town Road, which is a full-service entrance. We just want to have the entrance in, and of course that will be done to VDOT standards, but we want the roadway itself to be private, because it's only servicing three lots and two users, and these particular users are, you're talking about storage and railroads, so we don't want a lot of traffic being there that shouldn't be back there. So that's why we're asking for a private road. Are there any questions of the applicant? To the right, to the left? Thank you. Thank you. Okay, this is for our action. Make a recommendation to the board whether we support the waiver request or don't support the waiver request. Mr. Vice Chairman, I would make a motion to recommend approval of waiver number 02-25. Is there a second? Second. Okay, we have a motion for approval of the waiver and a second. Are there any additional comments? Ms. Brannon, I'll let you start. Brannon, yes. Brombeck, yes. Hawthorff, yes. Sneden, yes. Marguerite, yes. Cozzo, yes. Kerns, yes. Akins, yes. Whitaker, yes. And Thomas votes yes. So this will go to the board with a approval recommendation on the 11th of June. And we'll go back to the chairman. Thank you, Mr. Thomas. Our next item is waiver 03-25 for glazed development. And all of our folks that live on Underwood Lane are tired, so here we go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. This is a waiver request for an interparcel connection. The property is zoned RP and is Phase 9 of the Raven Point subdivision. The current approved master development plan shows the future plan connection, and the applicant is requesting a waiver to remove one of those connections. The subject property identified in rule is the property of the owner of the property. The property identified in red is located east of Interstate 81, north of Millwood Pike, Route 50, and south of Cincinnati Road within the Raven Point subdivision. The property is located in the Shawnee Magisterial District. The 6.9-acre parcel outlined in purple is the plan section 9 of the Raven Point subdivision, which lies directly south of Underwood Lane off of Cincinnati Road, which is north, or at the top of your screen. The current approved master development plan includes a total of three interparcel connections. The interparcel connection to Dewberry Drive was completed, and I believe that is right here. The second connection, which is Summerfield to Fairfield, was completed with, will be completed with phase 9 of the subdivision, and that's indicated here on the map and hatched in gray. And a third, which is the highlighted parcel up here, is, would be the extension from Taggart onto, Taggart onto Underwood Lane, and this connection is the subject of the waiver request. All three of the interparcel, interparcel connections were noted on the master development plan and are completed at the completion of phase 9, or completion of the improvements to the segment of Cincinnati Road between the City of Winchester to Greenwood Road, as identified in the Frederick County Secondary Road Improvement Plan, whichever occurred first. The zoning ordinance requires all residential subdivisions of more than 10 lots to have streets connecting to adjoining parcels, the Board of Supervisors might waive that interparcel connection requirement under certain circumstances. Item 4 is the specific clause the applicant is seeking to address. The ordinance states that the Board of Supervisors can waive the interparcel connection requirement with other good cause shown by the applicant, not contrary to good planning policy. The comprehensive plan, specifically the Cincinnati Eastern Frederick Urban Area Plan, is not in the plan, plans for a new minor collector along the eastern boundary of the subdivision with an extension of Enverly Way to Cincinnati Road, which is highlighted in the red clouded area. The plan designates Greenwood Urban Center as a mix of uses into an already developed area that embraces traditional Main Street feel. Access management is a significant consideration within the area plan by use of frontage roads, collector roads, and interparcel connections to bring traffic to a common access point, which is key to reducing the need for roadway widening and rapid expansion. The goal of the comprehensive plan is to achieve the acceptable level of a service C or better, and interparcel connections further help this goal if situated in a manner that does not encourage cut-through traffic due to the inadequate routes. The applicant requests a waiver for the interparcel connection, believing that without the construction of Enverly Way in place, the interparcel connection would not be possible. The applicant requests a waiver for the interparcel connection, believing that without the construction of Enverly Way in place, the connection would have an unintended consequences on the subdivision. This action is presented for, as an action item. Staff is seeking recommendations from the planning commission to forward to the board of supervisors. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy to answer any questions you may have. And Mr. Frank, the owner's representative is here to make a brief statement. Thank you. Any questions for Ms. Feltener to my left? Ms. Brannon? I think so. Now my mind's gone blank. boy the inner the red area that you were drawing is under wood lane under any proposal to widen to make it because that's another street I I drove all over today I'm gonna defer that question to mr. Pearson it is not in any of our road plans or part of any of our funding proposals to widen if a connection was made to it I think you've got maybe 20 feet of pavement out there right now with people parking on both sides of it and sometimes you can't pass more than two cars on it so if a connection was made it would certainly be prudent to consider a widening project on it see this is the same problem I had with another development you can't make a neighborhood that wasn't made to be drive-through drive-through but this is a problem for me because looking at the plan that's a huge neighborhood it needs to access points to Cincinnati to dump all of the traffic and make it only what's the name of the road I wrote it down Cressley I mean talking about safety I've gone out there too in the morning and it's a parking lot like it's it's a parking lot like it's a parking lot like it's a parking lot like it's a major so I don't see how Underwood can handle it but I don't understand how we can take like can we build it and block it so that it can't be used unless Underwood is made to be safe you can certainly deny the application for the waiver and then make recommendations or modifications to any conditions moving forward okay Any other questions to my left? None to my right. Mr. Okay. Ms. Cozell, I'll let the lady go first. Yes, thank you. What would the process be if we, and you might not have this answer, but Underwood to improve Underwood to make it so that it can accommodate two-way traffic safely and not affect? I'm going to defer that to Mr. Pearson. Yeah. There's maybe 40 feet of right-of-way out there right now, and I think most people who live out there probably anticipate that much of that is actually their front yard that they own. So you could do a road widening project out there. You may be able to match the existing sections that you see in the subdivision south of it, but you're certainly not going to fit a sidewalk alongside of that as part of it. But I think the pavement out there, maybe from back of curb to back of curb in the existing subdivision, south of it is roughly in a similar right-of-way. It's a little bit wider because they have the ability to have sidewalks on both sides of it, but it would be an expensive road project. We'd have to think about drainage more than likely as part of that and figure out a manner to accommodate that. So, yeah, and that would be a county project that it would go on the list of other many, many, many road improvement projects. But without that connection. I guess our level of service is kind of decreasing, getting through Raven. So I'm just, I don't know, I'm talking out loud, trying to figure out the best way to accommodate the inter-parcel connection, looking at that versus, you know, just dumping everything out on Route 50 and, yeah, how to accommodate. Go ahead, Roger. Mr. Thomas. What is, Kate, Underwood Lane is to connect to Taggart, is that right? Yeah. What is the geometric differences of the road layout between Underwood Lane and Taggart? Are you talking about the horizontal construction? Horizontal construction, right. I think Mr. Frank might actually be better suited to speak to that than me. I think the Raven Point subdivision is probably 37 feet, if I am thinking correctly, from back of curb to back of curb, roughly. And Underwood is maybe 20 feet of asphalt. So what we're looking at. What we're looking at is the neighbors on either side of Underwood would potentially lose 10 feet of their front yard. Anybody who bordered on Underwood. What they currently view as their front yard, but that is actually VDOT right-of-way. There is a 40-foot VDOT right-of-way for Underwood Lane. Yeah. But right now it's their front yard. Not legally, but yes. Yeah. And that would have to be paid for by VDOT and the county. The developer has no responsibility to pay for that. Yeah. It would definitely be either the county entirely or something with VDOT, but the developer has no obligation to be a part of that. Yeah. Yeah, I think this has happened because when this development was built, we didn't have the requirements for inter-parcel connections. So we didn't look as much at what would be the proper width for that road at the time or that street at the time. Yeah. And I think if we don't grant. If we don't grant the waiver, we're impacting the efficiency of the traffic system. But if we grant the waiver, we're severely impacting the safety of the people on Underwood Lane until Inverleigh is built. So we're kind of in a between a rock and a hard place. There's no good answer to this. Yeah. No, it really is a timing issue. And the notes in the master development plan speak to that. And if we rewound all the way back to 2007, I think they include. I think they included a note in there that said they'll make this connection if Inverleigh Way has been extended to Sensanyi or if we've made improvements to Sensanyi to widen it. None of those have occurred. And absent Inverleigh Way being extended to Sensanyi, this is an incredibly expeditious route from Route 50 to Sensanyi. The current cut through that is used often is from Route 50 on to Inverleigh, left on to Kinross. I think it's a right on to Dewberry, left on to Hunter's Ridge, and a right on to Cressley. So you're talking, you know, four movements, four or five movements, whereas this would be, you know, turn on to Inverleigh, left on to Taggart, straight through to Sensanyi. Now, the option of denying the waiver and requiring that the developer put bollards at the end to really disconnect the street until Inverleigh is built. That's kind of a head scratcher, I guess. Yeah, we were asked the same thing by a board member and posed the question to VDOT as it relates to their ability to accept it as a public street in the meantime so the developer can get off bond and exit development until such a time as I assume the condition would be until Inverleigh is constructed would be when it'd be likely to remove any barriers. They preliminarily said that they could work with us. On a solution like that. They don't have a thorough process or a kind of streamlined process for considering such requests, but the fact that they said that they could accommodate it is an indication that there's an option there. We would have to figure out a temporary turnaround more than likely for plow trucks in order for them to accept the stub of Taggart into the state system. And then we'd have to work out something for either holding a bond or. Or some means with which to keep it. Before it goes into the state system before they can accept the connection fully to Underwood. So it's complex, but I don't think it's impossible if that helps answer your question at all. Yeah, thank you. Okay, any other comments, questions for staff? Seeing none, I would just note, and I'm sure you guys saw it as well. I think I got probably 20 online comments. I think one of them was in favor. Of making this connection and the other 19 were opposed as obviously some spoke. Some folks spoke here this evening to the same thing. So I think Mr. Frank wanted to make a couple of comments. Very good. Thank you. Mr. Frank. Good evening, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Commission. My name is David Frank. I'm with Pinoni and I'm representing Quays Developments here this evening. Appreciate Amy did a good job. I appreciate the work that you're doing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We are at the tail end of this project. Good transportation planning at the time wanted to connect Sintsehne road and route 50 by with Inverley a properly designed corridor that could handle the right amount of trips. Clearly, you guys have already. You guys understand what the conundrum is here. But before this gets built, it was a very it's a it's a good time to take pause and ask the question what is really what you would do with this bill. is really going to happen over the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years. When we looked at this initially, it is clear that Underwood Lane is not of any capacity to be connected. Bollards, no bollards. At some point, Underwood Lane is going to have to have some improvements, significant improvements to it for this connection to be effective with or without Inverleigh. The fact is there's about 18,000 trips in 2023 on Route 50. There's about 11,000 trips on Sensany Road. A lot of discussion when we think about these interparcel connections is how do we make efficient connectivity at smaller level roads, inside subdivisions. It all makes sense. But when we took a look at this and when we're reading the tea leaves, our gut reaction here is this is a greater, much greater net negative for the community and for the county as a whole if this connection is made. So the waiver is in front of you. I'm sorry. I'm here to take any questions that you have. Any questions? I have a question. The neighborhood was approved because there was two entrances to Sensany. So I understand this isn't a good one. But what's going to be done for Cressley when all the traffic of the neighborhood and through traffic are running down their street? They're not divvying it up with other people now. So I'm not going to disagree. I agree with your comment. What I'll do is I'm going to try. Again, I am not a transportation engineer. I haven't done a traffic study. But what I can say is if you exponentially increase the traffic from Route 50 over Taggart to Underwood and you now have the road conditions, we were starting to talk about it with Commissioner Thomas. What is the pavement section? What are turn lanes? What's happening on Sensany Road? Not only are you making that connection, but turn lanes, turning movements on Sensany Road. There are a lot of things going into play here that is bigger than just the pavement section of Underwood Lane when you start looking at the potential traffic that could be going through this cut through. I agree with you there. But still, Cressley is overcrowded as well. And they want their kids to be able to play on their streets as well. So you're talking about... Crossover traffic. I'm talking about a huge neighborhood. And everybody that wants to go out of that neighborhood on the Sensany is going down Cressley. And I've driven it. It is backed up. It's not fun for them either. So if I agree with you, Underwood is rough. And that's going to be expensive. That would be dangerous to run traffic through that street. But what's the alternative? To get a second way out towards Sensany that you don't overburden Cressley. If I understand the question correctly, I think there are only a handful of lots left in this project. So from a global perspective, the amount of traffic that these lots will generate isn't going to necessarily increase significantly the traffic on Cressley. That situation that Cressley has right now is a current fact. Yeah. And that's... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... And... If I'm understanding that the question is if I can't really... If we can't fix Cressley by making this connection to Underwood because we're creating more cut-through traffic coming through from 50 to Sensany Road, and that's not a subdivision street cutting through, you know, just serving the community in Cressley, I guess I'll have to go back to what I said. It's a greater net negative for the entire subdivision. And... And... from my opinion, to make this connection. Okay. Can I ask you a question? How long has that inter-parcel connection been there on that map? This goes back to the very first master development plan. Is that correct, Wyatt? Yeah. I know the one that I looked at was a 2007 plan, but I think there might have been one before that, if I remember correctly. See, I don't mean to pick on you, but I'm concerned that developers always put the tough thing last, and then they want to waver. I don't want to build it, where if you had voiced a concern originally, maybe a workaround could have been done. This just seems like a bad situation all the way around to me. I don't know how to fix it, but this is not good. Mr. Pearson, isn't Inverleigh Way, I know Ms. Feltner has shown it up there, but isn't that the... Yeah. The long-term solution to move larger volumes of traffic to Cincinnati Road and to Greenwood Road? Yes, sir. And that's a regional project that I'm assuming multiple agencies would be involved in helping with? Yeah. It's a comprehensively planned minor collector, so the existing section you see of Inverleigh Way when you come off 50 is intended to continue north and connect into Cincinnati. Is that what you were looking for? Mr. Pearson? Would you show that on the map? Yes. And additionally to that, Mr. Pearson, would Inverleigh Way be constructed when the neighboring parcel would be developed? I would say if the neighboring parcel were to be developed, yes. So similar to the last project we just looked at, if Madison was ever done, there would be a connection made. And with this one, if Inverleigh, if this parcel to the east, would be done, maybe one day there would be a connection connecting to Cincinnati. Correct. I would say that the county has contemplated in the past just an outright purchase of right-of-way from the adjoining property owner if they're not interested in development in the near term. So this, I think, does rise to that level of need to where I think, from a county transportation planning perspective, and based on the property owner's lack of intention to develop the property, it may be something we'd be interested in buying the right-of-way and constructing the facility because of the need for it. But if it were to develop, it'd certainly be something we'd look for during a rezoning application as a profit improvement. So the lines on this map kind of overset each other to some extent, but Inverleigh comes in right now off of Route 50 and currently dead ends and a right-of-way reservation that then ties into the adjoining farm property owned by the Ambrose family. If it were to be continued relative to the discussion, it would continue north and then tee off at an intersection with a street that is right across from that location there, as planned. It's never been designed in that manner. Additionally, it kind of contemplates there being an intersection and that Inverleigh would be brought east to Greenwood Road, but all of that is predicated on the fact that the comprehensive plan gets implemented in this area, which designates this whole area as urban center. And right now, the property owners in question are not interested in developing their property. Does that answer what you're looking for? If I can, just address them real quick. Sorry. You're good. I'm JP Carr. I'm the developer. Don't hire you guys tonight. I just want to make a point. How do you get back to that? The connection there. So we're fully ready to make that connection. We think it's bad planning to make that connection. We would be burdening the people on both Taggart and Underwood Lane by building this. If we're required to do it, we'll do it. This is not us trying to shirk our duty to do this. It's just something that we looked at and said, I'm not going to torture the people on Underwood Lane and on Taggart Drive by constructing this. And so we looked at this and said, this is something we need to remove. With Inverleigh Way to be constructed, or in the future possibly be constructed, that would handle the extra connection. And that's what was originally intended. And that's why you see on our plans, our discussions in the past, where it says we will construct Underwood Lane when Inverleigh Way is built. We built Inverleigh Way to the top there from Route 50 to handle that traffic. We have three other access points to this property. It has plenty of access to locations. The Oakdale situation is unfortunate, but Inverleigh Way needs to get built to correct that, not Underwood Lane. It would just destroy that neighborhood. And it would also destroy the neighborhood. And it would also destroy the neighborhood. And it would also destroy the neighborhood. And it would also destroy any sense of community on Taggart Drive as well. So for that reason, we ask for this waiver. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions for staff? I'm sorry, for Mr. Frank. Seeing none, thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Carr. Okay. This is Shawnee. What would you guys like to do? Okay. Okay. Planning Commissioner comments? Ms. Gozel? Okay. Okay. I think we're in a no-win situation here. There's no right or wrong answer to this. But I think it comes down to what is the safest thing for the people that live in the community now? Even though it's going to have a traffic impact on the region that could be negative. What do we... Do we look at safety being more important, or do we look at the overall traffic impact, you know, and how much that affects the community? Mr. Yeah, well, I think it's pretty obvious that there's no right or wrong answer to this. traffic being more important and the traffic is something that you know it's transitional if additional roads are ever built you know maybe there'd be a better solution but I'm very concerned about the safety of the folks along Underwood and the kids there and you know it it's gonna be I mean I wouldn't want to be a Board of Supervisors rep when they people find out they're losing ten feet of the front yard that they think is their front yard which really isn't understand that but it's still not going to be a pleasant situation so if do you want me to make a motion or do you want to yeah I agree with that I I believe the the safety of the kids and the community is more important at this point than a little inconvenience of driving a little farther to get for me to be I can make a motion. Anything else? All right. I can make a motion. Let's go ahead. I would like to make a motion to recommend approval of waiver number 03-25 Raven Point, Section 9, to forward along to the Board of Supervisors. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any further discussion? Seeing none, Mr. Whitaker, the motion is for approval of this waiver. Will you start us off, please, sir? Whitaker, no. Akins, yes. Kern, yes. Kozo, yes. Thomas, yes. Markert, yes. Sneddon, yes. Vauter, yes. Grumbach, yes. Brennan, no. Chairvich, yes. The motion carries. This will go to the Board of Supervisors on June 11th with a recommendation for approval. Thank you very much. Mr. Pearson, is there anything else we need to go over on current applications? No, sir. For those of interest, we have an expansion for the Costco location that's in the works on the site plan. But other than that, nothing noteworthy for you all. Have a good night. Is there a motion for adjournment? So moved. Second. Second. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Be careful going home. Thank you very much. Yeah, I think we've learned anything.
