Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2024-03-27
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=219
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Lord Jesus, we just ask you to watch over these proceedings. Lord, you said, if anyone lacks wisdom, let them ask of God who gives freely. So ask for your wisdom. And I ask for your humility, Lord. The wisdom of Solomon and the humility of Job as we handle the business of the people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Vice Chairman? Let us please stand and face the flag. Remove your hats, please. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Our next item is adoption of the agenda. Miss Vice Chair, how would you like to handle this? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to adopt the agenda as presented with the removal of items 9A, B, and C at this time. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman? I can amend her motion or have a subsequent follow-up motion. So do you want to have a subsequent follow-up? Do you want to do this first and then have the second one or not? You can amend or begin the discussion. Okay. My amendment would be then to include under Section 8 the discussion on school bonds as well. So we have a motion to amend to add an item under Section 8. Do we have a second? I'll second. We have a motion and a second. Mr. Administrator, is that the appropriate place to put this item? Thank you. Discussion of the amendment. The first. Anyone want to discuss the addition of school bonds to item 8? Mr. Chairman, the reason I'm bringing this up today, and I sent you all an email, was that the schools have to make a decision by April 4. We do not have a meeting until April 10. So this is the only opportunity we have to have a discussion on that and possibly address an issue. And for that reason, I raise it today. Thank you. Any further discussion on this amendment? Yes, sir. Hearing none, do we need a roll call vote? Mr. Chairman, I wanted to talk about the removal items. We have an amendment on the table. We have to deal with that one first. And then we'll go back to discussing the amended motion. Or not amended motion, as the case may be. Again, any discussion on the addition to item 8? Very good. Supervisor Jewell? Yes. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the amendment passes. So now we have a motion on the table to remove all sections of item 9, but to add a discussion of school bonds into section 8. Is there any discussion or further amendment? Mr. Chairman, I... I don't... I don't... I don't agree with removing 9B and 9C because I understand you want to give citizens an opportunity when they can, when the Board has the opportunity to appoint. But in this case, 9B and 9C were recommendations from a Board. They were not recommendations from us. The Board is asking for our approval of it. Both of those, 9B and 9C, came from... One came from Frederick Water Board of Directors, and the other came from Laurel Ridge Community College. And I think that we should honor those and keep them on the agenda. Thank you. I can address that. But first, anyone else have a comment about the removal, I guess, since we've already finished with the addition? So I sent out an email to everyone. We have inherited some boards that have preexisting design from a decade or more ago. And I raised some issues that constituents have raised to me about... The configuration of the Water Board. If we were to appoint today, we would be locked in for a period of years. And we wouldn't be able to address any of those constituent concerns. Furthermore, there is... No one is expiring before our next meeting. So we could wait at least two weeks. And it would have no effect on the operation of the Water Board. Beyond that, if we don't appoint... If we don't make a change in who we want to appoint... Then that is one of the boards where the people on it would continue to serve. So there would be no interruption in the support provided to Frederick Waters, Director, until we discussed whether this board is configured the way, ideally, from our constituents' point of view. As far as the appointment to... You mentioned Laurel Ridge. That one was perplexing to me. Several people have raised some issues they want us to consider that would take more time. But also, that is listed. It is not expiring until June. So we have plenty of time on that one. There's no... I don't think I've ever seen one come up to us three months early. So... Maybe just because they had provided. So these need to be advertised as well. Or at least the public needs to know. Something that we reappoint three months early means the public wouldn't have any idea, potentially, that they had a chance to apply for that position. So looking at all of them... And the other one is not meeting before our next meeting as well. So there's no impact if we give the board two more weeks to consider these three items. That was my understanding of the... Mr. Chairman, I read your email. It was today. And we received this late today. And I had the privilege of being a liaison on the Water Board. And I understand your concerns. But I also like what you recommended about the potential... I understand your concerns. But I also like what you recommended about the potential of actually increasing the board. And I understand you've got some constituents that are concerned. But I also feel that if these boards are making these recommendations, then there's a respect to the boards. But I just wanted to voice my concern. So... Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Question on the removals. Is your intent or thought process to go and increase the people on Frederick Waters' board to seven? Which would be six districts plus your at-large seat. I'm just asking, is that part of that discussion process? I just put that out to feed the discussion. I would invite every supervisor to contact me and discuss. I sat down with... For that board, I sat down with the director for an hour and a half last Friday and discussed it. One of the concerns is that we have a very important utility water. We just went through an emergency drought. Very important to all of us. And it has a board of directors, none of which are customers of Frederick Water. So there were some complaints from constituents with different issues going on in the county that they feel like they may be taxed without being represented or... And I couldn't answer it. And that's what made me think that we might want to revisit the constitution of that. Now, just to mention one reason why it might take longer, Director Lawrence pointed out that they're constituted as an independent entity. And they were chartered with a board of directors of five. So he was going to find out if a change in the number of directors is trivial or if it would be a big problem for him. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? So the motion on the table is to remove items nine and add the stated item on school bonds to eight. And we'll go to vote. Supervisor Ligero. Aye. Supervisor Lockridge. Aye. Vice Chairman. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. No. The Chair votes aye. And the amended agenda is adopted. Thank you. Now we move forward to citizen comments. Citizen comments are for item... At this point, are for items on the agenda only that are not subject to a public hearing. So the two public hearings, please reserve your comments for later in the meeting. You'll get to speak as we're deliberating on those. But anything else on the agenda you wish to speak? Anyone signed up? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. The first person signed up referencing the items that were just removed. So I assume you would ask that person to wait until the end of the meeting to address the board under other comments since those items are no longer on the agenda. So are we allowed to permit them to speak given that they was on the agenda? I think that is your discretion, but since you no longer have agenda, it's no longer an agenda item, typically those folks would be asked to wait until the end. How many are there? One. I'd like to let him speak now if the speaker had a schedule and couldn't speak later. Mr. Graber, Sean Graber. Name and majesty of the district, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Chair, members of the board. Appreciate the opportunity to address you this evening. I did intend to speak on 9A, B, and C. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair and members of the board for putting this off for two weeks for the items mentioned by the chairman. It is a good decision that you made this evening and I appreciate you making it. I would desire speaking on the new item, which is 8, that Mr. Dunn happened to place on the agenda this evening. While I was not there. I was not privileged to it prior to coming this evening. I did come prepared. I'd like to share with you a little bit, and I don't know if this is what Mr. Dunn is going to speak about regarding the bonds for the schools. But if we look at the debt service that the bonds for the school would cover, if we covered the top three priorities that the school system has, we would see an increase in debt service from $22,983,000 in current fiscal year 2024 to current fiscal year 2029, simply four fiscal years from the one that you're getting ready to vote on, of $37,219,000. Which is an increase of $14,236,000. To put that in perspective, it is a 61.9% increase in debt service for the schools in simply four years. That's with funding the top three priorities of the schools. Now, to put that in layman's terms, it's an 18.61% tax increase that is required to fund those. Mr. Jewell, you have been an avid supporter of funding these programs. I guess you're advocating for an 18.6% tax increase in the future. I'm not sure if you've heard of the $17,000 increase in the school system. I don't know if you've heard of it. It's an 18.6% tax increase. Not only do we have to pay the taxes for the buildings, but we have to pay for the teachers and for the maintenance and the cleaning staff for those buildings. If we're going to pay for all these bonds, for all these additional things, when we could do an expansion of Sherando and an expansion of Millbrook, we could save significant funds. It's difficult to see why we would want to spend these vast amounts of money and have vast increases in taxes. Mr. Jewell, you have been an avid supporter of funding these programs. I guess you're advocating for an 18.6% tax increase in the future. I guess you're advocating for an 18.6% tax increase in the future. Back to you, Sir. In speaking of어요 During that time, I saw many conflicts between patients and patient families and the health care team. What I'm here to promote is April 16th as National Health Care Decision Day. That day is a day to focus on one's living will. April 15th is the day we pay a debt to the government. April 16th is the day we should at least think in terms of a debt to ourselves. So I'm here to ask your support for the resolution as it's written to support April 16th and to encourage our citizens to fill out a living will. Thank you. That's what I'm here for. Thank you, sir. Did you give your magisterial district when you spoke? I did not. I have never been in this building before. Back Creek. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Again, on agenda items, there aren't too many through your agenda that are not public hearing items. Sorry about that. My name is Brian Nury, resident of the Opec District. In reference to Mr. Dunn's motion to add to Section... I would like to remind the board that the previous speaker on that topic was in full power to fund a fourth high school all this time. So the money that he's quoting for something that we don't need has been something that we've needed for years. So if anything else, Mr. Dunn's solution might be the only thing that we have left. Thank you. Anyone else? Thank you. Then I'll close citizen comments. Next, we move to... Consent. Consent agenda. Yes, indeed. We move to the consent agenda. And before, Ms. Vice Chairman, we get to that, I'll note that the one speaker who wanted a resolution adopted by the county, that is a resolution that's part of our consent agenda. Yes, sir. And I was planning to incorporate the gentleman that just spoke from the Back Creek District. Actually, the item... The item that you spoke to, sir, is our item number 6H under our consent agenda, which we will take up now. So the motion I would like to make, Mr. Chairman, is that we approve the consent agenda as presented. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion of the consent agenda? Nothing heard. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Is this a roll call, sir? Very good. Sorry. Roll call on the consent agenda. Supervisor Jewell? Yes. Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Supervisor Liero? Aye. The chairman votes aye. And the consent agenda is adopted. Board of Supervisor comments, do we have any? Mr. Chairman, I have two. First one is regarding the resolution recognizing national health care decisions. Second is on this item. The first one is to make a motion to approve the consent agenda. I look forward to hearing your opinion. Second, the consent agenda is to approve the consent agenda. It is actually, folks, a very important thing to our family. My wife, Susan, and I have actually had a living will for years. It's been just a comfort knowing that if something happened to us, our kids were taken care of. So, I really appreciate Dr. Bartsch coming and asking me about this. And I just think it's a wonderful thing that we really should be paying attention to. That is the first item. Mr. Chairman, the second item. It's the second item. The fourth high school has been the top priority in the CIP for the past few years, and it seems to come up during budget time. Then it is basically dismissed. The public wants to see movement from this board. I want to commit that we will work in earnest this year with the school board to come up with a solution. You mentioned during one of our work sessions putting together a working group to look into it. We know taxes are going to have to go up. To pay for the school. We should have been planning and had this school built years ago, but it did not happen. The growth is not stopping, and we know the cost is just going to continue to go up. Let's truly do the research needed so that we can move forward in agreement to get this project done. Once we have a better understanding, we can revisit using some of the capital fund to pay for the architecture piece. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion that we commit to working... with county staff, Dr. Hummer, and school staff, and that we have joint Board of Supervisors and school board work sessions to determine what is required to build the fourth high school, and that we bring in local companies that can help us... teach us what goes into building the high school and help educate the boards. That's my motion. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? We have a motion and a second. Discussion? I'll only note that we do have... So I toured a school this week with that idea in mind to educating myself on the schools that we have, the good and perhaps bad points of the various schools in our community, and I plan to visit more schools, and I encourage board members, if you have any questions, I put a request to Dr. Hummer, and he is responsive in allowing us to tour the schools. If that's okay with you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. And I think that helps in deliberation. We also have a plan to have our first work session on this topic, but I don't know if we were inviting the school board to it or having it just for us. Mr. Ballhoffer, do you have a date for that yet? I do not, but I can get you the information out with some suggested dates by email tomorrow. Okay. So that would be part of our answer to get started on this process. We've been talking about having that joint working. We've been talking about a work session on options for getting the fourth high school or any other option to address the overcrowding done. Yeah. Mr. Chairman, my concern is, again, in order for all of us to talk, we have to be in a public forum. One of my problems I have is not even having an idea what you're doing or what other supervisors are doing, right? You can only have two, I mean, the rules are the rules. I think for the public, I've heard you say it multiple times about transparency. And I just think that this motion is just putting it on the table. Yes, we are taking this seriously, and yes, we're going to have these meetings. And the meetings can be with the board, and we also have joint meetings with the school board. That's what I'm looking for. That's the only complication that I thought of. I certainly proposed that we have work sessions just dedicated to this topic, so I agree. If you wish to make this motion to record it for the public that we're dedicated to do this, I think that's your intent. That's my intent. Then that's clear. Any other discussion? Very good. So we have a motion on the table to commit ourselves. I don't know if you have a written statement of exact language. I do. But to conduct one or more working sessions. Or you have language? No, no, I've got, it's just working sessions. Not specific, so whatever it takes. Okay. So if that's clear to everyone, we'll go ahead to a vote. Supervisor Ligero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. And the Chairman votes aye. So we are committed to those work sessions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes. Any other Board of Supervisors comments? Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Dunn? I will be holding a town hall meeting at Greenwood Elementary this Saturday at 10 a.m. to discuss constituent concerns, anything of interest to you. You're all welcome to come. People in Redbud are especially welcome to come and share your concerns. I've had a number of town hall meetings, and I've done this to get input. So I look forward to seeing you on Saturday, 10 a.m. at Greenwood Elementary School. Thank you. Thank you. Any other Board comments? Hearing none, I'll close the Board of Supervisors comments item. County officials, I believe we had no, oh we're now, the added agenda item for school bonds. Supervisor Dunn? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The school administration needs to borrow 5.5 million this spring for the first time in the last five years. We have a total of $3.5 million in the spring and $3.5 million this fall to complete the financial obligations for the James Wood renovations. The deadline to apply for the spring bond issue is April 4, 2024. We currently have about $30 million of uncommitted funds in our capital fund. Assuming we pass Scenario D budget in April, we will have about $15 million left. However, staff has indicated that we can expect to have approximately $9 million in surplus funds when we complete our fiscal year plan. Thus, we would have approximately $24 million going into FY25. Here's a policy question. Do we pay for the upcoming financial obligations for the cash we have in our capital fund, or do we go further into debt and borrow money? The capital fund is designed to pay for capital expenses. The James Wood renovation is a capital expense. Therefore, I make an emotion to transfer from the capital fund to the school administration $9 million. This is a capital expense. We need to pay for the future of the school. The money is then transferred to the school administration, $9 million immediately, to use that money for the upcoming expenses for the James Wood renovation instead of having to borrow $5 million . That's the motion. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second, Mr. Chairman. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman, the purpose for this . . . . . . . . . . . Can you hear me now? So the light was on, but okay. So the purpose for this is that we have money set aside each year for capital expenses. This is a legitimate capital expense. When the Fed lowers interest rates, take a step back. The treasurer invests this money. So we have $30 million that's invested, but the rate that he earns is very, very low because of the restrictions as a county official has. If we borrow money, the cost of that money will be someplace in the neighborhood of 4.5%. The exact amount will not be known until the schools actually receive a bond. If the Fed lowers interest rates, the money that the treasurer will be able to go and earn over the next 20 years is likely to be less than the cost of the bond. And since we set aside money for capital funds, and this is a capital fund expense, I'm just saying why not take the money and put it toward a capital expense? If you are saving money for a car, and you have $30,000 in your bank, and then you were to go and buy a car, you'd say, I have $30,000, I'll pay for the car. And so that's the purpose for this. We've been saving this money for capital expenses. It's designed for capital expenses. This is a capital expense. And so by doing this, it just makes our debt lower, and that's the purpose for it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other discussion? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just note. That this item had just came to us today. So we're being asked to expend $9 million of taxpayer money from the capital fund on one day's notice. I know that the school has worked for months to prepare for their bond, and it's a multi-year process on which the school was approved and has been constructed so far. So this would be a significant change. Quick comment, Mr. Chairman. I think maybe you understand, but I just sent out a memo to everyone yesterday. Yesterday afternoon, laying out what I just said here today. Yesterday. So since yesterday. Thank you. Any other discussion? Then we'll go to a vote. Supervisor Jewel? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Vice Chair? No. Supervisor Lockridge? No. Supervisor Liero? No. The Chair votes no. The motion fails. Thank you. Thank you. I believe that's the end of Item 8. And Item 9 has been stricken from the agenda. So we move to Item 10, Committee Business. And there's one item, I think, under that. 10A, the Charlestown Road Park Grant Opportunity. Mr. Chair, I'd like to make a motion that the Board of Supervisors approve the Parks and Rec Commission recommendation that we apply for a grant to provide funding for the development, the old Charlestown Road Park. The Land and Water Conservation Fund grant program is a 50 to 50 percent matching reimbursement program. The grant recipient must be able to fund 100 percent of the project while seeking periodic reimbursements. The grant applications became available at the end of February 2024 and are due to the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation by April 18, 2024. The total project cost is estimated at $5,581,000. The reimbursement amount for 50 percent of the grant amount is $2,790,700. A budget estimate for park development is attached to your agenda. The project cost could begin in fiscal year 25. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. So I'd like to ask before discussion, Mr. Administrator, did we have a presentation? Did we have a plan they should have asked for first on this? Or we've proceeded to motion, so. Excuse me? It's just to apply for the grant. There is not a presentation. This grant, even if the grant was granted by the government, it would have to come back to this board for final approval. So this just allows the department to apply for the grant. I just wanted the public to be clear for a new park on Charlestown Road. And if the grant is denied, this doesn't oblige the public to apply for the grant. This is a project that we're going to delegate the county to undertake the project and pay the full amount. Is that correct? That's correct. So it's all dependent, perhaps, on the success of the grant. So that's the motion before us. Any discussion? None heard. We'll move on to a vote. And again, this is on permitting Parks and Rec to apply for this grant to pay for half the cost of a new park. Supervisor Liero? Aye. Supervisor Lockridge? Aye. Vice Chair? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Jewell? Aye. The Chair votes aye. And the grant opportunity application is approved. Item 11, public hearings. We have two of them. First, 11A, an ordinance to amend Frederick County Code with regard to senior citizens and disabled persons exemption and deferral. Do we have a presentation or discussion, sir? There is no presentation. We've discussed this in the workshop. This just adjusts the amounts to adjust for the increase in Social Security cost of living the past two years. There should be no additional cost based on this legislative change because it just keeps those same people that were in that bracket originally. Thank you, sir. This is Mr. Liero. Mr. Liero? Yes. Mr. Liero? Yes. Mr. Liero? Yes. Mr. Liero? Yes. Yes. This is a public hearing. Do we have anyone signed up? No, sir. Thank you. So is there anyone from the public who would like to speak on this amendment to the Frederick County Code? It would increase exemptions for elderly and disabled on their taxes. Anyone at all? None heard. Ms. Vice Chair? Mr. Chairman, I would make a motion to approve the ordinance to amend the Frederick County Code Chapter 155, Taxation Article 3, Senior Citizen and Disabled Persons' Exemption and Deferral, Section 155-20, Calculation of Amount of Exemption. And the various brackets and scales are listed in our packet to change the brackets from 0 to 20,000 to 0 to 22,400 for 100% exemption. From the Board of Trustees, I move that the bill be passed. Ms. norte-americana. erhalten strict oblig Depending on your section's logic, or the 소리 of a altogether Argentine diminuition that is required, or any other suas i generous que no plus rendords contact is eligible. This bill injury study signifies permission of any Club member to share or withdraw bankruptcy consent application or risk in any form of matière of diagnosis, limbs, committees, or use of persons being taxed. The tocar n Карola Mader R viral Coronard,Rf romance mobile.com is currently subject to orbits Tracy Cooper, whichasantöd restrict all Facebook, telecommunications services and appeals per cen Obligatory and dijcove. A 50,000- butt often tired leave, NOT is permitted for public‐and averef use of information, individual, for a 10% exemption, and that is my motion, sir. Thank you. We have a motion. Do we have a second? Second. We have a motion and multiple seconds. Any discussion? So I'll just mention to the public again, there are people who get breaks on their taxes based on need, essentially, for various conditions. And if we don't adjust as we go along, we've all heard, most of us, I think, from constituents who are pushed into higher brackets and put in a very bad situation where they would suddenly be hit with much increased bills. They're on fixed income, many of them, retired, and would have a hard time meeting the needs. And this board has discussed at public work sessions the need to adjust these brackets to protect people from simply falling into higher tax brackets. So I just wanted to explain my interpretation of what we're doing here to the public. If there's no other discussion, we'll proceed to a vote. Supervisor Liero. Aye. Supervisor Lai. Buckridge. Aye. Vice Chair. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Jewell. Aye. The chairman votes aye. And the ordinance to amend is adopted. Next item, fiscal year 2024-2025 budget. I have a very brief presentation on the budget. I'm going to go ahead and give you a brief overview. First item of note is, is that the property taxes will not be increased. The rate will not be increased. And plus, it was not a reassessment year. Real property tax rate will stay at 51 cents per $100. And the personal property will be $4.23 per $100. Some of the items that are in this budget are new positions. Currently in the budget, there are 16 firefighters, EMTs. Obviously, we discussed that in the workshop, so that is still under discussion. Three deputies, one FOIA officer for the Sheriff's Department, two family services supervisors and social services, one benefit program supervisor and social services, and 25 new and upgraded school teachers. And obviously, that was also discussed tonight in the workshop. For the pay raises for the Frederick County Public Schools, the scale average increase for teachers, was 6.6%. Scale average increase for classified staff, 6.6%. Other professionals, 5%. Administrators, supervisors and coordinators, that amount was 3.2%. For other Frederick County employees, the proposed raise was 4%, as the budget stands now. Additional items for the schools were teacher scale, supplement for teachers of 25 or plus more years, hard to fill positions, sign-on bonus, increase in the daily substitute teacher rate, increase in the bus driver attendance bonus, and still under consideration at the state, no one's quite sure what's going to happen. There's still the possibility of a 1% bonus for all the staff, but that is not decided at this point. These are the items, the dollar amounts that are being taken out, per the budget taken out of the Capital Projects Fund. There's the $5.6 million, which is for what we call, the ordinary operating capital for the Frederick County budget. The largest amount of that is for the police replacement cars and other replacement vehicles. $1.1 million for the school operating fund. I believe that is for school buses, if memory serves me right. The school capital fund, $3 million. That money coming out of the Capital Projects Fund is intended to be used for their capital, ordinary capital projects. There you have a list that is prioritized. It's a total of $19 million. The Board, at this far in the budget, has $3 million to go towards that. $2.3 million to help pay for the current year, or next year's debt service. We've taken $3.2 million to put into the Transportation Fund. As you know, in past years, we've put in $7 million, but at this point in time, it stands at the $3.2 million. What that will leave you with is, next year, start of the year, after you take all those items out, you add in the $9 million rollover, you would start next year's capital fund balance, all those things with the rollover, at approximately $24 million. Where we stand now, staff will be preparing the fiscal year 25 budget resolution to be adopted April 10th, and staff will need direction when we get to the April 3rd meeting on any total changes to the fund. And that is it. Thank you. So any questions for the County Administrator before we go to public hearing from the Board? Supervisor Dunn? So, Mr. Administrator, yesterday, I just want to reiterate a couple of items that you made. The Winchester Star reported there's only $5 million that's coming out of the capital fund. If you take a look at these numbers, it's 15-point-something. So we have currently about $30 million in our capital fund, $15 million is coming out, and then you expect to get approximately $9 million at the end of the year to bring your total to $24. Is that correct? That is correct. Okay, so the real amount being withdrawn from the capital fund is $15 million, not $5? It's approximately $15 million, correct. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Any other questions? So I just like... So it's $15 million withdrawn, but 15-point-something. I presume the $5 they reported might be because we estimated $9 million to be rolled back into it at the end of the year. I'm not sure why. I would also estimate it might be and they may have just taken it. They may have just taken the amount that's being taken out of the capital projects fund for the ordinary capital for Frederick County. But once again, that's just my guess. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? All right, then we'll proceed to public hearing unless there was any other person presenting, no? All right, thank you. Mr. Chairman, we have about 30 persons signed up, so I will call the first person and the next person so that the second person can be ready as we roll through. Faith Power, followed by Jimmy Roberts. Thank you. And everyone, as you come up, I don't want to keep repeating it. Please give your name and magisterial district of the county before you speak, and you are free to adjust the mic to the height comfortable to you. Good evening, Board of Supervisors, members. My name is Faith Power. I actually live in the city of Winchester, but I am the executive director of the Laurel Center. Many of you know that the Laurel Center provides emergency shelter and family care for the elderly. I'm the executive director of the Laurel Center, and I'm the executive director of the Laurel Center and support services to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. We appreciate the $12,000 that we received from Frederick County and FY24. We're grateful for any and all support that we get, but I am here this evening to say that we require more. We are asking for $45,000 to help us weather continued state funding cuts. Once again, we have received notice from the Department of Criminal Justice to anticipate the need for more support and to anticipate a funding cut. We have, over the last three years, received funding cuts from the state. We've cut positions. We've cut training budgets. We've cut all the resources that, unfortunately, we can cut. Last year, we provided 1,188 hotline calls from Frederick County residents. We provided emergency shelter for 63 people. We provided support services, such as licensed therapy, counseling, court advocacy, and workforce training to 379 people for a total of 1,630 Frederick County residents served. Currently, we have a waiting list for services in our children's services area. We have 12 children and 9 families on that list. We have 46 adults for counseling, and we have 40 adults for either DV or sexual assault license therapy. Many of these people are never going to be seen. These waiting lists will continue to rise, and they will fall off the list because we simply do not have the staff to be able to serve them, and these cuts will represent some additional staffing cuts. We provide translation and interpretation services to Frederick County Office of Victim Witness, and we train county law enforcement as well. We participate in Frederick County's sexual assault response teams, your multi-discipline teams, your triad, and we provide classes to Frederick County residents. One in particular is the effects of domestic violence on children, which is a court-ordered class that we provide. These are just a few of the things that we provide to Frederick County residents and Frederick County government. These are also some of the services, unfortunately, that are going to be cut unless we can get increased funding. I want you as the board to understand the challenges that we face here at the Laurel Center. In the event that a county resident or resident contacts you to say that the Laurel Center is not helping them, I want you to understand why we aren't in a position to help them. We just can't continue to serve an increased number of individuals without resources. So I want to thank you for your time this evening. Thank you very much. Thank you. Jimmy Roberts followed by Jennifer Locke. Good evening, I'm Jimmy Roberts. I'm the executive director of Seniors First, the Shenandoah Area Agency on Aging, and I'm actually a Shenandoah resident. I'm a senior on the agency. I'm a senior on the agency. I'm a senior on the agency. I'm a senior on the agency. I'm a senior on the agency. One of my board members here, Miss Deanne Kinney. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak briefly about the services that we have provided to your seniors. This year we are asking again for $69,300, which is level funding. That is no increase over last year. Our vision is empowering older adults and adults with disabilities to live with a sense of independence and value. Our mission is to foster the dignity, independence and equity that we all have. and security of older adults, persons with disabilities, and their caregivers by providing a variety of high quality services and opportunities, promoting their continued contributions to the community, while continuing to live at home as long as safely possible. Elevating aging services and the financial needs to meet the needs of the seniors has become a top priority. As most of you have heard, the U.S. Census Bureau is reporting that 10,000 people every day are turning 65 in the United States, and by the year 2034, there will be more people over the age of 65 and under the age of 18 for the first time in our history. Weldon Cooper estimates that one in four, or 25%, of Frederick County seniors will be in that category, and we're basically there now. The need for senior care has never been greater and will continue to increase. Seniors first. Senior care started in Warren County and for the past 49 years has adapted to meet the seemingly endless challenges to address the needs of our seniors, and again, with the goal of keeping them in their home as long as safely possible. However, being able to live independently is a challenge for many older adults, and for those, we offer an array of in-home services. With your continued support, senior residents in Frederick County can be assured our agency will be here for them and continue to support their ever-changing needs. So what did services look like in FY23 for Frederick County? Most of the services your seniors received are reported in the packet that I sent earlier, but I will still highlight just a few quickly. Meals on Wheels is our most recognized service. 124 Frederick County seniors received 19,108 meals. Congregate meals served at our senior center, 121 Frederick County seniors received 6,814 meals. Our total transportation to Frederick County seniors, 210 received 5,130 trips. In-home services include personal care, homemaker, and respite care. 36 Frederick County seniors received 1,565 hours. A congregate member was interviewed by the Winchester Star during one of our recent group gatherings, and she said she started visiting one of the senior centers in November, and she's glad she did. Quote, I've had a lot of loss in my life, and it was time to make a change, she said. Now I have another family. The senior center is my family. Again, I would like to thank you for your continued commitment to our seniors, and together we are making a difference. Thank you. Jennifer Locke, followed by Corey Thompson. Hi, my name's Jennifer Locke, and I'm the managing attorney at the Winchester Office of Blue Ridge Legal Services. I'm actually a Fauquier County resident, but as I've been working at Blue Ridge for 25 years now, I consider Winchester and Frederick County my second home. I know most of you are familiar with what we do, but for those of you who may not, Blue Ridge Legal Services is a nonprofit that provides free legal assistance in certain civil matters of critical importance to the low-income residents of the Northern Shenandoah Valley area. We operate four full-time offices in Harrisonburg, Lexington, Roanoke, and Winchester. And our Winchester office serves Frederick County, the City of Winchester, Warren County, Shenandoah County, and Clark County. And we've been providing free legal assistance to low-income Frederick County residents for over 40 years now. Equal access to justice is one of the most important and most fundamental and compelling needs of the poor, particularly in matters that affect their rights to shelter, medical care, family relationships, and basic subsistence. Many people are not aware that the constitutional right to legal representation, if you're poor, does not extend to civil cases. It only extends to criminal cases where there's a threat of imprisonment. Legal aid is there to fill that gap and provide representation for that much larger group of the poor who face serious legal crisis that do not involve criminal wrongdoing. And it's about giving those individuals access to the civil justice system in order to level the playing field. Our Winchester office is currently staffed by four attorneys and two support personnel. And the legal assistance we provide ranges from providing legal advice and counsel or a brief legal service like drafting a living will. That was discussed earlier. We haveалась outstandingly with their services to their service to work beyond to not just provide legal service but to provide third party legal advice and counsel and counsel problems the charges within a federal formula that despite grant waves, is important it's done well under the affiliate and Everyone-C aerospace work Pennsylvanian job assessment. But in the case of third party work and service we are under a mental health risk scrubbing kind of legal stepping stone while successfully defending or discharging just under $125,000 in liabilities for them. And in the cases where we provided ongoing representation, we achieved our client's goals in 94% of those cases. Blue Ridge Legal Services pursues a long-term funding strategy that's broad-based and balanced, and we firmly believe that our mission should be supported by public as well as private funding, government funding on the local, state, and national level, and United Way and other individual donations. We generally limit our services to those households whose income falls below 200% of the current federal poverty guidelines. And according to 2017 census data, there are approximately 4,591 residents of Frederick County who fall below that 200% threshold. So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, it's our belief that if every locality in our service area would contribute $1 for every low-income person living in it, that contribution would help us to continue to provide our services. Thank you. Corey Thompson, followed by Leigh Ann Sweeney. Hello, Board. Corey Thompson with Laurel Ridge Community College. Thank you for the opportunity. My goal today is to speak to the request, the FY25 request of 95% of the total, and thousand six hundred sixty nine dollars to the February County I want to openly address concerns I'm aware of in my time at Little Ridge I've been there about one year as the CFO of the college so when I open the dialogue on those concerns work through things that I've taken action on to address those concerns thus far and then present to you an opportunity for further discussion if there's concerns I didn't address I don't think I need to speak too much about the quality of education and support the community college brings to any community it's in but just some key facts and figures you know Little Ridge has been here for 50 years in some capacity right serving Frederick County over 2,500 students walk through our doors who are Frederick County residents every year for credit and non-credit programs there's folks coming in to get an education and get a job or transfer to a four-year institution we have a hundred and sixty four employees and we have a hundred and sixty four employees and we have a hundred and sixty four employees at Little Ridge that live in Frederick County a large portion of the funding we're asking for goes directly to support students through scholarships as well as supporting professional development for those employees I want to speak about the scholarships briefly over the past few weeks we've looked at how those scholarships are allocated to the counties and certainly have opened conversations to expanding the use to private public and home schooled students the college is capable and willing to use those scholarships accordingly regarding fiscal responsibility and transparency these funds we've taken various actions my time there to increase reporting put controls around the reserve that is in place for these funds we've capped that reserve through policy that's been approved by our board and allowed for any excess reserve to be rolled over automatically into the following years scholarship fund to ensure those funds do not become excessive regarding transparency and communication I've drafted a memorandum memorandum of understanding for the county and shared that with the administrator I hope that MOU speaks to how funds are used how they're controlled and opens dialogue for additional edits to include any other information that needs to be there to uh to address concerns that might be had by the board or constituents I'm open to further discussion with me my director of finance our president welcome conversation regarding MOU regarding transparency and any additional conversations need to be had in the April budget discussions that is all thank you Leigh Ann Sweeney followed by Skip Phillips good evening everyone my name is Leigh Ann Sweeney and I'm the director of finance for the MOU and I'm the director of financial aid for the state of Minnesota and I'm here to speak about the MOU and our future greetings at the MOU as such through legal questions this is great that was bold for me it was so steeped many things these last talk about is the me is not a on yours yet another great talk today let me guess one item this is this m Queen MOU this is not a inch shall enter into a consulting agreement with a licensed physician to execute prescribing duties, consult on clinical matters, and perform all other duties as requested. This is a new code. So we've now got Dr. Richard Williams has joined our team as a floating medical consultant, and he will provide medical consultation services to multiple health districts without a physician on staff and to provide temporary health director coverage as needed. In the short time that Tara and Dr. Williams have been part of our team, we have experienced improvements in our administrative, programmatic, and clinical operations and are excited to continue to grow and develop as an organization under their support and leadership. For the FY25 budget, we have requested $543,147, which is the projected estimate to match the state cooperative budget. We requested $614,336 in FY24 with only $476,359 approved. We were able to use $40,000. We are now looking at $1,924 of carry forward from FY23 to draw down the full state cooperative budget of general funds. Our requested amount is based upon the average increase over the last three years of the cooperative budget. This may need to be adjusted based upon our actual allocation pursuant to State Code 32.1-34.3 and the final allocated amount from the Commonwealth of Virginia. We look forward to continuing to provide high-quality services to the citizens of Frederick County in cooperation with the Board of Supervisors. Thank you. Skip Phillips followed by Carly Stiliker. Mr. Chairman and Board of Supervisors, thank you for the opportunity to be here with you tonight. Carly is going to hand you a couple of things as I'm sharing some information with you. My name is Skip Phillips. I have the privilege of serving as the president of NW Works here in Winchester. Also, I'm a resident of the city of Winchester and a property owner in Frederick County in the Back Creek District. Again, thank you for the opportunity to be here and for the support you've provided in the past. As you may know, NW Works has as our mission empowering adults with disabilities through employment. One of the things that we also have the privilege of doing is helping those same individuals maximize their independence both at home as well as in the community. The sheet that we handed to you is going to give you just a little bit about NW Works. NW Works as a whole but also specific to Frederick County. Currently today, we're serving 193 individuals that are adults with disabilities, mostly with intellectual and developmental disabilities. In August of 22, we were serving 100 individuals. Through your support, we've been able to expand access for people throughout the region, including residents of Frederick County. Secondly, 70% of the people that we serve are working. They have at least a part-time job. A number of individuals come to our group day services, but many of those individuals are now working again through the programs that we've been able to support through funding from Frederick County. And then lastly, for the individuals that we serve, more than 90% of the time they are choosing to participate in activities. A big focus for adults with disabilities is choice. And through the programs that we've been able to create, the support we've had from the community, including the Board of Supervisors, more than 90% of the time they choose to participate. We currently serve all three high schools here in the county through our pre-employment transition services and with Project SEARCH. We have 26 community partners in Frederick County that help to come along beside of us with our mission. 66 clients that we serve that are employed in the County of Frederick, working to support the needs of the community. And then we have 49 residents of Frederick County that are served directly by NW Works, about 25% of the people that we serve. I would now like to share with you just a couple of specific comments on how the funding has made a difference this past year. So if you take a look at your sheet, just a couple success stories. I know that we have the numbers, but also wanted to be able to paint a vivid picture of the individual success stories and people who were impacted by the support over the past year. If you take a look at the Your Impact side of the sheet that I handed you, in the upper left-hand corner you have a young man. He is a wheelchair user, and thanks to your support over the past year, we were able to secure a wheelchair accessible wheelchair. And just in a very special situation here, we were able to fulfill our plan to offer a wheelchair accessible immune system and a wheelchair accessible wheelchair vaccinal function, which to this day has not been possible before. So loose penis are just cond wcze informationά but certainly another challenge facing us in this spot. We have asked around for further specific help. We'll fill your form at that point. You can e-mail if you need another foothold. And in this falsified question, we encourage you to use their têmes, then contact SIL.com based on that cô inclusive inform KaikogoaniÕs request. individual there is a gentleman not normally wearing his cowboy hat but in that picture as his cowboy hat on who uses our transportation to go from NW Works to Exalta that's actually located in Front Royal and by working there he is able to be you use the transportation for those services so thank you guys for your support Jack Owens followed by Katie Tennant good evening my name is Jack Owens I'm a director with the Lord Fairfax soil and water conservation district was recently elected in November so many of you may know Kermit Gaither just the Lord Fairfax soil and water conservation district is a requested investment in this 2024 2025 fiscal year budget the amount of $15,000 and some year-to-date numbers and what Frederick County's investment in the soil and water conservation district is doing since July of 2023 the district has been actively implementing a wide variety of conservation practices across the district and Frederick County current projects include more than over 50,000 linear feet or 10.2 miles of stream exclusion fencing installed the construction of a new water system and a new water system and a new water system site or a perip Eye premiered a multi-career andra not an Henry number 14켜 say the changes are in the site later in the federal budget and you can see that each of the buildings has cornered the fish valued when number traffic has decreased significantly over the the past year the rows some of the power was surprisingly slow and heavy and would that exceed July remember all Depois de la�atール and three threes symbols were outline live thee thever length and we rules amount of water in the city that we just looked Amen you cleaning moving everything shut it youthland also did make changes to T seven thousand nine hundred and fifty-five acres actual winter cover properrated utilizing the future table the 1009 acres were 0 crops converted into hetfields in fourteen acres are repairing buffers created sixteen acres of trees being planted we anticipate awarding additional transportation if 20,000 in best management practices. Since 2015, 100% cost share option, approximately $2.5 million has been invested in Frederick County to protect stream banks, waterways, and establish stream buffers. It is important to note that a large percentage of the $2.5 million spent to improve water quality in Frederick County with stream exclusion projects stays in Frederick County. Producers use local contractors and supplies to help with installation of these projects. Not only does the cost share money have a huge water quality benefit to the county and to the waterways and to the Chesapeake Bay as a whole, which is the ultimate goal, it also boosts the local economy. In a recent publication by the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, an average of $1.75 is returned to the economy for every $1 invested in agricultural best management practices. Current fiscal year record levels of cost sharing funding were appropriated. Lord Fairfax Soil and Water Conservation District received $5.5 million in best management practice cost shares, maintaining high funding levels for benefit of our landowners. Virginia is working hard to meet the Bay's total maximum daily load goals by 2028. The district staff continues to work with statewide committees and initiate changes to the agricultural best management practice cost share program, including increased cost share percentages, higher participant caps, flexibility for producers and producers, and an increase in the cost of agricultural best management practices. All this translates to a greater opportunity for local farmers in Frederick County to implement conservation practices and improve their operations and to help satisfy the goals set by the state for pollution reduction by 2028. Important to note too, this district also includes Shenandoah County, Warren County, Clark County, and the city of Winchester, and it's all done by eight staff. A lot of those numbers I read were strictly here in Frederick County. A little bit about the educational outreach that the district does. The district plans to host on April 9th the annual Envirothon competition, which will include two schools from Frederick County, Jameswood High School and Millbrook High School will be competing for the district competition. Hopefully a winner out of those two moves on to the area competition down in southern Virginia and then moves on to the national competition. We thank you all for your support and investment in conservation in Frederick County. Katie Tennant, followed by Josh Lee. All right. Good evening, Chairman, Vice Chair and the board. Thank you so much for your time. I am Katie Tennant with the Northern Virginia 4-H Educational and Conference Center. So I am in Warren County, but Frederick is one of the counties that we serve. Just this last year, we served a little over 7,500 residents of Frederick County through our retreats, our school groups, field trips and our summer camp program. And specifically today, I want to speak to you about that summer camp program. We build through the 4-H model on leadership, development and working through the various issues that kids might have when they come to camp. And because of that, we want camp to be accessible to everyone. We want it to be inclusive. We do not want costs to be an issue with that. So we subsidize camp approximately $100 per participant. So every participant that comes to us, we take a loss of $100. As a nonprofit last year, that was $136,000. So what we do is we go to each individual board of supervisors throughout the 19 counties that we serve. And we say, split us with it. We'll eat 50 of it through our other programs, trying to raise the money. And we ask the board of supervisors for that other $50. Last year, we served 121 campers, specifically from Frederick County, which at $50 a piece would be an ask of $6,050. And a couple of the things that those campers said, we give them a survey at the end. And we say, because of camp, dot, dot, dot, fill in the blank. Some of my favorites are I'm less addicted to screens. I was able to act as a leader. I learned about work responsibility. I made friends that I would otherwise not made. I got more comfortable talking in front of big crowds. I improved my posture when I learned sewing. It helped me get to know people and act like myself in public. I learned more about nature. They helped me be more fit. And I am more confident in my voice and decision-making skills. And then we also just asked them for some quantitative data. And we had over 90% said after camp. They were able to follow through when asked to do something, appreciate nature, have a positive attitude, and participate in new learning experiences. So I come to the board today just to ask you to partner with us, walk alongside us, and support us in those opportunities for the children. Thank you. Thank you. Josh Lee, followed by Dodie Stottlemar. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board, and county administration. My name is Josh Lee. I'm the president of Frederick County. I'm one of the other county professional firefighters. And I actually reside in Berkeley County. As you continue to work on crafting the FY25 budget, we respectfully request addressing public safety and the challenges facing the fire and rescue system. And we know that you've done that as a top priority over the years. County administration and many of you have prioritized a cost-of-living adjustment for our employees. Funding these additional firefighters and funding these for necessary equipment, and for firefighters to do their jobs. While in recent months, a key indicator has shown that a tight labor market is beginning to loosen, we continue to experience challenges recruiting and retaining firefighters and EMS providers. Frederick County must continue to remain competitive to neighboring localities and private sector employers with a strong compensation benefit in packages. To do so, I request that you support a budget meaningful the cost-of-living adjustment in line with the CPI. Additionally, Frederick County must ensure that the firefighters and EMS providers have the staffing and resources to do their jobs. That work that your firefighters and EMS providers do daily and save lives and property. This was proven every day and once again proven last week as we had an outbreak of wildland fires. This, despite the weather conditions making our job and much more challenging, is a great opportunity to continue to work together. Your firefighters prevented lives from being lost and from more catastrophic property loss as well. One of the best ways to keep your community and firefighters safe is to have adequate staffing. And we know as a priority of this board and over recent years, we thank you. Adequate staffing levels means meeting the NFPA standard and meeting the increased demand for fire and rescue services in the county. As many of you may recall, last year's board authorized a grant application for these positions. Through federal safer grants. Despite our best efforts, our grant application was not funded due to a very competitive grant cycle with over $5 billion in requests and only about $360 million being offered. This program will discontinue in September if Congress does not pass it. And this has been assisting firefighters in different localities since September the 11th attacks. We ask that you support the 16 positions required to open Fire Station 22 in the Lake Frederick region of the county. And once again, we continue to thank you for your continued support for the fire and rescue system and this community. Thank you. Dodie Stottlemyre followed by Jean Hawkins. My name is Dodie Stottlemyre and I live in the Staple County. I live in the Staple County. I live in the Shawnee Magisterial District. I come today with concerns about the proposed county budget. Our responsibility as taxpayers and residents is contributing to the infrastructure and the services the county provides. While the responsibility I feel of the elected county officials, school warden, and really every person employed by the county in whatever capacity is to exercise responsible stewardship. We've all got wish lists and the county departments are no different. These lists are not just about the list of wish lists. They are about the list of wish lists. They are all costs that come in addition to the regular running of the county. This year's conversation should center around what can be done to satisfy the needs of the county in the most affordable way without hurting the very folks that the county supervisors and officials profess to want to help. Inflation is here and I don't need the experts or paper to tell me that. A comparison this year to last year on how much I spend on necessities is eye opening. Cost of doubling is short. Cost of doubling is short amount of time. And unfortunately the tragic collapse of the Baltimore Key Bridge is probably going to impact costs as well. No telling. The conversation of a fourth high school is certainly one we have to have since approximately 57% of the budget already goes to the schools every year. To sustain that dream the tax rate next year is going to have to go up by at least 18%. 18, maybe 18 to 20 cents on the hundred. For someone with a home worth 400,000 that's a jump of about 800 additional dollars a year. If you add the proposed assessments that's kind of a double whammy. I'm not so sure that the entire county will be thrilled about that when they get the bill. In addition when the school's completed high school enrollment will be down by the Frederick County Public Schools own projections. To me 154 million seems kind of high considering that the land is already owned. I think this is a good time to start. I think this year's alternatives should be explored while there's a little refinement on everybody's wish lists. I also had no idea that the Parks and Rec's department had a wing of little used space at Sarando. And perhaps they can release that space to be converted into temporary or permanent classrooms. Helping to alleviate the situation until the climate improves economically. Maybe it would be more feasible to add on an addition. And sometimes I often wonder why there's not a fundraising movement that starts in the county. When projections indicate the need for increased school facilities. I think that most people would be far more inclined to voluntarily contribute to the needs presented in that fashion. Than to have monetary resources taken from them. When they may or may not be able to afford it. I keep hearing the median income is rising here in the county. And this would be an opportunity for those folks who are able to afford to give generously to do so. I'm actually really very angry. I'm actually really very optimistic. That with new leadership now in place for the Board of Supervisors. The school board and the Frederick County Public Schools. That maybe many options can be explored. It might be innovative. A truly cooperative effort. On all sides. And I think that applies not just to the fourth high school conversation. But to many areas in the county departments. There may already exist more cost effective options or services. That may have been missed. By not being explored. So I find myself honestly looking forward to responsible conversations. And I hope you guys will consider all that. When it comes to that. Thank you. Thank you. Gene Hawkins followed by Dana Brown. My name is Gene Hawkins. I live in the Gainesboro District. Mr. Chairman. Honorable members of the Board. First I would like to thank you all for your service. On behalf of the citizens of Frederick County. And a special thank you. To those of you on the Board. Who are working to hold the line on tax increases. And fiscal responsibility. As a long time resident of Frederick County. A former employee of the Frederick County Public School System. I'm personally alarmed and gravely concerned. At the amount of tax dollars. That are being spent. And the pending rise in spending needed. Each successive year. Over the decades that I've been a Frederick County resident. This continues. Year after year. And we the taxpayers. Are continually being squeezed. By requests for more and more dollars to be spent. The amount we're required to pay. In taxes. And by the limits of our household budgets. We are squeezed. Further and further. Our public schools. And our schools. Are still in a state of crisis. And we are still in a state of crisis. Our public schools continue to spend every dollar. They're given each fiscal year. And then some. And then every year. They come back. And expect to have more money. Just. Meet our meet our request. And. No impact on. We the people. That have the responsibility of paying these bills. I understand the need for education. I understand the need that we have. The fund services. And the need for education. But at the same time. If we're not going to find. Some way of reining this in. To come to. A long forgotten term. Balance budget. Or budget restraint. Then the system that we're on the path we're on. Is unsustainable. We cannot continue. To act like we have unlimited resources. Without consequence. And continue to spend and fund. Every request. We have to. And we have to. And that's the reason that chairman Dunn is having. And open house or a town hall meeting. For. Brainstorming. And I applaud that effort. I think that's quite commendable. And something maybe we should expand on. To see if we can. Come up with some better options. Then to continue to do the same thing year after year. Expecting a different result. insanity. We dance the same dance. We arrive at the same place. We all say we don't want to spend more money. We all say we don't want the taxes to go up, but yet we continue to do the same process over and over again. Why can't we find some ways as an incentive to save money on the budget instead of every department spends every dime every year and then some and then comes back the next budget year and says we need an increase? That doesn't work very well in our own personal budgets, and I can't see that it's going to be sustainable if we continue to do this as a county government. To quote one of my favorite presidents, Ronald Reagan, we don't have a tax problem. We have a spending problem. So I would ask you, can we be creative and find a way to come back next year and say we were able to cut the budget in these areas? I heard a lot of discussion. I've heard a lot of discussion. I've heard a lot of discussion. I've heard a lot of discussion. I've heard a lot of justification, but we need to have some kind of a return on our investment. Thank you. Dana Brunn, followed by James Mulder. Good evening, members of the board. Thank you for letting me be here. My name is Dana Brunn. I am from Back Creek District. I'm part of Mountain Patriots, and I'm just going to kind of follow up a little bit on what Pastor Hawkins just covered. We have literally reached a point where we are what we call undeclared warfare, and it's now. Okay, there was a former president that literally said that he is going to fundamentally change us, and guess what? They did. All right? Right now, we have a critical infrastructure problem. I'm from Baltimore, and what was dear and dear, I don't know how many times it went across the Key Bridge. That's where I used to live, down around those parts, but we're losing 25 percent of our coal. We're losing a lot of our energy. And all of that is going to affect here. Now, why is that important? Well, if our critical infrastructure is going down, that means our personal budgets are going to go where? Up. There's no way out of it. So, it's time really for us to get real. We saw this coming, and that's why we chose you all. That's why we chose you all to have our backs and be fiscally responsible with the money that we're putting out there. Now, on the other hand, we agree that we're going to have to epitomize how good an agency this is, and would encourage the staff in all industrial areas to get their hearts moving to give back to and keep your families happy, and build . Again, welcome toarta faculty, and it's so exciting to see that. Alright, thank you. Vernon Keef, now . In theителic leaders Н storm, and just kind of route to the fiscally responsible to have us all conditions are aligned.astic leaders勇気 enthusiastically сon Rise. If there's no mercy at all, the six of us are getting rest, let's all stand and ensure we're prepared to give and rubber the helps to find the virus. What new challenges do we see? Don't imagine that Chen will never realize that です. Okay. I know a lot of people watch, I'm sorry, I call it the fake news. They're not telling you what's going on. They're not. They're not telling you what's going on. And we do a lot of digging on what's going on. Look at, there's thousands of acres right now in Texas where all of the solar panels are destroyed. What's going to happen if Texas was on that energy grid? Nothing. What happens if we don't have the Port of Baltimore? We don't have energy there either. And there's all kinds of jobs, and it's trickled down. So we're looking right now, there's another thing we're getting hit with, not just with inflation in Key Bridge and Texas. There's SB 256, which is a tax increase that is literally going to hit your automobile insurance. That's going to jump our insurances up by 25 to 30 percent. Where does the money come from? I don't have it. And if I run out of money, Mr. Wells, I'm coming to your house. I'm going to stay there. And Heather, I have three dogs. I'm coming to your house. But then that's only. Depending on whether or not you have a house. So we have to make sure that we're spending the money exactly where we need to spend it. Watch where every nickel, dime, and penny goes. Just like I told my wife, you can't spend more than we have. And I will be at Mr. Dunn's on Saturday because I think that's a great opportunity for all of us to start working together as a board and as a community to pull all this stuff together before we end up in some real serious turmoil. And mark my words, it's coming. So I want to thank you for listening to me tonight, and let's get things done. Thank you. James Mulder, followed by James Payne. Good evening. My name is James Mulder. I'm from the Back Creek District. I wanted to say last fall a bunch of us went out, knocked on doors, campaigned for conservative board members to be elected. A conservative advocates tax cuts, reduced government spending, free market, deregulation, privatization. A free trade. The budget that's proposed goes up $53 million from last year's budget. That's not a cut. That's not a decrease. That's an increase. We campaigned for you guys to be conservatives, to cut the budget. So do what we campaigned for you to do, what y'all told us that y'all were going to do. Don't come up year after year. Increasing. I was in the Air Force. I saw government fraud, waste, and abuse. The fat. Every year, come September, if we had $100,000 left in our squadron, the money got spent on frivolous stuff because our federal government would decrease our part that we got in our squadron. What do you think happens at the school board, at all these other departments? They waste. They waste money. Go back to your departments. Tell them we're going to cut the budget. Tell them to cut their fat. It's enough. I work probably seven months out of the year to pay nothing but taxes. Between income tax, gas tax, property tax, personal property tax, taxes on my utilities, I pay taxes to drive to work every day. How fair is that? That gives me five months to pay my mortgage, to pay my car payment, to put food on my table. Enough is enough, guys. Let's be conservative. Let's cut the tax. If we cut the tax, then maybe in two or three years, you'll have the money savings to build the school that everybody wants. You don't have to spend every bit of tax money that comes in every year. It doesn't have to be spent. Let's save. Let's be a county that saves money, not a county that spends money. Thank you for your time, board. James Payne, followed by Sonia Morfacci-Agood. Good evening to the board. My name is Michael Payne. I'm in the Gainesboro district. I'm here to... I'm here to discuss, as the previous several have discussed, the increase of the budget every year. And I full well know that when the school board comes in, they expect an increase. I grew up in Loudoun County. That's going to be my start on this. I grew up in Loudoun County when there was one traffic light between Tyson's Corner and Leeson's. And I went to Leeson, Leesburg, if you can believe that. And it wasn't even a stoplight. It was a flashing light. And as I grew up there, I was there until 2004. So that was 60 years, I guess. And as I watched the development of the county and the school system, the school system has over, I think it's probably 25 high schools in Loudoun County now. And who knows how many elementary and middle schools. Each one of them. built in a small fashion to be a community high school or whatever. Therefore, we've got more principals, assistant principals, teachers spread throughout the county when that could be consolidated. But the truth of it is, to support all this and this government extravagance, and Loudoun County was and is extravagant. They have a monstrosity of a school board building down there on the Dulles Toll Road. The property taxes went crazy. My mother-in-law, since I wasn't living there anymore, I'm going to quote this, in 2005, she had a straight rambler house, nothing fancy. It was sitting on 10 acres of land, but that couldn't be subdivided. It was one parcel with a regular, non-finished basement. I saw her last tax. Bill there, it was $8,400 was the tax bill in one year. Therefore, the assessment, I think, was around $880,000 or something. These are close numbers, but not exact. But when she sold the house, there was a little decline in real estate prices, and she got $550,000 for the house. So my point is this. With all this, and you know, it's not unheard of. We are all out here except for those who have great jobs and so forth and have lived all their life financially properly and invested and et cetera. But a lot of us are out. I'm 74 years old now. A lot of us are out. I'm on Social Security. I have a house, yes. But if these taxes keep going up, the same thing will happen to us older people, retired, many of us, and many of them are residents of this county for years. They grew up here. They never intended to go anywhere. They're going to be taxed right out of their house to further a school system, which I just heard was 51% of the budget. Somebody has to pay for this. I guess my time's up. Is that it? Is that what that is? Okay. Well, my point is I hope you think about it tonight about the people that are not the upper income in this area and have everything to lose. Thank you. Sonia Marfatia-Good, followed by Jody Yeagey. Good evening. My name is Sonia Marfatia-Good, and I live in the Back Creek District. I support fully funding the proposed Frederick County Public School budget. For those, I'm asking for tax cuts and budget cuts. Are you all prepared for the services and the quality of services to be cut also? I have been attending these meetings for the past six years, ever since there was a federal grant to expand pre-K programs within our public schools. I saw how important, useful, and advantageous it was to provide pre-K to every child before starting kindergarten. My three girls have benefited from attending preschool, and they all loved it. But the board turned down the federal grant that would make pre-K available to all FCPS students. Mr. Dunn recently attended the FCPS school board meeting and quoted studies that prove that attending preschool is unnecessary and does not give a child an advantage. I disagree and have personal experience to back that up, but I'm not here to discuss expanding the pre-K program, even though we desperately need it. In that same school board meeting, I was encouraged to see Mr. Dunn there. In all the times that I've attended school board meetings, I have rarely seen supervisors attend. I was surprised to hear Mr. Dunn ask the school board members to contact their supervisors, telling them what their needs are, and what they need to do to make sure that they are able to attend school board meetings. I'm very grateful for that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What other options they see happening, and how we can pay for it. Mr. Dunn, I thought that was your job as supervisor. The school board sets the priorities for the schools, which they have. The fourth high school is at the top of the list. It is the supervisor's job to fund it. Mr. Dunn, you've been on the board since 2015. You should be well-versed in how to come up with funding the county's priorities. Ms. McCann-Slaughter has been on the board since 2016. Mr. Wells has been on the board since 2015. Wells has been on the board since 2013. The three of you have been a part of the past boards that have voted against the fourth high school time and time again. You have been a part of the county planning and have known about the developments being built all this time. We are over capacity at our three high schools and have been for years. The time is now. Mr. Liero, you are a teacher and administrator in FCPS. So you would know best what the schools, our teachers and students have been going through all this time. We have to move forward on the plans for the fourth high school. Mr. Jewell, you campaigned on the need to build the fourth high school as soon as possible. You understand that our schools are bursting at the seams. We cannot wait any longer. We cannot continue to waste taxpayer dollars. If the board went through with the fourth high school years ago, it would have opened in 2019 and would have alleviated the needs for trailers. It would have saved the taxpayer $60 million. We know the cost of labor and construction continues to go up. So delaying this project any further will continue to cost us money. This board cannot continue to ignore the needs of its constituents. No more kicking the can. These work sessions that you just voted on is more of the same. Please vote to move forward with the plans and building of the fourth high school. We are waiting. Jody Yagey followed by Ellen White. Hi, I'm Jody Yagey from the Redbud District. The time is now. This budget cycle, this week, is the nonexistent title. It highlights all barriers the Liberal�든icion ostensibly descent into deep and uneРИ rómmpihua mín Unit level moldings. This Salvador was airflow in between all these São Paulo haulex March go мар where the National DHass are amir further in the process of building that state of snow and then instead, insecurity Meme liberalRockton, Reg tester Sinj session of the goal Shin Monaco, under the cushions? I didn't see you doing any double checks or gathering more information when you quickly voted to sell a piece of property to a private school. I was actually surprised that you voted in favor of education that evening, because I don't believe there's been a single yes vote in favor of any funding or facility needs of our 14,000 students in our public schools. I guess you're only in favor of private education? If not, please prove to the citizens of this county that you support 99% of our children and their needs as well by moving the necessary facility priorities along. Chairman Dunn, you suggested at the school board meeting last week that members should bring ideas for funding to the supervisors. While I'm not quite sure it's their job, and it's more likely your job to figure that out, I actually have a few thoughts for you of where you might be able to find that spare change that Chairman Ludwig was trying to find. In fact, both of you were sitting on the board the last two years before you made drastic cuts to the tax rate and personal property rates, knowing full well that our county was in dire need of schools and that home building approvals were continuing to come through. Work sessions are a little too late. There needs to be a commitment to fund design. It is not this board's responsibility nor right to micromanaging the school system. It is the school board's responsibility to make sure that the school system is a building project. You are the funding body. The school board has the jurisdiction to meet and discuss with contractors, not the board of supervisors. Again, the time is now to move these projects along. Thank you. Ellen White. Followed by Julia Scott. Chairman Ludwig, members of the board, I am here on behalf of the constituents of the Redbud District. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Three high schools are over capacity and have been for years, now by over 600 students. Sharando, which happens to be the home of students in your district, Mr. Ludwig, are bearing the brunt of this capacity overload the most. Two joint sessions have been provided to this board to provide clarity, numerous town halls, open session, and opportunity for questions and discussion. You, Josh Ludwig, did not want to get into the weeds and had questions that you were not able to answer. can not see I can't hear you, Josh, can you hear me? I can't hear you. Yeah, I can't hear you. I can't hear you. said were better served for a later time. Meanwhile the school division has at every request provided your board with statistical information regarding growth, charts, future projections, and needs assessments. If someone on this board does not have all the information they think they need, it's because you're not doing your job or it's a political stall tactic. Multiple candidates on both elected bodies have won races on the platform of delivering the fourth high school to our constituency. The belief that this county is in desperate need of a fourth high school is an issue that unites the county regardless of political and party affiliation. Even you, Josh Ludwig, supported and co-managed Ms. Hoover-Klein's campaign, whom also ran on a platform of securing a fourth high school and relieving capacity needs for the school district. Our constituents and community deserve full funding to support quality education for all students and a fourth high school. That is ten plus years late and now has an over 50 million plus dollar price tag which will be passed onto the taxpayers. This school responsibility is of the most importance. Your constituency is watching. Thank you. Julia Scott followed by Bryant Nury. Good evening, I'm Julia Scott and I am part of the Bat Creek district but this is my first meeting because of... and I appreciate all that you all do. It seems really challenging. I just want to speak in support of funding our schools to what they need, specifically funding a fourth high school. My children are second grade, kindergarten, and I have a four-year-old son. They're members of Frederick County Public Schools, or they will be, and they are not yet affected by the overcrowding, but they will be. I am a longtime, lifelong resident of Frederick County, and I benefited by going to Millbrook High School when it was first built. I spent all four years there. I was the first full graduating class, and that high school was built to meet the need of my community, and now we have another need, and I'm hoping that you can help support that need. I implore you. Please, our children are worth it. I don't have lots. I don't have lots of extra money. We're a single-income family. My husband's in law enforcement. I help care for our kids, but I'm willing to pay more so that my community can have its needs met. Thank you. Brian Nury, followed by Gail Ferrer. Good evening, everyone. My name is Brian Nury. I'm resident of the Peckin District. Just a quick question. Who likes a musical? One of my favorite. Musicals of 1776. One of the opening songs in that is called Piddle Twiddle and Resolve, and I think that's what we've been listening to from this board for years now. Mr. Jewell, I want to say congratulations. You finally made a good first step. The last time we had joint sessions like that, we got Aylor moving along. So now if we can get a significant work session done between the school board and the board of supervisors, maybe we can get this high school coming up. Mr. Dunn, I appreciate your commitment to fiscal responsibility, to making sense of all of our spending, and I appreciate the concerns and the discussion on the school bonds. One of the things that you've brought up consistently has been charging impact fees, but I have never heard that in a legislative packet going to Richmond. And if I have, I must have missed it. Because our representatives really are only pushing, what is it, a duck hunting app, and problems in our schools that don't even exist. So we need to have those parties involved in this decision-making too. We need to have them looking into empowering our county to charge impact fees. Mr. Ludwig, I want to appreciate the fact that you're looking for this spare change. However, we don't got any more couches to look into. It's time for another option, because we're just pissed. We're just pissed at this entire system of whittling and twiddling. The county administrator has done an excellent job exhausting every single penny that he can squeeze out of it. I've been to every one of the work sessions, I've seen what they've done. The issue with this building expanding versus building a new high school has been resolved, has been explained to you multiple times since November. So I don't understand what the problem is. The needs of the county are getting critical. but Mr. Adams, what in hell are you waiting for? Thank you. Gail Ferreira, followed by Shawn Graber. Good evening. Thank you for listening to us all tonight. Thank you, Bob, for representing us in the Shawnee District. My name is Gail Ferreira. I'm from the Shawnee District. I just would like to put a vote in against the building of the fourth high school here in our county. I think the construction costs are very high right now. Doesn't seem to make sense to build something in this inflationary period. And I think that it also would impose an undue tax burden on our citizens because taxes would go up by 17%. And this in addition to having to pay more taxes due to our rising appraisal values on our homes. So we might be speaking about an increase of 25% on our homes. The USA Tech, today reported that Redfin data from 2023 showed a 44% increase in the county's median home price since January of 2020. Of course, I am not against education for our youth. Contrary to that, I think it's one of the best elixirs against poverty. But I think if we utilize more creative strategies that can be employed, since I've been hearing tonight, maybe expanding the Sharando High School, Millbrook, and I've heard other talks such as maybe partnering with the Shenandoah University to utilize buildings there. It could save us, the taxpayers, a ton of money. And so if other solutions could be analyzed in other schools throughout our Commonwealth to arrive at a more fiscally sound solution, the taxpayers in Frederick County would thank you very much. An increase of 17% on our taxes, plus the appraisal hike taxes, may push people even out of their homes. And that would lower the tax base here in Frederick County and could increase homelessness, which we will not want. This is especially true for folks on fixed incomes. And already our citizens have to make choices on where they spend their money with these high inflationary prices due to the recent energy policy changes we've experienced and the printing of money that is out of control. People have to make choices. Do you eat? Or you get your medicine? As you know, groceries are more expensive. Student loan payments have restarted after a three-year pause. Rent has increased 15% between 2020 and 2022. These financial stressors are hitting everyone. No one is immune. There are alternatives out there, and some schools are embracing use of the insulated concrete forms. This reduces costs of constructions, increases energy efficiency, and disaster resistance, and strength. In America, our country that we love, innovation reigns. This is an opportunity for us to explore something new. Let's corral our expenses, think it through, and help our local taxpayers keep us in our homes. Thank you for listening to me. Shawn Graber, followed by Amy Williams. Mr. Chairman, members of the board, Shawn Graber, Back Creek District, thank you for the opportunity to address you this evening. I heard a couple things I'd just like to address from the crowd here this evening. Some have stated they are willing to pay a little bit more in taxes. Well, I would like to encourage them to send it in as a check. I'm sure the county would gladly take it, and you could earmark it towards those schools, and I would be glad to see that happen. Just want to share a couple things here. There's $15.9 million coming out of the budget, out of the Rainy Day Capital Fund this year, and only $9 million going in. That means we are having a $6.9 million reduction in what our capital fund is. If you look at last year, we pulled from it as well. Looking forward at the budgets that Mr. Ballhoffer has presented, and I'd be happy to email it to all of you, the ones that I've received, that he had sent to you guys, it is looking forward that we're gonna have a $6.1 million increase in expenditures each year for the next five years going forward. I'm not sure how we're gonna fund that. If we continue to have a $6.1 million increase in expenditures, and we're already pulling $6.9 million out of that capital fund, and we've only got $24 million left, how do we continue to pay for it? The math, the dollars don't make sense. I've heard of funding for schools that we should fully fund the schools. My friends, we are fully funding the schools to the tune of 125% of what the state says we have to fund them. I don't know any of you where your boss would come to you and say, I'd like to pay you $80,000, and you say, no, no, no, no, why don't you just pay me $160,000? That's what's happening with our school system today. The schools, the state says the schools must be funded by the locality at a set rate. We are funding them at greater than 100% more than what the state says. We are funding them at greater than 100% more than what the state says. We are funding them at greater than 100% more than what the state says. We have to fund them that. Look it up. Now let me ask you, what are you getting for those additional funding sources? Well, you are getting many scholastic achievements that lag the state averages. Don't take my word for it. Go to the state website and look it up. I have, and I will help you if you would like to see it. I have a real concern that we're going to give teachers a 6.6% pay increase. The last COLA that I saw for the federal government was 3.9%. They're getting 59% greater increase than our federal workers are. We keep talking about CPI and keeping up with CPI. You want to know where we can cut some of the fat. I just shared with you we're paying greater than 100% of what the state says we need to fund for our current school system. We can take away many of the take-home vehicles as they are a glutton of take-home vehicles across the county. There's a lot of concerns that I have there. But if we took roughly $40 million from the schools, which is the additional funding above and beyond the state mandate, that would go a long ways towards funding either the fourth high school or fourth high school. We're funding the renovations needed at Sherando or Millbrook to expand school capabilities. The money would be there. No taxes would have to be raised. The fourth high school that has been yearned for by so many would happen with no tax increases. It can't happen. I want you to think about this in the back of your mind. Most, if not all of you, had the tax and spend liberals called Frederick I run against many of you this last November in the elections. And you see the voters when they voted didn't want what those Frederick I liberals had to offer. They instead chose to vote. They instead chose you guys. Please, please, I beg of you, don't make these older folks that have spoken this evening be homeless. Take care. Amy Williams followed by Kristen Heppner. Good evening. My name's Amy Williams. I'm from the Opecan District. Thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. As you're considering the school budget and the request of the superintendent, which I hope you all vote to approve and fully fund, I'm here to request that you vote for the school budget. I'm here to support for the fourth high school. Back in the fall, I took my son, a fifth grader at Orchard View Elementary, to homecoming night at Sharando. We got inside the stadium and Aiden asked me, what are those, mom? And I looked at what he was pointing at, and it was the trailers on the hill, on the home side of the stadium. I explained to him that they were trailers, additional classrooms. And then the why started. He wanted to know why we needed it and all that. And so, I tried my best to explain to what a fifth grader would understand why they were needed, but it never sat right with me because there's so many more whys involved in this situation. Like, why did the county purchase land so long ago only to halt the project? Why has the fourth high school been on and off the capital improvement plan? Why does it seem like there are supervisors who do not care about our schools and students and public education in general? Why do we keep talking about the problem rather than moving forward on the obvious solution? The situation gives off a very tone-deaf vibe, where it seems some of you are not listening and not truly comprehending what your community, your constituents, and what your future voters need. Every week it feels like a new subdivision is being built. We just learned about a new possible development off Route 7. In Stevens City, a ton of multi-level townhouses are still being built. It is more likely that growing families will be able to build in the community, and that is why we have to build. We need to be promised the same support as schools and students because they are ready to work, and need it in the time and resources they need. Those families will likely be the third or fourth to outrun another wave of 프� housing mandated. Troubles will stay with. And many of those families will potentially take too long and headfirst eitherasse to live off what it has left and during. For those families their area of Первig We are tired of asking you to do the right thing. We are tired of hearing excuses about money because we all know that you sold the old Aylor Middle School well under what it was valued. You are failing our children and overcrowding our county. Talk less. Do more. Do better for our kids. Build the fourth high school. And if you act now, maybe my son and his peers will be able to enjoy a less congested version of Sharando during their high school journey. And if I have a few seconds, for the people that say, if I don't like it, then maybe you should go the private route. Well, I can't afford it, even with the non-existent voucher that wouldn't cover the tuition. And secondly, my son requires special education services and IEP, and no private school in this area has proven to me that they can meet his needs for him to be successful. Thank you. Kristen Heppner. Thank you. Followed by Maggie Tenney. Good evening. My name is Kristen Heppner. I reside in the Shawnee District. I'm coming to you tonight to ask you to fully fund the Frederick County Schools budget. I also ask that you move forward with funding the fourth high school. I'm the parent of two students, one currently at Sharando, another will be there next year. I'm not speaking on their behalf. It's too late for them. Due to years of delay that some of you on the board tonight are responsible before, neither of my children will benefit from the fourth high school. Nevertheless, there are thousands of Frederick County students who are deserving of attending a school that's not overcrowded. I'm a taxpayer who wants a brighter future for those kids, and I'm willing to pay for it. I appreciate that you want to be good stewards of the taxpayer's dollar. However, your delay in funding this high school and other building projects for the school system has become irresponsible. Mr. Ludwig, you can flip the cushions all you want. You'll continue to find overcrowded schools and a need to build. Your continued delay in action has already and will only continue to cost more for the county. Crowded schools are hard on our students. They are stressful for the staff. Crowded schools mean packed classrooms and hallways, expanded safety concerns, increased misbehavior for teachers and administrators to handle, and constant demands on our counselors who are already supporting mental health needs of our students. All of this is before we begin to talk about the effects on learning. If you're truly concerned about doing what's best for this county, it's time to move forward with funding the fourth high school. Thank you. Maggie Tenney, followed by Kristen Kuntz. Good evening. My name is Maggie Tenney. I reside in the Shawnee District as well, and I'm currently a junior at Sharando High School. I thought it might be beneficial for the board to hear from an actual current student, what problems are faced every day with the overcrowding at Sharando. But before I begin, I'd just like to address something that was said by a board member and also earlier in tonight's meeting, and that is that unless the faculty has been hiding a secret hallway that nobody's aware of, there are no unused classrooms at Sharando, much less an entire wing, and it has gotten to the point where there are several teachers at our school that don't even have a permanent classroom and have to put all of their materials on it. an office cart and wheel them room to room every period just to teach a class. According to the Winchester Star, Sharando is currently at 122% capacity. This has affected many, many day-to-day activities and our ability to learn, but tonight I'd like to focus on what I believe has been Frederick County's main resolution to this overcrowding, and that is the trailers or the module classrooms outside of the school. So, Sharando's had trailers for, I believe, around 20 years, but we continue to add them as the county continues to grow. Currently, there are 16 module classrooms that we have, and I don't know personally a single student that doesn't have at least one class in their schedule outside in the trailers. Knowing that there are 16 classrooms and assuming that there are only 18 students per classroom, although more often than not there's more than 18, that's to say that there are around 300 students outside. of the building and the trailers at any given point in the day. A specific incident I would like to bring up occurred during my freshman year, which was the 2021-2022 school year. I was sitting in my first period classroom out in the trailers, and it was the one that is closest to the chain link fence that separates our school from Sharando Park. It was that first period around 8.30 a.m. when Frederick County sent out a notification that there was an armed man the police were trying to locate just on the other side of that fence. I shuddered to think about what could happen to those 300 students. In the case of a true active shooter at our school, without a closet to hide in in the classrooms, a tin wall separating from them in a bullet, and only a wide open football field to try and escape to. For this, I must strongly urge the board to please fully fund the budget for a fourth high school. This should not be looked at as an issue of inconvenience to students having to navigate around a few extra people in the hallways, but rather as a threat to the lives and safety of our students. Thank you. Thank you. Christian Coons. Followed by Stacia Lane. Hi, I'm Kristen Coons. I'm a resident of the Redbud District. I've lived in Frederick County for, goodness, 21 years and the last 15 in the Redbud District. I'm the parent of two. Somehow, almost a high schooler and a middle schooler. And when we moved into our house, I thought for sure there would be a new high school by now, but there's not. And my children won't get to experience. It sadly enough, they're just going to deal with overcrowded schools. My fifth grader actually wanted to come tonight and let you all know how she absolutely hated being in a classroom with 30 students. She'd asked to work outside in the hallway most days because she could not focus. It's actually good she did not come because this is taking forever, the meeting. She'd be very mad right now. But she just wanted to let you know that these overcrowded schools for her weren't good and it's only going to get worse. And I think that's what we're going to have to do. So I'm going to have to get back to you. We keep seeing all of the developments, the giant one that's being built by the wastewater or the water treatment plant. So my children aren't going to benefit from it, but I'm still okay with paying more for the future generations. I pay taxes for the police and I have no plans on getting arrested, but I know that they're benefiting the community. I have no plans to burn my house down and yet I'm paying for the fire companies as well. So I just hope you support the fourth high school and it gets moved quickly. But at the same time, the idea of trailers. Just boggles my mind because unless you've been in the school system, you're not going to realize the impact it has on the cafeteria. When my kids are eating lunch at 10 something, that should be the breakfast time. So the gym, all those other things you don't think of. Yes, it sounds great to put in the trailers, but you're not looking at anything else. So I would love it if you could all spend not just a day in a school, spend a couple days, walk the halls with the students and see how many times you get bumped. And maybe you would change your mind once you actually witness. What it is like day in and day out for the students, for the staff, for the administrators. So please support the fourth high school. Thank you. Stacey Lee, followed by Sharon Malzi. Hi, my name is Stacia Lane and I'm a citizen of the Redbud District, a parent who has seen firsthand the effects of overcrowding in our schools for seven years. I've watched the school board continually. Tell you. The fourth high school and more recently expanded elementaries are a priority. I see the growth in our county everywhere I turn. Yet no plan to address our most valuable resource, our future, our kids. I, like many of my neighbors, aren't thrilled about the excessive county spending. But when there is a clear need that continues to be punted down the road year after year, I start to question if your intentions are truly to be fiscally responsible or to simply ignore. Our public schools. The fourth high school and the additions to the elementaries are no longer a luxury, but a long overdue need. I urge you to do the fiscally responsible thing and move forward with the approval for the design process this budget cycle. Thank you. Sharon Malzi, followed by Matt Yetson. Hello, I'm Sharon Malzi. I live in the Redbud District. I am also the parent of the Redbud District. I am also the parent of the Redbud District. I am also the parent of three children who have gone through Millbrook High School and I work at Millbrook High School in the school cafeteria. When our oldest started at Millbrook, we went to a parent-teacher night where we went through her schedule with her and we followed her from class to class. And we had the same amount of time to get from one class to the next that the students have every day. Millbrook High School is big. It is a large school. And we, as her parents, I'm ashamed to say, couldn't do it. I'm ashamed to say, could not keep up. We could barely get it to each class. And we were out of breath. That is what it's like in a large high school. So to say, expand it, make it bigger, make it larger, while that might be cheaper, it is not good for the students. We asked her, what do you do? Why don't you have a locker to put your stuff in? Why don't you wear a coat to school in the winter? She said she didn't wear a coat to school because she didn't have a locker. Well, why don't you have a locker? I don't have time for a locker. I can barely get to class on time. These are the things that the children are facing. So to say, expand, okay, then her choice is get to class or wear a coat to school. Those are her choices. Our youngest is now a senior. She's graduating. When our kids started going to Millbrook High School, they had a really nice bus ride. It was great. They were not overcrowded. Before our oldest, four-year-old, she was a senior. Before our oldest finished high school, we needed a second bus route for that same area because there were so many more students. The buses were overcrowded. They were actually dangerous. We had numerous incidents of safety issues on the buses because there were too many kids. So now we have another bus route, and they had to divide the bus route. Our oldest is graduating. I mean, our youngest is graduating. I work in the cafeteria. And I have seen every day, every year, that there are a lot of kids that are not going to school. I have seen every day, every year, the increase in the number of students. When I first started working in the cafeteria last year, we started the school year out feeding between 780 and 850 children at every lunch. That's the number of entrees we served. By the end of the school year, we were hitting 875 to 925 entrees by the end of the school year. This year, we started the school year at 900 entrees every lunch. Today, we served 914 entrees for lunch. Breakfast has increased as well. Breakfast, we were serving about 150 children every morning. Now we're serving 250 children every morning. As an employee, I see these changes happening and the stress that it's taking just on the kitchen staff. We need more people. We need to be paid a decent wage. Last year, my pay rate was less than what my team paid. I had to pay a lot of money to pay for the food that my teenagers were making in retail jobs. That's really sad. This year, I had some health issues and I had to go on short-term disability. Because of my low pay rate and because short-term disability only pays me 60% of my salary, and because of the high cost of health insurance through the county, every month while I was out, I had to write a check to Fairfax County Public Schools for $120 to cover insurance for my children. I had to pay $1,000 for insurance for my family. Please, please give the staff and the teachers salary increases. Give our kids another high school. They need it. Matt Yatzen, followed by Marie Milnik. Good evening. My name is Matt Yatzen. I'm a resident of the Redbud District. Prior to moving here two years ago, I lived in a county that valued education. Where schools were built, expanded, and renovated on a routine basis without governmental inaction and governmental delays. One of America's greatest attributes is free access for all children to have a high quality education. This board and its predecessors are not providing the resources to allow our children to receive that same high quality education. The county's 2024 budget stated that high school enrollment was 4,625 students, while total capacity was only 3,858 students. We are 767 students, or 20% over capacity, with no immediate solution to this problem. Students are learning in trailers, as every single classroom is fully occupied and it's only going to get worse. Homes are currently under construction in Cincinnati Village, Abrams Point, Winchester Landing, Raven Oaks, Snowdon Bridge, The Retreat at Winding Creek, Lake Frederick, West Wind, and Valley View. There's more. Pending your approvals, homes will be built in Heritage Commons, Willow Run, Fairfax Downs, the Village of Wendlandt, and the City of Wendlandt. The City of Wendlandt is the only state in the state that has a high quality education. Urgent-led homeless superintendents are leading the way intwo areas. Speaking of high schools earlier on, I want to turn it now to our community coordinator, Shara Wouldl. Which is a blank slate. President & tire Tona's JCB here for the lifetime of our county. St inmensionally CCed and SW orders to expanded dental needs, form what used to be as a one-master school, will now be theuly 하지riba complex. She 해요 treason. opened in 2003 plans for the fourth high school appeared in a 2005 capital improvement plan a prior board denied the approval of the fourth high school in 2017 when it would have cost 91 million dollars to build now it will cost an estimated 152 million dollars that is a 61 million dollar or 67 percent increase due to governmental inaction further inaction by you will only increase the cost to us the county has levied taxes on its citizens for more than 20 years since Millbrook opened the county's annual budget show that total revenue has grown on average by 6% year-over-year since 2017 the 2014 budget states of the county currently has 176 million dollars in cash as of June 30th 2022 and the amount of cash on average has grown by 13% year-over-year since 2017 the tax base to pay for this fourth high school already exists and additional taxpayers are coming into the county every single year the county has the current and futuremer salaam to approve the construction of the fourth high school. Thank you. Marie Melnick, followed by Karina Nagy. Good evening. My name is Marie Melnick. I'm from the Shawnee District, and I just wanted to take a moment to speak about the budget, particularly with regards to the fourth high school, which I know is the exciting topic of the evening. So I know that someone in the audience had mentioned that for the board to not move forward, that we would be scraping the bottom four pennies to try and figure out alternatives, but I would propose that as taxpayers, we are already being forced to scrape the bottom to fund all the increases we're seeing across with inflation and rising prices. So I cannot believe, as a person who has worked in the government, that there is not waste, there is not cuts that can be made in other areas that we might be able to look at in order to find alternatives to funding instead of putting more pressure on the taxpayers in a time when we're already feeling the burn. So thank you for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you. Karina Nagib. Hi, my name is Karina Nagib. I'm from the Stonewall District. This is my second meeting. I came here seven years ago. My son was in second grade at Stonewall Elementary. My husband and I had just built a townhouse in Snowden Bridge, which, as you know, is a very big neighborhood now. We thought, okay, we love Frederick County. We're from Miami and Southern California. And this was where we decided, we decided to make our home. I was told, or under the impression, there'd be a fourth high school. My son's now in ninth grade at James Wood High School. He's in trailers. I wouldn't suggest trailers as an option. Like other people have said, there's a lot of problems with it. I had a panic attack last week when I received a message from the school about the hold. I know it said hold, but in my mind, when I hear schools shootings all the time, I hear lockdown. I hear my child's not safe. I don't know what's wrong. My child could be in a trailer somewhere. I don't know where he is. Luckily, it was nothing of concern. But as a parent, I came here just to say that I support the fourth high school, and I hope not to see what happened with Jordan Springs, which was the school was approved and then built not to serve all of the children in our area because the school's only three years old, and has trailers outside. Nobody in my neighborhood is happy about that. I know there's not a lot of people here. I know we have families. We have young children at home. Some people have jobs, multiple jobs. We're not part of a after-retirement group where we can come and talk about things. I have paid taxes for the time that I've lived here. So my question is, what about my children? Frederick County is their home. They have been in Frederick County. They have been in Frederick County their entire lives. What about them? That's what I would like to know. I have a sixth-grade daughter. I don't think she's going to be in a new high school. Maybe Jameswood will be renovated by then. That's my hope. But I continue to stay in my house. In Snowden Bridge, I see new houses going up every single day, and I see new families coming in every single day. And so I'm just here to say I hope for those children, those families, that we have a fourth high school. We can eliminate some of these overcrowding problems. And it's really, really sad and horrible to sit here and listen to all the division and the politics that have gone into this. Clearly, I've been missing out. I've just, yeah. But just because there's not a lot of people here like me who haven't been here every single meeting, that doesn't mean we don't care. We care very much about the fourth high school. We do vote. We care. There's a lot of people who are busy. And I, I don't know. That's all. Thank you. That's the end of the list, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on the advertised public budget for the county for next year? Sir, please come forward and give your name in Magisterial District. Please. Vaughn Whitaker of the Gainesboro District. It seems like there's some fake news going on here when they say the commission doesn't occupy a good part of the Sharando School. That's my comment. Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? Seeing no one, I will close the public comment portion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Board, is there any discussion? I think, Mr. Chairman, we have to go through. There's another opportunity for citizen comments. And then we have, I just want to have comments on what's just been discussed. I'm just asking. Well, so we've had citizen comments. And we've closed that for this item. The board's, the board's budget cycle does not end this month. We have outside agencies, many of them, spoke at the beginning. We have not reviewed their requests yet. We reviewed the schools in some depth to begin the cycle. And that's because, maybe because there's such a large part of our budget overall, but also because state law requires that we set some school funding earlier in the budget cycle. Then we have to set the rest of the budget. So now we're turning to look at other county budgets more in depth to see. If there's savings or other issues that we have to raise. So that's the process we're in just to inform the public right now. I expect our cycle to take, what, usually at the end of April, another month or so before we would be done and vote on a budget normally. I'm just giving the board a chance to comment after hearing public comments if you'd like. Okay. Vice Chairman? I'm sorry. Supervisor. Yeah. I'll make some comments. So. Okay. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. So. Thank you all for your comments. I'm going to make some general comments and a couple of specifics. This county has approximately 13,000 plus lots that have already been approved for development. So there's a gentleman here that said, all this development growth is coming and we can do something about it. Unfortunately, we can't. In Redbud, there's some areas right near Cincinnati and Bedford putting up some homes. That was done in 2000. The other areas in Redbud, the properties for that were done 20 plus years ago. None of us were on the board at that point in time. Same situation for Stevens City and others. And so there's housing developments that are occurring that this board has no jurisdiction to do. And when the properties are approximately $1,000 and the total cost of those new houses running $27,000, not including the cost of roads, there's a huge disparity. There's a gentleman that made the comment about impact fees. I've gone to Richmond three times to talk about impact fees. This board voted last year, and I believe the year before, to include it in the legislative agenda. This county is growing. We all agree on that. The question is how to solve the problem. In my opinion, impact fees are a way to do that because it puts the growth, the cost of growth, on those that are moving in. There are other models, such as in San Diego County and Florida, which also have similar situations in which the cost of growth is borne by those that are moving in. We can go into further depth at a later point in time. But we have tried to lay out thoughts and suggestions. Last year at this time, I made a comment to every board member. How do we solve the problem? Come to a town hall meeting. We can have constructive civil debate. And whether you are in favor of one position or another, we can talk on options, but just keep that thought in mind. The growth is here. The growth is coming. How do we pay for it? Who pays for it? And that's the problem that we're trying to solve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, sorry, Mr. Chairman. One other thing. I have a comment. I also spent half a day at Sherando High School. At Sherando High School, when Sherando was built, Parks and Rec had two areas that are designed solely for them. It was not part of the school. So the area that's the public community, or public service area, and the area that had the courts and the weight room, that is all part of Parks and Rec. For those that have said we can go and expand that, there's a significant cost if you wanted to turn that into classrooms. But when that building was built, Parks and Rec said, this is ours. That's part of the situation. So I don't think we have extra space there. We have to look at other solutions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Any other comments? I suppose I should clarify a few things since there were a few comments made. Someone said that I co-managed a school board campaign. That's not the case. I've gotten some emails this week and last that have implied that someone related to a member of the board is profiting from a sale that the board made. And that's plainly false as well. I'd caution people to be careful about what they say that's false. We did make a sale to a person who was donating it. And that was codified in the sale so that legally, there can be no profit made. In fact, the person's purchase price, it can be a little bit higher. But it's not a good thing. It can't even recoup what they paid for it. So they have to donate it. I think the legal phrase was for no consideration. So that was a charitable move. And negative, false things are being said about this person. So I just like people to be careful. If you believe something's wrong, please engage us rather than make statements that aren't correct. As far as Sharando, I visited it a few times. There's a space there owned by Parks and Rec. And there would be some analysis needed and legal arrangements needed if we were going to transfer that to the school to use. But I don't care about that really, because I don't think the taxpayer cares about that. When I visited it a year ago, I was told that the space had been basically unused since COVID. There was one large room, which would fit one or two classrooms that I think a yoga group used. And it was used once a month. So just to state to the taxpayer, we want to get outside the box here. I don't know if many of you would appreciate your taxes going up if there's space already built inside of a school with bathrooms and heating and all the associated needs there that's going unused. That's the kind of thing you expect this board to look very closely at and make as many solutions as we can. I don't know how many. I don't know how many classrooms that could create. I don't know the practicality of converting it, except that when I walk through it, it looks very much like the school in every other way. Had those been classrooms a few years ago, these many years of trailers, most of those years they wouldn't have existed. There were only a few trailers for most of the last 20 years, a few classrooms outside the school. So if we could get four or six classrooms out of that space, if that number is accurate, I really encourage all of us, that's what Supervisor Dunn was saying, perhaps, to the school board, to point these things out to us so we look at every possible solution. That's something that we could do very quickly, faster than we could build an expansion or a high school and solve some of the problem if it's doable. As far as homes, people have spoken over the last several weeks saying that we have been approving homes. Look at all the home development. This board has not approved new home building, and I believe well over 15 years. Nobody on this board has approved a single home. The homes you see going up were granted the right to the property to build decades ago, and there's nothing we can do about that. The exception might be when people, some people tonight mentioned homes going up in Middletown and Stephen City. Those properties, I believe, are controlled by the cities. So they could allow those properties to be developed into homes without coming to us. We wouldn't have. Any say in that? So my goal is, again, just with these comments to clarify a few things. And we will move forward. We have milestones in the budget at our work session next week. And I might have been wrong. We might need to adopt a budget resolution by our next meeting. I remember in the past, we have some things have strung out to the end of April before. So I know there's some room after that. But we may finish by the next meeting. I'm not sure. There's a lot yet. Still to look. There's a lot to look into that's on our schedule. And something's not yet on our schedule to work on. So it's a tight time we have to get these things done. So those are my comments on the budget and the budget process. If I may? Supervisor Wells. Thank you. Thanks. First of all, in reference to receiving messages that you say are untrue, I ran this first meeting, Ms. Frederick first, as an independent. I was called everything that you could possibly imagine. And still Mr. Graber calls me tax and spend. I disagree with that. I've been on the board 10 years. I'm an advocate of public schools. I'm an advocate of building the fourth high school and always have been. I'm not an advocate of wasting money. I'm an advocate of doing the right thing. So I feel your pain when it comes to name calling. And I'm sorry you were put in that position. Although this budget does address some good things, which I agree with, it's still very lacking in a lot of areas. So I really can't put myself into this budget and say I really support it. And as Mr. Graber said, I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I'm not an advocate of spending. I've never said. I've very seldom ever agreed with him. But I will agree with him on this point. And that is you're taking money out of the capital fund. He did it last time, will do it this time. And eventually, that capital fund is gone. And you have no money left. Folks, things cost money. You have to figure out a way to pay for them. That's in our personal life and everything else. I know it's not pleasant these days. I know things are tough everybody but we can just keep kicking that can down the road and that's what I said in the newspaper I truly don't believe this board will build a fourth high school I don't believe they will I hope they prove me wrong but for that very from I just on this budget I just can't get myself into it thank you very much I appreciate it thank you any other comments Jim one other additional comment approximately in 2017 2018 this board voted for nine point two million dollars for a in a extension at Millbrook high school that would have provided 17 classrooms with 20 students in a classroom about 349 students you raise that student number to 25 you'd have about 400 seats the current over capacity in the high schools is approximately 750 if that had been built you'd have about 400 seats the current over capacity in the high schools is approximately 750 if that had been built if that had been built you'd have 400 extra seats today and we would have more time if you will to deal with the overcrowding so for those that have said this board and its successors didn't care we did provide an alternative and the school board turned us down the school board said no we do not want to go and spend nine point two million dollars to go and provide approximately 400 seats they said no and instead they were advocating for a high school that could be a political decision but just recognize that this board did provide an opportunity for the school board to build a school was to build a wing on Millbrook to try to address the capacity issues at the time thank you mr. chairman thank you any other comments supervisor Lockridge just wanted to say thank you for coming out this evening we do hear you we've mentioned several times about and supervisor Dunn just pointed out that we are looking at all options the option that you may like may be perfect but it may not be and I'm just looking at all options the option that you may like may be perfect but it may not be the best option. but it may not be the best option. it might not be the best option no. and Google wants a clear and smooth planning action given the time of day that we mentioned we may have change in planning that we want in the time of day we might not have an ext 대 the time of day of the child may not be adequate for the children to bypass that but so there is some worried we think this is going all the way to the high school talking like we're in Board of Supervisors comments, but we're gonna get another chance and so will you. Moving on from the public hearing on the budget, we look forward in the agenda, there's a couple items that are blank, but we're not quite done. Next is, let me make sure I'm not skipping anything. Next is board liaison reports, do we have any? Yes, Mr. Chair, I've got some, my normal. Supervisor Liero. Okay, first one is, first item is from the Planning Commission meeting last Wednesday, March the 20th, there were a number of things that were on the agenda there that we will see come to us in April, I believe it's gonna be April the 10th. First one is rezoning 02-24 for Washington Commons. That was approved by the Planning Commission. That was a rezoning request to rezone approximately 1.01 acres of an 11.605 acre parcel from residential performance district to B2 general business with proffers. The remaining 10 and a half acres plus 11 acre parcel from B2 M1 to B2 general business M1 light industrial with proffers and approximately 1.03 acres of a 24-year 4.63 acre parcel from B2 general district to RP residential performance district with proffers. This is located to the south of route seven in the area of Martins east of 81 and route seven, gateway drive and route seven in the Redbud Magisterial District. The second item, so that was approved by the Planning Commission will come to us in April, second item was conditional use permit 01-20. That was approved by the Planning Commission will come to us in April. Second item was conditional use permit 01-20. That was approved by the Planning Commission will come to us in April. Second item was conditional use permit 01-20. For Christopher Bowie, that was approved as well. Submitted for a public garage in the Back Creek Magisterial District. Submitted for a public garage in the Back Creek Magisterial District. Properties located at 703 North Piper Road in Star Tannery. And it is identified PIN 69-A-35B. And it is identified PIN 69-A-35B. Once again in the Back Creek District. There were three items regarding the South Frederick District. There were three items regarding the South Frederick District. The South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District The South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District removals in addition, first one was a removal of a 64 plus acre parcel from property identification 84-A-28A. acre parcel from property identification 84-A-28A. Second one was Westoaks Farm Market removal 71.21 acres Second one was Westoaks Farm Market removal 71.21 acres parcel again from the South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District district and the third one was a removal of adelante of sixteen acres of forested land in Free Highland. South Frederick Agricultural and Forestal District sleep room was removed Rock Bergen City. one was an addition of two and thirty eight point five one acre parcel in I don't have the district down there but those three were also all approved okay next item that would came up was South Timber Ridge agricultural first district addition for CKW rentals CKW rental submitted a request to include a parcel totaling seventy six point nine zero acres to the South Timber Ridge agricultural and forestal district the parcels identified as PIN number 37 dash a dash eight in the Gainesville measures sure magisterial district last item for the Planning Commission there was an appeal to the subdivision administrator the administration of County Code 144 sections 3 and 37 the applicant was the sub-division administrator of the sub-division administrator in the administration of the County Code 144 section 3 and 7 resulting in the decision of the subdivision administrator in not approving a minor rural subdivision for the Heflin part parcel the Planning Commission voted to affirm the decision of the subdivision administrator and again that will come to the Board of Supervisors in April next so that's Planning Commission next one was tourism board that met on the Thursday the 21st just one quick item on that they mentioned that hotel occupants occupancy in Frederick County for the first couple of months of calendar year 24 has increased as compared to the same time frame in calendar year 23 so that's good news should result in some revenue increases to do mainly in the next three weeks in fact this is what I am going to do is storygame this the purpose of the meeting is I hope that effective in applying this policy because our public Long Beach also were part of must to have towo hour the archaeologists as tier 2 Romaniasho sagte on a Tuesday the to see us , far up then Wassup chemistry and성이 strategic open 09% about auspicious number four upon MREN in поп office gap rural areas of the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission, which I believe is eight or nine counties. We have, obviously, most of our rural lands in Frederick County are to the west and to the north of the city of Winchester. All told, there are 41,000 addresses in that nine-county area that are not served by broadband, and that project through the Northern Shenandoah Valley Regional Commission is working on getting those folks access to broadband. They're working on putting in 3,100 miles of fiber distribution, all told, in all those counties to include Frederick County. Last item is Hanley Regional Library Board. They had a meeting last Tuesday, the 19th. Nothing to report on that one. That's all, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Are there any more liaison reports? Mr. Chair, I have one. The Frederick County Volunteer Fire and Rescue Association meeting was March 18th, so last week. Chief Majek reported that Recruit Class 14 is ongoing. EMS Volunteer Academy, they graduate soon, and work continues for Station 22, and all apparatus for that station has been ordered, but because of the... the supply chain, it's years until that will be received, or could be. Also reporting that Frederick County Volunteer Fire and Rescue Association is working very closely with the Frederick County Fire and Rescue Department to complete the 10-year strategic plan, and that all 11 volunteer stations are actively recruiting volunteers, so anyone interested can contact their local station. That's all I've got. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other board liaison reports? I'll just mention I served as a liaison on the Frederick Water Board, and I had to attend that meeting remotely. The main subject was the creation of a service area to the southeast of the county. There are several goals for that. One is to resolve an underperforming sewage treatment plant, come up with a solution for that. There will be some higher rates for people in that area that will not be shared by other people in the county, and it will also add some service area who will also pay towards the expansion of the system there. So that's a hot topic in the southeast portion of the county. I get emails and concerns about the rates and exactly how that's all going to be done. Some of the expansion will be into Clark County. As a matter of fact, they'll be joining a small portion near, what is it, Double Cross, where we'll be joining, Double Tollgate, I knew I had it wrong, are going to be joining. And I lived right near there, too. We'll be joining our water system to the benefit, I think, of both counties because they'll be pitching in to help get it expanded and that problem solved. So that's my report from the Frederick Water Board. With the ending of board liaison reports, we have two more items. Final citizen comments. These can be on any subject. Anne, is there anyone signed up? No, sir. Very good. Is there anyone who would like to speak? Seeing no one. All close. Final citizen comments. Board of Supervisor comments, our last item. Are there any further comments from anyone? No one? Very good. Then, Vice Chairman. I move we adjourn. Do we have a second? Second. All in favor, say aye. Aye. All opposed? We're adjourned.
