Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2023-09-20
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=197
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I call to order the September 20th, 2023 Frederick County Planning Commission. Can we take a moment of silence, please? Thank you. Planning Commissioners, just a reminder, please make sure that you turn on your mic when you go to speak, and make sure we turn it off, too, as well. Thank you. Next item up, we're going to adopt the agenda, but I want to make sure that we're clear that tonight's meeting, that tonight we are not discussing the rezoning of O323 O&M minerals, Carmoose Americas. That will be on October the 4th. So I want to make sure that's clear that everybody knows about that. Okay? All right. So adoption of the agenda. Do I have a motion to adopt the agenda? Second. All right. We got all those in favor? Aye. All right. The adoption has been approved. Thank you. Next meeting thing up is meeting minutes from July 19th and August 16th. Do I have a motion to approve the minutes? So moved. All right. We got a motion and a second. All those in favor? Aye. All right. Committee reports. I'm going to give you a report from Frederick Water. It's going to take a little bit, for a few minutes, but it's important. Staff presented an update on the current drought. It has significantly impacted groundwater wells and quarries from which Frederick Water draws the local public water supply. Recent rain has helped river flows but resulted in a little noticeable benefit to the groundwater levels. Frederick Water has been in a drought emergency since September 9th, 2023, and they're hoping to go to a drought warning on Friday, September 22nd if rains continue. Customers are encouraged to continue to conserve and be responsible with their water use as groundwater wells and quarries do need to recharge and reduce water consumption. There also was an adoption of an interpretation for the new water service connections. The Board did approve that. During a drought emergency, new water service connections are not permitted. So other than that, Frederick Water has granted H.P. Hood an exception. They're growing. And that is reports for Frederick Water. I see we have a motion. We have Winchester City. How are you today? Good. So what do you have for us? Can you hear me? Yes. Sure can. We had a rather long agenda just yesterday. We passed a C.U.P. request to operate a 48-unit mini storage facility at 210 East South Work Street Zone Central Business B1 District. That was an existing building, a new use. We tabled an ordinance to rezone lands at 601 West Jubal Early Drive from planned commercial to highway commercial with a planned unit development overlay. That was to put in 26 homes in what was previously a commercial location. At a similar location, located at 641 West Jubal Early Drive, another planned PUD overlay, to put in a new unit. That was to put in a new unit. That was to put in a new unit. We also tabled a C.U.P. request to operate an 1811 Roberts Street zoning overlay to put in 26 homes, was passed. An ordinance to rezone 2 acres of land at 1811 Roberts Street from highway commercial to highway commercial with a planned unit development overlay was passed for a 48-unit apartment building. We passed a resolution to initiate an ordinance to amend and reenact various sections of the zoning code pertaining to definitions, nonconformity, and grammatical. Thank you. corrections. We approved a site plan for the zero-pack renovations that will be happening. We reviewed a third quarter 2023 pipeline residential report to see which projects were under construction, and we approved staff review of a corridor enhancement district approval for a piece of property at 1726 Valley Avenue. Thank you. Thank you so much. Ms. Blackridge, I know it's going to be short and sweet, but great to have you out here tonight. Thank you. I do not have anything to report, and thank you for your time. Thank you for coming out. All right, the next thing up is going to be citizens' comments. Citizens' comments is open for any items that are not before the commission for the public hearing or on the agenda. Please come forward, state your name, your magisterial district, and please keep your comments to three minutes. I open the citizens' comments if anybody wants to come forward. There's just some things I want to go over because it seems in our county, our state, our country, I think we've forgotten some very important things. In our United States Constitution, we are given the right to own property. If you own something, if it is your property, it's unreasonable to think that that can be taxed or regulated. And so tonight we have a situation, there are many situations, where people are being told what to do with their property based on the complaint of an individual, might be unwarranted. They then get to remain anonymous. There's no accountability for that. And if you believe in our United States Constitution, I believe that you should have a problem with that. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Cotley. Anyone else? All right, I'll close the citizens' comments morning. All right, folks, we're going to have a... Is it time for comments regarding the archery ring? No, sir, no. No, okay. Nope, this was anything else but the archery ring. So, all right. Now... I'm getting ready to open up a public hearing about the archery range. I'm going to ask, though, let's not repeat the same thing over and over again when you come forward to speak. You know, we want to open it up to public to speak, but just let's... We want to keep it less than three minutes, and we don't need repetition here, okay? So, with that said, I'm going to... We're going to have the public hearing regarding conditional use permit 05, 23 for GT Archery, LLC. Mrs. Feldner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Planning Commission. This is a request for a conditional use permit for archery sale and service with the indoor and outdoor range facility. The subject property is located on Greenspring Road in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. Turning your attention to the screen, the property is outlined in blue. It is located in the northeast area of the county, close to the West Virginia-Virginia line. And, again, it's off of Greenspring Road. Commercial archery ranges, indoor or outdoor, is only permitted as a conditional use in the RA district. The property is zoned RA. And staff would like to note that there is an existing conditional use permit on the property for an existing archery supply and equipment sales. The applicant proposes the following intentions for the activity on the proposed conditional use permit. These are taken directly from the applicant's narrative. The applicant proposes a family-owned archery sale and service with an indoor and an outdoor range. The applicant proposes the hours of operation for sales and service, Tuesday through Friday from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. with three to five customers expected on weekdays. And 10 to 15 on Saturdays. Additionally, the hours of operation for the indoor-outdoor range is requested to be Thursday through Saturday, primarily Saturday, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. with a maximum of 35 customers. The applicant narrative indicates the use of 14 indoor shooting lanes and five outdoor shooting lanes to accommodate events, primarily seasonal leagues, to include youth programs. Please note that... The indoor and the outdoor ranges are not proposed to be used simultaneously or at the same time. To be clear, these are not conditions imposed on the applicant, but rather the intention to operate as indicated on the application narrative. In turn, these are not enforceable, so should they choose to operate in a different manner, they would not be enforceable. The zoning ordinance requires a Category C zoning. Any обязанsteELS RiE beginnen in médium Weekly were こうに いく 50. Mainly submitted solid glass, so all decNO Jessica... has provided a draft layout it may be a little hard to see the proposed outdoor range is located here the proposed indoor range is here it's in an existing building this is the residents dwelling the dotted line in the oval indicates the 300 foot perimeter and we note that there are there are buildings within that perimeter but those are accessory structures and not residents should the Planning Commission find this used to be appropriate staff would recommend the following regulatory conditions to be placed on the conditional use permit our review agency comments and requirements shall be complied with at all times the hours of operation shall be limited between 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily with a maximum of 35 customers at any time I'd like to note that the highlighted yellow was an error in the staff report and it's corrected on the screen it is requested to be 830 to 9 a minor site plan shall be submitted and approved by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use on the property the site plan shall meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance for a commercial archery range no employee beyond those residing on the premises permitted and the approval of the zoning ordinance shall be made in the following order the existing conditional use permit 0 523 shall render the existing conditional permit void one sign with a maximum area four square feet in area and a maximum of five in height is permitted any expansion or change of would require a new conditional use permit following the public hearing staff is recommend staff is seeking a recommendation from the Planning Commission to forward to the City of any questions and mr. teach the applicant is also available to answer any questions you may have Thank You mr. Feltner any questions for mrs. Feltner I'm looking to the left mr. Thomas yes since this is already an existing CUP there what is the difference in the parking requirements for this new requested CUP from what the existing requirements were the existing conditional use permit was for the archery sales and service and was limited to four customers this is increasing the customer base to 35 so the parking will be addressed on the site plan as we've requested okay there will be a small increase yes okay thank you this is Brandon yes I'm curious why the county would say he can't have any employees that don't live there that is coming from the comment agency from the Health Department because he's regulated on a sewer and septic system this boom back yes I have a question um I was just a little curious on the hours of operation they I know you said they were different than what's on our paper which they are but can you go back over that again so the applicant has requested for the economic reduces exception pleasebey trial so we may have a lot of problem my point is our permitror do theоль is altitudes and population or...? the return per square foot favorite so we have a range of schools there schools and civilian schools so the this is more or less an expansion of that to include the outdoor ranges which he's asked for 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. primarily Saturdays but for Thursday through Saturday so the recommendation from from staff was an overall bracket that was 830 until 9 right so then does that give them the right to do sales and service 830 to 9 and outdoor and indoor range 830 to 9 yes it would so if they've requested less than that why don't we is it too hard to pin it down to what they actually asked for it we could pin it down and isolate them separate them and place them in its own hours it becomes an enforcement issue right so I mean so we just broadened it if he's allowed to be open at 830 in the morning for sales his intention is not to be open at 830 for sales but it it would allow him to do so yes but the number of people wouldn't be expanded so the number of people he has requested is 35 there is a limit by the VDOT comment of 50 trips a day which doesn't really equate to occupants but for the sake of his request he wanted 35 and then I know it said that the outdoor range was six I'm sorry that's okay six was it six to nine outdoor range hours yes ma'am he's like yes his intention is to hold archery gatherings right in the building with the 14 lanes okay and then but the outdoor range I'm assuming they don't do that in the winter if it's six to nine p.m. I can defer that to the applicant if you've would like okay good all right we'll get mr. teeth in a second you went anybody else yes I do have a question I have some information here that and I questioned it because it says the hours of operation shall be limited to 11 a RP I am to 9 p.m. every day yes sir that was a mistake and an error on the staff report so we tried to bring that to your attention with the slide with highlighted so I apologize for that I can they seem they're not gonna be there on Sunday that's what but that's okay thank you hey mr. but mr. teeth if you don't mind miss Brim back you might ask questions okay you good mr. marker yeah come on out there you're as a safety been addressed and baffling or preventing there's a 300 foot is that a standard that the state has where does that come from and how is that addressed so the 300 foot is in the zoning ordinance for an archery range and that is that you know what is this right in the area of worked out here in the forest I go the Po drew everything covered us asked me after we were going to starts 했es statewide dawn I aimed and that was me okay miss she 900 foot a hundred dollars was the that included in that so there's nothing in the ordinance it would require require a baffle it just requires a six-foot berm or the equivalent thank you any other well mr. T side on the safety part I read a lot of compliments about how careful you are you know so really what when you when you have 35 people out there do you ever like a range instructor or how are you how are you yes sir we have a we have some shop shooters at all that help mainly on Saturdays because during the week there's nobody there sure the Saturdays you know we don't have any employees but we do have we have help and just not these are Pro archers so they know what's going on and sure good I just you know when and also understand you've done things for parks and rec now do you do this every week you do that every week and you know we have a lot of people that on Saturdays or do you do that during the way it's we're stay pretty busy in the winter in parks and rec there's usually on a I believe a Thursday night okay they'll come in at 630 and we're usually wrapped up by by 830 okay and then of course we do youth league and you see a lot of a lot of youth here tonight they come to support us we do youth leagues like on a Friday night and then we do a ladies night try to squeeze the ladies in there sometimes Liz and then on Saturday nights it's you know if guys wants to shoot we try to get a couple hours in well I think it's awesome you're doing things for kids yes sir we we love we love working with the kids it's uh we've got we've got to see a lot of a lot of kids come up and starting from nothing you know we're going to be able to get them to come in and we're going to be able to get them to come in and we're going to get them to come in and we're going to compete in our professional level so thank you sir appreciate mr. Thomas is your outdoor range lit sir no sir no sir it's dark yeah yeah we don't shoot after dark okay when he was talking about nine o'clock yeah it's indoors yes sir yes sir and outdoor ranges wintertime it's not so much everybody wants to stand outside when it's cold they complain about the heat in the winter because I keep the wood stove going pretty good the outside they don't get much action all right thank you I'll look to my left look to my right everybody yeah thank you sir thank you miss donor well I'm sorry one more mr. triplet so you entertained them recurve bow the compound and the cross cross bow we don't have no against calls bad not all they just they're awful hard on targets so we try not to we got a special target indoors if you want to shoot a crossbow we'll set you up outside we don't get too many outside calls brochures because it's kind of hard to hold them you know this is like holding a heavy rifle so we usually try to do something off a bench for a crossbow something that's steady yes sir yeah if you think you cross well you're welcome come out I will but I'll be my luck I'd be 36 you thank you we good all right now okay I'm gonna open in this public hearing for anyone who wants to come forward speak for or against CUP oh five two three please keep your comments for three minutes I will cut you off and I'm gonna ask please don't be repetitive thank you so if someone wants to come forward come on up please state your and I forgot please state your name magisterial district thank you you have Perdue you can come to the mainenda you know we do that kind of there's a possibility but we'll wrap it up and we'll take questions so the final question for today our next panelist is going to be going to be a five-part a five-part question i want to as often as possible ask our questions to first theme night Number two, we had an arrow again come through the trees and lodge into a little, we've got a cowbell, and it lodged in a piece of the wood there. And then the third arrow was out by the road, and it hit our mailbox. But the fourth one was the really bad one. And this was in May of 2022, which was 15, 16 months ago. And my wife and I, we had gone down to Georgia to visit our son. And when we got back, we found that an arrow had gone across our neighbor's house through the trees, and it had gone through the double-paned window of our sunroom and lodged into the wall on the other side, which was about that far above where I sit out and study my Sunday school lesson on Aldrich. And so I immediately got in my car, and I went over to Mr. Teat's house, and he was very nice about it. He followed me back over, and he looked at it, apologized. It's obvious you can see the exact trajectory coming from the area of his archery. And he had a friend come and replace the double-paned window. And so, you know, I'm thankful for that. But like Saturday morning, we're having a family reunion, and I'm going to have four little grandchildren running around out in that area. And quite frankly, they're a little nervous about coming over because those bows, I'm not sure what a crossbow is, but I think it is the kind that you pull back and you can hold it here, and it is powerful. And I saw a couple out there, I think four or five days ago in the property right next to ours, which belongs to Mr. Nusu. He's deceased, and his wife is, too. The property is not occupied right now next door to us. And so I just, I don't mind his having the business at all. I think it is great, and I'm sure he's very good at that. But we live in the house, and the arrows, somehow they're coming through from his property, through the trees, through the branches. And one of them... Could have done harm to me. So I just would like for you to consider the safety issue on this. And I really wish that they were not outdoors. Thanks, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Teets. I'd like to address some of Mr. Womack's comments. First of all, 15 years ago, we had permission to use... Mr. Womack's property. And starting off back then, some of the lanes... You learn as you go. And 15 years ago, we might have had one or two arrows get kind of crazy, but nothing close to his home. We have never, never set a target towards anybody's home. On the day he was talking about his... His... His window being broke, he did come over. He was very calm and very, very nice. I can't say I would have been. To be honest, I'd have been really, really upset. So I followed him over to his house, and he was correct about that. But now, here's where the trajectory... His, in my interpretation, is nowhere close. His house is straight in line... With our range. The house next door, the new sues, is a big two-story home. And then a swimming pool, then a patch of woods, and then the Womacks. Well, this arrow did not go over this house. This arrow come from this patch of woods. It came at an angle, broke this window, went across the room this way, and stuck in the far side. There's no way that arrow went over that area. There's no way that arrow went over that area. It came out of that house, made a sharp right, and then shot through. It's not possible. And I left the area, because I knew it was an arrow. As soon as I seen it, I was apologetic. I hated it. It made me sick. But it was not our arrow. I could tell by looking at it, just like... You just know. You know I know my work. I know mostly what people shoot. It was not one of our arrows. We spent weeks looking through the woods. I set up trail cameras. I did find... I did find a couple young boys that was trespassing. Trail camera pictures really didn't do much. I did see people, weapons. I never really found out who. But for me to accuse them would be like him accusing me. I can't for sure be right about it. But I do know that the arrow's come out of the woods. It did not go over top of no house. It was not possible. It was not possible. And we did... It wasn't a sign of guilt. He was really upset, concerned. He seemed distraught about it. And I sent... Even sent our guys over that does work for me to help him out and get the window fixed. But it wasn't an admission of guilt in any chance. I was just trying to be a good neighbor. And that's about it. We never did find out where the arrow come from. I will say there was no targets. I didn't see any targets in those woods at that time. Mark Henry... Mark, he spent some time with me over there setting up cameras and just trying to figure out how it happened. Because, I mean, it's unsettling. But for God's sake, yeah, it didn't come from us. Thank you, Mr. T. Yes, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, anybody else want to come forward or against, speak for or against? Hi. Would you please state your name and magisterial district? I'm Kenzie Brown. I'm 15 years old. I'm from West Virginia. Okay. I begged my parents for two years for a bow. We looked at some of the chain places and none of them knew how to properly fit equipment. My parents found GT Archery in February of 2021. Right away, Cletus knew what I needed. He showed me proper equipment and set up my first bow. Cletus and Ginger began teaching me how to shoot safely and effectively. Shortly after we purchased my bow, GT Archery had a youth archery league. As a homeschool student, I was nervous about meeting new people, my beginner ability, and excited for socialization. For the remainder of 2021, I participated in all of the youth leagues, or all of the leagues offered at GT Archery. Archery has quickly become my passion, my life, and my everything. I represent GT Archery at state and national tournaments. After competing for the last two years, I have earned more than 40 awards. Most recently, in August, I received the OVS. I was the overall female youth national champion, female youth shooter of the year, and second in the world championship. All this is only possible with the support of my parents, Cletus and Ginger Teets, GT Archery, and the GT Archery family. My success stems from all the practice at GT Archery, Cletus servicing, and setting up all of my equipment. When I'm not traveling to compete, I spend my time at GT Archery. I get to meet and practice with professional archers as well. I also help people of all ages learn more about archery and achieve goals. Many people say, it's like an outlet and an escape from some of the real-world struggles. We need GT Archery here in Frederick County, Virginia. With GT Archery being here, it provides hands-on experience and so much more. Archery is more than a sport. It's more than bow hunting. Archery teaches self-discipline, patience, and determination. All things we want and need for youth. Thank you for your time, and I hope you know how special GT is to me. Thank you, and congratulations on all your achievements. Thank you, guys. Anyone else want to come forward? Yes, sir. Thank you. You know the routine. Thank you, Commissioner. My name is Whit Wagner. I live in the Gainesboro District, and I'm speaking in favor of this application. I think almost everyone in the room, with the exception of maybe one or two, are in favor of the application. Anyone in favor of the application, just wave your hand up here. That's a few people out there. I would say so. All those opposed, please raise your hand. I would like to highlight a few things. I've been in archery for 65 years. I've taught youth archery. I've taught archery all over the country. And there's not too many places. I've taught archery in Frederick County, where the youth can go, where there's no alcohol, no drugs, good fun. Sean doesn't even allow swearing in the building, so they can't even swear. And there's not too many places you can go where the kids aren't on the damn telephone all the time. And it's awful hard, I might add, to sit there and shoot and talk on the telephone. It's awful hard to sit there and talk on the telephone. It's awful hard to sit there and shoot and text. Now, I have seen some TikTok on archery. These kids are generally not the sports superstars. They're just normal kids, normal outdoor kids that want to have fun. And we've just got to provide this kind of a situation for them. It's been fun talking to the kids. I've talked to a lot of kids because they'll come up to me and say, Mr. Witt, that's what they call me. Mr. Witt, this is the first time I've used metric outside of school. And I said, yeah? It's the first time I used calculus outside of school. I did an inverted equation to figure out how much to move my sight. I'm using a grain scale to know how much my arrows weigh. And you say, this is the first time? It was in archery? Even the kids. Even the county rec department, as I think Mr. Jewell, you mentioned, uses the facility. It's a community of archers. And they've got to have a place to work. And hopefully these two groups can get, Mr. Womack and Sean can get together. I know Sean wants to. And put this thing together in such a fashion that he can move the targets in such a fashion there's no chance that a released arrow could go his direction. I just. At the end of the day, at the end of the day, I hope we use common sense and not government sense to get this thing approved. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to come forward and speak? One more thing, Mr. Jewell. Mr. Teets. And like Mr. Womack said, we do have a, we've got a practice range on Tatiana Nusu, which her mom and dad, Tatiana, we've used their woods for 20 years, probably. But it's just, we've got targets there now. We've got Ernie. Yeah, they're his targets. They're kind of in a big pow. And it's not for everyone. Those are just for these guys that's competing, a place for them to go. It's not. It's not for the, a large public group. But what I would like to offer is a hand to Mr. Womack. This coming season, 3D season's coming to an, well, it's over pretty much. It's indoor season. But January, February, March, April, if he would, if he would do it to meet with me, I would, I would love just to walk through the woods with him and he'd give me some ideas. What he, what he likes. What feels safe for him. And we'll work around him. We'll do everything we can to pacify him and make him feel safe at his own home. We don't, we don't want, we don't want to be those neighbors where we cause issues. None. None. So. Thank you, Mr. Teets. Yes, sir. How, Mr. Womack, how far is your house from the range? Which range are you speaking of? The outdoor range. The, the, the bag targets. He's. What's his, what's your address? Uh, 3641. I know that's your, what's your. We're at 3691. It's a, it's a fair piece. It's. Okay. All right. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. This isn't just a rough calculation on GIS. It's like 500 feet or so. Okay. So 500 feet. All right. Thank, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mr. Pearson. Thank you, Mr. Teets. Thank you, Mr. Womack. Anyone else want to speak for or against? Please state your name and magisterial district. Yes. My name's Chris Jennings. I'm from the Gainesville district. I'm here in full support of GT archery. I'm a small business owner myself and have been for probably 40 years. I have a, I believe in small businesses are important. It's the way of the American tradition. Myself, along with both my son shoot at GT archery, especially throughout the winter and colder months, as it's hard to do anything after work during the season because it's dark outside. There's no other businesses around this area like this one. Trust me. It's quite a drive from my house to what I call the backwoods where GT is located, almost West Virginia. I have met other customers at this business that have driven two plus hours to purchase bows and other supplies from GT archery. As they know, each time they come, they're going to be dealing with the same person knowing these people. These people have taken their time to get to know each of their customers and their equipment and how each one shoots. This is a nice comfort to customers because if you go to big box stores, you're starting over every time you visit with a new person. I think this business is very important to our community, especially to the younger generations. It teaches the younger generation skills that will follow them throughout their life. It keeps them off the phones and the games. Who knows? The way things are going and the government trying to take our guns away, the next war might be fought with bows and arrows. If I was to ride around Freight County right now, I can count two dozen plus places that I see doing business out of their yards. To bring up a few, I have seen lawn care repair, auto repair, auto detail, concrete companies, fruit stands at the end of the driveways, people selling Christmas trees at Christmas season. I'm pretty sure willing to bet these people don't have business license or are not in compliance with Freight County. I don't think we need to pick out one business here if we're going to do what's due for one is due for all. I don't think we have the staff to follow up on every one of these complaints that would come in from all these small business people trying to make a living doing the low side business. The owners of GT Archery, Sean and Ginger Teets, are operating a legal business providing a safe place for our community to shoot. I want to talk about the safety. I've been out there for a few years. They're very safety conscious. I've seen them. They got spotters. Kenzie Brown's one of them out there. They see somebody pulling up a bow and ain't right, they'll holler, stop. I've been there seeing that myself. As far as missing arrows, that's all hunting ground out there. I need you to wrap it up now. Okay. I thank you for your time. Thanks, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I think my husband, Susan Womack, Gainesboro, we live two driveways down from him. We have pathway that we walk down. We have gone out there and we see people out there shooting bows and arrows. Like my husband said just the other day, there was somebody out there shooting at targets that were out there in the woods. I didn't think that we were supposed to. The houses are not that far apart. If you really look at it, they're not that far apart. Once they have these big compound bows that are so powerful that, I mean, I'm not an archer, so I just have to, I guess they're safety things, but I'm afraid to walk out in my woods. That's my property. I'm afraid because there's people out there shooting bows and arrows. I mean, I know Mr. T. Heats has a nice business. He's had it for years. And I like to give him the benefit of the doubt that he tries to make sure things are safe. But when we've had experiences like we've had, you can understand why we don't feel safe. And so if he wants to get with us and show us exactly what it, but I just don't like the idea of people being out there in the woods running around with these great big bows shooting at targets. It's just, to me, it's just a big safety issue because there's people. There's people behind and beside. And we have seven acres. I think he has five acres. The new Siouxs have, I think, seven acres or eight acres. But I didn't think that was a hunting area. I mean, are people allowed to go out there with guns and shoot? We have deer out there. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. So if my son wants to come hunting on our property, he can. Okay, well, I'm learning a few things here. And it's just me. It's making me very uncomfortable living in the area because I do not feel safe. I would not want somebody hunting in my backyard. Folks. So anyway, I just wanted to say this is what our concern is. It's like we have experienced people running around in the backwoods shooting bows and arrows. Thank you, ma'am. And I don't feel safe. Thank you, ma'am. Folks, one thing I will do, we are not going to have comments from the peanut gallery. Not going to happen. Okay? So if you want to come forward. If you want to make a statement, I'm great. Please come forward. State your name and your magisterial district. Hi. I am sorry. Tatiana Nishu. Sean has lived next door to my parents for many, many years. And they passed two years ago. They've always been there for us. Sean helps take care of the property. I can't be at the house at all times. But in the time that they've had their business there and my parents were alive, they have never had an issue. Not once. They had dogs that they would let out and just run, I guess. Never an issue. Cats. I just, they're a good family. They're a good business. They do a lot for everybody. They're a good one. And it would be sad to see something be taken away from them that they deserve. And I do believe that Sean would work with you all on any issues that you have with regards to safety. Like if you feel that a target is not in the right position, that it could be dangerous, I do think Sean would work with you. He's always been that person to help. You know? Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Hi. Hi. Good evening. I'm Ann Abernathy. I'm in West Virginia now, but I graduated from high school in Fairfax County. I'm a six-time Olympic athlete. And the only place that I can train, I'm training for my seventh Olympics. The only place I can train indoors is with him. And I found him, and he's been able to help me with my arrows, with my equipment. But the one thing that I found, you've been talking about the youth, but it's a gathering place for us old folks. I will be 71 when I qualify for the Olympics next year. And when I go to train in the middle of the day, it's not the kids that are there. It's the seniors that are there that support me. And they're also there on the weekends. So you have a built-in group of people that are watching what's going on and know what's going on. And they're helping the youth, and they're helping each other. And it's a family. And I just wanted to thank you for welcoming me into your community. I do go to church here. But thank you very much, and I ask you to support him any way you can. Thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. Thank you. Robert Galilee, Bat Creek. I just want to state, because it hasn't been said, they have a current conditional use permit. They can shoot outside. I don't think we're talking about revoking that conditional use permit. So the only thing that changes here, if this one isn't granted, is that they can't shoot in a building, which whatever happens in the building, I don't think that has anything to do with safety. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Galilee. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Hi. My name is Cody Jennings. I'm from the district, or Gainesboro district. And I can assure you it's very safe to go up there. There's a lot of safety. I've maybe been shooting for a year or two, and I've gotten a lot of help from Sean. It's just an overall great time. I can make a lot of friends. Not dangerous at all. Thank you, Cody. You having fun? Yeah. All right. Anybody else? Well, folks, thank you. I'm going to close the public portion of this. Now the commissioners get to talk among themselves. So I'm going to start on my left. Mr. Thomas. Could we get a clarification? Could we get a clarification? We're looking at an outdoor range. We're not looking at targets scattered around through a woods. What are we actually looking at? The application narrative as proposed by Mr. Cleets was limited to the one outdoor range that was shown on the screen and then the indoor range. But it's not scattered through the woods or anywhere else. It's one outdoor controlled range. It's not how it was described by the applicant to have any targets scattered through the woods. That's what I thought. Yeah. And then one clarification is the existing CUP was only for archery sales and service. And I think at the time, Mr. Teets had not contemplated a range and did not include that in his application. So just one clarification from one of the comments that was made. So if the CUP wasn't approved, the outdoor and indoor range would not be permitted to occur on the property. Okay. And the range that the targets that's scattered out through the woods, that's near the Womack's on Miss New Sioux, is personal. It's for personal use. We're not running a business for people to shoot those targets. It's not part of GT archery. Good. Can I ask him a question? Of course you can. Okay. Now, the target range we're talking about outside, for somebody to shoot at that target and to be able to hit their property and their lot, it would have to be intentional and they would have to shoot it up in the air. They'd have to shoot it straight up in the air and hope that it would clear the next piece of property, the house, and everything else before it got to theirs. Because an arrow doesn't ricochet 500 yards. No, sir. I don't even know if 500 yards is a long ways. So I don't see how it would be possible. And like I said, the woods, people do hunt the woods. When Mr. Womack, when the guy broke, I put some cameras out and I seen people. I got some pictures of people that shouldn't have been there. I don't know where they come from. I don't know where they went. I just know they was there. Thank you, Mr. Thank you. Commissioners, now that we're back talking to each other. I just have a question still on the timing. It seems like we've given them a lot more time than what they asked for. And then we have the comment daily and they're not asking for Sunday. So I think we should maybe narrow that in. That's perfectly fine. As Mrs. Feltner indicated, when we initially reviewed the application, based on how complicated, it would be to go out there and enforce whether somebody's there for archery sales and service versus the range and the different time frames. We thought it was okay to broaden it, but the commission could certainly restrict it further to the applicant's proposal or otherwise. Well, even if we just did Monday to Saturday and just take out the daily part so that Sunday's not an option at all. We're closed on Mondays. Oh, Mondays too? Sundays and Mondays, yeah. So Tuesday to Saturday would work? I'm afraid not. I'm not clear what you're saying. Well, okay. You propose certain times, Tuesday to Friday and Saturdays for? The shop is Tuesday through Friday. And I open from 11 to 6. Saturdays, we was open from 8 o'clock to 6 p.m. It's just too long. So we changed the hours this year to 8 to 3.30. But Saturday evenings, we do shoot some indoors. Yeah. And that's why we need the extended hours. The shop is closed at that point, and I'm able to be out into the indoor range and run things out there. But if we did 8.30 a.m. to 9 p.m., Tuesday to Saturday? I mean, you could do that. I'm not going to be out there that long. No, but that covers hours. That would be fine for you. Yeah, absolutely, yeah. Well, we open at 8, though. It's been 8 since we opened. Okay. Years ago. Okay. So 8 p.m. Yeah, that'd be perfect. That'd be fine. But 9 p.m., Tuesday to Saturday. Yes, ma'am. Not Sunday and not Monday. No, ma'am. We're closed those two days. Suggestion? Yes, sir. Mr. Pearson, I think it would be appropriate to just take out Sunday. I mean, leave it Monday in case. You never know. You never know what you don't know. You never know. Parks and Rec is probably calling you and saying, Mr. Teets, any chance we could bring kids out on Monday? So I would suggest drop it just Sunday. Certainly. And just one clarification that I heard from Mr. Teets. Did you say 8 a.m. was your typical start time? On Saturday, yes, sir. It may be prudent then, since we had written into the slide deck, for the commission to clarify that instead of 8.30, because I think we had 8.30 to 9 p.m. in the slide deck and as our proposed conditions. So if there is a motion to approve including those changes to the conditions, it would be appropriate. So, Ms. Brumbach, does that sound good? So, commissioners, anybody else? I'm looking to my left. I'm going to my right. Ms. Brannon. I just have a comment. My grandson is just getting into archery. He's eight years old. And they sound like they run a very safe business. And I can tell you, someone brand new that's only been doing it a couple months, he doesn't miss the target. May not hit the center, but errors don't go crazy. I think the problem is the shooting in the woods. I would recommend no trespassing signs on their part of the woods. But I'm fine with the hours of operation. You know me, I don't like government limiting private business. So I'm fine with how it's written right now. Looking about right. Any comments? I just wanted to make a comment that I'm in full support of this. This is a wonderful small business. Great for the community. We do not want to take this away. Great for the youth. And just want to make a note, they actually went through the proper process and got the CUP in the first place. So not very many do that. Mr. Akins. Motion for approval as presented with the modification of Monday through Saturday from 8 to 9. All right. We got a motion. Second. We've got a second. I will start with Mr. Triplett. Yes. Akins, yes. Kozell, yes. Kern, yes. Orndorff, yes. Thomas, yes. Molden, yes. Markert, yes. Frumbach, yes. Brannon, yes. The chair votes yes. And Mr. Teets, thanks for what you do for our youth. Thank you. We'll make this real quick. Get you out of here. Mr. Pearson. Do you have anything else? under oh I'll let me the under other no sir nothing report happy to answer any questions you all might have all righty do I have a motion to adjourn so move we are adjourned folks thank you my pleasure sir
