Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2025-11-05
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=302
========================================================================

you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Sonia and I live in the recount ward district. I know most of you on the board through my advocacy with Frederick county strong. I've been engaged in local issues and policy ever since becoming a parent and have attended many board of supervisor meetings. I started attending these meetings more regularly to understand the needs of the community and the priority of the board. All of you are welcome to join me in saying hello to the understand the motivations of many of the decisions made by the board, I feel like it wasn't fully representative of the constituency of our community. I realized it was time for me to get off the sidelines and see how I could become a more active participant in our legislative process. We've had conversations, we've had differences of opinions, but I believe we've been civil and respectful to each other. I have a bachelor's and master's degree in information systems, and I've had over 10 years of experience in the recruiting and healthcare industry. I worked in IT as a programmer and a business and quality assurance analyst. I oversaw teams, interviewed stakeholders, gathered requirements, and encouraged all parties to come to a consensus when creating a product to reflect the needs of the business. But before moving to Winchester 14 years ago, my husband and I lived in Richmond. I have three daughters, ages 12, 9, and 6. Soon after we moved here, we quickly realized Winchester was a great place to live. I've been a part of the business for a long time, and I've had a lot of fun here. I've been able to build a family here, and I'm proud to be a part of it. I love our life here. It's beautiful, the people we've met throughout our time here have been warm and welcoming, and our family is happy and proud to call Winchester home. I believe that every human being has the right to a good quality of life, with access to education, healthcare, clean air, water, and food. I want everyone in this County to thrive, from the babies to the elderly, and everyone in between. My love for this County has allowed me to think about its future and consider how we can shape its future generations. I'm so grateful for the support that our city has given us. I'm so thankful for the support that our city has given us. I'm so grateful for the support that generations. The county has been developed at a faster rate than the infrastructure can withstand. This county will have to play catch up for years and years to come. In the meantime, there are growing pains. Expensive band aids that aren't fiscally responsible take the place of proper planning. The schools are operating on a needs-based budget without a chance to provide more opportunities that will allow the students to compete at a higher level with their neighboring counties and throughout Virginia. The traffic on 7 and 11 during peak time is out of control. There are food deserts all over the county with abandoned shopping centers sprinkled in between. I don't want to be someone who complains about these issues before us. Instead, I would like to take my love for this county and the people in it, along with my experience as a professional and my perspective as a mom, to propose solutions that not only make financial sense but are also sustainable. I desire to be part of a team that makes all of our lives better for years and years to come. Thank you. Working with Frederick County Strong has encouraged me to start conversations with everyone, from parents with their kids at tennis lessons to people in line at the grocery store to practically anyone I meet on the street. I've talked to people of all different backgrounds with different political beliefs and different thoughts on education in Frederick County to work towards a common goal, a better environment for learning and a future for the kids of Frederick County. I would love to see input from residents when working towards budget season. Former Shawnee supervisor Shannon Trout had a great idea of a future for the students of Frederick County. She said the city and the community should be more inclusive of each other, and the city should be more involved in the work of the city. I said that this is a great idea to involve civic engagement in a respectful and civil manner. We all pay taxes and we all have priorities on what will make our lives better in Frederick County. During my time on the Citizen Budget Advisory Committee for FCPS, we did create a survey to see what priorities the residents of Frederick County would like to see the school board and FCPS focus on. Last year, it was a pilot program. This year, we would love to expand it to all residents in Frederick County. This year, I have been working with my peers and my colleagues to make sure that the students and their families are getting the most out of of Frederick County. As supervisor, I would recommend that the board work together with FCPS, the school board, and the citizen budget advisory committee to execute this. If I was chosen as supervisor, I would respect the education and experience of those that work for local government. I would also love to see a general breakdown on what a family's median income is, what taxes they pay, and what the breakdown of that amount is for each county department. I think education is elevation, and the more you know, the more you grow. It is important that this board represents the dynamic community we live in, and I can add that perspective. I look forward to being a voice for the community as a member of the board of supervisors. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Albert Orndorff. Chairman Jewell, Vice Chairman McCain-Slaughter, and other members of the board, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Wells, Mr. Leroux, and Mr. Aiken. I scripted out some comments, but I think I'm just going to talk through it. As you know, I spent 43 years, 42 years plus in public education at all levels. First 10 was at teaching level, and then the remaining 30 was at the administrative level, all levels up to the assistant superintendent for administration. On my resume, I left out a couple things I would like to add. One, I am a member of the Middletown Presbyterian Church, and also, toward the end of my career at Fort Frederick County Schools, I was also an adjunct professor for JMU. Taught the principalship and school law, which is a lot of constitutional law, one of my favorite areas. So I do have some experience there as well. Since I retired, I have an LLC, and I do consulting across the state, primarily up and down the valley, but also recently in the Richmond area with school divisions, Title IX, when they have a need for someone from the outside to come in and take a look at a situation, also Title VII. And some other investigations and assisting them, usually with a high-profile issue that they may have. And again, just needing someone with experience outside of their division. Putting things in context about myself and experience over the years, I, again, have been a lifelong resident of Back Creek District. Actually, I'm the seventh generation. My grandchildren, my wife, and my children, they're all from the same district. My brother is from the ninth generation, so we've been here since 1777, although my brother is in Iowa. I don't know what happened to him. During my time with the school system, in particular the 30 years in administration, you have a lot of contact with parents. And as you go along building the budget and have input at various levels, you have contact with committees. And in my role in particular, as an executive administrator, working with the budget committee, presenting, and again, I probably don't look a whole lot different than I did before when I was answering questions for you on budget. Some of the things, the big projects that you do, causes you to interact with county departments. When you build a school, I was part of building. I was part of building a high school, Millbrook High School. Part of the design and then construction, that was a classic design bid build. Three middle schools and five elementary schools. Two or three major renovations of schools and then a transportation center. The process that we used, design bid build, which is pretty traditional. And then, you know, we had to go through a lot of things. We had to go through a lot of things. We had to go through a lot of things. We had to go through a lot of things. Also, we did PPEA at the request of the Board of Supervisors. And that was, let's see, Greenwood Mill. And we've also done construction management at risk. On two recent projects and with the new high school, I assume they're doing a design bid build. So I'm from Greenwood. familiar with the contracting process, all phases of it. I didn't do that alone. And it's important that you gather information from the school level, others within your organization that have input, in particular your finance people. And then working with the departments here, you work with planning and development. We searched and worked literally with the Board of Supervisors bringing in in closed session to purchase the land that they're using, the 83 acres to build the high school. And that was a long process. And working through and communicating. When you communicate, you build trust. And when you ask questions, Board of Supervisor members, you base that on your answer. So I'm already at overtime, but I wanted to give you that overview. Quickly mentioned, before you throw me off the podium, two other key projects that talk about cooperation is the SRO program, the memorandum of understanding with the sheriff's office, and the other was parks and rec, the facility use agreement. We would not have been able to open schools if it was not that cooperative. Dr. That's the other key project. And quickly mentioned, before you throw me off the podium, two other key projects that talk about cooperation, is the SRO program, the memorandum of understanding, cooperation and them providing child care after the pandemic. And when you go through tough times, working with the various departments, knowing the community, and it's not always easy. Thank you. Hugh Van Meter. Mr. Chairman. My name is Barry Van Meter, Back Creek District. Thank you all for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Barry Van Meter, and I've been a resident of Back Creek and Frederick County for 51 years. My family has deep roots in this county. We go all the way back to Bell Grove. I grew up on a farm in Star Tannery that's still in the family today. I attended Gore Elementary, the original Frederick County Middle School, and James Wood back when it was the only high school. Go Colonels. I went to Lower Fairfax Community College, and then on to James Madison University where I got my degree. Bachelor's in Business Administration. I then returned home. I did some time in construction work before building a starter house in Shawnee Land in 2000. I got married and ultimately had three children, and my starter home got way too small. I love the community, and so we decided to build another house in Shawnee Land near the lake, and I've lived there ever since. My daughters are age 20, 18, and 13, all of which have come up through public schools. The oldest just graduated, William and Mary. My middle daughter is currently a senior at James Wood. She's a senior in the community, involved in swimming, track, and any other clubs she can get herself into. The youngest is in eighth grade. She's also involved in track and field. So we are very involved and supportive with Frederick County Public Schools. Our families attended Fellowship Bible Church on Middle Road. We've been there from the time it was a single building to the additional add-ons to the megastructure it's become. I think this is very symbolic of Frederick County itself. In my lifetime, and particularly in the last 20 years, we've seen massive growth in the county. We've seen farms disappear to become a community. We've seen a lot of people move out of the community. We've seen businesses and subdivisions. Homes and townhomes have popped up everywhere, it seems, even in the strangest of places, like next to a sewage treatment plant, which is not someplace I would want to live, but I also grew up on a farm. This has been very prevalent, particularly on the east side of the county, but the western side has not been immune. This has come with challenges to our infrastructure, our county government, and to our residents. Shawnee Land over the years has experienced similar growth. I served for 12 years on the advisory board up there. We've faced similar issues, challenges with increased population, roads, our lakes, historic preservation, and Mother Nature herself. We were able to navigate these challenges with a combination of teamwork, communication, community involvement, and positivity. By doing this, we were often able to come up with outside-the-box solutions to achieve our goals without negatively impacting our budget. As you know, the sanitary district is entirely self-funded. We do not get any county money to maintain our subdivision. So we have to make our ends meet ourselves. Over the years, we've tried to keep our costs down. And our fees to a minimum. Fiscal responsibility was a priority for our residents because we pay fees and taxes. Additionally, I've served the county for 22 years as a law enforcement officer. I started under Sheriff Williamson and now under Sheriff Milholland. I've risen through the ranks to the rank of lieutenant where I currently manage the morning shift. This has given me the opportunity to meet with the public in a variety of circumstances. I've been involved with community meetings, HOAs, board meetings. In addition, I've traveled the length and width of this county. Not only is responding to calls for service, but also community policing. I've been able to get out and talk with people. Talk about their lives, their concerns, and things that impact them. It is not uncommon to stop and have a conversation with someone over a cup of coffee in a store somewhere. The people in this county have been very supportive. Not only of the sheriff's office, but of the county itself. One of the things I've taken away from my time in law enforcement is that no matter how routine the call may seem to me, the person with the issue, it is very important. We need to put ourselves in that person's shoes in order to effectively help them. We need to put ourselves in that person's shoes in order to effectively help them. We need to put ourselves in that person's shoes in order to effectively help them. I took this with me from my time on the advisory committee. I believe that no matter what side of an argument that you stand on, it is just as important as the other side. Their opinions be respected, even if you disagree with it. We can have open communication and civil debate about any topic. Ultimately, when things come to a vote, there will be times when you're the winning and on the losing side of that vote. And that's okay. We do not have to agree. We just have to respect each other as each of us is trying to do the best for the county. I firmly believe that a positive attitude will always net a positive outcome. I firmly believe that a positive attitude will always net a positive outcome. This is what I bring as a board member. I have deep ties to the county, particularly Back Creek. I have served on the sanitary advisory committee for over a dozen years. I have over two decades of law enforcement helping people resolve their problems. I feel that these qualities would make me a candidate for interim supervisor. I believe teamwork, community engagement, communication, positivity are the keys to success in just about any endeavor. I look forward to working with each of you to improve our county, not just for us, but for our children and for the rest of the county. I look forward to working with each of you to improve our county, not just for us, but for our children and for the rest of the county. I look forward to working with each of you to improve our county, not just for us, but for our children and for the rest of the county. Thank you for your time and your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for coming out. Thank you. I'm speaking for all of us, but I'm saying we really appreciate the community stepping up. We had it with the Gainesboro seat, and we're having it with the Back Creek seat. And we just appreciate what we're seeing and the folks that are applying. And we just appreciate what we're seeing and the folks that are applying. It's our community that cares about our county, and we all care about our county. So I just really appreciate you coming out. And with that, our public meeting will be adjourned. Madam Chair, Madam Vice Chair? I move for adjournment. Second. So moved. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you.
