Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Planning Commission
Date:    2021-07-21
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=100
========================================================================

Call to order the meeting of the July 21st, 2021 Frederick County Planning Commission. If you would please join me in a moment of silence, please. Thank you. The first item on our agenda is the adoption of our agenda. If there's nothing to change or add to our agenda, I'll entertain a motion to approve. Is it moved? Second. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Our agenda is approved tonight. Next item we have is our meeting minutes from our June 2nd, 2020. Our June 2nd, 2021 meeting minutes and our June 16th, 2021. If there's no revisions to our meeting minutes from those two meetings as they stand as read, I'll entertain a motion to approve both of those. So moved. Do I have a second? Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those minutes are approved. We'll go right into committee reports and we'll go down to Frederick Water. Do we have one for Mr. Jewell? Frederick Water did not have a meeting this month, sir. All right. Let's check that off. And we had our comp plan met, our comp plan committee met on the 12th, I believe it was. And I'll do a brief report. We had a brief discussion with expanding the SWASA UDA and some land use requests for the Russell Smith properties that are off of 522 South. And we've had additional comments from Ms. Perkins and we worked through additional upgrades to our comp plan. So that's an ongoing. That's an ongoing event that we're hoping to wrap up this year. We're moving forward with that. The next one we have is transportation committee. Mr. Oates. Yes. We met on Monday, June the 28th. First item was we went over the transportation maps for the comp plan for the update, made some revisions to them based on rezonings that have occurred, and then noted a couple of proposed roads. And. Routing that probably should be looked at whenever we get back into doing land use area plans again to update those. But they didn't want the committee didn't want to make drastic changes to the plans that are already there. Second item was just update on the county roads. Renaissance Drive. They're waiting just the final approvals now for that crossing from Rattle Loven over to Shady Elm and crossover boulevards nearly complete. It's definitely on track to be done by the contractor. Sounds good. Good to hear. Thanks, sir. D R C. Do we have a yes, sir? We met. So we met on June the 24th. And both of the items we discussed are on our agenda tonight for discussion. So. We'll let Mr. Tyler fill us in here in a little bit. All right. Well, plenty of discussion. Our next one is our liaison from our folks at Winchester planning. We have Mr. David Ray with us tonight, sir. Do you have a report? Yes, I do, sir. Thank you. The Winchester planning committee. Commission met yesterday, July 20th and considered the following C. O. P. For North Cameron Street for mixed use, commercial and multifamily dwellings totaling 171 units and parking. The C. O. P. Has been forward to city council with the planning commission recommending approval. We took it on application for a C. O. P. For a short term rental at North of North Pleasant Valley Road. And we tabled that the conditional use permit request from Glaze and Brothers Juice Company to allow hosting outdoor entertainment. On North Cameron Street. And it was recommended for approval to by city council. The planning commission approved the preliminary subdivision at 375 West Teffa Street, subject to staff review and approval. And approved forwarding the final subdivision to city council recommending approval subject to staff review and approval of the Plats and plans. An ordinance amending the zoning ordinance of Winchester short term rental regulations passed recommending approval by city council. A request by Shenandoah University to approve the plan. And the plan is approved. The city council's recommendation to add an esports arena outdoor mural to the rear of the Armory building was recommended for approval. We had four site plan administrative authorizations that were considered and approved. That included a residential conversion on South Loudon Street. A solar farm at the Winchester Medical Center across Campus Boulevard entrance ramp to 37. The Laurel Center Cafe Restaurant parking layout at the north of the B&O Freight Station on Cameron Street. And the C. and Shules Furniture Warehouse and CrossFit Jim's parking lot revisions to their parking. All those revisions were considered and approved. You were some busy people there. We were busy. Thank you for your report. Appreciate that. And I see no Board of Supervisors or liaisons, so that will end our committee reports unless I've missed someone. See no one else? That's fine. I will slip one thing in at this time before we go into citizen comments. I do have a resolution of appreciation. Then I'll have Mr. Marston come forward here, but let me read it first before you get up. We'll save you a step if you don't mind. So let me read this first. It's a resolution of appreciation for Jay Rhodes Marston, member of the Planning Commission of Frederick County, Virginia. Whereas Jay Rhodes Marston served as a Back Creek District Representative on the Frederick County Planning Commission from the date of his appointment by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on June 12, 2013. And whereas Jay Rhodes Marston served as a Back Creek District Representative on the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on June 12, 2013. And whereas Jay Rhodes Marston served on various committees and boards during his time on the Planning Commission, such as the Frederick Water Planning Commission, liaison, and the Comprehensive Plans and Programs Committee. And whereas Jay Rhodes Marston served in the development of various land use studies, most significantly the update of the Frederick County 2035 Comprehensive Plan, a small areas plan, such as the Southern Frederick Area Plan, and the Kernstown Area Plan. And whereas during this period of his membership on the commission, Jay Rhodes Marston's demonstration, demonstrated both great insight into issues which faced the commission, and a keen sense of dedication to the betterment of his community. And whereas Jay Rhodes Marston possesses the highest devotion to duty, and represented the citizens and the county with dignity, dedication, and wisdom. And whereas the members of the Planning Commission wish to express their gratitude to Jay Rhodes Marston, and to recognize his many years of faithful service. Now, therefore, be it resolved that on this 21st day of July, 2014, the Frederick County Planning Commission does hereby officially express its sincere thanks to Jay Rhodes Marston for his commitment to sound planning, his tireless participation in the activities of the Planning Commission, and his various subcommittees, and his overall dedication to the County of Frederick. Adopted this 21st day of July 2021. Mr. Jay Rhodes Marston, please come forward. Thank you. Thank you. It's a pleasure. Thank you for your service. I would like to thank the opportunity to do this, to serve on the Planning Commission, which is a great honor. I'd like to thank all of my fellow commissioners. That helped me tremendously. The older ones, some of them are not with us anymore, few of them staying the same. And the elite table over here, the staff, I certainly would like to thank all the staff. You were always ingenious. Thank you. You know I'm very, I thank you guys very much. And the ladies, it's not a very common story. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Back to our agenda. Citizen comments. Is there anyone in our audience tonight that would like to come forward to speak before us for any items that is either on the agenda or not? Seeing no one, I'll close the citizen comment portion. We'll move right to Mr. Klein, who has an information discussion item for ordinance amendment for the opaque fencing requirements and its waiver thereof. Yes, sir. Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Planning Commission. This one should be familiar to many of you. This is a proposed ordinance amendment to Chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to allow double-walled wing slats. And chain link fence to satisfy the opaque fence requirements for zoning district buffers through a waiver if granted by the Board of Supervisors. The proposed amendment would also allow chain link fencing with slats for certain uses without the requirement for a waiver in the county's business and industrial districts. To be eligible for a zoning district buffer waiver, the proposal states that the applicant, owner, developer making such a request must have written consent from the adjoining or affected property owners to proceed with the zoning district buffer waiver. This is a proposed amendment to the ordinance. This is not a request for any of the other members of the board. The proposal states that the applicant, owner, developer making such a request must have written consent from the adjoining or affected property owners to proceed with making that request. Again, for the purposes of our discussion, the type of double-walled wing slat that we're referring to is shown on the screen. It's a composite plastic material with interlocking wings or feathers on the side to create a nearly 100% opaque fence. Again, this is what the product type looks like. In chain link, it comes in a variety of colors. And again, it's a product type that is very low and very low-tech. This is a product type that I'm going to go over later. So, I'm going to go over this product type again. And then I'm going to go over the other side. nearly 100% opaque fence. Again, this is what the product type looks like. In Chainlink, it comes in a variety of colors. And again, it's a high quality product. The Board of Supervisors at their May 12th meeting considered the previous ordinance amendments to allow opaque fencing in Chainlink. And they decided that what was being proposed was not satisfactory and they sent it back to committee. Specifically, the Board directed staff at that time to modify the text for the utilization of Chainlink with slats to be required for a waiver consideration by the Board of Supervisors on the appropriateness of requests at a certain location. Again, as it pertains to zoning district buffers. The zoning ordinance definition for opaque fence specifies that a fence is constructed to visually obscure structures, outdoor storage areas, and other uses. And it specifically calls out that a Chainlink fence with slats does not satisfy as an opaque fence. The opaque fence requirement is also referenced in a number of other sections of our zoning ordinance. Specifically, part 202.10, outdoor storage and processing. 203, buffer and screening requirements. And part 204 for landfills, junkyards, trash disposal, inoperable vehicles and dumpster enclosures, motor vehicle uses, automotive repair shops, public garages, and self-storage facilities. In satisfying the requirements, the Board of Supervisors will define the requirements for an opaque fence. In the noted sections, typically a six foot tall board on board fence is required, or we also will allow the use of a hedge, a wall, or a berm. For outdoor storage areas in our business and industrial districts, what we commonly hear from the development community is that Chainlink fence is the preferred type of fencing because it's required for security. For zoning district buffers and residential separation buffers, we also require a fence. We also require an opaque element to screen different land uses and different housing types from adjoining properties. And in addition to those requirements of a fence, we also require a landscape element. So again, the request is to modify the buffers, but also to allow it in our business and industrial districts. The Development Review and Regulations Committee discussed this a number of times throughout the fall, but most recently, at their June 24th meeting, they considered this specifically to address a few questions. the specific proposal to allow it as a waiver. The committee generally had concerns with requiring a waiver, and specifically that that waiver go to the Board of Supervisors. They felt like if the consent of the adjoining property owners was granted in writing, it should be a zoning administrator determination at that point, not a Board of Supervisors item. And the committee was, again, supportive of allowing the chain link fencing with slats to satisfy the opaque fence requirement or business and industrial districts. Again, limited to the specific uses that we discussed earlier in the presentation. This zoning ordinance text amendment is presented to you all this evening as an information discussion item. Staff is seeking comments from the Planning Commission to forward to the Board of Supervisors on this item. And, of course, I'm happy to answer any questions you have as it pertains to it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any questions for Mr. Klein? Any discussion? Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any discussion? Any questions? I think we worked this one a lot. Is everyone ready? I think you've got our blessing and move forward with it. Thank you. I think you'll be good. While you're there, we'll just go right into the next ordinance amendment for master development plans. The approval process, Mr. Klein. Yes. This is a proposal to amend Chapter 165 of the zoning ordinance to modify the application and review process for master development. For this's 마음에. It says that the work of the California Jaguar Unbelievable Antiquities Program, named in 2014, should not include any direct Original Although for inaction from the propensities to m�dp on some tender. for any other incentive particular to mAAAAAA THE MA A menjadi Supreme Council can pass on the last terms. Guarantee and scribe approval of 30,000 total dust and löWY4화 to about five percent, said H. Frank, move 1980 Kendall. from H. theər. ODPs are typically required after a rezoning is approved by the Board of Supervisors and before a site plan or subdivision design plan may be submitted for administrative review and approval by the zoning administrator. Master development plans typically outline the basic layout of the project, specifying where roadways or points of access may be located, showing where buffers and screening elements will be located, open space, recreational amenities. More specific details of a site, including the specific lot layouts and grading, are not part of master development plans. They're part of the site plan or subdivision design plan stage. So again, you have this kind of two-fold level review of your master development plan, which is your general kind of concept plan, and your site plan, which is your very specific engineered set of drawings. Master development plans have been a requirement in the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance since the adoption of the 1973 ordinance. And again, Previously, master development plans actually required planning commission and Board of Supervisors approval and actual vote on their appropriateness before they could be signed. However, in the early 2000s, that requirement was changed, and master development plans became an information item, and there was a requirement to present it to the planning commission and Board. And you all have seen a number of those over the last several months and years. The Code of Virginia does not specify a requirement for localities to require a master development plan prior to a site plan or subdivision design plan submission. Nor does it require public notices on master development plans. Those items that require public notices under the Code of Virginia are rezonings and other changes to the official zoning map. Master development plans, again, do not meet that threshold. This proposed ordinance amendment actually removes the requirements for master development plans to be presented to the planning commission and the Board of Supervisors at a public meeting as an information item prior to administration approval. With this proposed amendment, when master development plans are administratively approvable, i.e., the plans are in conformance with all the requirements of the Code of Frederick County and have been approved by applicable review agencies, including Frederick Water and the Virginia Department of Transportation, the master development plan would proceed directly for signature or approval by the planning director and the county administrator. In regard to the public availability of project materials under this proposed amendment, planning and development staff has created a very easy-to-use, dedicated current projects page on RCA. The project is available on our department homepage with information regarding all current land use applications, including master development plans. And again, this is easily accessible to the public. Additionally, staff has provided a link on the planning commission agendas, and we'll be doing so moving forward to that current projects page, which includes all of the applications, both administrative and legislative applications, for you all to review and understand what's going on in the county. And again, public meeting agendas are available to the public on the county's homepage. And again, if you're interested in learning more about the project, please visit the meeting portal. And if I can draw your attention to the screen, this is what our current planning applications page looks like. It has all of our projects, those pending and those that have been recently approved. And when you click on each project, it links you to all the information and documents related to that. So for a master development plan, you would get the draft plan, all of the review agency comments, the application, power of attorney, et cetera. We also include a description of what each project is about, what magisterial district's in, and a convenient map so that citizens can easily see where their property may be in relation to the subject properties to those applications. So on our current projects page, we have master development plans, site plans, rezonings, variances, conditional use permits, et cetera. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for having us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you, Mr. Klein. Any questions? I know we've bedded this one up pretty good also, so I think that anybody got any discussion? Thank you, sir. I think we're ready to move that forward and tell them we're good to go. Our next item on is under other we have, and I think that as you see there, and I think Mr. Klein touched on it a little bit, the current planning applications. I think Mr. Pearson is going to come up and maybe discuss a little bit that new web page a little bit. Any questions for any current ones we may have? This is like a tutorial tonight. We're not going to get into discussion with any type of ones that you may see or pop up on the screen there, but he's just going to take us through the system here tonight, and if you do have anything you see on there tonight, just reach out to staff and ask them the questions here. But this is just kind of a read-through tonight, just a tutorial for us, I believe. Yeah, absolutely. And I think Tyler covered pretty much everything that I intended to cover. I just want to let you all know that at this point in the agenda during any meeting is an opportunity to ask us about all these applications that you may have seen developing around the community and you want to know more information about. We'll be sure to have either Tyler, myself, John, or Candice, whoever's knowledgeable about the application here and able to answer questions about any further information you're looking for on those specific projects. As it relates to the MDP info item and changing that and making sure that we're able to answer questions and making sure that we're able to answer questions and removing that as an informational item, our thought process is these are all administrative applications. We should treat them all equally and you all should know about all of them moving forward and the intricacies of them. And if you have any questions, we'll be glad to answer them. And so that's really our intention. And with that, I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have as far as that's concerned. I've got a pretty good feel for what they're putting in front of us. I would just say that this is a great improvement. I think it's going to be a great tool for the whole community. So it's good stuff. Thanks, guys. Good stuff. Thank you, sir. That brings us down to my next item on here. We are working on having a work session, I believe, on August 18th is when the tentative date is right now with the Board of Supervisors. Okay. And it's... The updates that have been proposed to the Board are the next planning commissions following that in September. Okay. Sounds good. So keep that on your agenda and what have you moving forward. If there's nothing else to come before us tonight, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. We're adjourned.
