Frederick County Board of Supervisors
Meeting: Board of Supervisors
Date:    2022-01-12
Source:  https://fcva.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=1&clip_id=116
========================================================================

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you sir. You're welcome. I got it. Yep. Yep. Organization of the board for the year 2022. We'll organize our functions. First item is election of a vice chair. I'd open the floor for nominations. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'd like to nominate Supervisor J. Douglas McCarthy. Supervisor McCarthy. Thank you, sir. Further nominations. Anyone? Anyone at all? Hearing none. All those in favor of Doug McCarthy as vice chair for the year 2022? Aye. Aye. Aye. Any opposed? No. Aye. Not nice, but I accept your vote. Congratulations, Doug. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Adoption of rules of the procedure. Supervisor Slaughter. Yes, sir. Mr. Chairman. I move that the board adopt the rules of procedures originally adopted by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors on May 28, 2003, amended. As intended. Through today, January 12, 2022, with the following revisions. One, an update of Section 1-12, the remote meeting participation policy to reflect changes made by the General Assembly regarding an expanded allowance for remote participation. In the instance of a family member's medical condition that requires the member of a public body to provide care for such family member, thereby preventing the member from participating. members physical attendance and I further move that the board adopt Robert's Rules of Order simplified and applied second Second third motion is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye those no Will adopt the parliamentarian mr. Chairman I would move that the board elect the county administrator as parliamentarian Second motion is second is there any discussion all those in favor aye aye those no Selection of time place of regular meeting mr. Chairman I would move that the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at 7 p.m. And the Board of Supervisors meeting room County Administration Building 107 North Kent Street, Winchester, Virginia Be the time and meeting place for the Frederick County Board of Supervisors for 2022 With the exception that the second meeting in November And December not be scheduled because of the conflict with holidays I further move that should a meeting be canceled due to inclement weather it will take place on the following evening Second any discussion all those in favor aye aye Pose no We'll adopt the time and place Committee assignments, I think we talked briefly before the meeting There will be changes that will need to be made in that And we will formally Approve that at our next meeting Organization of motions What is that rod Okay, all right Okay, that's that's the expanded got it. Thank you. All right. We're ready for adoption of the agenda So moves to approve any proposed changes Mr.. Chairman, I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented Second any discussion all those in favor aye aye F�도ce map top the agenda as presented citizen comments items that are not subject to public hearing Any one signup yes, sir, thank you approval Or the amendments on the agenda as a� Stock � dio upottLes do January 5th second dispencet of the program and I bring up roll suise to the US book schlech and find gleichzeitig dual offense by board the board's reserve and the chamber of the うh are not permissive to kind of μέge ni экспtschaft nach einen it will leave full objection as to what the board says if our possible change of approval to the bill picked by City Board of State that's fine as it takes extended capacity, Mr. Chairman I would move for adoption of the agenda as presented after the matter. Why don't you go through these for us, Ms. Perkins? The consent agenda. The consent agenda consists of the following items. Approval of the minutes of December 8th, 2021. Acceptance of the Parks and Recreation Commission report of December 14th, 2021. Acceptance of the Public Safety Committee report of December 9th, 2021. Acceptance of the Transportation Committee report of December 27th, 2021. And a request for refunds and supplemental appropriations. Kevin Campbell Trucking, $7,500, $5,029.60. Ryder Truck Rental LT, $12,162.35. Toyota Lease Trust, $5,036.43. MYB Incorporated, $8,595.83. Thank you, ma'am. How would the board like to handle the consent agenda? Mr. Chairman, I would move for approval of the consent agenda as presented. Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I'm not sure how to do this properly, but I'd like to make an observation. I recommend a correction on the Public Safety Committee report. The bottom paragraph of the first page states that our good sheriff has requested funds to the order of $1 billion for software updates. I think the correct number would be $1 million, consistent with the chart later in the report. And it just seems like a big number. We ought to get right. Mr. Reed. Well done. Thank you, sir. I assume the board would agree to make the typo correction. So how would the board like to handle with proposed amendment? Mr. Chairman, I'm going to make a motion to amend the motion that has been made with the correction that we move forward with the consent agenda. Second. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. We will now vote on the amended. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. We'll adopt the consent agenda as amended. Yes. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? I'm sorry, yes, we do. I'm sorry. We need a roll call. A roll call vote on the amended consent agenda vote. I apologize. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye and the motion carries. Thank you, Supervisor Slaughter. Any discussion? Any discussion? Any discussion? All those in favor signify by saying aye. All those against? Aye. Aye. Okay, thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have a couple of final comments. I previously went to the board, but I don't have any comments today. I was going to do a little bit of a short report, but I was not sure if there was any discussion or not. We'll move on to the board. I have a couple of comments. I had a lot of board comments. I didn't hear any. So, we'll move on to the county officials. Mr. Chairman. 9A, Appointments, Boards. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman, just one comment. I wanted to welcome the gentleman on my right. Yes. Thank you. Yes. All right. Frederick Winchester Service Authority's three-year term of Eric Lawrence, which expired two days ago. Mr. Lawrence is eligible and willing to serve another term. Mr. Chairman, I would move that we reinstate Eric Lawrence for another three-year term for Frederick Winchester Service Authority. Second. Thank you, sir. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Appoint Mr. Lawrence. Planning Commission, the four-year term for Stonewall District Representative Gary Oates, which expired yesterday. Mr. Oates is eligible and willing to serve another term. Mr. Chairman, I would move for a motion to approve Mr. Oates to be reappointed for another period. Thank you, ma'am. Is there a second? Second. Second. Second. Any discussion? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree Mr. Oates is a very kind, good person. I've had an opportunity to work with him on several occasions on several projects and have appreciated that working relationship. I have also, in recent weeks, received several phone calls from folks within my district and out of my district with concerns on his serving on the Planning Commission. And as a result of those phone calls, I know some of the others on this board have also received phone calls from some folks in their districts, respectively. I cannot support his nomination to the Planning Commission. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Further discussion? Anyone? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Thank you, sir. Social Services Board, it's an unexpired term. Back Creek District Representative. And we have an application from Kermit Gaither. How would the board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman, if I may? Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the representative from my district for the last seven and a half years had started a new job and called me to state that she would desire to find someone to replace her as her term is expiring due to the new job and the constraints they're in. I would like to say thank you to her for seven and a half wonderful years of service to our county. It just so happened Mr. Gaither has moved into our district and has previously served on the Social Services Board, was in good standing with them. Mr. Gaither's background is he is a deputy sheriff in the city of Winchester Sheriff's Office, has pretty good extensive history with the Social Services Board, and came highly recommended. So I would like to recommend Mr. Kermit Gaither to fill the unexpired term on the Social Services Board to represent the Back Creek District. Thank you, sir. Heard the motion. Is there a second? I'll second it. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you, sir. Mr. Gaither will be appointed Shawnee District Representative. We have a new application of Gail Ferreria. I hope I didn't butcher the pronunciation. How would the board like to proceed? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. It is my distinct honor to nominate Ms. Gail Ferreria to serve as the Shawnee Representative on the Social Services Board. Second. Thank you, sir. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. And we have an appointment. Landfill Oversight Committee, we would recommend that Michael Bolhoffer, our county administrator, be appointed to the Landfill Oversight Committee. How would the board like to handle this one? Motion to approve. Second. And a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Mr. Bolhoffer is appointed. This one is a little different. We don't see it very often, but I was asked to find a new representative for People Incorporated. I'm sorry? Okay. We have an application from Nadine Pullinger. And how would the board like to handle this one? I would move that we reappoint. Motion to reappoint. Second. And a second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Opposed, no. We'll appoint Ms. Polliting. We're seeking applications from the community for the Hanley Regional Library Board. We have two vacancies there. The Historic Resources Advisory Board, Shawnee District. That one will be Mr. Ludwig's. Social Services Board, Redbud. Still a vacancy. I'll have that by the time we come out next time, sir. Thank you, sir. All right. Bring us to public hearings. Non-planning. There are none. No committee business to deal with. We have three public hearings under planning. 12A Planning Commission, rezoning 0521. Ms. Perkins, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the Board. This is a request to rezone 8.2 acres from the B2 Business General District without proffers to the B3 Industrial Transition District, again, without proffers. This site is located along Fort Collier Road. It's about 400 feet east of Baker Lane, about 1,400 feet north of Berryville Avenue. I can direct you to the screen on your left. You have Fort Collier that runs along the front of the property, and you have Baker Lane. You have Baker Lane in this location. Now, the subject property rezoned from the M1 District to the B2 District back in 1987. The site is within the limits of the Northeast Land Use Plan, which shows a business commercial designation for the property. So with that, both the existing B2 zoning as well as the proposed requested B3 zoning are both consistent with the comprehensive plan. Now, the site is surrounded by a mix of there's business, industrial, as well as residential zoning. Just a little bit of a look at the site. Just to point out that some of the uses within the B2 and B3 District are the same. B3 does allow a little bit more intensive use for the – there's some additional uses that are a bit more intensive than the B2. So the Planning Commission did recommend approval of this rezoning at their December 15th meeting. Tonight, following public hearing, staff is seeking a decision from the board on this request. I'd be glad to answer any questions. And Mr. David Frank from Pannonia is here on behalf of the application. Thank you. Questions of Ms. Perkins, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you. Ms. Perkins, the rezoning, going from one zoning to the other, will it have any significant difference in impact to traffic or other services provided by the county? B3 District typically can see is a little less intense when you're talking traffic. It doesn't allow for a lot of your retail-type uses. Some of the higher, though, ones like restaurant are still permitted in both. So it would most likely be less of a transportation impact. Thank you. Questions of Ms. Perkins, anyone? Thank you. Mr. Frank, do you have anything you'd like to add? Good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the board. I have the privilege of being in front of you tonight on this application. Ms. Perkins did a good job at summarizing what the application's about. I would like to call attention to the question. I think that's what Supervisor McCarthy brought up. The transportation will be less, generally is anticipated to be less with a B3 use than a B2 use. Also, we have done some preliminary coordination with VDOT. The proposed entrance to this site will be the fourth leg of the intersection where Fort Collier and Stratford Drive are. It's a very good access point for this particular piece of property. I will make myself available for any questions you guys might have for me. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Frank? Anyone? Thank you, sir. This is a public hearing. Did anyone sign up? No, sir. Is there anyone who has come that didn't sign up that wanted to speak to this issue? Seeing no one, we'll close the public hearing portion. Board, I think this is Stonewall. Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. I would make a motion for approval of rezoning 05-21 for Paula O. Henry from the B2 General Business District. I would like to move that the B2-B3 Industrial Transition District be moved. Second. Motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, Supervisor Ludwig? Aye. Supervisor McCarthy? Aye. Supervisor Slaughter? Aye. Supervisor Wells? Aye. Supervisor Dunn? Aye. Supervisor Graber? Aye. Chair votes aye, and the motion carries. That will bring us to 12B, a conditional use permit. 12-21. Mr. Taylor. Yes, good evening, Mr. Chairman, members of the Board. This is a request for a conditional use permit to enable the construction of a utility-scale solar power generating facility on approximately 326 acres of RA zone property in the Gainesboro Magisterial District. Staff would know the present use of the property is agricultural vacant and forestal lands. Directing your attention to the screen to your left, the subject properties are outlined in blue. There are three parcels to make up this project. For reference, Parishville Road kind of serves as the western property boundary, and Hollow Road forms the southern property boundary, and this is just off of Route 50 as you leave Frederick County and you enter West Virginia. The location, for those of you who are familiar with the area, the Gore substation is this little track that's carved out under one of the, the parcels in this kind of open area you see running west to east along the property, is an overhead transmission facility, overhead transmission lines for electricity. And again, the proximity to those facilities is one of the factors in citing the project at this location. The project, as it's proposed in the application, will generate up to 20 megawatts of photovoltaic or solar energy. The project proposes disturbance of approximately 135 acres for the installation, installation of ground-mounted photovoltaic modules, also known as solar panels, inverters, vehicle access paths, security fencing and landscaping. Power generated by this facility will be confined, converted, and increased to allow delivery to the adjacent Gore substation for entrance onto the electric grid. This is the concept plan that was included with the conditional use permit application, and it outlines the applicant's, proposal again, directing your attention to the screen. For reference, the orange lines are those overhead transmission lines. The orange box here is the Gore substation and Parishville Road is this dark black line here, which you'll notice on this concept drawing is that the, this parcel that's including the application that fronts Parishville Road is actually going to be used only for interconnection. The applicant is not proposing to locate any solar panels on that piece of property known as the Holmes property. Uh, will only be used for vehicle access during periods of construction. The the balance of the site, the two parcels owned by Blue Ridge Land Holdings. The applicant is where the solar panels will be located. What you see in blue again is the solar infrastructure. The applicant is proposing 100 foot setbacks around the perimeter of the property, except along Hollow Road, where they're proposing a 60 foot setback. Um, they're also showing a point of access for vehicles, passenger vehicles for construction and post construction maintenance from the property to Anchorage Lane. The parcel includes a direct 50 ft wide strip of land that provides direct access to Anchorage Lane. And then around the perimeter of the property is going to be a mix of landscaping where you see the green highlight. That is where a natural 50 ft mature woodlands will be used to screen the project from the adjoining properties. And where do you see the pink highlight in these areas? Is where the applicant is proposing a landscape buffer in conformance with the zoning order than its requirements, which would be a 10 ft landscape easement with a variety of plantings spaced on Center. So in addition to that concept planned, the application also includes a decommissioning plan, which outlines provisions for the removal of all the solar equipment um in the site restored to its pre development condition at the time the facilities are no longer in operation. is no longer in operation. In that decommissioning plan, it outlines the requirements for a monetary guarantee, which will ensure that the cost of the removal of the equipment and the restoration of the land is covered. And those estimated costs for decommissioning are to be reviewed every five years to ensure that the evaluation of the removal and the site restoration is covered by the bond that's in place. And it can be adjusted if those costs change. When evaluating a conditional use permit, we look at the comprehensive plan conformance, and the plan envisions that this area of the county remain primarily rural in nature and the land be preserved for agricultural uses in the future. You all will also recall that in our recent addition and update to the comprehensive plan, we outlined some specific policies in consideration of solar facilities, that utility-scale facilities are typically passive uses with limited impacts to the environment and the rural area. We also outlined that the implementation of this use can facilitate the preservation of agricultural and rural land for future uses once the sites are decommissioned, that solar facilities provide opportunities for rural landowners to recoup value from their property without subdividing and creating new residential lots, and that there's additional tax revenue generated through a machines and tools tax assessment in addition to that land use valuation. In addition to our local permitting process, we also outlined that the application for the conditional use permit is required to be approved by the state. The application is also required to go through a fairly extensive state-level permitting, known as the permit by rule, which is administered by the Department of Environmental Quality. This includes an extensive cultural and environmental study, and one component of that review and approval process is that local jurisdictional approval. So if this conditional use permit were to be approved this evening, the applicant can continue to move forward with their PBR application. The other thing about this application, since you all last considered it, is a recent change to the Code of Virginia, which enables localities to work with solar developers in what's known as a solar studying agreement. And this is an opportunity to mitigate some of those potential impacts of solar projects on local jurisdictions. In the solar studying agreement, the applicant has agreed to grant a conservation easement over the property in two phases to preserve that property for future agricultural uses, and they will also execute the extinguishment of the transfer development rights on the project as well, prohibiting the future subdivision of the land for residential uses. The studying agreement has been moralized in condition number four, and approval of the studying agreement is an action of the Board of Supervisors. So in addition to your action on the conditional use permit this evening, we're looking for action on that studying agreement, which was included with your packet. So should the Board of Supervisors find this use to be appropriate, the Planning Commission has recommended the following conditions of approval be included. Number one, that all review agency comments provided during the review of this application shall be complied with at all times. Number two, that an engineered site plan in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted to and subject to approval by Frederick County prior to the establishment of the use. The site plan shall address the additional regulations for specific uses outlined in Part 20426 of the Frederick County Zoning Ordinance, and that the site plan be in general conformance with the concept plan included with the CUP application prepared by the Timmins Group and dated November 5th, 2021. Number three, that person to the Code of Virginia, the owner shall comply with the decommissioning plan included with the application prepared by Hollow Road Land Holdings dated November 5th, 2021, and shall update the decommissioning plan every five years. Number four, that at the time the project achieves commercial operation, the owner will execute an extinguishment of transfer of development rights for tax parcels 27A11 and 27A12, and further, the owner will grant a conservation easement for the portion of the property encompassed by tax parcels 27A11 and 12 that is not developed with solar panels or other solar energy infrastructure with the balance of the property to be placed in a conservation easement at the time of decommissioning. These conditions shall be memorialized in the solar siting agreement with Frederick County attached as exhibit A to these conditions pursuant to the Code of Virginia, Sections 15.2-231, 6.6. Number five, that batteries for the purposes of mass storage of electricity that will eventually be transferred to the grid shall not be used on property subject to this CUP. Number six, that access to the site shall be limited to two entrances, one entrance from Parrishville Road and one entrance from Anchorage Lane in conformance with the concept plan included with the application dated November 5th, 2021, and that the delivery of solar array panel construction materials and equipment shall occur only at the site access entrance off of Parrishville Road identified as the primary access road on sheet three of the concept plan, and that use of the 50-foot right-of-way ingress-egress secondary access road from Anchorage Lane shall only be used for passenger vehicle access during the process of transferring construction and post-construction maintenance. Number seven, that the pile driving of poles for solar array shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. All other construction activities are permitted 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday and 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday. No construction activities are permitted on Sundays. Number eight, that a phase one archaeological and architectural survey be completed as part of the permitting of this project and can be completed prior to site plan approval. The survey shall document the historic dwelling, barn, and area surrounding the farm complex barn located on parcel identified as number 27A11. This survey shall be submitted to the Frederick County Department of Planning and Development and to the Department of Historical Resources. A phase two survey shall be conducted if DHR determines the areas and resources under consideration are potentially significant. In the event that the above resources are eligible for inclusion on the national and state national registry of historic places, as a result of the phase two study, the structures and resources on the site shall be retained, stabilized, and preserved, and no other disturbance shall occur within 100 feet. And number nine, that any expansion or modification of this land use will require a new conditional use permit. The Planning Commission held a public hearing on December the 1st, and they recommended approval. And following the public hearing this evening, staff is seeking a decision by the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use permit application, including the solar facility siting agreement. And staff would note that any recommendation for approval would also affirm that the proposed solar facility is in accordance with the county's comprehensive plan policies. I'm happy to answer any questions you have. And Mr. Patrick Grooms, representing Blue Ridge Energy Holdings in the application is here this evening as well, and I believe he has a brief presentation. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Any questions of Mr. Klein? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Was it... Who was representing? Yes, sir. Please. Mr. Chairman and Supervisors, I appreciate you taking the time to consider this project again. As you were just told, there have been some material changes from the last time you considered it. Most of it around offers that we made, set forth in the siting agreement. And a couple of those have significant economic value to the county. And so I just want to spend a few minutes walking through those and then answering any questions you might have about those. You've already had an overview of the project, so we can skip over that. At a high level, as you've been told, it's stemming mostly from a cancellation of the TDRs on the property. And from the M&T tax that the project company would pay. Those two combined give you a total net economic benefit to the county in the ballpark of about $10 million. And I'm going to walk through how we got there. And these are not numbers that we just came up with. We worked with the planning office and having them review them as we were working through it. So the entire site, 236 acres, would be placed in the conservation easement. That would be done in two phases. As you were told earlier, part of it would go into easement at the time the project hits commercial operations. And that would be sort of the non-project property. The balance of it would be placed in conservation easement at the time that it is remediated. And the TDRs would be canceled at COD as well. With the cancellation of the TDRs, to try and determine the value of what that brings to the county, it's an elimination, not a cancellation, of up to approximately 47 houses that could be developed by right on the property. We also, obviously, in eliminating the TDRs, we don't have the ability to transfer that right elsewhere into the county as well. And so we believe that the land being placed in easement is not only consistent with the stated objectives of the comprehensive plan. And just as a side note, if we had not purchased the property, if this was a lease situation, it becomes very difficult for someone to do that. So the TDRs are not the only ones that are buying the land, actually allowed us to do that. So using the county's own estimate, it inters a full capital impact cost of nearly $30,000 for each new residence. Assuming 47 units, you get to about $1.4 million. Assuming a capital cost of $25 million on our project, Hollow Road would pay taxes of approximately $2 million over the life of the project, or about $60,000 a year. So if you have 18 students in that new set of dwelling units at 12507 at 2018 cost over 30 years, you're going to save an additional $6.75 million. That all adds up to the federal net economic benefit there of approximately $10.14 million. I think it's important for folks to understand how the different taxation works on solar projects, because they fall into three different categories. Anything 5 megawatts and under doesn't get taxed. 5 megawatts to 25 megawatts falls into the M&T tax, which actually is a higher per megawatt tax on a project than projects exceeding 25 megawatts. So all projects above 5 megawatts do get some form of the abatement that's in the state statute, but being taxed at the M&T rate, they incur a much higher impact. And so the best way to show this to you is visually. And the blue line is a 5 megawatt project, and these are cumulative numbers. The red line would be a 100 megawatt project. The green line would be a 20 megawatt project, and these are all at a levelized cost so that they're comparing apples to apples. So what you can see is that from a tax perspective, those projects in the 5 to 25 megawatt range are actually generating significantly more per megawatt for the county than other projects. Take any questions you may have, and I can answer anything that Tyler went over or anything in the presentation. Thank you, sir. Any questions? Yes, sir. Supervisor McArthur. Mr. Grooms, you're aware that there's some concern about the project going in and with the surrounding properties. I know you've tried to do your best to mitigate with the buffer. One of the things that was brought up that I haven't seen anything addressed with regard to the pile driving, the report we just got would be no construction before 7 a.m. I know that at one point there had been a suggestion that if there is construction, if this were to be approved, that no construction happened until after 8 a.m. Do you have any opposition to adhering to... I believe it was just no pile driving until... Yes, it was pile driving, doesn't start any earlier than 8 a.m., and we're fine with that. Any questions, anyone? Thank you, sir. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. Supervisor Dunn. Mr. Grooms. A little quicker, please. Does your not working also include holidays? I'm sorry? You're going to work Monday through Saturday. Sunday was excluded. Does that include holidays or not? I would assume we would not be working holidays. I'd like to request that you not work on holidays if that's possible. Thank you. And we'll specify federal holidays. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Thank you, sir. Is this a public hearing? Did anyone sign up? Yes, sir, Mr. Chairman. And I will note that you received electronic comments transmitted to you earlier. Yes. We have one person signed up, Libby Carter. Welcome. Thank you. If we could have your name, Magisterial District, and try to limit your comments to three minutes or less, please. Okay. My name is Libby Carter. I'm the Director of the City of Mid-North. I'm in the Gainesboro District or Gordon District there. We actually own the 34-point-something acres that fronts Route 50 West and Parrishville Road and kind of goes in like this. A representative of this firm, probably I was one of the first to get contacted. They wanted to buy my land. And so I had concern right away with the solar farm that they wanted to put, which would front Route 50 and Parrishville. And so I expressed my concern to them about that, the look. Not only the look, but what it would do to the agriculture land, the wildlife in the area. So I said to the representative, what is going to happen if the county doesn't approve your solar farm? And they said, Well, then our backup plan is to put in the houses. So he wanted me to sell really cheap. So I declined that. My concern is that it looks like to me that they're trying to take the whole ridge. And I'm concerned about the impact it's going to have on the people's properties up there. A lot of people, I can tell you, do not understand the impact that this could potentially have on their property. I think right now you probably are aware of what's happening over in Shenandoah County. They're having erosion on some of the land buffering these farms. So that's also a big concern. Also, I'm very concerned about the land. And I want to make sure I'm clear on this, that the property that Diane Holmes is trustee of, that where that slants down at, that nothing is going to go. And there are no solar panels are going to go in there because you must understand that the area that they approached me about for my land, it really slants, which is probably perfect for a solar farm. But everything is going to drain. And so that my land and the land that is behind another person's land there, which is on the homes. Ms. Holmes is trustee. I would really want to make sure that there is no solar panels going to go in any of that because of the poisons contained in the solar panels. Okay. They talk about, let me see, I made a whole bunch of notes. They talk in the one thing about the photovoltaic system and all of that. But actually that thin film and everything, and they can attest to that. It contains about three or four poisonous materials. They have been known to leak and pass solar farms into the ground and go into adjoining properties. So I wanted to know if this is passed, is this board and this company going to look out for the people whose land is near or connects to this land? Their land. What assurances do we have? We have health-wise, land-wise, because what's going to happen is if you all pass this, you're putting your people in your county that have been here, you're putting us in a position of potentially in the future to have to fight somebody that has a lot of money. And that's going, and it's also, by the way, it's also suggested, let me see where I put this at. Hold on. It's also. Suggested that. I got to here. The health impact that people that live close to these farms. Almost always over time start suffering headaches. They can have damaged potential damage after a long term exposure to organs. So I think. What should be considered is either an addendum or this be kicked out to protect the people that are already there. Financially, if their land starts getting eroded, that they don't have to fight then that this doesn't become their problem, that they don't have to incur health problems that they're not addressing. And in addition. Really, these people come out there. I can use an easy answer, or author the rule that we normally do. Even if they like toaner it, what? That when they get stress on their health when you need to go to hospital space with idols. And so they then start the overdose of their health by generalizing it to do tactical operations, instead of just doing something really자를 but phone home brain transferred on to data for usええ diene in that without. Theifies. Well,ize it quite fleany. If it. Being можете be taken over. I'veAMA. Sorry about that. from Mount Storm. Mount Storm is powered by coal. So I'll say that again. The solar panels collect AC, I mean, excuse me, collect DC. That can't be used. They already said in their PowerPoint that they were installing inverters. The inverters have to be run from Mount Storm and that uses coal. You're welcome. Anyone else sign up? Ms. Perkins? Would you like an opportunity to address anything you've heard, sir? Thank you, sir. All right. Mr. Chairman. I have a couple questions for the applicant, if you don't mind coming back up. Thank you. So Mr. Grimms, the speaker who was just up had asked questions about health, safety, the environment. Does DEQ have to approve this, Virginia Department of Environmental Quality? Do they monitor these things to ensure that there's... They do. So the PBR process looks at it. It's a multifaceted approval process. What are you going to do, are you going to Totem or were you going to provide a follow up to록求 a look at theytes? Mr. I do have the ropinged process that's supplied. A lot of times, becuase I have kind of surveyed Dispens, people that play at Eastwood speak... there is concern that once one of these things goes in, that it's going to gobble up additional property around it, you know, a second bite at the apple, and it continues to expand and expand. What do you have to say to that question? As I've discussed, I think, with a few of you when we've talked about this, this project is limited to 20 megawatts by statute because of the type of project that it is. If we were to go in excess of 20 megawatts, we essentially concede some of the regulatory treatment that we've got for keeping it under 20 megawatts. So we would be sort of cutting off our own nose if we did that. And this is a 20 megawatt project? Okay. Thank you, sir. Professor Graber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In regards to one of the comments that was made, I have looked at the solar panels from the two other farms that have been proposed in Frederick County, and I wanted to get confirmation from you on this before moving forward. There was a comment made about a film that if the panel was destroyed, could leak and leach into the soil. Is there anything in your panels, as I know the other, that you did not, that is liquid or if it is hot or cold? I'm actually glad you asked that. These are not thin film cells. These are actually silicon-based cells, sealed. Sure. So the answer is no. So if one gets crushed by a bulldozer, there's nothing to leach into the soil. It's essentially glass. Is that what I'm hearing? It's glass and silicon, yeah. Excellent. Thank you. And then one other question. You will be applying for a site-disturbing permit, I'm assuming? We will apply for everything that we are required to apply for pursuant to the ordinance. Excellent. Thank you. If you would bear with me, sir. We didn't get an opportunity to close the public hearing, which I'm doing now. Okay. Go ahead. Supervisor Wells. I got you. Rules of order. Rules of order. Project that your company is here before us to do, is this something that you're going to, over the years you're going to stay in, this is your company's project? Or is this something that you're looking forward to as every businessman does and say, this is an investment I'm looking for some at the end of this, I'm up and ready to go. I've developed and I'm ready to sell. But honestly, it depends. Pardon? It depends. We could sell it. We could potentially keep it as I actually had a discussion earlier today with Supervisor McCarthy. There are other ways to bring additional benefits from this project to the county. I can't commit to them because we aren't far enough along to know whether we can get there. But there are certain ways. There are certain ways where we can keep, continue to sort of tweak this, if you will, to bring additional benefits. And if we can do that, I'd like to keep it. Do you have other solar facilities now that are up and running in your company? Not up and running. We are working on a number of large ones. We tend to focus as much or more on sites that need remediation, old coal mines, old coal plants, things like that. We're working on three separate development projects down in the southern part of the country. So this is. Much larger than this one. So at the present time, this would be your first entrance into the solar business? You're asking me if it would be the first operating one. It depends on, quite honestly, the way regulatory things are going in this part of the woods. Two projects in your neck of the woods have probably already told you this. You've got a transmission provider problem around here right now. So I don't know that those projects get up within the next three years. It's a real question. So I don't know. It's true. I understand. OK. Thank you. Mm-hmm. Thanks, Chairman. Yes, sir. Chief, that was McCarthy. Mr. Grims, another one of the concerns that was brought up was with regard to where panels will be sited. And I know you said you can't commit yet. You're not far enough along. Are you willing to work with the neighbors on where things get sited, what gets moved, what gets sort of how the terrain gets changed as you're going through this to give options that would work best for the surrounding community? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, in the long run, it's in everybody's interest, including ours, to make sure that we do this in the most suitable way possible. The biggest problem is, as you're familiar, and I do want to answer one other question. It's only going on A11 and 12. There's nothing going on A8, the Holmes property. There's going to be an underground ditch dug there for which the line will run from the back end of the project to the substation. That's it. But as you know, the way that property runs, some of those hills come together in a way that actually points away from the sun. So as I've mentioned before to other people who've asked, we're either going to have to move it up the hill, or we're going to move panels, or we're going to move dirt. And I don't know which we would be doing until we get a final layout done. But yes, we would be more than happy to speak with the local landowners to try and optimize the layout of the project, as long as we can do it in a way that doesn't reduce the size of the project. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Thank you. No, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you, sir. All right. Thank you. This is Gainesboro. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I would move for approval of conditional use permit 12-21 for Hollow Road Solar LLC. To include the siting agreement. And to include the siting agreement. And just to be sure that we have that, I didn't see the pile driving condition. So I want to make sure that that's in there at 8 AM. The motion is our second. We will change the condition to reflect the board's discussion to move that to 8 AM. And excluding federal holidays. Thank you, sir. Does that comply with your motion? That's perfect. Thank you, sir. Second? I will second the motion with those additional agreements. Second. And discussion? Anyone? Mr. Chairman, I would just say that this is a tough one. It's a rural area. I think people move out to the hinterland because they want to get away from this kind of thing. So I know it's painful to see stuff like this going in. But at the same time, I look at Fairfax County 20 years ago. And I look at Fairfax County. And I look at Fairfax County today. And I know eventually development is going to reach us out where we are, whether we like it or not. The fact that we're getting rid of these TDRs, which could have been put into the UDA and require additional resources from the county for additional development, I think is a good thing for the county. It does conform with the comprehensive plan. And the conservation agreement is a good thing, I think. So I think, unfortunately, for the folks who live out there, the benefits. Thank you. To the county outweigh the downside to the county. So I'll support the. Thank you. Further discussion, anyone? Hearing none, Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor Wells. No. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Graber. Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. That'll bring us to 12C, Conditional Use Permit 1321. Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, member of the board. This is a request for a conditional use permit to allow for a tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking facility on three parcels of land that are located between Crown Lane and Welltown Road, approximately 300 feet north of the intersection of Martinsburg Pike and Welltown Road. It's adjacent to the south of the. Winchester and Western Railroad and is located in Shawnee Magisterial District. Thank your attention to the map on your left. I think everyone on this board is familiar with the 317 exit and where this location is for this conditional use permit. The subject properties, again, are currently zoned M1, Light Industrial District, and are currently vacant. The surrounding land uses are commercial industrial uses today. The zoning ordinance does allow for a tractor truck, which, I think, is a good example of a potential use permit. The zoning ordinance does allow for a tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking facilities as a conditional use permit within the county's Light Industrial District. This proposed application for the parking facility will be located on three parcels with a total of 3.4 acres, plus or minus. It will contain 85 parking spaces with a gravel surface. It will include a 50-foot zoning buffer, district buffer, along the adjacent B2 properties, to the south and west, and a double row of evergreen trees will be required along Welltown Road, Crown Lane, and a single row will be in the rear of the site along the Winchester and Western Railroad. This was submitted by the applicant, kind of a layout, a proposed layout of this tractor truck and tractor truck trailer parking facility. The concept plan, again, that was submitted, that's coming today. The applicant identifies access to the site via right-hand entrance on Welltown Road and an entrance on Crown Lane. The Department of Transportation, or VDOT, has indicated that this entrance will require further vetting and, therefore, is not currently approved by VDOT. Staff would also note the transportation network in this area of the county is constrained, and careful consideration should be given whether an induction to additional tractor trailer traffic through these conditions is a requirement. Thank you. COMMISSIONER AYLEE FLامulisaped. Welltown Road,urn out Dir. Let me hesitate again, because there are no maps on the今天的 city, you know and also, in the future or addressed by the Proces ziehen the hill in here invading frequented curve back on past road. Thank you for the Frankly. COMMISSIONER VADIL retouring acquire. Hello again. I am lugar sebel springs non entour acting ben stroll from this city around the Modesto. Please basically champion me and see if you would please stop my tractor truck and trailer truck parking number three put the parcels that are identified I'm pulling for the record mr. chairman as I point out there were three parcels that total three acres and their numbers are 43 dash a dash 51 43 dash 2 dash B and 43 dash 3 dash E and they will be consolidated into one three acre parcel prior to site plan approval prior to the site plan to submit an approval and finally any expansion or modification the use would require a new conditional use permit now this application was subject to a public hearing at the Planning Commission at their December 15th 2021 meeting and it was recommended it was recommended to be denial staff is for this public hearing staff is seeking a decision from the Board of Supervisors on this proposed conditional use application mr. chairman mr. Ron Maslowski is representing the application and of course I will try to answer any questions you or any board members may have on this conditional use permit thank you thank you sir any questions of mr. chair yes sir Supervisor Dunn you know approximately how many tractor trailers are meant to be on the site that's question number one question number two is on a daily basis what percentage of those tractor trailers would be moving off site and to where are they moving from? on the site that's question number one question number two is on a daily basis what percentage of those tractor trailers will be moving off site and to where they're moving from? site or on site okay I'll go with with the applicant submitted as for parking what you have out there mr. Dunn we're looking at 85 parking spaces now as far as the transportation you know where they're coming and going it is for tractor-trailer parking so it could be for someone a lower part of 81 or the industrial park that's a little bit to the north northwest thank you other questions of mr. chair in any thank you sir mr. miss guys key welcome sir thank you very much mr. chairman good evening members of the board my name is Ron Maslow scale with Pinoni we're representing the owner here this evening I would just like to make a couple comments staff did a nice job describing the proposal the first thing I would like to make a comment on is that the project is being completed and the first one is that the the intent staff mentions tractor truck and trailer parking this is not intended for tractor trailers to come here and park for long periods of time it's meant for somebody to come in drop off a trailer leave the trailer and then some other truck come in a few days later pick up the trailer and take it to wherever it's got to be there are no restroom facilities there's no other convenience facilities provided on this property now a truck who comes in and drops one off may walk over to get a taco or a big or a whopper or something but it's not intended to be an overnight parking lot for tractors for the tractor part of the tractor trailer just intended to store the trailers while just to help companies who don't have much tractor trailer trailer storage on their lots can use this to help manage their their deliveries and receipts I understand that this is a critical area for transportation to the county and currently the property is owned M1 we looked at a number of uses that are allowed under the M1 trying to get an entrance with VDOT they didn't work but those it wouldn't be unusual three acres of M1 to have to generate 2,000 trips a day we had to do some research to find out at these facilities how long did the trailer stay on the site before they rotate for one hour as well urban usepinter DOORPASS I'm a patient of municipal lands 돼 we had to doetechnop% semmen that for intake containersole on day 2 days we found out how long the whole truck will marvelous day on the site before they rotate the truck home off and I called places in Texas and Oklahoma and South Carolina and it's about three to five days so usually there probably about 15 to 30 trailers coming and going from the site in a day which is significantly less than 2,000 trips a day of which who knows how many of those could be tractor-trailer movements so I think that answers your question mr. Dunn does it is there another one sorry as a follow-up typically are these tractor trailers picked up in the morning before you know peak hours as they dropped off late in the afternoon any feel for that I don't know I was at I anecdotally I was at sheets one morning hitting gas 730 morning a tractor-trailer pulls up and the trailers got a flat tire and he had just picked up a trailer somewhere and pulled out in the road and he had a flat tire so I know that they get there early in the morning but that's that's all that I know about it and they're just traveling 81 you know you have tractor trailers are parked at 2 a.m. 3 a.m. for him so I'm just trying to get a feel on when you might have operators picking up these you know items I hate to see I hate to give me an answer because I just don't know okay I'm sure it could happen it I mean it's going to be an automated facility they have a code to get in they have code to get out it's not designed so that's all going to occur during peak hours in the morning or in the evening correct I'm not sure when the trucks would be coming and going no I don't know sir thank you chairman yes sir thank you Ms. Loeslowski the your client has a right-of-way across Crown Lane 2 is that correct is there any plan to try and mitigate the amount of traffic that goes out there by those two restaurants try and push traffic out towards Crown Lane the proposal right now is the only exit from the property would be on Crown Lane all traffic would exit through Crown Lane we are we've been working with VDOT for a couple years now on Welltown trying to find something that was suitable there the staff comments from Mr. Bishop indicate that he believes all we'll get in is a right in on Welltown and if we can get it right in on Welltown I think that would help the situation if trucks are coming from stone wall or down Welltown they can go into the facility without getting on EL instead of 153 Welltown Road. So we're going to make sure we address it on Crown Lane. If a truck made a mistake and turned up Welltown, what do they do? What do they turn around? They'd have to go up to McGee or Tyson and try to turn around. Thank you, sir. Other questions, anyone? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. I have two. The first one is, and if it is somewhere in the material you've already given us, I apologize, I have looked through it. Will there be any hazardous materials stored there? And if so, do you know what they might be or the volume of them, or is there going to be a restriction placed on hazardous materials or trailers that are hazmat placarded on that facility? I believe that anything that's allowed to travel down, that's allowed to be pulled in a trailer down I-81 will be stored on the site. Okay. So if we were to move forward with this, would you be willing to proffer or be willing to give agreement to no hazardous materials and or write entrance only off of Welltown into the facility? And the reason I ask that is, if you look at that intersection from lunchtime until 7 o'clock in the evening, a tractor-trailer stop to make a left-hand turn to go into that facility for any reason would be disastrous on the traffic behind it and the traffic trying to maneuver around it. And I don't believe we need to continue to add problems to an already problem intersection. Yes, sir. So those two items are big hiccups for me. I would be willing to consider your proposal with those two items. Agree to point. I can certainly agree to the write-in because that's what's shown in our plan right now. So we're committed to only the write-in. Hazardous materials is a little more difficult for me because I'm not familiar with what trucks are allowed to carry and how that gets regulated by the state police. I mean, all I can say is that if it's allowed, if the state police, if the state law allows it to be transported, if the state law allows it to be transported over the state roads, then we have to be able to store it on the site. So there are state laws that tell the driver of hazardous materials where they can park in relation to what they are carrying for hazardous material. There are some of those rules. However, I believe some of these parking areas that are proposed would allow a driver to still park there as this is laid out. And that's kind of my concern because every day up and down our interstates, there are nuclear waste and other things that are transported up and down our interstates. We have to think about that. But if we want to be able to do that, we have to be able to take the hazardous materials that are going to be on the site tonight and put them on the side of the road. That's the only way that we can get the bullshit that we've got to keep up and down our highways. And it is concerning to me to think that there would be things that could be stored there in essentially a commercial intersection where food and people are going back and forth. If you, if you take the hazardous materials component out of this, I feel a lot more comfortable. You leave the hazardous component in and I'm not comfortable. Okay. Well, here's what I can do. I can commit that there's no hazardous materials that are going to be on the site tonight. And if I find out that we're not going to have it, that we need to modify that, then I'll come in and ask for a revised conditional use permit. Yes, sir. Mr. McArthur. Maybe a suggestion to Mr. Moslosky. It sounds to me like that's a concern. If that's a real concern, I'm not comfortable saying, well, we'll rely on the applicant to come back to us to ask for revision. Do you want to go back to the clients and see if that's something they want to do and come back to us? We tabled this for a night, or do you want us to go ahead and move forward with this vote moving forward? I'm comfortable tabling it until your next meeting, if that's acceptable, and then I'll work with staff and we'll have an answer next meeting, if that's all right. I appreciate that. Real quick. Mr. Wells. With some involvement with transportation guys that have trucking companies. State law does regulate where they can park certain materials. I'm sure that if you talk to Agent Funkhauser and folks that have tractor and trailer parking, this would just be trailer parking. That they are regulated and they have to follow those guidelines. So it's a state guideline already in existence. If he opens this up, he's going to have to say, I'm sorry, this type of material is not allowed because it's a state law. Okay. That might help to answer some of the questions you can table if you want to. Mr. Rosner, done. I'd just like to have a definition of hazardous waste. We'll come back. The clear proposal for what's allowed and what's not allowed. Okay. I don't want to have just that term. No, no. I understand. It's a broad term. Yeah, a lot's included there. Thank you, sir. Other questions? Anyone? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Is there a public hearing? Is it closed? We didn't do it yet. It hasn't been closed yet? So we'll do that. Is there a public hearing? Did anyone sign up? Ms. Phillips. Yes. Deanne Kenney. Welcome. Hello. Hello. I'm sitting here. I'm Deanne Kenney. I'm in Gainesboro District. And I'm here tonight because my mother lives on Welltown Pike or off of Welltown Pike. And I've lived there since the early 1970s. And I have seen that area grow from being absolutely nothing. There were seven houses on Payne Road when we moved there. There was a field where Stonewall Industrial Park is. And now we've accepted. We know that that's happening. And I'm okay with growth. But what I'm not okay with is that tonight, you're all's big concern is whether they're going to store hazardous waste in those vehicles, in those trailers. Then park there is not the problem. The problem is how you're going to get them there. If any of you all have ever driven down Welltown Pike and Route 11 North at any time of the day, and I don't care what day of the week it is, and I don't care what time of day it is, it is a mess, an absolute mess. And adding more trucks, 15 to 30 doesn't seem like that much. It's not just the trucks. It's the people who go to those businesses to work, the people who live down those roads, all those subdivisions, all those people, all the trucks, the people who work there, all that traffic going in and out of there every single day. I got in a traffic jam in the Sheets parking lot because the traffic on Route 11, was absolutely horrendous. You couldn't, the people were blocking the box because they didn't want to get stuck at another light. I couldn't get out of the parking lot, let alone get onto the access road, to even get near Welltown Pike or Route 11. And then you know what it was? An accident. There is an accident there that happens every week. There's an accident somewhere on Route 11 North. There at 81. And then to talk today that you all and the intended use, I'm so sick of the word, intended. Everybody has great intentions about what they're going to do. But once all this happens and you approve it, they do what they're going to do because they know nobody's watching. Nobody's coming back to check all that back out again to see how many trucks are parked there. How many cars? It's only a right-hand turn off of Welltown Pike. Well, when they make that right-hand turn onto Welltown Pike, and they figure out that they cannot make a left-hand turn in there, they've got to go somewhere up Welltown Road, to make that mess. Turned around and then make a right-hand turn in there. And when they leave, they're coming out on Route 11 on Crown Lane. That's the beginning of the mess. And if they're going to get on 81, they have to then cross Route 11. They got to go back up to 81 where it's that mess at Sheetz. And then they're going to make a right-hand turn or left-hand turn. They got to figure out which lane they need to be in of the four that they've got. It is a mess. And the last thing that we need on Welltown Pike, and then Route 11 North, is more traffic. It doesn't make any difference to me if you're going to put in, what is it? Many warehouses. If it's traffic coming in there, we don't need any more of it. So I hope that you will all think long and hard who cares about hazardous waste storage when you're talking about how they're going to get there to start with. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else, Ms. Phillips? Thank you. We'll close the public comment portion of the meeting. Supervisor McCarthy, I believe this is recently placed in your jurisdiction. Yes, it was. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a motion that we postpone a decision on this until the applicant comes back with a revised proposal. A timeframe would be better. To the next meeting. Is that enough time? Go ahead, Ron. No. You think that's enough time, Mr. Chairman? That's fine, Mr. McCarthy. Okay. The motion is to table this until our next meeting. Is there a second? Mr. Chairman. Yes. All the materials that we need to make the 26th is ideally in by tomorrow. And so if we could. Then I'll say to our first meeting in February then. And Mr. Chairman. Ended the first minute in February. Does that get you okay? That's perfect. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Supervisor Grave. Yes, sir. Will the board leave the public hearing. Open the public hearing back up at that meeting? I think we should. Okay. You're okay with that? Yes. I'll second the amendment. Second the motion. Is there any discussion? Supervisor Grave. Aye. Supervisor Dunn. Aye. Supervisor Wells. Aye. Supervisor Slaughter. Aye. Supervisor McCarthy. Aye. Supervisor Ludwig. Aye. Chair votes aye. And the motion carries. We'll table to the first meeting in February. Thank you. Planning Commission Board Liaison reports. Are there any? Mr. Chairman. I have just a couple things from the Economic Development Authority. Frederick County's first restaurant week is almost here. From January 31st until February the 6th. 15 restaurants in Frederick County will provide a mixture of multi-court. First menus, meal deals, and promotional discounts. Restaurant Week seeks to showcase, celebrate, support, and evaluate our favorite community hangouts, creative chefs, and restaurant families. You can visit fredcoeats.com for more information. Also, the Small Business Development Center, through financial support from the EDA, have served 37 Hispanic, Latino, small business owners in Frederick County, with bilingual, non-British, and non-British. The small business development center, bilingual accountants, are educating now and existing business clients on financial management to run their businesses more efficiently. Counselors are explaining local, state, and federal taxes and helping businesses to pay correctly and on time. That concludes my report, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? Liaison reports. Supervisor Wells. Yes, sir. Over the Christmas holidays, parks and recreation, Frederick County held the annual light show out at Clearbrook Park, and it was a total success. Hope you all got out there to see it. More people attended this year than we've had in the past, and the county made more income off of that than we have in the past to date. So they're still coming up with the final figure, but it was a well-received respite, if you will, to Christmas vacation. And if you don't get it, didn't get a chance this year, I understand next year is going to be even bigger and better. So thank you to Parks and Rec. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. This is a portion of the meeting for citizen comments. On any subject you might like to bring to the attention of the board. Yes, sir. If we could have your name, magisterial district, and try to limit your comments to three minutes or less. Sir, I'm going to go fast. Please. I've got a lot to say. Bob Clark with the Pequin District. Thank you, Rick. I'm going to raise your microphone. Okay. You know me. I'm representing the 302 Smart Development Group. So I'm going to run through this really fast. It's a new year. Happy New Year, everybody. The Exit 302 Smart Development Coalition once again wishes to reiterate its opposition to the annexation of Frederick County land by the Town of Middletown east of Exit 302. As you know, our coalition is made up of Frederick County residents who live in the OPEC 1 Magisterial District, residents who love, value, seek to preserve and protect our existing rural landscape, culture, heritage, history, and archeological records, environment, and overall quality of life here in Frederick County. We understand, as we understand it now, Middletown has abandoned its desire to annex 316 acres of land, and they are focused on the 20 acres that this all started with originally. As you also know, this will set up a unique situation where Middletown residents will be geographically separated from any operational environmental impacts of development while gaining financially. We, the residents of Frederick County, are left not only to suffer those impacts, but to lose any standing to seek redress or grievance with our Frederick County elected representatives, this Board. Whether one acre or 1,000, we stand opposed to annexation of any Frederick lands east of Exit 302 and hope that if and when the time comes, the Board will support Frederick County residents in keeping Frederick County in Frederick County and in protecting our collective voice, our right to seek redress of land, and our right to support Frederick County residents and our right to seek redress of grievances and to work with our collective, together for our collective future here in Frederick County. Second, sheets. Let's talk about sheets. Real quick, I did meet with Pannoni Engineering with a couple other members. You guys might, the Board may not have seen this, and I want to point out, this is a concept. It's just a concept plan. Changes will occur, but that's the size of the truck stop. That we were told wasn't going to be a truck stop. It's roughly about 50 parking spots for vehicles, trucks, 40-some for cars. It's a big chunk of that historic property. That being said, again, we met with, received, I got a copy of this project plan. During our conversation, we were told that we should submit a list of our concerns, that sheets would probably work with us. They can re- they can review them and possibly address them. We've been told not to expect major changes, so we are placated with small concessions relative to lighting, landscaping, the facade of the building, etc., mere virtue signaling by a corporation that seeks first, and understandably, its own interests over the real concerns of the residents impacted by their development footprint, the residents of Frederick County. Based on what the folks in Linden went through, in fighting their, I'm going to make this real quick, in fighting for their situation, there seems to be a pattern here that is, you've got to ask, is there a pattern with sheets to go big, large footprint, small concessions, we win kind of mentality. If we make it big when we first bring it up to the table, we make a few concessions with lighting and everything, and everybody feels better, so they walk away from the table. This plan, as it stands, is completely unacceptable to our coalition. Just for the record. We value this area too much to have this massive development put in there. Whether the lights are turned down, whether there's extra trees, or there's an extra buffer, it's going to devastate us. Now, are we against development? No. Sheets, if sheets sought to understand the needs of Frederick County residents, they would consider hybrid options for the development of the location. Such as a grocery store, as they did in Morgantown, West Virginia. A hybrid such as this could very much be a win-win for everybody. They built a grocery store, a 15,000 foot grocery store, with no gas pumps and a cafe. The potential for sheets to really get to know what's going on in this county, and what the people really want. We need a grocery store. We need a grocery store down there. That would be a fantastic asset. And one more last thing. This is the original sheets, just for... That was a picture of the original sheets, right? It's a far cry. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Yes, ma'am. Good evening. Thank you. Just want to encourage you to possibly think about paying your electric bill to restore the heat in here. But to be honest, it's really a wonderful feeling to be here. The police are seriouslyDaniel Andre of the volumes. Do you want to give a couple minutes for that? Please. I just want to Reair. You guys could do it. That was an experience. In this short time, however, we have come to love Frederick County. Growing up as an Army brat, then marrying into the military, I've lived all over the world. In my professional capacity, I've been part of many community and civic organizations. In the last several months, I've come to meet so many people here in this community that truly set Frederick County apart from so many of those other places I've lived. I've met so many people here with such caring hearts, exemplary leadership capabilities, and a sincere love for this community. With so much negativity in our world right now, and so many divisive and controversial issues that unfortunately plague our daily lives, I just think it's important to acknowledge the tough job all of our community leaders have, even the ones we don't agree with. Trying to make the best decisions for a population of over 90,000 people, having your life, and essentially your family's life, be an open book, taking public criticism, it's a daunting task, and not one to be taken lightly by those of us not in each of your shoes. My family and I are extremely happy in Frederick County, and although I consider it a relatively large community, there's so much down-home niceness and southern hospitality that we've experienced when we're out and about. Of course, every community has issues, and this county is not without. But I think, as Dr. Seuss said, it's not about what it is, it's about what it can become. I'd just like to thank all of you for your leadership and building our community into one that we, my family, is proud to raise our children in and call home. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Anyone? Anyone? Seeing no one, we'll close the... public comment portion. Board of Supervisors comments, are there any? Supervisor Dunn? Earlier today, we had a vote on vice chair. I thought there would be two votes. So, Mr. Chairman, I think Mr. McCarthy will make a good vice chair. I'll change my vote from nay to yay. All right. Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to personally congratulate Brandon Monk for becoming the chairman of the school board at their most recent meeting in Bradley, Comstock, on becoming the vice chair. In speaking with Mr. Monk, as he does represent my district, he has expressed a sincere interest to work with us as a board. As this board may recall, approximately 18 months ago, we took a vote to have a joint work session or meeting with the school board and us as a board of supervisors. Mr. Monk looks... Chairman Monk looks to pursue that opportunity in discussion with his board and have good dialogue with us as a board of supervisors. And I simply wanted to... I'd like to say I'm incredibly impressed and thankful for Mr. Monk's leadership. And I look forward to both of our boards having an opportunity to sit down and truly look at the needs of not only our students, but our teachers and our taxpayers. And that is something that is long overdue. And I am just elated to see that that will likely be happening in the near future. So I look forward to having that. Secondly, I would kindly ask if the school board would prepare for us a categorical budget so we can see that we have a good job of doing that. So we can see that we have a good job of doing that. So we can see that we have a good job of doing that. So we can see that we have a good job of doing that. So we can see the numbers of what is being spent, where needs are, and where money is flowing. So I would kindly like the school board to prepare for us this year a categorical budget for this board to consider. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Mr. Chairman? Yes, sir. Supervisor Graber, I think, must have come over when I went to the bathroom and looked at my computer because I'll second his congratulations to Mr. Brandon Monk, which I have written down right here. Vice-Chairman, Bradley Comstock, and the three new members of the school board. I think we can have a great working relationship with them in this coming year. I look forward to that, and I look forward, my commitment to increase transparency whenever possible on both boards, everywhere in this community so taxpayers, citizens can see where every dollar of their money is going. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Vice-Chairman McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, I move we adjourn. Motion to adjourn, sir. Second? Second. Second. All those in favor, aye. Aye. Thank you. We thank everyone for their time, attention, and their input. Thank you. Thank you.
